25-03-2021||Agartala||Inspired by Himachal’s Hariman Sharma, 2 tribal youths grow apples in Tripura||Hit by the financial crisis triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic, two tribal youths in Tripura have scripted a 'fruitful' story hither to unheard in the northeastern state– growing apples of a different variety.Mujesh Debbarma (29) and his relative Samaresh Debbarma (41) have cultivated four varieties of apple on a hilly terrain measuring a little over one hectare in Borkur Bari tribal village in western Tripura's Sepahijala district.Mujesh said that the apples from their gardens are expected to hit the market for the first time in June-July this year."If we are able to do some business, we would extend the apple cultivation to more areas," Mujesh told IANS.Mujesh and Samaresh first started cultivating the HRMN-99 variety of apple during the lockdown last year. Subsequently, they procured saplings of three more varieties from Kolkata by spending around Rs 2 lakh.Unlike most apples which grow in areas that receive substantial snowfall, the HRMN-99 variety, a special type of apple developed by the 'Apple Man' of Himachal Pradesh, Hariman Sharma, can be grown in low altitudes and is suited to a relatively warm climate. Still, growing apples in the northeast remains a rare phenomenon.According to the officials of the Tripura Horticulture Department, the duo's efforts have unfolded a new chapter in apple cultivation, not just in Tripura, but in the entire northeastern region comprising eight states."During the lockdown, we saw some videos on YouTube of growing hybrid varieties of apple in Rajasthan. Then we thought if apples can be grown in Rajasthan in high tropical atmosphere, why not in Tripura?"We then contacted Hariman Sharma over phone, and he guided us on a number of occasions on how to go about with apple cultivation. Sharma Sir even couriered us 50 saplings last year, for which he didn't charge a single penny," Mujesh said.After tasting success with HRMN-99, Mujesh and Samaresh are now also growing other varieties of apples, such as Anna, Dorsett and Golden, after procuring saplings from Kolkata.Mujesh said that so far they have spent over Rs 5 lakh in planting around 250 apple trees of four varieties after developing the suitable shape in their land comprising small hillocks and a valley in the Borkur Bari tribal village, around 40 km south of Agartala.Like thousands of other tribals in the region, Mujesh and Samaresh were involved in rubber plantations before switching over to apple farming.Appreciating the enterprising efforts of the duo, Anjan Sen Gupta, a senior scientific officer at the Biotechnology Department of Tripura government, said that the first ever apple cultivation in Tripura is a unique and pioneering initiative taken up by the two tribal youth."Amtali near Borkur Bari, where the duo is cultivating apples, is a government-sponsored bio village. We have provided the duo with bio-fertilisers and other materials for their orchards, which are helping them a lot," Sen Gupta told IANS.Officials from the Biotechnology Department have helped the growers through regular monitoring and guidance on a range of issues, including prevention of pest infestation.Sen Gupta said that of the 250 trees planted by Mujesh and Samaresh, some 40-60 have blossomed and around 15 have bore fruits, two weeks after flowering."Due to the different types of apple varieties and climatic conditions, sweetness of the fruit might be a tad less," the official pointed out.IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/inspired-by-himachals-hariman-sharma-2-tribal-youths-grow-apples-in-tripura-230316
25-03-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Posters cause defacement||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com Posters cause defacementPosters and banners put up by candidates for the Municipal Corporation polls in Solan have defaced the town. No wall is left blank, especially on the busy and much frequented roads like The Mall. Strict action should be initiated against those who are defacing the town. This is also true for other commercial offenders. — Sanjay, Solan Work on bridge goes on at snail's paceThe slow pace of reconstruction of a bridge on the Ravi river at Parel, connecting the Sidhpura area with the Chamba-Pathankot national highway, has raised concerns among people on both sides. It has been three years since the bridge collapsed, but the reconstruction is tardy. A large number of people from Sidhpura, Haripur, Bhadram, Sarol, Rajpura, Kiani, Rajnagar, Pukhri, Tadoli, Udaipur, Rinda Chihma and Saru use this bridge. In its absence, people have to travel about 5 km extra. — Kapil Bhushan, Chamba||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/posters-cause-defacement-229986
25-03-2021||The World Water Day was celebrated at Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry||Conserve water, students sensitised||Stir threat over promotionsA delegation of the Himachal Government Teachers Union met Higher Education Director Amarjeet Sharma. The delegation, led by union's president Virender Chauhan, submitted a memorandum to the Director and said if their issues like promotions were not solved by March 31, the union will have no option but to protest at the Directorate in the first week of April. The union also registered its protest against the notification that requires lecturers and principals to mark attendance twice a day.DAV honours meritorious studentsThe DAV, Manali, organised a 'Pratibha Samman Samaroh-cum-Shaam-e-Ghazal' at Hotel Moniker to honour meritorious students of board classes X and XII. The occasion was graced by Ravinder Talwar, secretary of DAV CMC, New Delhi, as the chief guest. The ghazal programme was presented by teachers. Some items were presented by parents as well as students. The students were honoured along with some teachers for outstanding result in board classes.La Montessori School PTA formedThe general house of the Parent Teacher Association (PTA) was held in La Montessori School (LMS), Kalheli, 11 km from Kullu. A new working body was elected, in which previous PTA president Vishal Sharma was unanimously chosen to continue for this term as well. School principal Vandana Prashar conducted the elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/conserve-water-students-sensitised-229987
25-03-2021||Hamirpur||NIT team wins Smart India Hackathon||A six-member team comprising students of the National Institute of Technology here won the Smart India Hackathon (SIH)-2020 today by creating solutions to provide a “second eye” to blind people using artificial intelligence. The team got the prize money of Rs 1 lakh. They are Uttkarsh Chaurasia, team leader, Rishabh Dhenkawat, Aditi Katoch, Mohammad Nomaan, Navdeep Singh Rathore, Sitaram Rathi and Rishabh Verma.The Smart India Hackathon is organised every year by the Ministry of Human Resource Development. It is a nationwide initiative of the government that provided students a platform to solve some of the pressing problems that society faces in routine.Prof Lalit Kumar Awasthi, Director, NIT, said continued and focused work towards the innovative solution for physically challenged people reflected the human concern of the team. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nit-team-wins-smart-india-hackathon-229988
25-03-2021||Palampur||Farmers’ training camp held at Namhol||A team of scientists from the CSIR-IHBT, Palampur, organised a training programme on agro and process technology of medicinal and aromatic plants at Namhol in Bilaspur district.Over 100 young farmers participated in the training programme. The farmers were made aware of the agronomic practices and soil and climate requirement for the cultivation of aromatic crops. The CSIR has initiated AROMA mission for promotion and cultivation of aromatic crops in waste, degraded, abandoned land and the region affected by animal menace. Dr Rakesh Kumar, Sr Principal Scientist-cum-Co-Nodal of Aroma Mission Phase-2 made farmers aware of the great demand of aromatic crops in the international market for essential oils.The hilly terrain of Namhol, Bilaspur district is suitable for the cultivation of a few aromatic crops such as wild marigold, scented geranium, rosemary and damask rose. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/farmers-training-camp-held-at-namhol-229989
25-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Broadband poles on highways pose risk||Hamirpur, March 24Poles installed by the power grid corporation on highways to provide broadband connectivity to villages have become a traffic hazard. Hundreds of poles were installed on the berms in the district by the power grid. It was learnt that the company was authorised to install the poles on roadsides, but at many places it had installed the poles inside crash barriers fixed by the Public Works Department (PWD) for safety at black spots. Such poles had not only made the spots more dangerous but also narrowed the road making it accident-prone. People in many villages had objected to the haphazard installation of these poles.Ramesh Kumar of Karohta village said people were not against development, but no one was listening to their request to fix poles outside the crash barriers. These poles would turn into death traps sooner or later, he added.Hundreds of poles were installed on the roads in the district and the PWD that was responsible for the maintenance of these roads had turned a blind eye towards it.Vivek Sharma, Executive Engineer, here said he had advised the contractor concerned to remove the poles from the front of the crash barriers immediately and install them outside the crash barriers. He admitted that the poles were hindrance to traffic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/broadband-poles-on-highways-pose-risk-229990
25-03-2021||---||HPPSC chairman takes oath||Shimla, March 24Governor Bandaru Dattatreya today administered oath of office and secrecy to Ajay Kumar as the Chairman of the Himachal Pradesh Public Service Commission (HPPSC) at a ceremony held at Raj Bhawan, Shimla. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur was also present on the occasion.The Governor also administered oath of office and secrecy to Jai Prakash Kalta as Member of the Himachal Pradesh Public Service Commission. Secretary to Governor, Rakesh Kanwar conducted the proceeding.Kumar retired as Principal Chief Conservator of Forests last year while Kalta retired as the Managing Director of the state Electricity Board.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hppsc-chairman-takes-oath-229967
25-03-2021||Subhash Rajta||Water crisis looms, SJPNL sans operational head||Tribune News ServiceShimla, March 24If Shimla faces water crisis this summer, as is being feared by Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh, the Shimla Jal Prabandhan Nigam Limited (SJPNL) will have to handle it without a full-fledged operational head.SJPNL’s Managing Director-cum-CEO Dharmendra Gill has been transferred to Mandi and now he holds additional charge of the company. “It’s of course ideal to have a full-fledged head but it would be wrong to assume that the SJPNP is headless. Chief Secretary as chairman of the Board of Directors is the top boss of the company,” said Digvijay Chauhan, an independent director in the SJPNL Board of Directors.“Besides, there are three AGMs to take care of bulk water supply, water distribution and sewerage and day to day functioning of the company. Having said that, we will eventually need a full-fledged operational head,” he said.Considering that the SJPNL is also implementing a World Bank project worth around $80 million, which includes an ambitious water supply scheme from the Sutlej to the city, availability of 24x7 pressurized water supply to every household and sewage treatment, the role of a full-fledged operational head becomes all the more important. Why can’t a new full-fledged MD cum CEO be appointed?“Much of the negotiations with the World Bank have been done by Gill. Also, because of coronavirus, the World Bank is not releasing money at the expected rate. Gill has apparently been retained with an additional charge to ensure the project and funding do not suffer any setback,” said Chauhan.Gill had to move to Mandi following his promotion as Chief Engineer in IPL Department. “He couldn’t have forfeited his promotion,” said Chauhan. The SJPNL is considering asking the government to build a separate cadre for the company.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/water-crisis-looms-sjpnl-sans-operational-head-229971
25-03-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||BJP, Congress ponder over candidates for Mandi bypoll||Tribune News ServiceShimla, March 24With ruling BJP being in a formidable position in Mandi, there is a long list of contenders for the party ticket while the Congress is searching for a formidable candidate who can take on the might of the ruling party in CM’s the home district.The sudden demise of Mandi MP Ram Swaroop has dealt a severe blow to the BJP but as of now retaining the Lok Sabha seat doesn’t look a difficult task for the party. Ram Swaroop had won the seat in the previous elections by the highest-ever winning margin of 4.05 lakh votes. The Congress had been completely wiped out in the 2017 Assembly polls in Mandi district as nine out of 10 seats were won by the BJP while Jogindernagar seat went to an independent candidate.Prominent contenders for the party ticket are Brig Kushal Thakur (retd), a decorated Kargil war hero, who was last year appointed chairman of the Himachal Pradesh Ex-servicemen Corporation at Hamirpur. The name of former BJP MP Maheshwar Singh, who also remained state BJP president, is also doing the rounds.Some party insiders have also hinted that the name of Govind Thakur, Education Minister from Kullu, was also being considered. However, with his election, the BJP regime will have to face another by-election when the party will be almost completing four years, which would not be desirable.Wresting the Mandi seat from the BJP seems almost an impossible task for the Congress. Ashray Sharma, grandson of former Telecommunication Minister Sukh Ram and son of Mandi Sadar MLA Anil Sharma, had proved a lightweight candidate against Ram Swaroop in the previous elections. Party insiders feel that giving the ticket to Ashray would amount to giving the seat to the BJP on a platter.The name of Pratibha Singh, former MP from Mandi and wife of six-time CM Virbhadra Singh, is also doing the rounds. She could prove to be the most formidable candidate considering the family’s clout and the fact that she has been an MP from Mandi twice — in 2004 and 2013. On the other hand, Virbhadra has represented the seat in the Parliament by winning the seat in the 1971, 1980 and 2009 general elections.With the elections likely to take place a little later, the Congress is weighing all its options, including introducing a new face.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-congress-ponder-over-candidates-for-mandi-bypoll-229973
25-03-2021||Ambika Sharma||Areas bordering BBN at higher Covid spread risk||Tribune News ServiceSolan, March 24The bordering villages of Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh (BBN) lying in the proximity of Punjab are at risk of contracting the more infectious UK Covid variant.As many as 29 Covid cases were detected today from bordering villagers like Bhogpur, Jhajhara, Jhiriwala, Dhabota, Kripalpur, Kundlu and Nalagarh town. The UK Covid strain has not been tested as yet in the district.SDM, Nalagarh, Mahinder Pal, said, “Covid cases in this industrial belt were emerging from villages located in the vicinity of Punjab and among those who had visited their relatives in the state. This was a cause of concern, especially after detection of UK Covid strain in Punjab.”“We are keeping a close watch on such cases and Covid care centre at labour hostel Nalagarh with a capacity for 100 beds has been made functional. One floor has been kept ready at the ESIC hospital at Katha to meet any eventuality,” said the SDM.Deputy Commissioner, Solan, KC Chaman, when quizzed, said the administration was in a state of high preparedness as with nearly 80,000 industrial workforce commuting from neighbouring places like SAS Nagar, Pinjore, Ropar, Zirakpur, etc., the probability of spread of Covid was high.“Vaccination of all individuals of 18 years and above can help check its spread as enforcing a lockdown was not a viable option. Such a proposal would be taken up with the State government as BBN area posed a threat given the daily to and fro of nearly 80,000 people,” informed Chaman. He added that the UK Covid strain has not been detected till now.266 new cases, 2 fatalitiesShowing a steep hike, 266 new Covid cases were reported in the state on Wednesday. Besides, two deaths — one each in Kangra and Una — occurred in the last 24 hours. The border districts were the worst affected with the highest number of 63 cases being reported in Kangra, 47 in Solan, 43 in Una, 40 in Hamirpur, 29 in Sirmaur, 16 in Bilaspur, 15 in Shimla, 10 in Mandi, two in Chamba and one in Lahaul & Spiti.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/areas-bordering-bbn-at-higher-covid-spread-risk-229974
25-03-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||Locals in quandary over partial land acquisition for Pathankot- Mandi four-laning||NURPUR, MARCH 24The partial acquisition of buildings like shops and houses by the NHAI for construction of the proposed Pathankot- Mandi four lane project has left the affected people in Nurpur section from Kandwal to Bhedkhud in a quandary.As many as 3,800 families, who are being affected by the four lane project, are on the warpath protesting the compensation awards announced by the Competent Authority Land Acquisition (CALA) on March 1. But partial acquisition of their structures by the NHAI has perturbed a large number of affected persons here.As per the information, 933 buildings, including houses and commercial structures, are being acquired for widening of the existing Pathankot-Mandi National Highway (NH)-154 in Nurpur section. The affected people, who are set to lose their buildings partially for the project, are spending sleepless nights as they say that their left-out structures will be of no use.The NHAI is supposed to disburse compensation of their acquired portion and the rest of the demolished structure will be left for the owners who say they will be unable to use it further. The demand of either to acquire whole structures or leave them is gaining momentum in the area.JK Mahajan, a retired senior manager of National Insurance Company and a resident of Bagni village near here, lamented that he had built his house around 30 meters away from the NH-154 but now the NHAI had worked out that half of his building would be acquired. “What will I do with the remaining portion of my house after its demolition by the NHAI,” he questioned.Similarly, houses of Mandan Mohan of Nagni, Surinder Kumar of Bhadwar and Ranbir Singh of Kalera are partially being acquired by the NHAI. They say that the NHAI should take the whole structured area so that they could rehabilitate themselves after shifting from the existing location. The commercial buildings of Baldev Pathania and Sudershan Pathania of Jachh are also being acquired partially by the NHAI. They have also resented partial acquirement of their shops.Anil Sen, Project Director, NHAI, Palampur, clarified that as per the NHAI norms only the land or building (partial of whole) that was required for the construction of the four lane project was being acquired. “The ownership of the remaining portion of the acquired structures will be of the owners after their demolition by the NHAI,” he said.933 HIT BY ROAD WIDENING PROJECT||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/locals-in-quandary-over-partial-land-acquisition-for-pathankot-mandi-four-laning-229975
25-03-2021||---||Himachal adjudged best in fight against tuberculosis||Shimla, March 24Himachal Pradesh has been ranked No 1 among all states having a population of more than 50 lakh in National Tuberculosis Elimination Programme. Dr Nipun Jindal, Mission Director, NHM, and Dr Gopal Beri, State Tuberculosis Officer, received the award from Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare Dr Harsh Vardhan in New Delhi today.“It’s a big achievement for the state, a total team effort. The fact that we have managed to top the rankings in the times of pandemic makes the feat even more special,” said Amitabh Awasthi, Secretary Health.This year, the Government of India also started sub-national certification of districts for the elimination of TB. Under this initiative, five districts – Una, Hamirpur, Kangra, Lahaul and Spiti and Kinnaur had applied. A survey was conducted in the month of February 2021 and the results were declared on the occasion of World TB Day today. Lahaul and Spiti earned silver medal for its efforts to curb TB, while Kinnaur, Hamirpur, Una and Kangra won bronze medals.The nation has committed itself to end tuberculosis by 2025, and Himachal Pradesh has set itself a goal to eliminate the disease ahead of the national deadline.“The state has been able to perform well on all the parameters and earn the first rank in the country due to various efforts like expansion of diagnostic net, frontline response, treatment adherence, community participation, etc,” said Awasthi. “The implementation has been strengthened and supplemented by a state scheme ‘Mukhya Mantri Kshay Rog Nivaran Yojana’, which includes monetary provisions as well,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-adjudged-best-in-fight-against-tuberculosis-229978
25-03-2021||---||Baddi Police for cancellation of licence of security agency||Solan, March 24The Baddi police today recommended cancellation of licence of the Excel Detective and Security Service, Baddi, to the Director General of Police as it had failed to undertake character verification of its security guard found involved the murder of his wife.Rohit Malpani, SP, BaddiDid not adhere to directionsDespite strict directions by the police to all security agencies to verify the antecedents of its staff before enrolling a person, the said agency did not adhere to the directions.The said agency had been operating in this industrial area since December 2017. Gross negligence of the agency, however, came to the fore as its management had enrolled staff involved in heinous crimes.Superintendent of Police, Baddi, Rohit Malpani said security guard Shamshudeen of Uttar Pradesh was enrolled on October 19, 2020, and he was entrusted security work of various establishments in the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh industrial area. Though he is a habitual offender involved in theft, burglary cases registered at his native place, the agency did not bother to get his character verification done.He killed his wife on March 18 and fled. He was arrested from his native village in UP two days ago.“Despite strict directions by the police to all security agencies to verify the antecedents of its staff before enrolling a person, the said agency did not adhere to the directions. Its representative also failed to attend this meeting where all agencies were issued strict directions,” Malpani added.A notice was also issued to the said agency on March 23 to produce the character certificate of the said guard, but the reply was found unsatisfactory.Earlier, a recommendation was also made to cancel the licence of Daksh Security Agency, Jharmajri, in February as its staff was found involved in theft and misappropriation of packaging material of an industrial unit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/baddi-police-for-cancellation-of-licence-of-security-agency-229979
25-03-2021||Mandi||Himachal CM reviews Mandi Covid situation||While presiding over the review meeting on Covid-19 situation in Mandi district at Sundernagar today, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said that the state government was fully aware of the situation and has taken appropriate steps to check the resurgence in corona cases in the state.The CM said that till date a total of 1,25,881 samplings had been done in Mandi district. Of these, 10,382 cases were reported positive out of which 10,197 have been cured and 129 deaths reported.He said that positivity rate per sample in the district was 8.25 per cent and fatality rate 1.24 per cent. He said that the upcoming pre-fabricated Covid-19 hospital at Nerchowk would be completed at the earliest and the admission to patients would be allowed from April 15. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-reviews-mandi-covid-situation-229982
25-03-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||Deficient rainfall worries Kullu orchardists||KULLU, MARCH 24Low rainfall in Kullu valley this year has raised the concerns of the orchardists and the environmentalists.According to Met department, Kullu district has received 119.6 mm of rains since January 2021 while it had recorded 326.7 mm rainfall in January, February and March 2020. Kullu district received 530.6 mm rainfall during the corresponding period in 2019. The district had received 1,072.1 mm rain in 2020 and 1,139 mm rainfall in 2019.Kullu Fruit Growers’ Association president Prem Sharma said that low rain and snowfall this year would result in inadequate chilling hours that are needed for apple crop. He said that flower size was small and it might have an impact on the quantity and quality of the produce.The environmentalists were concerned that drought-like situation may arise due to scanty snowfall and rain. They said that many water bodies will be affected as they will not be recharged adequately due to scanty rainfall. The tourism beneficiaries were concerned that snow will vanish earlier from the major tourist attraction Rohtang Pass which will have an adverse impact on the tourism industry.Even Lahaul region experienced very low snowfall of 94.5 cm this year which is lolwest in many decades. According to Met department, 51.7 cm of snow was recorded in January, 15.6 cm in February and 27.2 cm so far in March. Last year the district received 280 cm of snow. The highest snowfall of 719 cm was witnessed by the valley in 2019 while the lowest snow of 172 cm was recorded in 2016 during the past decade.The Lahaul valley has also recorded an unusual rise in temperature due to scanty snowfall. The snow has already disappeared in about 70 per cent of the region in March itself. The glaciers have not received armour this time due to less snowfall due to which the possibility of drought has increased.These are the glaciers in the Lahaul-Spiti region which feed Sutlej and Chenab rivers. Less snowfall will affect these major rivers and have an impact on the speed of melting of glaciers as well.Village elders Phunchog, Mandas, Jogchand and Dorje said the region had experienced the lowest snowfall in the past many decades.Inadequate chilling hours||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/deficient-rainfall-worries-kullu-orchardists-229991
25-03-2021||Hamirpur||HPTU coffee table book presented to Himachal CM||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur was presented a coffee table book of the Himachal Pradesh Technical University by Prof SP Bansal at Shimla on Tuesday. The Chief Minister said the coffee table books reflected achievements and programmes of the university. He said such books encouraged students to perform better in their respective fields and figure in the books that become historical documents of the institutions.Prof SP Bansal, Vice-Chancellor, while apprising the Chief Minister of the achievements of the university, said it had over 48 affiliated colleges in the state and it offered technical courses along with courses for holistic development of students. The book carried 58 pages that reflected the 10 years of journey of the HPTU that started in a small office complex and moved to the sprawling campus at Daruhi village near here. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hptu-coffee-table-book-presented-to-himachal-cm-229992
25-03-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Work on to address traffic, parking woes in Shimla||Tribune News ServiceShimla, March 24Work on the widening of 20 stretches out of 70 identified bottlenecks on the circular road in Shimla town has started in the first phase under the Smart City project.“The stretches identified by the Public Works Department (PWD) will be widened to optimum possible widths and a 4-4.5-foot-wide footpath will be constructed for pedestrians, besides crash barriers,” said Executive Engineer (Division I) Sudhir Gupta.The work on all 70 stretches will be undertaken in three phases and the deadline is 2023, he said, adding that works amounting to Rs 10 crore were already in progress.He said on many stretches, structures had to be demolished to pave the way for the widening work. The cost of land acquisition would also be borne under the Smart City project.Some of the stretches where work is in progress are Tolland to Khalini, Navbhar to Khali Dhank, St. Edwards to Kamla Nehru Hospital (KNH), Tara Hall to Police Lines and Chhota Shimla to Ayurved Hospital.The construction of a footpath near St Bede’s College has been completed. The tender from Hotel Holiday Home to the Bemloe stretch would be awarded in a week while the tender for the widening of road near the Congress office and the construction of footpath would be awarded soon, Gupta added.Shimla city was designed for a population of 35,000 people and at present, the population is 10 times more. As per the police, about 1.20 lakh vehicles are registered in the town with parking capacity of just 2,500 vehicles while 24,000 vehicles are parked off road.Traffic congestion, parking problem and bottlenecks hindering traffic flow in the capital city compelled the Shimla police to prepare a city traffic regulation and management plan, which was rolled out recently.The plan recommended the increase in use of public transport, introduction of metro cables, construction of multi-storey parking at strategic points, widening of roads and construction of over bridges and expansion of the old ISBT and shifting of the Lakkar Bazaar bus stand to Dhalli to decongest the town.“The widening of roads can help in solving the problem only if parking of vehicles is not allowed on these,” said a senior citizen, Om Prakash Sood.Recommendations||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/work-on-to-address-traffic-parking-woes-in-shimla-229966
