26-03-2021||---||Lt Gen PN Ananthanarayanan takes over as GOC of the Yol-based Rising Star Corps||Chandigarh, March 26Lieutenant General PN Ananthanarayanan has taken over as the 16th General Officer Commanding of the Yol-based Rising Star Corps. He was the Commandant, Infantry School at Mhow before assuming the present appointment.An alumni of the Rashtriya Indian Military College, National Defence Academy and National Defence College, he was commissioned into the 3rd Battalion of the 8th Gorkha Rifles in December 1984.During his career spanning 36 years, the officer has held various staff, instructional and command appointments, including command of an Infantry Division on the Line of Actual Control. He has also been an instructor at the National Defence Academy, Khadakwasla and Senior Instructor at Defence Services Staff College, Wellington. Apart from being a post graduate in Defence and Strategic Studies and Master of Philosophy in Defence and Management Studies from the Madras University, he also holds a Post-Graduate Diploma in Personal Management and Industrial Relations from Symbiosis, Pune.Lt Gen Ananthanarayanan was awarded Sena Medal 2019.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/lt-gen-pn-ananthanarayanan-takes-over-as-goc-of-the-yol-based-rising-star-corps-230802
26-03-2021||The Nurpur Municipal Council has launched a campaign to keep the city clean||Garbage menace||— Raj Kumar, NurpurAmid Covid surge, need to Check occupancy in BusesAmid the rising number of Covid cases, the government has put a cap on indoor and outdoor gatherings. However, it has not passed any order on the occupancy in buses, including school buses. Most school buses are plying at full capacity, putting the lives of children at risk. The government should issue orders restricting the numberof passengers in buses to check further surge in the Covid cases. — Lata Verma, KasumptiWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/garbage-menace-230693
26-03-2021||The engineering faculty of Shoolini University has been awarded a “diamond rating” by Quacquarelli Symonds (QS). The faculty scored 200 points out of 250 to earn the honour. Shoolini University is consistently being ranked among top universities in India as well as globally by prestigious agencies. QS is a global university ranking company that has a custom-designed rating system for universities and colleges in India called “QS IGAUGE”.||Honour for varsity’s faculty||Memo to Education MinisterThe ABVP units of all Shimla colleges have submitted a memorandum to the Education Minister through their principals to highlight their issues. They complained that the HPU administration does not declare the results in time. Besides, they are facing problems with re-evaluation too. They demanded the timely construction of the Central University premises, besides filling vacancies in all colleges. They also sought the resumption of the SCA elections.NSUI secretary suspendedNSUI state president Chhatar Singh has suspended Kinnaur in-charge and state secretary Ashish Himta for announcing the executive without the approval of the state chief. He said Himta had been suspended with immediate effect.ABVP threatens protestThe ABVP has warned of launching an agitation if the newly constructed building of Fagli Sanskrit College is not inaugurated within 10 days. The ABVP said the building had come up after a long struggle, but it was not being inaugurated. Students were being forced to sit in Labour Hostel. The ABVP said they would boycott classes and launch an agitation if their demand was not met.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/honour-for-varsitys-faculty-230680
26-03-2021||Lalit Mohan||Scanty rain, damaged kuhls worry farmers||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, March 25As if scanty rain in February and March was not enough, damage to kuhls is causing additional worries to the farmers in Kangra district. After deficient rainfall, kuhls are the only reliable source of irrigation. The farmers are complaining that most of the kuhls in the area are damaged. They are alleging that because of lack of maintenance of kuhls in many areas by the Irrigation Department farmers are not getting water.Traditional source of irrigationWheat crop on 200 acres face threatThe wheat crop on about 200 acres is on the verge of getting damaged. Farmers will not be able to recover even their cost of sowing. We have written to the Chief Minister and IPH officials, requesting them to repair the kuhl. However, no action has been taken. — Satish Sharma, a farmerKuhls are drains which carry water from natural streams. These are the traditional source of irrigation.In Panchrukhi, farmers are complaining that the Ladoh-Panchrukhi kuhl is not working. Kuldeep Sharma, former village pradhan, alleged that in the past 10 years, the department had spent about Rs 1.5 crore on the maintenance of kuhls. However, it was still broken at many places. Even the small dam, constructed in a rivulet to divert water to the kuhl, is damaged. The result is that farmers of the area were not getting water for irrigation.Satish Sharma, another farmer, said in Panchrukhi, the wheat crop on about 200 acres was on the verge of getting damaged in absence of irrigation facility. The farmers would not be able to recover even their cost of sowing if any irrigation facility was not made available.“We have written to the Chief Minister and IPH officials, requesting them that the water stream should be repaired, however, no action has been taken,” he said.Kangra district has about 400 kuhls. Of these, about 100 kuhls are maintained by the department while the remaining 300 are maintained by villagers.Superintending Engineer, IPH, Suresh Mahajan said under the PM Krishi Yojana, 111 kuhls would be concretised. Of these, 39 were in Kangra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/scanty-rain-damaged-kuhls-worry-farmers-230522
26-03-2021||Ambika Sharma||Schools in rural areas lack computers, infra||Tribune News ServiceSolan, March 25Several government schools, especially those in rural areas, still lack basic facilities such as the availability of computers and information communication technology (ICT) labs. This is despite the fact that the state Education Department has allocated a budget ranging from Rs 15 lakh to Rs 44 lakh to select schools for improving their infrastructure.Cause for concernWhile a budget of Rs 60 crore has been provided to select schools in the state, others face discrimination as they lack even the basic facilities such as white boards, computers, etc.The Swaran Jayanti Utkrisht Vidyalaya Yojana and the Swaran Jayanti Gyanodaya Cluster Sreshtha Vidyalaya were among ambitious schemes that were announced by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur in 2020-2021 to improve the quality of education in government schools.Government Senior Secondary School (GSSS), Haripur Sandholi, in the Baddi industrial area has enrolled 100 students for computer science, but it has neither any ICT lab nor a dedicated computer system. The school management rues that no agency has come forward to offer computers to the school. The management has now requested the Principal of the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) at Solan to provide surplus computers, if any, as at least 10 computers were required for the enrolled students.“Since students here come from the rural background, they lack computer facility even at home. The non-availability of computers at the school, too, will deprive them of this key aspect of education,” said a teacher.At GSSS, Guggaghat, in Solan district, 125 students have enrolled for computer science and information technology, but there are barely 12 computers in working condition. Since classes for these courses are held simultaneous, students are unable to obtain practical training. Sources said the managements of these schools were trying to arrange old computers. However, on the other hand, there were schools that had got funds under various schemes to purchase sports kits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/schools-in-rural-areas-lack-computers-infra-230523
26-03-2021||---||Physically challenged wins laurels in table tennis meet||Shimla, March 25Shimla boy Piyush Sharma became the first player from the state to play table tennis on a wheel chair and win a bronze medal in the Para National Table Tennis Championship held in Indore recently.Aiming higherEarlier he had represented India in the Dutch International Para Table Tennis Championship held in the Netherlands. Now, his aim is to represent India and bring medal for the country in the Paris International Paralympics to be held in France in 2024.Expert member of HP State Advisory Board on Disability and Chairman of Umang Foundation Ajai Srivastava said after completing his XII from St Edwards School Shimla and B Tech from NIT, Piyush worked as a software engineer with a Dutch company at Bangalore for four years.At present, he is pursuing a post graduate program after getting prestigious Tech-Leaders fellowship at Gurugram.Besides sportsperson, he is also a motivational speaker and disability rights activist. An expert in artificial intelligence, Piyus is working on some projects which would make the life of disabled people easier.Piyush is severely disabled due to spine problem since childhood and his father Anil Sharma and mother Santosh Sharma faced a lot of trouble in carrying him to school on their back. Financial crunch added to their woes.Piyush had been representing Himachal in Para National Table Tennis Championship for the last three years.The state government should come forward to support the disabled players in their coaching and extend sponsorship for participation in national and international events, he demanded.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and Governor Bandaru Dattatreya have congratulated the Piyush for his success.They said that this youth from the hills is a source of inspiration for younger generation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/physically-challenged-wins-laurels-in-table-tennis-meet-230524
26-03-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Sharing profit of goods sold with jail inmates||Tribune News ServiceShimla, March 25The Prison Department has successfully implemented the ‘Har hath ko kam’ initiative under which manufacturing units have been set up in jails and inmates are paid wages for producing various goods. To develop the spirit of co-ownership among the inmates, it has now started sharing with them the profit of the products sold.‘Tofu’ in good demandThe inmates are engaged in the manufacturing of bakery products, handloom, cloths, besides carpentry and welding and about 6 per cent to 7 per cent of 2,606 prisoners, including 107 women, lodged in jails in the state are allowed to go out and work in Himkara stores (stores opened by the department to sell their products), mobile food vans, factories and other places.“A portion of the profit is shared with the inmates to cultivate the spirit of co-ownership, reducing pilferage to zero,” said Somesh Goyal, DGP, Prisons and Correctional Services, the man behind the initiative.The turnover of the prison industry was hit by 15 per cent to 20 per cent due to the Covid-19 outbreak. The sales reduced from Rs 4.38 crore in February 2020 to Rs 3.68 crore in February 2021. However, the wages paid to the inmates remained almost static, registering a fall of Rs 6 lakh only. The wages paid in 2020 and 2021 were Rs 1.34 crore and Rs 1.28 crore, respectively.“People have gone through a lot of stress due to Covid and the families of the inmates are no exception. However, the manufacturing and production activities continued in jails and wages were paid to support the families of the inmates,” said Goyal. The sales resumed during the unlock period and has gained momentum now, he added.The silver lining was that the sale of bakery products picked up during the pandemic, recording a profit of 9 per cent; bread and bakery products were available at the Kaithu jail when these items were not sold at other outlets during the lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sharing-profit-of-goods-sold-with-jail-inmates-230525
26-03-2021||Nurpur||39.4 pc decline in TB cases in Kangra||Kangra district has witnessed a decline of 39.4 per cent in TB cases during 2015 to 2020.For this achievement, the district bagged a bronze medal in the National Tuberculosis Elimination Progamme held in Delhi on Wednesday.As per information, the district has achieved the target against the criteria of 20 per cent required for the bronze certification. In 2015, the health department had detected 220 positive TB cases per lakh population, which was reduced to 133 after five years in 2020.Chief Medical Officer, Kangra, Gurdarshan Gupta said regular monitoring, review and hard work by health department staff and stakeholders had brought down TB cases in the district.He said in 2020, only one TB patient was detected among 19 suspected patients, whereas in 2015, one case had been detected after the testing of nine patients.The Kangra district TB programme officer, who received the bronze medal from the Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare, said the department had undertaken the TB elimination programme in a planned way and achieved the best possible TB performance indicators.He said 15 department teams had conducted field surveys in all 15 health blocks of the district from February 2 to March 10 and covered a population of 27,204. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/39-4-pc-decline-in-tb-cases-in-kangra-230526
26-03-2021||Dipender Manta||Unite for win in Mandi, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to party workers||Tribune News ServiceMandi, March 25Perturbed over party rebels in MC elections in Mandi district, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has asked party workers to be united to ensure BJP victory in Mandi.After the allotment of ticket to the candidates, many aspirants got annoyed. They have filed papers as Independent candidates.This has left the Chief Minister worried, forcing him to kickstart the campaign.The Chief Minister held a closed-door meeting with party workers in Mandi yesterday to take feedback about the preparations of the elections.The Chief Minister addressed public meetings at Behna and Dhaundhi wards and urged the people of the area to ensure victory of BJP candidates.It is a prestige issue for the Chief Minister to win the elections in Mandi at any cost because it is his home turf. However, all eyes are on party rebels whether they withdraw till March 27 or not, which will decide the future strategy of the BJP.The Chief Minister, along with other party leaders, paid homage to the late MP Ram Swaroop Sharma.On its part, the Congress has also intensified its election campaign.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/unite-for-win-in-mandi-chief-minister-jai-ram-thakur-to-party-workers-230527
26-03-2021||Solan||BJP blames Congress for failure to upgrade Solan civic body||The BJP has blamed the Congress for failing to upgrade the Solan municipal committee to a corporation during its tenure despite promising to do so.BJP’s state co-incharge Sanjay Tandon, while addressing mediapersons here today, said his party would ensure uniform development of the merged rural areas and urban areas.Tandon said, “Differences are being ironed out and places where some rivals have filed nominations will be coaxed to withdraw in the interest of the party. I have already met such candidates”.Terming the Congress as leaderless, Tandon said that they not only lack vision but also had no policy and hence would not be able to deliver in the municipal corporation.Asked about incomplete infrastructure projects like parking, transport nagar and lack of water availability, Tandon said the shortcomings would be removed with the constitution of the new body.“Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has announced a special grant of crores during his recent visit to Solan. These issues were raised by the party leaders and the CM has already assured that these projects would be completed soon,” he said.Asked about the party’s own president facing a no-confidence motion in the sitting civic body, Tandon said, “We are working overtime to ensure that there is no factional, leg pulling or mud-slinging and each aspect has been taken care of.”He said the presence of Aam Aadmi Party would not pose any threat to the party in the civic body poll.Tandon campaigned for the party candidates in various wards of the Solan municipal corporation.Accompanied by party leaders, he sought votes for the party candidates in ward numbers 4, 7, 11 and 15 in Solan. In-charge of Solan MC polls and Nahan MLA Rajeev Bindal, Minister for Health Rajiv Saizal, and Power Minister Sukhram Chawdhary were also present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-blames-congress-for-failure-to-upgrade-solan-civic-body-230528
26-03-2021||---||Will pacify rebels: Himachal state BJP president Kashyap||Mandi, March 25The municipal corporation (MC) elections due next month, the BJP will pacify rebels, contesting the elections as Independents after the denial of ticket. There are 15 wards in the Mandi MC.Addressing mediapersons here today, Suresh Kashyap, state BJP president, said, “The BJP will make efforts to persuade the rebels to withdraw their candidature till March 27.”He said, “The BJP will win the MC elections in Mandi, Dharamsala, Palampur and Solan under the leadership of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur. Mandi is the home district of the Chief Minister and we are hopeful that people will support the BJP.”He said Opposition leaders had tried to mislead the people of newly constituted MCs that after the elections, heavy taxes would be imposed on them. They would not get jobs under MGNREGA.“However, the government has said that no taxes will be imposed in the first tenure of the MC, while jobs will be provided to the needy under the Mukhyamantri Shahri Ajeevika Guarantee Yojana in urban areas on the pattern of MGNREGA,” he added.Ashray Sharma, son of Anil Sharma, is campaigning for Congress candidates in Mandi. In the last Lok Sabha election, Anil Sharma did not campaign for the BJP candidate because his son was the Congress candidate from Mandi.Kashyap said the Congress was a divided house, which would be an advantage for the BJP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/will-pacify-rebels-himachal-state-bjp-president-kashyap-230529
26-03-2021||Ambika Sharma||BBN industries directed to create isolation facility||Tribune News ServiceSolan, March 25In view of rising Covid cases, the Nalagarh SDM today directed all industries in the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh (BBN) belt to create isolation facilities for 10 per cent of their workforce on their premises. Besides, he imposed a complete ban on community lunch and other non-essential social gatherings till further orders.The SDM declared the Aashiana paying guest facility at Nalagarh as a micro containment zone after the detection of a Covid case there. Restrictions on the movement of people were also imposed.Industries have been given the concession to form common isolation facilities at the cluster level as well for isolating their infected employees in case an individual industry lacks adequate space on its premises. The Deputy Director, Industries, has been directed to tell all industries to adhere to the orders and also send a compliance report to the SDM, Mahinder Pal.The SDM said, “There has been an increase in the number of Covid cases in the industrial belt in recent days, necessitating strict measures to contain its spread. Establishing isolation facilities is a step to meet any eventuality”.Various industry associations such as the Baddi-Barotiwala Nalagarh Industries Association, Nalagarh Industries Association, Himachal Drug Manufacturers Association and the HP Corrugation Box Manufacturers have been directed to adhere to the directions with immediate effect.As many as 69 cases have been reported in the BBN area since yesterday while 81 active cases and 23 deaths have taken place till now. New cases have been reported in the BBN area, including Jharmajri, Baddi, Bhud, Billanwali, Katha, Nangal Dhaka, Jhajjara, Dattowal, Saini Majra, Kharuni, Ratyore, Dhabota, Nalagarh, Lodhimajra and Sallewal.The subdivision has registered the highest spike in virus cases in the district and faces a precarious situation owing to the daily ingress of at least 80,000 industrial workers as well as truckers from Covid-hit states such as Punjab, Maharashtra, and Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bbn-industries-directed-to-create-isolation-facility-230530
26-03-2021||Shimla||315 Covid cases, two die in Himachal||As many as 315 Covid cases were reported in the state today. Besides, two deaths due to the virus occured in the past 24 hours. One person each succumbed in Kangra and Una.The highest number of 102 cases was reported in Una, followed by 64 in Kangra, 47 in Solan, 37 in Sirmaur, 23 in Hamirpur, 17 in Bilaspur, 12 in Shimla, five in Chamba, four in Kullu, three in Mandi and one in Kinnaur.Chamba: As many as 10,839 elderly persons have been administered the first dose of Covid vaccine in Chamba district while 633 persons above 45 years with comorbidities have been inoculated so far, said CMO Dr Rajesh Guleri. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/315-covid-cases-two-die-in-himachal-230531
26-03-2021||Subhash Rajta||Horticulture Dept to hire 12 retired engineers, six JEs||Tribune News ServiceShimla, March 25The Horticulture Department is hiring 12 engineers and six junior engineers for a World Bank-funded project. Interestingly, all these vacancies have been reserved for retired personnel of the Jal Shakti Department.The qualification for hiringThose applying for the posts of engineer need to have 20 years experience as junior engineer with the Jal Shakti Vibhag (formerly known as IPH), the aspirants for the posts of junior engineer (JE) should have served as JE for at least 10 years in the department.“We have received a requisition from irrigation experts of the Himachal Pradesh Horticulture Development project to hire retired persons. They feel that there is inexperience in the existing workforce and hence want to bring in experienced people to speed up the project work,” says Horticulture Director JP Sharma.“Actually, the work is not going on at the desired pace. Experienced people will give it a desired thrust and the youth will also benefit from their experience,” he adds.Many officials in the department, however, are not convinced. “There is no dearth of experienced people in the project. There are irrigation experts of the level of executive engineers at the top. Besides, JEs and assistant engineers working on the project have been there for around three years now. Add to it two to five years experience they had before they started working on the project,” says a horticulture official.“Also, why limit your choice to the Jal Shakti Vibhag alone. We can get the best possible talent by hiring people from an open pool,” he says.CPM leader Sanjay Chauhan says it’s being done to oblige few chosen ones. “What is the expertise of the Jal Shakti Vibhag in irrigation and horticulture? The government has made a mess of the Rs 1,134 crore project, and this is just another step in that direction,” he says.Besides, the decision to hire retirees when the state has more than nine lakh registered unemployed has not gone down well with the youth.“Many people have lost their jobs due to the pandemic, both in and outside the state. Instead of giving them opportunities, the government is offering jobs to people who are already getting hefty pensions. It’s a cruel joke on the unemployed educated youth of the state,” says a youth with B. Tech in civil engineering.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/horticulture-dept-to-hire-12-retired-engineers-six-jes-230532
26-03-2021||Shimla||Rakesh Tikait, others to address kisan mahapanchayat in Paonta Sahib||The first kisan mahapanchayat in Himachal will be held at Haripur Tohna in Paonta Sahib on April 7 to muster support for the farmer agitation for scrapping three farm laws.The Himachal Kisan Sabha has endorsed the call of the mahapanchayat and urged the farmers to participate in it in a big way. The mahapanchayat will be addressed by Rakesh Tikait and other Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders like Gurnam Singh Charuni, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Dr Darshan Pal and famous singer Kanwar Grewal.A delegation of the SKM from Paonta Sahib came here today to seek support for mahapanchayat. Leaders addressed mediapersons along with president of Himachal Kisan Sabha, Kuldeep Tanwar. Farmer leaders appealed to the government not to implement these laws in the state and dubbed them as illegal.Convener of SKM, Paonta Sahib, Tarsem Singh Jaggi and co-convener, Gurvinder Singh Gopi and Dr Kuldeep Tanwar said that the Union government had declared MSP for agriculture produce but it would not help farmers of Himachal as their main produce is maize, which has not been included.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rakesh-tikait-others-to-address-kisan-mahapanchayat-in-paonta-sahib-230533
26-03-2021||Mandi||Nerchowk pupil alleges ragging||A student of the MBBS first year in Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College and Hospital at Nerchowk in Mandi district alleged ragging by senior students yesterday.According to the police, the victim alleged that the seniors told her to tie her hair properly. She said her tutor also commented on her hair. She informed her parents, who later took up the matter with the college authority.However, Dr RC Thakur, Principal, denied it. He said it was just a misunderstanding. The college authorities have registered an FIR to inquire into the matter.Superintendent of Police Shalini Agnihotri said a case had been registered against the senior students and the tutor. The police are investigating the case and action will be taken accordingly.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nerchowk-pupil-alleges-ragging-230534
26-03-2021||Chamba||Chamba stretch faces threat of sinking||The Chamba District Progressive Council has drawn the attention of the government and the administration towards a stretch of an old route from the Chamba hospital to Balu via the Puccatala mohalla, which is badly damaged and facing a threat of sinking.   The route is unsafe due to frequent landslides and stones falling from the hilltop despite protection work. It is the main entrance to Chamba town for those coming from Rajpura, Sarol, Parel and Sultanpur side.  Council president CP Sehgal and senior vice-president Major SC Nayyar have urged the administration intervene and take remedial steps in consultation with engineering experts and the forest department.   They rued that Chamba was deprived of basic facilities. Even connected roads and paths were not safe, they added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chamba-stretch-faces-threat-of-sinking-230535
26-03-2021||Our Correspondent---||College building foundation stone broken in Nurpur||NURPUR MARCH 25 Unidentified miscreants reportedly damaged the foundation stone along with plaque of the government college building here at Sullitila near Badni. The foundation stone was laid by former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh in December 2017 in the presence of the then local MLA Ajay Mahajan.  The locals first noticed the damaged foundation stone and its plaque this morning.  Taking a serious note, the local former MLA and Kangra district Congress president Ajay Mahajan alleged political angle in the demolition of the foundation stones in the area. He said the governments work in continuity. Instead of damaging foundation stones, the current government should complete the development projects initiated during the previous regime.  He said the level of politics had come down to the lowest level in Nurpur area. He said earlier too some foundation stones laid during the previous regime had been demolished in the area. He sought a thorough investigations behind these demolitions.  The Congress leader said the government was meting out step-motherly treatment to Nurpur and not even a single announcement made during the past three years had been fulfilled so far.  Dinesh Kumar, Executive Engineer, PWD division, Nurpur, said the demolition was not in his knowledge. He added that he would conduct an inquiry and lodge a police complaint.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/college-building-foundation-stone-broken-in-nurpur-230536
26-03-2021||Kullu||Lahaul homestays to be promoted: Minister||The finals of various sports events were held on the 71st day of the snow festival at Keylong in Lahaul and Spiti today. Tribal Development Minister Ram Lal Markanda was the chief guest.   Competitions were held for men and women in tug-of-war, archery and knitting. The minister said, “This festival of festivals has become one of the longest fests of the country.” He said the homestay scheme would be promoted and workshops would be conducted to impart training to people in preparing traditional and modern cuisines. He added that the beneficiaries would be apprised of various aspects of tourism management to promote eco-friendly sustainable tourism in the region. Markanda said that efforts would be made to provide round-the-clock tap water supply during the winter to every household to provide better facilities to tourists and local residents. He added that the possibility of holding winter and adventure sports would be explored, as the region has a lot of potential for these activities.— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/lahaul-homestays-to-be-promoted-minister-230537
26-03-2021||imla||700 plaints of cyber crime received||Cyber criminals are using applications like Team Viewer and Any Desk app to take access of mobile phones of people to transfer funds from their accounts.Analysis of over 700 complaints of cyber crime received at cyber police station, Shimla in the past three months revealed that innocent people were being duped through social media, said ASP Cyber Crime Narvir Singh Rathore.The miscreants contact innocent people through social media and voice calls and ask them for KYC validation or update for the mobile and caution them that the process is necessary or their phone would stop working.Then they request downloading of Team Viewer and Any Desk app and take control of the mobiles remotely. Once the process is completed, the fraudsters demand transfer of Rs 10 into the account of the telecom service provider following which they take access of the bank account and transfer huge amount of money.The criminals also blackmail persons by using morphed videos. The cyber crime department has advised the general public to be cautious while accepting friend request from unknown persons on social networking sites. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/700-plaints-of-cyber-crime-received-230538
26-03-2021||---||NSUI activists stage protest outside CUHP||Dharamsala, March 25 Activists of the NSUI yesterday staged a dharna outside the temporary complex of the Central University of Himachal Pradesh (CUHP). NSUI activists, while raising slogans against the state government and the university administration, alleged that a permanent campus of the CUHP should be brought up in Shahpur also.  Congress leader from Shahpur and HPCC general secretary Kewal Singh Pathania, while addressing the NSUI activists, alleged that the CUHP temporary campus had been functioning from Shahpur since 2010. Still the government was not proposing to set up its permanent campus here. He said while the government was proposing forest land for setting up of the CUHP campus in Dharamsala and Dehra, ample government land was available in Shahpur for bringing up permanent campus of CUHP, he said.  Pathania also alleged that the CUHP had been made a den of politics by the BJP. Activists of the ABVP and other right-wing parties have been recruited in the CUHP in violation of the basic rules and regulations. An inquiry should be initiated into the recruitments carried out in the CUHP in the last few years, he said.  NSUI activists threatened to intensify their agitation if the university campus was shifted from Shahpur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nsui-activists-stage-protest-outside-cuhp-230540
26-03-2021||Our Correspondent||18 progressive farmers from Sirmaur honoured||Palampur March 25CSK Himachal Pradesh Agriculture University on Thursday organised a scientific advisory committee meeting at Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Dhaulakuan (Sirmaur).The Vice-Chancellor, Prof HK Chaudhary, also honoured 18 progressive farmers from the district.Professor Chaudhary said he was committed to taking university research work and technology to the doorstep of growers across the state.Scientists and other experts answered the queries of farmers related to agriculture, veterinary science and home science.The Vice-Chancellor spoke on the importance of animal husbandry and the university's initiatives in the preservation and conservation of local breeds. He discussed the problems of farm produce marketing in remote and less accessible areas and assured the farmers to take up these issues with the government. Professor Chaudhary said the university had taken several initiatives to make its policies and programmes farmer-centric.Earlier, the Vice-Chancellor inaugurated an exhibition on farm produce and appreciated the work by NGOs for women empowerment. .Director, Extension Education, Dr Madhumeet Singh said due to high variation in altitude varying from 400 m at Paonta Sahib to 3,700 m at Chuhardhar, agriculture was much diversified in Sirmaur district, thus enabling farmers to produce a variety of crops.He elaborated on various extension education-related activities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/18-progressive-farmers-from-sirmaur-honoured-230543
