27-03-2021||---||Educational institutions to remain closed till April 4 in Himachal||Shimla, March 26The government has ordered the closure of all educational institutions, including universities, colleges, technical institutes and schools, till April 4 as a precautionary measure due to the recent spike in Covid-19 cases in the state.However, classrooms will remain open for students who are taking their exams during this period. The decision was taken during a high-level meeting presided over by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here on Friday.The Chief Minister said schools having residential facilities need not close their hostels, but they would have to comply with all standard operating procedures to keep the residential areas cut off and appoint a ‘compliance officer’ to ensure all orders are followed.No Holi celebrationsHe said teachers and other school and college staff would continue to attend the institutions. Nursing and medical institutions would continue to function as usual.The Chief Minister said no social and cultural events would be organised in the state by the government and public gatherings would be restricted to a maximum of 200 persons for indoors and 50 per cent for outdoor events.Congregations and ‘langars’ inside temples were banned, but ‘darshan’ would be allowed, he added.The Chief Minister said there would be no public celebration of Holi, and urged people to celebrate the festival at their home with family members.He said April 3 would also be holiday for all offices in the state.The Chief Minister said all frontline workers would be sensitised to get themselves vaccinated at the earliest completing their second dose according to the schedule.It was also decided at the meeting that respective district administrations would take a call on enforcing additional restrictions keeping in view the positivity and fatality rate in their areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/educational-institutions-to-remain-closed-till-april-4-in-himachal-230901
27-03-2021||Nurpur||Supplementary land acquisition awards for Nurpur||The Competent Authority for Land Acquisition (CALA)-cum-SDM today announced supplementary awards for acquiring private land for the construction of NHAI’s Pathankot-Mandi four lane project for package-1 from Kandwal to Bherkhud in Nurpur. The awards were issued for rendering additional land acquisition compensation to 2,854 affected persons in 29 revenue mohals in Nurpur subdivision. The NHAI had issued supplementary 3A notification for acquiring additional 7-42-78 hectares of private land on October 20 last year and further issued 3D notification on January 5 this year. The CALA has appealed to the affected persons to submit their bank account details and ID proofs, so that the sanctioned compensation amount could be transferred to their bank accounts. Earlier, the CALA had announced compensation awards for phase-1 for acquiring 21-86-38 hectares private lands in 31 revenue mohals in Nurpur on March 1, in which lands of 3,218 affected persons had to be acquired for the four lane project. The affected persons had renounced that award and started agitating under the banners of Four Lane Sangarsh Samiti and Four Lane Lok Body, in support of their demand of fair compensation. So far, most of the persons have not provided their account details and ID proofs. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/supplementary-land-acquisition-awards-for-nurpur-230902
27-03-2021||---||Villagers threaten protest against proposed airport||Mandi, March 26Residents of the Balh valley in Mandi district on Friday threatened to stage a massive protest against the government on April 12 to oppose the proposed construction of airport in the valley.Fear losing landThe residents are fearing that they will lose their agricultural land because of the project.The residents said they had always been opposed to the decision of the state government.Joginder Walia, president of the Balh Bachao Sangharsh Samiti, urged the state government to change the project site, where less people would be affected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/villagers-threaten-protest-against-proposed-airport-230903
27-03-2021||Subhash Rajta||Monorail project in Shimla goes off track||Tribune News ServiceShimla, March 26Barely a month after the Shimla Municipal Corporation made an announcement to run a monorail to decongest the city roads, the plan stands shelved. According to sources in the Ropeway and Rapid Transport System Development Corporation, the project is not feasible at all. The Municipal Corporation had zeroed in on the ropeway corporation to implement the project, its biggest announcement for this year in the annual budget.“Running a monorail in Shimla is not feasible. The project has been studied and it’s not viable. There’s hardly any space to lay the tracks. Plus, grade and angles make it even more challenging,” said a ropeway corporation official.Satya Kaundal, MC Mayor, who seemed quite enthusiastic about the project while making the announcement in her budget speech, too seems to have given up on it. “Ropeway officials say it’s not feasible. So I think it’s as good as over,” she said.Many in the Municipal Corporation had doubts regarding the viability of the project when it was announced. “The project is unlikely to see the light of the day. It’s not viable,” an official had told The Tribune. It took barely a month for his apprehensions to come true.Incidentally, it’s not the first time that Shimla residents have been promised a monorail. Three years ago, in 2018, a firm from Switzerland had made a presentation on running a monorail in the city to Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur. Before that, in 2013, the Congress government, too, had toyed with the idea.The cost of the project was pegged at Rs 5,000 then, and the Delhi Metro was asked to carry out the feasibility study.Despite two failed attempts at government level, it’s surprising that the MC again brought back the dead and buried project. Hopefully, the authorities concerned would offer a more viable public transport alternative in future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/monorail-project-in-shimla-goes-off-track-230904
27-03-2021||Lalit Mohan||Lack of parking spaces hits tourism in Dharamsala||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, March 26The failure of the state and the local municipal council to development parking places is likely to become an issue in the forthcoming elections for the Dharamsala municipal corporation.The upper Dharamsala area comprising McLeodganj, Dharamkot and Bhagsunag are key tourist hubs of the Kangra district. However, tourism in the area has been hit badly due to lack of proper parking places. Just two or three public parking places which can accommodate just a few hundred vehicles have been created by the government in McLeodganj.There was a proposal to create a multi-level parking lot near the Dalai Lama temple under the Smart City scheme. However, the work for that scheme is yet to start.In Bhagsunag area there also was a proposal to create a multilevel parking. However, the land on which parking was to be created turned out to be of forest department in revenue papers.Ashwani Bamba, president of Upper Dharamsala Hotel and Restaurant Association, while talking to The Tribune, said the MC authorities had informed them that they had applied to the union ministry for forests and environment for conversion of forest land in Bhagsunag for other purpose. However, the permission was rejected on the plea that forest land cannot be converted for other purpose.“There are other government land patches on the McLeodganj-Bhagsunag road that can be converted into multilevel parking places. We have been pursuing the matter of creation of additional parking places in upper Dharamsala with the authorities concerned since long but nothing has happened on the ground so far,” he said.Parking vows also plague those in lower Dharamsala area. There was no parking lots available near the office of Dharamsala municipal corporation.To add to the parking woes the corporation has started construction of houses of MC employees right adjacent to their office. The locals have been alleging that the area should have been used for parking as locals have to visit Dharamsala MC office for their daily works.When asked, former Congress minister Sudhir Sharma claimed that all the parking places in Dharamsala city were created during the stint of the Congress government. Additional parkings were developed near the secretariat in Dharamsala and in McLeodganj. There were proposal to create more parking places.However, the present BJP government has stalled most of the parking projects, he said.The lack of parking lots was also hampering the prestigious ropeway project being executed by TATA company in Dharamsala. The ropeway project would connect Dharamsala with McLeodganj.As per the agreement with the government of Himachal Pradesh, the parking place at lower and upper end of the ropeway was to be brought by the state government under Smart City project.However, till date no parking place has been created at lower and upper end of the ropeway.Hampering ropeway projectThe lack of parking lots was also hampering the prestigious ropeway project being executed by TATA company in Dharamsala. The ropeway project would connect Dharamsala with McLeodganj. As per the agreement with the government of Himachal Pradesh, the parking place at lower and upper end of the ropeway was to be brought by the state government under Smart City project. However, till date no parking place has been created at lower and upper end of the ropeway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/lack-of-parking-spaces-hits-tourism-in-dharamsala-230905
27-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Gloom engulfs martyr’s village near Palampur||Palampur March 26A pall of gloom descended on Rajhoon village, 30 km from here in the Dheera sub-division of Kangra district, following the death of a CRPF jawan who was gunned down by militants in Kashmir while on duty.Ashok Kumar (40) was posted in the CRPF unit in Srinagar. On Thursday he was on patrol duty along with his team when grenades were hurled at the CRPF party by militant from a house in which Ashok and his colleague were killed.As soon as the news of Ashok’s death reached his village, hundreds of people gathered at his house to mourn his death. However, his body is yet to reach the village. His wife and other family members were in shock.Dheera SDM visited the bereaved family and assured all possible help from the state government. He apprised the family that the Kangra administration was in touch with J&K officials and his mortal remains were likely to reach late in the evening.Martyr’s family members said they had received a call from the CRPF headquarters yesterday regarding Ashok’s death.Meanwhile Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today mourned the death of Ashok, who sacrificed his life for the security and integrity of the nation. In a message to the family, the CM said the entire country salutes the spirit with which the soldiers were fighting for the country in difficult conditions in Kashmir.Killed in J-K grenade attackAshok Kumar (40) was posted in the CRPF unit in Srinagar. On Thursday he was on patrol duty along with his team when grenades were hurled at the CRPF party by militants from a house in which Ashok and his colleague were killed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gloom-engulfs-martyrs-village-near-palampur-230906
27-03-2021||Palampur||Despite ban, no check on waste burning  in Palampur||Despite the National Green Tribunal (NGT) order banning the burning of garbage in the country, waste at the Aima treatment plant of the Palampur Municipal Corporation    can be seen burning  daily   on the banks of the Neugal  river on the outskirts of  Baijnath town. The NGT has ordered state governments to impose a fine of Rs 25,000 on those who are found violating the order. However, there is no impact of the NGT order on the Aima    plant where garbage burning is a routine affair. The  burning of waste at the plant results in widespread air pollution. Despite repeated requests of residents in this regard, no action has been initiated by the PCB  or the local administration to address the problem. As per rules, garbage is to be treated in treatment plants or dumped scientifically without resulting in water pollution, but the authorities  concerned are not following the rules and allowing open burning of garbage.  Several local bodies, panchyats and NGOs,  have requested the Municipal Commissioner of the Palampur MC, Pankaj Sharma,  to  intervene. Sharma assured them that necessary steps would be initiated. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/despite-ban-no-check-on-waste-burning-in-palampur-230907
27-03-2021||Lalit Mohan||Palampur MC poll: Nomination of 2 Cong candidates rejected||Tribune News ServiceDharmsala, March 26Returning officer for the Palampur MC elections and SDM, Palampur, Dharmesh Ramotra, today rejected nomination of two Congress candidates, including former president of the Palampur MC Radha Sood. The other candidate whose nomination was rejected was Onkar Chand from ward number 4 (Aima area). Radha Sood had filed her nomination from ward number 2.The rejection of nomination papers of two candidates has created a political stir. Congress MLA from Palampur, Ashish Butail, while talking to The Tribune, alleged that the state government was pressurising the returning officers who reject papers of Congress candidates.The Congress would move court against the rejection of nomination papers of its candidates.The way the ruling party initially transferred the SDM, Palampur, to Kaza, a remote tribal area in Lahaul-Spiti, just before the elections were announced and then brought him back soon, illustrates that the government was trying to influence the elections, he said.Butail said that despite rejection of nomination of two candidates, the Congress would contest all 15 wards of Palampur MC. The covering candidates would replace the candidates whose nomination was rejected.The BJP leaders, on the other hand, claimed that the Congress would not be able to contest all 15 wards in Palampur MC as nomination papers of two of its candidates have been rejected. Palampur SDM-cum-returning officer for Palampur MC Dharmesh Kamotra, when contacted, said that the BJP had raised objection to nominations of Radha Sood and Onkar Chand on the plea that they had encroached upon government land. The allegations filed were found true.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/palampur-mc-poll-nomination-of-2-cong-candidates-rejected-230908
27-03-2021||---||Kuldeep Rathore kick-starts poll drive in Solan||Solan, March 26The Congress today kick-started its poll campaign for Solan municipal corporation with the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC), president, Kuldeep Rathore, addressing corner meetings in various wards.Accompanied by senior leaders, including MLAs DR Shandil and Harshwardhan Chauhan, former MLA Kirnesh Jung and others, they addressed corner meetings in various wards like Deonghat-Saproon, Madhuban Colony, Sunny Side, Tehsil Patrad and Rabaun Anji.While addressing the people, Rathore appealed to them to vote for the Congress candidates and said the state government had acceded to their demand for holding the civic body polls on party symbols.He said the BJP government has failed to undertake any development works in the state and no help was provided to the people during the Covid period. Though the state government had filled its coffers by levying taxes, no monetary help was provided to the common man. The government has also failed to check the price rise and increasing unemployment prevailing in the state which had adversely hit the common man.“The former Congress government had undertaken exemplary development of Solan town providing potable water, roads, health and education but now it was being discriminated against,” Rathore alleged adding that the Jai Ram Thakur-run state government had adopted a biased policy against the Opposition, its MLAs and the areas represented by them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kuldeep-rathore-kick-starts-poll-drive-in-solan-230909
27-03-2021||Dharamsala||86 in fray in Dharamsala||After scrutiny of nomination papers for the Dharamsala MC poll, 86 candidates are left in fray. The scrutiny of papers ended today. SDM-cum-returning officer Harish Gajju said that papers of all 86 candidates were found to be in order.The candidates left in fray include 17 of BJP, 17 of Congress, 8 of AAP and 44 independents. It is for the first time that AAP candidates would be contesting on election symbols in MC polls in HP.The independents include rebels of both the BJP and the Congress. Despite warnings of stern action against rebels both BJP and Congress till date have dithered from taking disciplinary action against rebels.Rakesh Pathania, Minister for Forests, who is in-charge for Dharamsala MC polls on behalf of the BJP, said that the party had managed to control its dissidence. Congress in-charge for the poll Sukhwinder Sukhu said he had sought report regarding the party rebels contesting the polls. Action would be taken against them, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/86-in-fray-in-dharamsala-230910
27-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Emotional harassment also a crime: Judge||Chamba, March 26District and Sessions Judge Rajesh Tomar said that emotional and financial harassment also came under the category of crime. In addition to physical and mental harassment in domestic violence, if a woman is harassed on emotional and financial grounds, there is a legal provision against it.District and Sessions Judge, who is also the chairman of District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), said this in his address at the one-day awareness and information camp organized by DLSA on women’s empowerment here today.“The family, society and the nation are intertwined with each other. If the family is happy with every aspect, then our society and nation will also be prosperous and strong”, Tomar said.He praised the work done by the DLSA in coordination with the district administration during the corona epidemic, saying that the authority not only informed the people about their legal rights and provisions but also provided them free legal help.Tomar also gave information about the legal rights of women. He said the woman cannot be arrested before sunrise and after sunset.Speaking on the occasion, Deputy Commissioner DC Rana said that the role and scope of Legal Services Authority had now expanded. It was playing an important role in providing information about various government schemes to general public.Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Pankaj Gupta, who is also the secretary of District Legal Services Authority, gave detailed information about the functioning of the authority.Caption: Sessions Judge Rajesh Tomar addresses awareness camp on women’s empowerment at Chamba on Friday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/emotional-harassment-also-a-crime-judge-230911
27-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Holi processions banned in Kullu||Kullu, March 26In view of the recent Covid spike, traditional processions during ‘chhoti Holi’ tomorrow and ‘badi Holi’ on March 28 will not be held this year. The government has also banned public Holi celebrations and social and cultural events.Kullu SDM Amit Guleria said traditional processions would not be allowed and he appealed to the residents to adhere to the guidelines of the government.As per traditions, residents participate in processions along with a large flag accompanied by local ‘baza’ (orchestra). Processions of Akhara Bazar, Upper Sultanpur, Lower Sultanpur, Sarwari and Lower Dhalpur visit the Raghunath temple and play Holi with Lord Raghunath and the descendants of the erstwhile royal family. They also go to various houses in their locality and sing traditional Holi lyrics and play with ‘gulal’ and colours. The festival is celebrated here for two days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/holi-processions-banned-in-kullu-230912
27-03-2021||Legal Correspondent---||Man gets jail for contempt of court||Shimla, March 26 The Himachal Pradesh High Court on Friday awarded six-month jail to Lalit Kumar in a contempt of court case. Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan passed this order on a contempt petition filed by Rekha Devi alleging that the contemnor violated the court order to deposit the use and occupation charges of a property. It was alleged in the petition that on September,11, 2018, the court, while determining the application for mesne profit that was filed by the petitioner, had determined the use and occupation charges of the premises at Rs 10,000 per month from the date of the decree passed by the trial court  on October 10, 2014, up to September, 10, 2018.  Apart from this, the court had also directed the respondent to ensure that he continues to pay occupation charges at the rate of Rs 10,000 per month by depositing the same in the Registry of the court by 10th of every month till the disposal of the appeal. But the respondent failed to deposit the use and occupation charges. While convicting the contemnor, the court observed that “what is more surprising is that the respondent, in spite of pendency of this petition, did not even care to deposit a single penny despite indulgence being repeatedly shown by this court as is evident from the order sheets”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/man-gets-jail-for-contempt-of-court-230913
27-03-2021||Legal Correspondent---||HC imposes Rs 50K cost on teacher||Shimla, March 26 Taking a tough stand on the issue of abuse of process of law by a government teacher, the High Court has imposed Rs 50,000 cost on her. While dismissing the petition with the cost, Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan and Justice CB Barowalia observed that “future hopes and aspiration of the country depends on education. Therefore, it is imperative that proper and disciplined functioning of educational institutions, more particularly teachers, should be the hallmark. If the laws and principles are eroded by the teachers themselves, it not only pollutes the functioning of the institution and deteriorates its standard but also exhibits to its own students the wrong channel adopted.”  The court passed this order on a petition filed by a government teacher challenging her transfer order where the petitioner was transferred from Government High School, Draman, to Jol.  The Education Department contended in its reply before the court that though the petitioner was adjusted from Government High School, Draman, to Jol (Kangra) on her request, she was relieved from duty on December 14, 2020, by the Block Elementary Education, Dharamsala. It was further contended that as per the report of the Principal, Government Senior Secondary School (GSSSS), Bhali, Kangra, when he was on official tour, the petitioner along with her husband entered his office without permission from anyone on the campus. Thereafter, the petitioner opened the official table locker and marked her attendance in the attendance register. During the course of hearing, the petitioner appeared along with her husband and admitted that the joining report was made by the petitioner herself and the noting portion thereof was made by her husband.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hc-imposes-rs-50k-cost-on-teacher-230914
27-03-2021||Ravinder Sood||NHAI okays Pathankot-Mandi four-lane project||Palampur, March 26The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has approved the construction of the first phase of the Pathankot- Mandi four-lane project between Pathankot (Kandwal) and 32 miles in Kangra district.Global bids for the first phase of the project were opened at the NHAI headquarters in New Delhi yesterday and the construction work of highway valuing Rs 1,002.11 crore were awarded to a Gurgaon-based construction company.Strategic projectA spokesman of the NHAI told The Tribune that the 90 per cent land for the first phase of the project had already been acquired, which was one of the conditions for the completion of the bidding process. The four-lane strategic project was hanging fire since long. The company concerned will take up the construction work soon.As per the project report, the width of the road will be 35 metre at Kandwal, 40 metre at Pacca-Tyala and 60 metre at Nagabari where a toll plaza will be set up. The width will be between 40 and 45 metre at Bassa, 35 and 40 metre at Chhatrolli and 32 and 35 metre at Jassur and Jachh. A flyover has been proposed at Jassur. It will be 32 metre broad at Bodh where a chowk has also been proposed.The 219-km Pathankot- Mandi four-lane road is one of strategic road projects of the Government of India which links Pathankot with Leh, Ladakh and other forward areas. Considering the defence requirements, the Centre wants to complete it early.Official sources said the DPR prepared by Joint Ventures and Infrastructure Casta Limited, a private company, in 2016 would remain the same in the first 154-km section and would only be amended in the last 65 km falling in Mandi district where cutting of high mountain was involved.He said the NHAI had laid special stress on minimum cutting of hills, avoiding inconvenience to people residing along the highway and also avoiding dislocation of business establishments. The distance between Pathankot and Mandi would reduce from 219 km to 171 km when the four-lane road is completed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nhai-okays-pathankot-mandi-four-lane-project-230915
27-03-2021||ibune News Service||Yol-based Rising Star Corps gets 16th GOC||Chandigarh, March 26Lieutenant General PN Ananthanarayanan has taken over as the 16th General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the Yol-based Rising Star Corps. He was the Commandant, Infantry School at Mhow, before assuming the present appointment.An alumni of the Rashtriya Indian Military College, National Defence Academy and National Defence College, he was commissioned into the 3rd Battalion of the 8th Gorkha Rifles in December 1984.During his career spanning 36 years, he has held various staff, instructional and command appointments, including command of an Infantry Division on the Line of Actual Control. He has also been an instructor at the National Defence Academy, Khadakwasla, and Senior Instructor at Defence Services Staff College, Wellington.Apart from being a postgraduate in defence and strategic studies, and doing MPhil in defence and management studies from the Madras University, Lt Gen Ananthanarayanan holds a postgraduate diploma in personal management and industrial relations from Symbiosis, Pune. He was awarded the Sena Medal in 2019.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/yol-based-rising-star-corps-gets-16th-goc-230916
27-03-2021||Hamirpur||CM dedicates Rs 22.6 cr projects to Sujanpur||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur virtually inaugurated and laid the foundation stones of development projects worth Rs 22.68 crore for the Sujanpur Assembly constituency from Shimla today.  The Chief Minister inaugurated tehsil office building at Tauni Devi constructed at a cost of Rs 2.15 crore. He also laid the foundation stone of Revenue Colony at Hamirpur to be constructed at a cost of Rs 2.01 crore, upgrade of pumping machinery with automation of lift water supply scheme, Duhak, Dhail, Patlandhar and Baleth of Sujnapur tehsil to at Rs 4.90 crore, laid foundation stone of flood protection work on the left bank of the Beas from Beri to Palahi. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cm-dedicates-rs-22-6-cr-projects-to-sujanpur-230917
27-03-2021||---||Ban on public events in Mandi||Mandi, March 26The district administration has banned public functions at religious places as well as at other places amid the recent spike in Covid-19 cases.Additional District Magistrate, Mandi, Shrawan Manta said the decision had been taken to check further spread of the infection. He said there would be a complete ban on any kind of temporary stay arrangements, cultural evenings, ‘langars’ and other events involving huge gatherings.In all social, religious, sports entertainment, educational and cultural events, gatherings with a maximum of 50 per cent capacity would be allowed while adhering to the guidelines of wearing face mask and following social distancing. “All institutions and offices are strictly directed to follow the principle of ‘No mask, no service’,” he added. It was must to take prior permission from the local administration for organising any gathering, he said.351 cases, 1 deathShimla: The state reported 351 new Covid cases and one death from Sirmaur district in the last 24 hours. The tally of positive cases has reached 62,967 while the death toll has mounted to 1,017. The highest number of 63 positive cases was reported in Una, followed by Hamirpur (62), Kangra (59), Solan (39), Shimla (38), Sirmaur (39), Bilaspur (20), Mandi (11), Kullu (5) and Chamba (4)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ban-on-public-events-in-mandi-230918
27-03-2021||Poster-making event at Jawali college Red Ribbon Club||Poster-making event at Jawali college||Webinar on promoting healthShoolini University's School of Yoga organised a webinar on 'Promotion of immunity and holistic health through meditation'. The event was inaugurated by Chancellor PK Khosla, who said there was a huge demand for scientifically justifying the techniques of yoga system. Prof Jai Prakash Narayan Mishra, a retired professor from the Central University of Gujarat, spoke about the concept of health and immunity. He explained concepts of antigen, antibody, and T cells, and discussed how meditation helps boost our immunity. Earlier, the welcome address was delivered by head, School of Yoga, Dr Subodh Saurabh Singh.Shoolini varsity, PEC sign MoUA Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed between Punjab Engineering College, Chandigarh, and Solan-based Shoolini University for joint training and collaborative research. Dr Dheeraj Sanghi, Director, PEC, and Professor Atul Khosla, Vice-Chancellor, Shoolini University, emphasised the need for cooperation in education and research. The idea of having joint degrees, wherein a student could pursue a portion of the programme from each of the two institutes was also mooted, keeping in view the interdisciplinary approach envisaged in the New Education Policy-2020. It was centered around the collaborative and beneficial utilisation of the PEC Siemens Centre of Excellence with facilities for training teachers and students in the latest technologies. The programmes for training will be managed jointly by Professor RM Belokar from PEC and Dr Bhaskar Goel from Shoolini University. The MoU also provided for exchange of scientific and technical information and joint supervision of projects for undergraduate and postgraduate students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/poster-making-event-at-jawali-college-230919
27-03-2021||Mandi||Will seek votes on development issues: Ashray||General secretary of the HPCC Ashray Sharma on Friday said that the Congress would seek votes in the district on development issues and would emerge victorious.He said that during the Congress regime in the state and at the Centre, the Mandi Sadar Assembly segment had witnessed rapid development. However, for the past three years, its development was being ignored by the state government, he alleged.He alleged that development was taking place only in Dharampur, the Assembly segment of IPH Minister Mahender Singh Thakur, and in Seraj , the Assembly segment of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur.Ashray said that they were hopeful of winning the elections in Mandi district on development issues.He said the then Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh had approved several development projects for Mandi town.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/will-seek-votes-on-development-issues-ashray-230921
27-03-2021||Despite resurgence in the number of Covid cases||Tourists flout Covid norms in Shimla||HRTC taxis overcrowdedThe HRTC taxis running from Lakkar Bazar to Sanjauli are overcrowded mostly. While drivers and conductors should ensure there’s no overcrowding, people themselves should realise the danger it could pose. People should not take the pandemic casually. — Devender, SanjauliWHAT OUR READERS SAYIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tourists-flout-covid-norms-in-shimla-230922
27-03-2021||---||All educational institutes closed in Himachal till April 4 following spike in Covid cases||Shimla, March 26All educational institutes in Himachal - universities, colleges, technical institutes and schools - except for the classes having their examination will remain closed up to April 4 following a spike in Covid cases.The decision was taken at a high-level meeting presided over by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here on Friday, which took stock of the situation and expressed concern over the surge in Covid cases in the state.However, the schools having residential facilities can keep their hostels open in strict compliance with the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) to keep these residential areas isolated and appoint compliance officer for implementation of the orders.The teachers and other school and college staff will continue to attend the institutes; nursing and medical institutes will continue to function as usual.Thakur said no social and cultural events would be organised in the state by the government and gatherings would be restricted to a maximum of 200 for indoor and 50 per cent of the venue capacity for outdoor events. He said congregations and ‘langars’ inside the temples would also be banned but ‘darshan’ would be allowed.The Chief Minister said April 3 would also be holiday for all offices in the state and there would be no public celebration of Holi. He urged the people to celebrate Holi at home with their families only. Three-to-five-day Holi festivals are held in Palampur, Hamirpur and Rampur every year, but this year there will be no such public functions.He said all frontline workers would be sensitized to get themselves vaccinated at the earliest completing their second dose as per schedule. It was also decided in the meeting that district administrations would take a judicious call on more restrictions keeping in view positivity and fatality rate in their respective districts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/all-educational-institutes-closed-in-himachal-till-april-4-following-spike-in-covid-cases-230777
