28-03-2021||Mandi||BRO restores Manali-Leh Highway for traffic||Border Roads Organisation (BRO) authority has restored the 425 km long Manali-Leh Highway on Sunday which would provide access to military and common civilians.  The first convoy of Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL) bowsers was flagged from the Himachal side by Stanzin Chosphel, Executive Councillor, Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC). This was in the presence of BRO officials after they announced the opening of this highway. Despite the many challenges this year, the BRO has managed to restore this highway more than one-and-a-half-month ahead of schedule.  Generally, the Leh Highway remains closed for about six months during the winters, cutting off Ladhak from the rest of the country. This makes the region dependent on supplies via aerial route.  Because of the ongoing border tension with China, this year the Union Government had asked the BRO to restore the highway as soon as possible.  As a result, the BRO had started a snow clearance operation between Manali to Leh in mid-February, simultaneously clearing four important passes along the route viz Baralachla (16,047 ft), Nakeela (16,170 ft), Lachungla (16,616 ft) and Tanglangla (17,582 ft). In order to increase attack points, a strategy was formed, and therefore,  Baralachla and Tanglangla were addressed from both sides.According to sources with the BRO—this year—the latest hi-tech machinery was swiftly inducted, and BRO teams worked relentlessly day and night to provide early productivity. The dynamics were different this year with the inauguration of Atal Tunnel, Rohtang, and there was no necessity of opening Rohtang Pass as the Lahaul valley remains connected throughout the winters via Atal tunnel. This facilitated the complete focus of BRO to be diverted for the opening of Baralachala with additional resources to restore connectivity at the earliest.According to sources, the opening of Baralachala Pass was formulated as a two-pronged thrust to commence, simultaneously, from two sides one from Patsio to Baralachla and the second point from Sarchu to Baralachala.With the opening of the Manali-Leh highway, the residents of Lahaul valley have been delighted, who are expecting a huge tourist influx in the valley in the coming days. The snow festival is being celebrated in Lahaul valley these days to attract tourists here.The people of Lahaul and Ladakh have conveyed their gratitude to Lt Gen Rajeev Chaudhary, VSM, DGBR and applauded the tremendous efforts put in by BRO to restore this highway in time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bro-restores-manali-leh-highway-for-traffic-231719
28-03-2021||Our Correspondent---||Kullu residents resent curbs on Holi celebrations||Kullu, March 27 Many residents of Kullu have resented the restrictions imposed on public celebration of Holi even though there has been no surge in Covid-19 cases in the district recently. The active Covid cases have remained around 20 or even less for the past few months. Pictures of political gatherings in the states where elections are due have gone viral on social media and most probably Covid spreads during religious and social events. The residents said that the government should impose restrictions in areas that had witnessed a spike in Covid cases and spare other areas. They added that regular classes in schools had started and there was no need for curbs as the number of active cases had not increased recently. Tourism stakeholders in the district said that imposing undue curbs would have an adverse impact upon the industry. They added that lakhs of tourists had visited the valley since December and no spike in Covid cases had been recorded in the hospitality units or the premises of other tourism service providers. Kullu MLA Sunder Singh Thakur alleged that the government was working under the pressure of the bureaucracy. He claimed that the government was taking decisions based on convenience while gatherings were being mobilised for the municipal corporation elections and inauguration ceremonies, while restrictions on religious and social gatherings had been imposed.  He said people had been “unnecessarily restricted indoors” during Holi in Kullu even though the area had not witnessed a spike in Covid cases. He added that the imposition of curbs in Kullu at this time would be a setback and hamper tourism, adversely impacting the economy of the region and the state. Meanwhile, people celebrated ‘Chhoti Holi’ in their localities today though traditional processions were not taken out. The festival is celebrated for two days. Many rituals and customs are linked to this event. The Mahants, a community who came here along with the idols of Lord Rama and Sita from Ayodhya in the mid-17th century, play Holi with the chief deity of Kullu, Lord Raghunath, during the “holashtak”. They take out processions at various places and sing Holi songs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-residents-resent-curbs-on-holi-celebrations-231545
28-03-2021||Our Correspondent||CRPF jawan cremated with full state honours||Palampur, March 27Residents of Dehru in Palampur were in tears when the mortal remains of 46-year-old Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) jawan Ashok Kumar was brought to his native village this morning. Ashok was martyred in a terrorist attack in Srinagar yesterday.Earlier the body was airlifted in an Indian Air Force plane from Srinagar to Pinjore, near Chandigarh, and was later brought by road to his native Dehru village near Palampur. Hundreds of residents of Palampur and Dehra subdivisions, family members, relatives, district, police and CRPF officials were present in the village to receive the body.‘Proud of my son’Later in the day, the martyr’s mortal remains were consigned to flames with full state honours in the village in the presence of a large number of people. Ashok’s son and daughter lit the pyre. He leaves behind his wife, aged parents, a school-going son and a daughter.Ashok’s father said that he felt proud for his son for sacrificing his life for the nation. Speaker Vipan Singh Parmar was present at the cremation ground. He placed a wreath on the behalf of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur. The guard of honour was given by a contingent of the state police and CRPF jawans. Senior CRPF officers accompanied martyr’s body from Srinagar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/crpf-jawan-cremated-with-full-state-honours-231546
28-03-2021||---||Himachal Governor: Scouting helps in empowering youth||Shimla, March 27Governor Bandaru Dattatreya inaugurated ‘Swarnim Pushp Vatika’ developed by Seema Scouts at Government Degree College Seema of Rohru in Shimla district and also launched a “Holistic Development through Scouting Model of Sustainable Livelihood” through the virtual media from Raj Bhavan today.He appreciated the efforts of Seema Scouts for their venture and hoped that it could be replicated throughout the state. He called on all youths associated with scouting to adopt nine basic laws of Scouts and Guides in life which included trust, loyalty, brotherhood, courteousness, love towards animals and nature, discipline, courage, thriftiness, purity in thought, word and deed.He said Scouting and Guiding was a movement to contribute to the development of young people in achieving their full physical, intellectual, emotional, social, spiritual and skillful aspects as individuals, as responsible citizens and as members of the local, national and international communities.He also quoted the words of founding father of scouting Lord Baden Powell, “You make a living by what you get, but you make a life by what you give,” he said.“Scouting helps youth to achieve empowerment, create active citizens, cultivate lifelong values and skills, besides engaging in peace education based on four pillars of scouting, character and intelligence, health and strength, handicrafts and skills besides service,” he added.The Governor stressed on following the three major principles of Scouts and Guides, including duty to god, duty to others and duty to oneself. He said it was important to be cautious and asked all the Scouts to contribute in making people aware by spreading awareness on wearing masks, making proper distance in public places and taking care of hygiene.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-governor-scouting-helps-in-empowering-youth-231547
28-03-2021||---||Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur dedicates Rs 37 crore projects to Swarghat residents||Shimla, March 27 Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur inaugurated and laid the foundation stones of development projects worth Rs 37 crore at Swarghat in Sri Naina Devi Ji Vidhan Sabha area of Bilaspur district today.  He inaugurated the Swarnim Himachal Entry Gate and the Swarnim Himachal Mural Painting at Garamoura, besides a Rs 1.35 crore bus stand at Swarghat and the augmentation/ modernisation/ renovation of a 33/11KV sub-station at Swarghat at a cost of Rs 2.90 crore.  He also laid the foundation stones of a bridge at Leheri khad on the Palsed-Kalakund road to be constructed at a cost of Rs 1.09 crore, a Rs 5.95 crore Maithi-Shaikli road, Rs 5.25 crore Lag-Ghat Jamli road and a Rs 4.92 crore Galuwa-Chalaila road under NABARD in Nakrana gram panchayat, a Rs 3.01 crore lift water supply scheme for adjoining villages of Nakrana gram panchayat and Rs 6.66 crore project for retrofitting and source-level augmentation of various left-out habitations in Jal Shakti subdivision, Swarghat, and Bassi under the Jal Jeevan Mission. Later, addressing a samman samaroh organised by BJP Mandal Sri Naina Devi Ji, the Chief Minister said the augmentation of 33 KV electric subdivision would benefit the residents of 10 panchayats.  Thakur said that due to a spike in Covid cases in the state, it had become important for everyone to wear masks and maintain social distancing.  He announced the opening of an HPSEB subdivision at Swarghat, upgrade of the PHC at Swarghat to a CHC, upgrade of a primary school at Ree to a middle school, construction of a mini-secretariat at Swarghat as and when land was made available, starting of more trades in industrial training institutes at Swarghat and Naina Devi, starting bus service from Naina Devi to Shimla and Behal to Nalagarh and the construction of panchayat ghars in all six new panchayats of the area.  He said that the RTO would sit once a month at Swarghat to pass vehicles and the issue to open a sub-judge office at Swarghat would be considered. Union Minister of State for Finance and Cooperate Affairs Anurag Thakur said that the Chief Minister had ensured that all irrigation and drinking water projects would be implemented in the state at the earliest. He added that the Union Government had provided an interest-free loan of Rs 450 crore for 50 years to the state.  Chief Spokesman for state BJP Randhir Sharma said that the people of the area were supporting the state government due to which the party-supported candidates won almost all posts of PRIs in the area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-jai-ram-thakur-dedicates-rs-37-crore-projects-to-swarghat-residents-231548
28-03-2021||---||Two get 10-yr jail for carrying charas, fined Rs1 lakh each||Mandi, March 27 RK Sharma, District and Sessions (Special) Judge, Mandi, has sentenced two persons to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment for possessing charas. District Attorney Kulbhushan Gautam said that in December 2012, a police team had nabbed Jeevan Lal, a native of Kandu village, and Ram Lal, a resident of Kutahchi village, at Jachh on the Karsog road in the district along with 2.1 kg of charas.  They were arrested under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. He said that after hearing the arguments, the court found both guilty and awarded them 10 years of rigorous imprisonment and also imposed a fine of Rs 1 lakh each.  In case of non-payment of fine, they would have to undergo additional one-year imprisonment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-get-10-yr-jail-for-carrying-charas-fined-rs1-lakh-each-231549
28-03-2021||---||Two SPs on ‘Lokpriya Police Kaptan’ list||Shimla, March 27 Two IPS officers of the SP rank from Himachal have found place on the list of “50 Lokpriya Police Kaptan” (50 popular district police chiefs) in a survey conducted by “Fame India Magazine-Asia Post”. Mohit Chawla and Shalini Agnihotri, SPs of Shimla and Mandi, respectively,   have made it to the list of 50 popular officers in the survey based on 12 parameters, including crime control, improvement in law and order, people-friendly attitude, farsightedness, responsive working style, alertness, ability to take instant decisions and public dealing. Meanwhile, the government today shuffled 18 middle-level police officers, including two SPs and two Additional SPs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-sps-on-lokpriya-police-kaptan-list-231550
28-03-2021||---||Install CCTV cameras, Baddi SP tells housing societies||Solan, March 27 The Baddi police today directed residents of various housing societies to install close-circuit television (CCTV) cameras, and anti-theft locks and appoint watchmen. Baddi SP Rohit Malpani at a meeting with 25 representatives of various housing societies were  directed to  provide information about their tenants as well get verification done of various vendors frequenting their areas.  They were also asked to ensure a provision of lights in common areas of the housing societies to detect the presence of outsiders. The president of the Kailash Vihar Society was honoured on the occasion, as he had taken a lead in ensuring that all tenants were provided with anti-theft locks, upgrading CCTV cameras, installing lights and maintaining a record of the identification proofs of all residents. Malpani said that the police had stepped up its citizen awareness campaign in the housing societies, as miscreants had targeted several  houses in the recent past. The verification of tenants and the installation of good quality CCTV cameras helped in tightening the noose around them. A series of daytime thefts had been reported in various housing societies in the Baddi and Barotiwala  industrial areas in the recent past. Miscreants would target isolated houses after a recce.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/install-cctv-cameras-baddi-sp-tells-housing-societies-231551
28-03-2021||Mandi||Policy sought to regularise water guard services||The Jal Rakshak Sangh has urged CM Jai Ram Thakur to make a proper policy to regularise their services.   Ajit Kumar, a spokesperson for the sangh, said, “We are working under the gram panchayat authority. We urge the CM to bring all water guards under the jurisdiction of the IPH Department. We also urge him to regularise our jobs after the completion of five years contractual service.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/policy-sought-to-regularise-water-guard-services-231552
28-03-2021||Kullu||Certificate case: Ex-tehsildar among five chargesheeted||The State Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau has filed a chargesheet against five persons, including the then Tehsildar, Patwari and a document writer of Kullu, in the court of Special Judge, Kullu, for entering into a conspiracy and issuing a Himachali agriculturist certificate to a person residing in Noida by forging the will of a dead person by showing the outsider as his godson in 1997.  A case was registered in 2009 and during investigation it was established that the accused had forged an unregistered will of a dead person to wrongly show that a Noida resident was his godson and a resident of Kullu. On the basis of this forged will, false entries were made in the revenue records in connivance with revenue officials and a document writer. The Noida resident was issued a Himachali agriculturist certificate, on the basis of which he purchased 22 bighas at Kasauli in Solan in 1998.— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/certificate-case-ex-tehsildar-among-five-chargesheeted-231553
28-03-2021||Dharamsala||Villagers lift dharna after assurance of PHC upgrade||Minister for Forest Rakesh Pathania today met residents of Tiara village, who had been protesting for the past two weeks demanding upgrade of the Public Health Centre (PHC) to a Community Health Centre (CHC) as per the announcement of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur. After the assurance from the minister, the villagers lifted the dharna. The villagers, led by zila parishad member Joginder Singh Panku, alleged that the PHC was not being upgraded despite announcements made by the CM and Health Minister. They were adopting a unique method to protest. The villagers, besides a dharna, are also organising prayers to God to upgrade their PHC. Panku alleged that for the first time, former Congress CM Virbhadra Singh announced to upgrade it in 2007. He again announced its upgrade in 2016. In 2018, Health Minister Vipin Parmar made the announcement. Thakur declared to upgrade it in February 2020. However, the PHC had not been upgraded, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/villagers-lift-dharna-after-assurance-of-phc-upgrade-231554
28-03-2021||Shimla||Himachal  CM urged to extend date for cases resolution scheme||A delegation of the Himachal Pradesh Tax Bar Association Shimla called on CM Jai Ram Thakur here last evening and requested him to extend the last date for filling applications under the HP Legacy Cases Resolution Scheme, which is going to expire on March 31. The Bar Association apprised the CM that applications under the scheme could not be submitted within the prescribed time due to the lockdown. They said the joint efforts of the department officials, consultants and dealers had resulted in the collection of more than Rs 362 crore revenue. The CM assured the association delegation that their request would be considered sympathetically. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-urged-to-extend-date-for-cases-resolution-scheme-231555
28-03-2021||Lalit Mohan||Covid -ve report a must to canvass in Kangra||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, March 27Due to the rising number of Covid cases, the Kangra district administration has imposed restrictions on the candidates canvassing during the Municipal Corporatin (MC) elections in Dharamsala and Palampur.Deputy Commisioner Rakesh Prajapati has made it mandatory for all candidates and their supporters to carry Covid RTPCR negative reports. Though the rule has been notified, it is not being implemented for the VIPs. Sources said that ministers, former ministers, MLAs and former MLAs were not carrying the Covid negative report with them while going door to door.Violators to face action, says DCRules are equal for everybody. If anybody is found violating the orders, action can be taken against him. So far, action has not been taken against anyone for canvassing without carrying a Covid negative report.A senior leader said that he was not aware of the order. The member of a political party said that neither people, nor officials ever asked for a Covid report from visiting politicians and people were courteous to them. The order had no practical relevance, he added.Asked if ministers, former ministers and MLAs had not been asked to carry the Covid report, Prajapati said that the rules were equal for everybody. If anybody was found violating the orders, action could be taken against him. He, however, admitted that action had not been taken against anyone for canvassing without carrying a Covid negative report.The sources said that since hundreds of workers of different political parities were involved in canvassing, it was practically difficult for officials to check their Covid reports.Former minister and senior Congress leader Sudhir Sharma, who is canvassing in Dharamsala, said that he got himself tested today and the report was expected tomorrow. He alleged that the Covid SOPs were a ploy to harass Opposition leaders and workers. Since it was a local body election, almost entire population was involved in it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-ve-report-a-must-to-canvass-in-kangra-231556
28-03-2021||---||60 in fray for Solan civic body elections||Solan, March 27Sixty candidates remained in the fray for 17 seats in the Solan Municipal Corporation elections after the withdrawal of nomination papers today. Thirteen Independents withdrew their nominations.The presence of rebels is posing problems for the BJP, as some wards have more than one rebel fighting the elections against the official candidates.BJP rebels have withdrawn their nominations in Basal Kather, Sunny Side and Deonghat Saproon wards but many still continue to pose problems to the official candidates. This is despite the fact that senior leaders of the BJP, including state co-incharge Sanjay Tandon, have spoken to the rebels, who have filed nominations as Independent candidates, and coaxed them to withdraw from the elections.Factionalism in the BJP has come to fore with the presence of rebels in the elections. The ambition to be part of the maiden municipal corporation has created a situation where several candidates are contesting in a ward as Independents.However, the situation is considerably better for the Congress, which has only one rebel fighting the elections against the party candidate in Ward No. 17.As many as seven rebels in various wards such as Jawahar Park, Thodo Ground, Sunny Side, Kleen and Tehsil Patrad have withdrawn from the contest, said poll convener Kewal Pathania.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/60-in-fray-for-solan-civic-body-elections-231557
28-03-2021||Mandi||75 to vie in 15 Mandi wards||Of the 95 candidates, 20 candidates withdrew their nomination papers from Mandi today. Now, 75 candidates are left in the fray. The Congress, the BJP and the Aam Aadmi Party have fielded their candidates in each ward.  Those who could not get ticket from the BJP and Congress are also contesting as Independents. There are 15 wards in Mandi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/75-to-vie-in-15-mandi-wards-231558
28-03-2021||---||Shimla civic body to go paperless soon||Shimla, March 27 The Shimla Municipal Corporation (MC) will soon become paperless on the lines of the Vidhan Sabha. At the monthly House meeting here today, a presentation was made on the MC going paperless.  The councillors will be given training in April, and a dry run of the project will be conducted in the next monthly House. “We will become the first municipal corporation in the country to go paperless under the e-Vidhan project,” said MC Joint Commissioner Ajit Bhardwaj.  “It’s a very good initiative, as it will save us much paper and effort. At present, we print so many copies of each document that go waste after the meeting. So, you can imagine the amount of paper and effort we will save once we go paperless”.    The MC has also decided to revamp its website to make it more informative for the general public. “Information related to development works will be put in public domain so that people know about projects under implementation. This will bring more transparency in our working,” said Bhardwaj.  Meanwhile, the House witnessed an uproar over the collection of water and garbage bills. Some councillors said that the MC was collecting bills for the period when hotels and shops were closed. The issue of hefty water bills was also raised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-civic-body-to-go-paperless-soon-231559
28-03-2021||Our Correspondent||‘No mask, no service’ policy in Chamba||Chamba, March 27Complying with the guidelines issued by the HP State Disaster Management Authority in addition to Section-34 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, District Magistrate DC Rana today issued orders to this effect enforcing the “no mask, no service” policy in Chamba district.In these orders, the DM stated that persons without masks would not be allowed to move in public places other than hospitals, schools, colleges and government offices.The responsibility of ensuring Covid protocol in temples and markets had been fixed upon the district language officer and district labour officer. These officials would also conduct surprise inspections regarding the compliance.The orders also directed regional transport officer and HRTC regional manager to allow travel to only those persons who would be wearing masks in buses and taxis. It had also been directed to curb congestion in public transport.Social, religious, cultural, educational and sports activities in the district would be carried out only after the permission of the administration, the DM further stated. All SDMs had been directed to enforce these orders and challan those violating the orders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-mask-no-service-policy-in-chamba-231560
28-03-2021||Dharamsala||BJP threatening Cong nominees, says Sudhir||The Congress has alleged that BJP leaders are intimidating its candidates contesting the Dharamsala MC elections. Former minister and AICC secretary Sudhir Sharma in a press note issued here today alleged that local BJP politicians and government officials were intimidating the SC candidate of the Congress in Ward No. 17.  Sharma alleged that the caste certificate was issued to the Congress candidate Asha Devi by government officials. Later, they said that the caste certificate was not valid and she should withdraw her nomination papers filed for the MC elections. How could a caste certificate issued by government officials be invalid, he asked. He alleged that when Asha Devi did not withdraw her nomination papers, BJP leaders threatened her that a case would be registered against her. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-threatening-cong-nominees-says-sudhir-231561
28-03-2021||Solan||2 containment zones notified||RK Pruthi, District Magistrate, Sirmaur, today notified Tibetan Settlement Colony at Puruwala in Gorkhuwala gram panchayat and the adventure camp area of  Baru Sahib, Akal Academy, in Pacchad tehsil of Sirmaur district  as containment  zones after the emergence of Covid cases there. Pruthi said the two places had been declared containment zones. The areas had been cordoned off and no local resident would be allowed to assemble at any place, except for essential services. All persons engaged in providing essential services and residing in the notified areas,  shall attend their duties. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-containment-zones-notified-231562
28-03-2021||Shimla||416 Covid cases, 3 deaths in Himachal||As many as 416 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 62,383. Besides, three deaths due to the virus occurred in the past 24 hours. One person each died in Kullu, Una and Hamirpur, taking the fatality figure to 1,020.  The highest number of  120 cases was reported in Solan, followed by 67 in Una, 62 in Kangra,  37 each in Hamirpur and Sirmaur, 32 in Mandi, 31 in Bilaspur, 14 in Shimla, nine in Kullu, five in Chamba and two in Kinnaur.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/416-covid-cases-3-deaths-in-himachal-231563
28-03-2021||Rajiv MahajanNurpur||Birds found dead in Kangra's Pong, another influenza scare||After about a month and a half, dead migratory birds were again spotted at the Pong Wetland Wildlife Sanctuary in Kangra, triggering an avian flu resurgence scare.The wildlife authorities closed the sanctuary for visitors this afternoon and sent samples to the Regional Diseases Diagnostic Laboratory in Jalandhar for influenza testing.Chief Wildlife Warden Archana Sharma said 14 bar-headed geese were found dead on Thursday, eight on Friday and five on Saturday. She said the field staff had disposed of the birds as per protocol. According to information, the birds were found dead in Nagrota Surian beat of the sanctuary. After their winter visit to the wetland, the exotic migratory birds had started their return journey to their breeding native grounds in Tibet, China, Nepal and Magnolia. The return-migration phase lasts till mid-April. Rahul M Rahane, Divisional Forest Officer (Wildlife), Hamirpur, said the dead birds could be those halting briefly at the Pong sanctuary during return-migration from Harike (Punjab) and Bharatpur (Rajasthan) wetlands, which could be infected with avian influenza.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/birds-found-dead-in-kangras-pong-another-influenza-scare-231454
