29-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Baijnath village plans crackdown against drug, liquor mafia||Palampur, March 28Mahajarna panchayat of Baijnath has decided to launch a crackdown against drug and liquor mafia.The newly formed panchayat in its general house yesterday announced to impose heavy fine on the persons found involved in drug trafficking, illegal sale of liquor and other illegal activities. Mahajarna is the first panchayat of Kangra district, which has come out against drug trafficking openly.May lose facilitiesThe panchayat proposed to slap a penalty of Rs 10,000 on violators. Besides, the panchayat will also debar them from taking the benefits of government schemes like subsidised ration, financial assistance for the construction of house under the PM Awas Yojna, grants for marriages, free LPG stoves and cylinders, etc.In another resolution, the panchayat also proposed to withdraw the facilities of the BPL, IRDP and Antodaya if anyone found consuming liquor and drugs in the village.Later, the members of the panchayat, headed by Manjit Kumar, pradhan, and Amrit Katoch, up-Pardhan, called on SDM Chavvi Nanta and apprised her of the decision. They also submitted the copies of resolutions to the SDM. Nanta assured them assistance.BDO Kulwant Singh said the panchayat had power to take such decision for the betterment of society. He said other panchayats should also follow Mahajarna panchayat.Later, talking to reporters, Manjit and Amrit said the panchayat had taken the steps to check the sale of illegal liquor in the village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/baijnath-village-plans-crackdown-against-drug-liquor-mafia-231902
29-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Sukhu’s Assembly poll affidavits to be verified||Hamirpur, March 28The police will verify the contents of affidavits filed by Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu during nomination for the Assembly election in 2017.A case was registered at Nadaun police station yesterday on the orders of additional sessions judge, Nadaun. It was learnt that a complaint was filed against the alleged false declarations in the affidavits. Karthikeyan Gokulchandran, Superintendent of Police, said an investigation was initiated into the case and would be completed soon.Sukhu said he had declared everything to the best of his knowledge in the documents and there was nothing false or hidden.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sukhus-assembly-poll-affidavits-to-be-verified-231903
29-03-2021||Afew days ago||Ensure better drainage||— Sushant Krar, ShimlaMonkey menace on the riseThe monkey menace is on the rise in the city. Not only monkeys have become a problem for tourists but also for locals. Not just content with scaring away people, some of them don't even hesitate in attacking and biting people. Children and elderly are especially vulnerable to these attacks. — Sangeeta Chauhan, DhalliIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ensure-better-drainage-231922
29-03-2021||Nurpur||Panchayat pradhans seek fair relief for affected families||The newly elected pradhans of Kandwal, Pucca Tiyala, Nagarbari, Bassa and Jassur have extended their support to the families affected by the Pathankot-Mandi four-lane project, which are demanding fair land acquisition compensation.During a meeting at the Nagabari panchayat bhawan, they announced not to issue no objection certificates (NOCs) to the NHAI for the widening of the Pathankot-Mandi National Highway-154.Karnail Singh of Bassa, Narinder Kumar of Kandwal, Sarita Devi of Pucca Tiyala, Ranjan Mohan of Nagabari and Jyoti Devi of Jassur gram panchayat, in a joint statement issued to the media, said the compensation awards announced by the NHAI’s competent authority for land acquisition (CALA) were too meagre to rehabilitate the affected families.They said in lieu of the announced compensation, the government should provide equivalent land and buildings to the affected families in Nurpur section from Kandwal to Bhedkhud. They demanded that the NHAI should acquire the entire structures of the affected people and not partial buildings. They questioned the announcement of compensation awards in two phases at different rates. Meanwhile, Darbari Singh, president of the Four-Lane Sangharsh Samiti, thanked the panchayat pradhans. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/panchayat-pradhans-seek-fair-relief-for-affected-families-231905
29-03-2021||---||Satti: Need to process waste||Shimla, March 28The Finance Commission aims to find a solution to new challenges being faced in rural and urban areas, said Chairman of the Sixth State Finance Commission Satpal Singh Satti.He presided over the second meeting of the commission to finalise the questionnaires designed for collecting information from panchayati raj institutes (PRIs) and urban local bodies.He stressed the disposal and processing of waste in rural and urban areas and issued orders to constitute a sub-committee under the chairmanship of the Principal Secretary (Urban Development) and comprising the Director Rural Development and Public Relations, Director Urban Development, Director IT and the Adviser Planning as members.He said that at present waste generation in rural and urban areas was almost similar.He added that a long-term plan should be framed for the scientific disposal of waste.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/satti-need-to-process-waste-231906
29-03-2021||Shimla||Withdraw ‘illegal’ guidelines for disabled examinees, Himachal CM urged||The Umang Foundation, an NGO working for the rights of disabled persons, has taken a strong exception to the guidelines issued by the state Social Justice and Empowerment Department for persons with disability appearing in examinations and demanded withdrawal of the guidelines. Terming the guidelines-2020 issued by the state government as “illegal” and in “violation” of guidelines issued by the Central ministry, chairman of the foundation Ajay Srivastava, who is also Expert Member of HP State Advisory Board on Disability, urged Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to withdraw the guidelines immediately, failing which the foundation would consider the option of filing a PIL. Addressing mediapersons here, he said the directions of the Central ministry for Social Justice and Empowerment, UGC and the High Court of Delhi, were binding on all states, but the state government was not following the guidelines issued by the Central ministry in February 2013 regarding conducting examinations for disabled persons, which stated that eligible disabled students could arrange their own scribe for writing the examination and there should be no fixed criteria for scribe’s qualification. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/withdraw-illegal-guidelines-for-disabled-examinees-himachal-cm-urged-231907
29-03-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Soon, DNA testing in all forensic labs of Himachal||Tribune News ServiceShimla, March 28Himachal is all set to become the first state in the country to have the DNA testing facility and the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) accreditation in all state and regional forensic laboratories.The State Forensic Science Laboratory (SFSL), Junga, near Shimla, and the Regional Forensic Science Laboratory (RFSL), Dharamsala, had got the NABL accreditation in 2018 while a four-member team of forensic experts had inspected the facilities at the Regional Forensic Science Laboratory (RFSL), Mandi, on March 20 and 21 last.Latest equipment installedIn March 2020, the State Forensic Science Laboratory (SFSL), Junga, near Shimla, became the first lab in the northern region to have the DNA profiling of wildlife crime cases.It also has the distinction of being the first forensic lab in the country to become a member of the Asian Forensic Science Network.They had also checked the working manuals, health safety, validated material and chemicals used in examination, said Director, SFSL, Arun Sharma.The reports of labs accredited by the NABL are accepted internationally and have high credibility.All infrastructure and manpower is in place for the DNA testing facility at RFSL, Dharamsala, and only a formal inauguration is awaited.Earlier, the testing facility was introduced at the SFSL, Junga, in 2008 and in Mandi district on March 12 last. According to information, sexual assaults and rape incidents constitute 44 per cent of the cases received for the DNA profiling in Himachal. On an average, 500-600 samples are received annually.Meanwhile, the next generation frequency equipment has been installed at the SFSL, Junga, at a cost of Rs 3 crore. It would help access even a burnt sample of DNA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/soon-dna-testing-in-all-forensic-labs-of-himachal-231909
29-03-2021||Shimla||Army wins national rafting championship||The Army clinched the overall trophy at the 14th National Rafting Championship held at Pandoh from March 23 to 27.The second spot, too, went to an Army team while the third place was clinched by the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Institute of Mountaineering and Allied Sports, Manali. As many as 16 men’s teams and a few women’s teams took part in the championship.“There were three events in the championship — down river sprint, slalom and RX. The Army teams took all three top spots in the down river sprint,” said Col Neeraj Rana, Director, Atal Bihari Vajpayee Institute of Mountaineering and Allied Sports. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/army-wins-national-rafting-championship-231910
29-03-2021||Chamba||Chamba veterans beat Nahan by 20 runs||The Chamba veteran cricket team beat Nahan veteran team by 20 runs in T-20 cricket match played at Nahan. Deputy Commissioner DC Rana congratulated the team for the victory and honoured it. It was Chamba’s 4th victory over Nahan.Maj SC Nayyar, captain of Chamba team, won the toss and elected to bat. Chamba team could not do well in first 6 overs when they lost two wickets when the score was only 40, but later on Pawan and Sushil played well and piled up the score to 120 when Sushil was out for 30 runs.Pawan and Kurshid gave a good partnership and put the score to 120 in 20 overs. Pawan scored brilliant 75 runs not out with 4 sixes and 8 fours. Khurshid scored 25 runs and Virender score 20 runs. Chamba team scored 190 runs 4 wickets in 20 overs.From Nahan side, Tarik got 2 wickets, Romal and Anil got one wicket each. To chase the score, Nahan team were all-out for 170 runs. At one stage, Nahan was in a good position when Parmod scored brilliant 72 runs with 3 sixes and 5 fours. But later on, the team could not play well against fine bowling of Anil who got 4 wickets. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chamba-veterans-beat-nahan-by-20-runs-231915
29-03-2021||Our Correspondent||6-month jail to man in cheque bounce case||Nurpur, March 28The Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Nurpur, Nitin Mittal yesterday convicted Jivan Kumar of Raja Khasa of the Indora sub-division in a cheque bounce case and sentenced him to six-month imprisonment. The court also imposed a fine of Rs 20,000 on him and in default of payment, he will further undergo three months imprisonment.The court has also ordered to pay compensation to the tune of Rs 4 lakh to complainant Sushil Kumar of Sakoh who had filed the case in the court in 2016 under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act. The accused had some land deal with the complainant and had issued a bank cheque of Rs 2.60 lakh to the latter. The cheque had bounced due to fund shortage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/6-month-jail-to-man-in-cheque-bounce-case-231917
29-03-2021||Shimla||Setting up of Sanskrit varsity in Himachal under way||The state government is considering changing the designation of Shastri and language teachers to Trained Graduate Teacher (TGT), Shastri, and TGT, Hindi.This was stated by Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur while presiding over a meeting of Sanskrit Bharati Samiti for the implementation and promotion of Sanskrit language here.Sanskrit had been given the status of the second official language of the state, he said, adding that Himachal should be made a model state of Sanskrit language in the country and efforts were being made in this direction. He said the process for setting up Sanskrit University was under process. The identification of land was being done. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/setting-up-of-sanskrit-varsity-in-himachal-under-way-231918
29-03-2021||The Himachal Pradesh Public Service Commission (HPPSC) will conduct several examinations/screening tests on the following dates. From May 3 to 7||HPPSC announces exam dates||2 Nurpur students to interact with PMManaswin Kath and Aditya Chauhan, students of Class X, Noorpur Public Schoool, Nurpur, have been selected for 'Pariksha Pe Charcha 2021' on the basis of online competition held for creative writing. They will be interacting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on 'Pariksha Pe Charcha 2021' and will be allowed to ask questions regarding forthcoming annual CBSE board examination scheduled for April. Out of the around 8,500 participants, a total 16 students have been selected and two of them are from Noorpur Public School. Arvind Dogra, Managing Director of the school, congratulated the winners and faculty members.Dental head felicitatedProf Vinay Kumar Bhardwaj, Head, Department of Public Health Dentistry, Government Dental College, Shimla, has been honoured with the Fellowship of Internationally renowned "Royal Society of Public Health" (United Kingdom). He was conferred this honour based on his academic achievements in dentistry in India and abroad, motivating tobacco users to give up the habit and providing oral healthcare to the needy people in rural and far-flung areas. He has done many research projects related to the association between dental diseases and systemic diseases in association with the India Council of Medical Research, World Health Organisation, and Department of Science and Technology.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hppsc-announces-exam-dates-231919
29-03-2021||While educational institutions have been shut and fairs banned due to a Covid surge||Double standards on Covid||Poll way-out against virus!The poll-bound states appear to have immunity from Covid as one hardly hears any surge in positive cases being reported from such states. Himachal, however, has witnessed a rise in the recent weeks, forcing the government to shut educational institutions. People are heard saying Himachal too should hold the Assembly elections as it seems to be the only option to contain the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/double-standards-on-covid-231920
29-03-2021||Palampur||Baijnath village containment zone||The district administration today declared Upper Kunsal village of Baijnath sub-division, 25 km from Palampur, as containment zone following death of one person and rising number of Covid19 cases.One death was recently reported in the village while a 23-year-old girl shifted to Tanda Medical College. She was in a critical condition. Over one dozen persons in the village are having fever, cough and chest infection. Besides, a number of persons, who have tested positive for Covid 19, are in home isolation.Chief Medical Officer Kangra Gurdarshan Gupta said the situation was being monitored and the health department has launched massive testing of Covid-19 in the village. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/baijnath-village-containment-zone-231921
29-03-2021||Ambika Sharma---||Himachal suffers 50 pc revenue loss as collections at toll barriers take a hit||Tribune News Service Solan, March 28 More than 50 per cent revenue loss has been suffered by the state government on account of inter-state toll tax due to the Covid lockdown.  Parwanoo and Baddi inter-state barriers have suffered the most as there was a lockdown from April to September. Though tourism arrival began in September but a decline has been registered in March due to the second wave of Covid informed toll lessees. “The tourist arrivals has once again taken a dip due to Covid surge in Punjab, Delhi and other states,” informed a hotelier. In Parwanoo the highest monthly collection of toll has been about Rs 50 lakh while it was as less as a few thousands in the months from April to August. Barely Rs 4.80 crore were collected untill February this year and the shortfall was more than 55 per cent.  There are two inter-state barriers in Parwanoo, one at Tipra and another on the Parwanoo-Kalka highway. Their lease was renewed for Rs 12.96 crore for the financial year. It included a 10 per cent increase in its value and 1 per cent as renewal fee. In Baddi, the toll barrier lease was renewed for around Rs 16 crore. The Parwanoo inter-state barrier is the gateway to the state, which leads to popular tourist destinations of Shimla, Kinnaur and Sirmaur districts. Baddi is the industrial hub. It, therefore, receives a sizeable inflow of vehicles from other states. Notably, the state has registered an 81 per cent contraction in revenue in the tourism sector while hotels and restaurants have registered a 9.2 per cent revenue decline.  Commissioner, State Taxes and Excise, Rohan Thakur, said , “The state government is seized of the matter and some decision would be taken in the coming days on the issue as several licensees have demanded relaxation in payment.” The licence of the Parwanoo licensee was recommended for cancellation by the district authorities due to non-payment of monthly dues. The state government was yet to take a decision on how much relaxation should be granted to the lessees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-suffers-50-pc-revenue-loss-as-collections-at-toll-barriers-take-a-hit-231911
29-03-2021||---||Manali-Leh highway opens to traffic||Mandi, March 28The BRO has restored 425-km Manali-Leh highway for vehicular traffic, which will provide access to military and common civilians from the Manali side in Himachal Pradesh to Leh in the union territory of Ladakh.The first convoy of IOC bowsers was flagged off from the Himachal side by Stanzin Chosphel, Executive Councillor, Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC), today in the presence of BRO officials to announce the opening of this highway.The strategically important Manali–Leh highway remains closed for about six months every winter and Ladakh remains cut off from rest of the country which makes the region dependent on supplies through the aerial route.Due to the ongoing border issue with China in Ladakh, the Union government had this year asked the BRO to restore this highway earlier as soon as possible.As a result, the BRO had started snow clearance operation on the road stretch between Manali and Leh in mid-February with a strategy to simultaneously commence snow clearance on four important passes along the route — Baralach La (16,047 ft), Nakeela (16,170 ft), Lachung La (16,616 ft) and Tanglang La (17,582 ft).These passes receive 20 to 30 feet high heavy snowfall every year, which keeps the highway blocked for traffic movement for months.BRO sources said the latest hi-tech machinery was swiftly inducted for clearing snow. BRO teams worked relentlessly day and night to provide early connectivity to Leh. The dynamics were different this year with the inauguration of Atal Tunnel as there was no necessity of opening the Rohtang Pass. This enabled complete focus on opening of Baralacha La with additional resources to restore connectivity at the earliest.The opening of Baralacha La involved a two-pronged. The work started simultaneously from two sides — from Patsio to Baralach La and from Sarchu to Baralacha La.After the restoration of the Manali-Leh highway, the people of Lahaul and Ladakh have conveyed their gratitude to Lt Gen Rajeev Chaudhary, VSM, DGBR, and applauded the tremendous efforts put in by BRO to restore this highway in time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/manali-leh-highway-opens-to-traffic-231912
29-03-2021||Mandi||Holi festivities a low-key affair in Mandi amid Covid surge||Due to Covid-19 scare, the Holi celebrations remained a low key affair in the district today. On the directions of the state government, the administration has imposed restrictions on Holi celebrations across the district to avoid mass gathering at a single place to check the spread of Covid-19 infection.Only a few people came out to celebrate Holi. Generally every year a large number of people gather in front of Seri Manch to celebrate the festival collectively.However, the procession of Madho Rai deity was taken out in the town to mark the festival symbolically. According to ritual, residents of Mandi throw “gulaal” on the deity to celebrate the festival. Today very few people joined the procession in the town. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/holi-festivities-a-low-key-affair-in-mandi-amid-covid-surge-231908
29-03-2021||Our Correspondent---||Traffic jams a routine affair on NH in Baijnath, Paprola||PALAMPUR, March 28 Traffic jams    in  Baijnath and Paprola towns   on the Pathankot-Mandi national highway  have  resulted  in   great inconvenience to  thousands of tourists  and locals who travel on this stretch daily on their way to Bir Billing, a famous tourist resort and paragliding site.  The highway  also  has a heavy traffic flow to Mandi, Kullu, Manali, Shimla and Leh.  Despite a manifold increase in traffic, no efforts have been made to construct a bypass in these towns.  Dozens of accidents have   taken place, but the NHAI that looks after the maintenance of the highway is taking no measures.   Besides, haphazard parking along the highways at Baijnath and Paprola has made matters worse.  The encroachments on both sides of the highway have squeezed roads in these two markets. Emergency vehicles like ambulances and fire brigades can be  seen trapped in traffic many times. A senior police officer said the police had deputed  half a dozen traffic constables to regulate the traffic but long traffic jams could not be averted because of the narrow  road  and  heavy movement of  traffic to Ladakh  and other cities.  A spokesman for the NHAI said the road  had been transferred to the highways authority three years ago by the state PWD  and it was being converted  into four lanes. The DPR  for the  bypass  has already been prepared and the matter is in the final stage with the Union Goverment, he said.  Because of pandemic,   the approval of the project was delayed, he said, adding that the project had already been approved by the NHAI and  land acquisition process had already begun.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/traffic-jams-a-routine-affair-on-nh-in-baijnath-paprola-231898
29-03-2021||---||MC elections: Cong leader, supporters join BJP in Solan||Solan,March 28Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Sunday urged residents of Solan to ensure the victory of BJP candidates by an overwhelming majority in the Municipal Corporation poll.More than 150 retired officers, employees and women of various wards, along with Congress district secretary Jatin Soni, joined the BJP. As many as 40 Congress supporters of ward number 14 also joined the BJP in presence of the CM.He assured the people that the government would fulfil all promises made in the ‘Sankalp Patra’ released for these poll today. He addressed public meetings in favour of party candidates Rajani Bala, Swati Kashyap, Kulbhushan Gupta, Rekha Sahni, Pawan Gupta and Rajesh Thakur in various wards.Stress on improving civic amenitiesThe BJP’s Sankalp Patra for MC polls has laid stress on improving civic amenities like improving water availability, cleanliness, sewage system, roads and parking facilities. Other priorities included developing playgrounds, free wi fi in select places, ridding the town of power and telephone lines, provision of round the clock quality power, improving health infrastructure.He said the government had fulfilled the long-pending demand of granting the MC status to Solan and this would ensure the balanced and planned development of the area.He accused the Congress of misleading the people, especially residents of the merged rural areas, and said the government was committed to protecting their interests. No tax would be levied for five years in the merged areas. On the lines of MGNREGA, the Urban Livelihood Mission was being implemented and the rights of the people of the merged areas would remain intact.Thakur said special funds forthe development of towns like Solan would be sought from the Centre. He said a master plan would also be drafted for its planned development and special attention would be laid on cleanliness, beautification, proper sewerage and creation of modern infrastructure.BJP in-charge for the Solan election Dr Rajiv Bindal, addressing the people, said the CM had provided more than Rs 16.50 crore for strengthening the drinking water system in Solan and Rs 19 crore for other development works. Now, 32 doctors and sufficient paramedical staff had been deputed in the Regional Hospital.Health and Family Welfare Minister Dr Rajiv Saizal, state BJP general secretary Trilok Jamwal and Power Minister Sukhram Chaudhary were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mc-elections-cong-leader-supporters-join-bjp-in-solan-231899
29-03-2021||---||Doubts raised over caste certificate of Cong candidate||Dharamsala, March 28Forest Minister Rakesh Pathania today alleged that Congress candidate Asha Devi, who had filed her nomination papers from ward 17 (reserved), had submitted invalid caste certificate.A complaint in this regard was forwarded to the Tehsildar, who had also clarified in his report that Asha Devi’s caste certificate was not valid, he added.Addressing a press conference, the minister said the BJP would approach the State Election Commission and the High Court to seek the cancellation of Asha Devi’s nomination.Yesterday, former minister and AICC secretary Sudhir Sharma had accused BJP leaders of threatening their candidate from ward 17 to withdraw her nomination.Sudhir Sharma said the caste certificate was issued by the competent authorities and there was no question of it being invalid.BJP MP from Kangra Kishan Kapoor alleged that large-scale corruption had taken place in the Dharamsala civic body during the stint of the Congress government. He alleged that crores were spent on installing underground dustbins.However, Kapoor failed to explain why the BJP government, which has been in power in the state for the past more than three years now, has taken any action in the corruption cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/doubts-raised-over-caste-certificate-of-cong-candidate-231901
29-03-2021||---||Sources drying up, Kangra stares at water paucity||Dharamsala, March 28Owing to lesser snowfall in the Dhauladhars this year, the Kangra valley is staring at a water shortage. With summers yet to set in, about 25 per cent water supply schemes in Kangra district are facing water paucity.Enquiries from Irrigation and Public Health (IPH) officials reveal that water sources near Bhagsunag, from where water is lifted for supply to Ram Nangar and Shayam Nagar areas, has dried up. Many areas in Mcleodganj, a tourist hub, have been hit too.Superintendent Engineer Suresh Mahajan says a proposal has been mooted to interlink water supply schemes. “The department tried to lift water from the Manji river but faced resistance by locals,” he said. Villagers fear if the IPH Department lifts water from rivers, there will be no water in khuls (natural drains) to irrigate their fields.With glaciers in the Dhualadhars receding each year, experts say the government should look for alternative schemes rather than depending on the natural flow in streams. Major rivers Neugal, Binwa and Baner, which feed over 200 water supply schemes in the district, are with little water these days. The water discharge in most of the natural water sources, particularly in Palampur, has come down to 20-30 per cent.Scientist working on global warming say melting glaciers and receding snowline have affected the availability of surface water. However, groundwater is available in abundance right up to the higher reaches of the Himalayas. Therefore, the government must shift emphasis from surface to ground water.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sources-drying-up-kangra-stares-at-water-paucity-231893
