07-08-2020||West Bengal||Online entry to Visva Bharati this year||Visva-Bharati will start its admission process for the current academic year from August 10 through online registration only because of the raging pandemic. Varsity officials said applicants could access the official website, visvabharati.ac.in, for admissions from August 10. The entire admission process would be done online. “We will prepare the merit list (of applicants) within a month and ask the (selected) students to get admitted online,” said a senior official. Asked how they would verify student testimonials, an official said: “We will verify the testimonials once the situation improves. If a testimonial is found fraudulent during physical document verification, the admission will be cancelled.” Online admissions are a challenge for Kala Bhavana (department of fine arts) and Sangeet Bhavana (department of music) as students are selected on the basis of their performance. So, admissions are likely to be held up in the departments, said a varsity source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-418
07-08-2020||West Bengal||North Bengal University introduces tea science course||Students aspiring to a career in the tea industry can now join an undergraduate course on tea science from this academic session, authorities of the North Bengal University (NBU) said on Thursday. “For the first time in north Bengal, we are introducing tea science in the undergraduate level. Those who take admission will get a BSc degree in tea science and the three-year course will be taught on varsity campus itself. This is the first time any varsity in India, other than some agricultural universities, is offering such a course,” said Nupur Das, secretary of the undergraduate council of the NBU. A student who has cleared Class XII with science subjects is eligible to apply. As of now, there will be 20 seats at the undergraduate level with five faculty members. Pranab Ghosh, an advisory committee member of the course at the NBU, said students could learn “scientific aspects of tea cultivation and processing to the management of tea gardens”. Students can also take up postgraduate course on the subject too. “In fact, we are offering a diploma on tea science at NBU,” Das added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-418
07-08-2020||West Bengal||Lockdown: more vessels for Hooghly rides as train services remain suspended ||The government has increased the number of vessels connecting Calcutta with districts such as North 24-Parganas and Hooghly to meet the demand of transport as suburban train services remain suspended since the lockdown was declared in March. As most of the ferry services to the districts across the Hooghly depended on motorised boats with limited passenger capacity, a source said, the transport department had directed the authorities concerned to halt those as it would double the number of bigger vessels. “Before the lockdown, we had 16 vessels to ferry passengers across the Hooghly river to the districts of Hooghly and North 24-Parganas. After the unlock I period, we started to increase the number of vessels. At present, we are operating 27 vessels,” said Rajat Kanti Biswas, the joint managing director of West Bengal Transport Corporation. Biswas was present at Khardah in North 24-Parganas on Thursday to officially inaugurate launch service to Rishra, which is on the other side of the Hooghly. The Khardah municipality had recently approached transport minister Suvendu Adhikari for two vessels to ply between Khardah and Rishra as a lot of people faced problems in commuting. “Post-lockdown, people need to move for work. Trains, the main mode of transport, have not been running since the beginning of the lockdown. So, we requested the transport minister to start the ferry services from Khardah to Rishra,” said Kajal Sinha, the chairperson of board of administrators at Khardah municipality. The municipality requested the transport department to start a ferry service from Khardah to Babughat to help commuters reach Calcutta using the waterways. The new vessels would replace the motorised boats that used to operate on the route earlier. “The transport department has assured us that they will start trial run of the ferry service soon,” said Sinha, who was present in the inaugural ceremony of the vessel services along with Trinamul MLA from Uttarpara Prabir Ghoshal. Sources in the transport department said already four new vessels had been allotted for Serampore to ply between various ghats in Calcutta and North 24-Parganas amid the post-lockdown situation. “We have started a speed-vessel from Chandernagore that reaches Babughat in 40 minutes. It is helping commuters from Hooghly to reach Calcutta fast while maintaining physical distancing as per Covid protocol,” said a transport department official. “All the ferry ghats have been asked to submit their demands for vessels to meet the rush of passengers and the government is trying to do its level best,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-418
07-08-2020||West Bengal||Tides flood Digha, 1,000 evacuated||High tides triggered by a low-pressure formation over the Bay of Bengal since Wednesday night, coupled with full moon, triggered inundation of some parts of the Digha-Mandarmani coastal zone and forced over 1,000 residents of five villages to take refuge at local schools and two cyclone shelters. The development came as a surprise to local people who had witnessed minimal damage to the area during Cyclone Amphan on May 20. “The under-construction Digha-Mandarmani metal road was seriously breached by high waves on Wednesday night,” an official of the East Midnapore district administration said, referring to the chief minister’s “dream project” of a scenic route, christened Marine Drive between the two beach towns. Sources said the worst-affected villages included Shyampur, Jalda, Chandpur and Tengamari, where agricultural plots and brackish fishing waters were overrun. “Nearly 100 families have been shifted to the cyclone shelters at Tajpur and Jalda as well as a few local schools,” said an official, adding that cooked food was being provided at the evacuees. “The full moon worsened the low pressure formation causing waves as high as seven metres. The damage is worse that what we suffered on May 20,” Ramnagar 1 block development officer Bishnupada Ray. A team of panchayat samiti functionaries and irrigation department engineers on Thursday surveyed coastal parts of Digha to repair Marine Drive as soon as possible. “It is important to revive and complete the project,” said panchayat president Nitai Sar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-418
07-08-2020||West Bengal||Rain & storm disrupt hills, boy swept away||A sudden storm accompanied by torrential downpour disrupted life across the hills from Wednesday afternoon to late Thursday morning. Sources at the Regional Meterological Office in Calcutta said that in the past 24 hours, that is till 8.30am on Thursday, it rained 130mm in Kalimpong and around 100mm in Darjeeling. Because of the downpour, numerous small hilly streams and drains have suddenly swelled across the region. A 12-year-old boy who was swept away by the water of a gushing stream from a locality in Kalimpong on Wednesday evening has not yet been found, said sources. The schoolboy, Allah Rakha, a resident of Bhalukhop in Kalimpong, was standing near his home on Wednesday evening. Suddenly, the water level of the Malikholajhora, a hilly stream that ran near his home, rose. The boy was swept away. The administration’s hunt for him has not been successful yet, triggering panic in the area. On Thursday, authorities of Kalimpong municipality took up the onus to clear waterlogging in various parts of the town. “There is waterlogging in many parts of the town because of the heavy rainfall. This has also bared the ignorance of a section of people who have built houses and other buildings that encroach on the town’s drainage systems. In ward 3 of the town, for instance, there was a flood-like situation and water had entered shops and houses. This happened only because the drains were choked with pipes, clothes, furniture, stones and boulders. There was no space for rainwater to flow out,” said a source from the municipality. He added: “Let this be a warning call for the town’s residents that we have to ensure that drains do not remain blocked and people should stop treating drains as trash cans for discarded items.” Rainfall was accompanied by a storm that uprooted a number of trees throughout the hills. The fallen trees in turn, snapped electricity distribution cables in Darjeeling town and in suburbs like Ghoom, Bijanbari, Takdah and Lodhama. “Most power transmission lines got affected as uprooted trees or broken branches fell on the cables. In all, there were eight power substations where power supply was disrupted. Work started from Thursday morning and we hope power will be restored in due course,” said an official of the Darjeeling district administration on Thursday morning. From afternoon onwards, power supply started resuming and became normal by evening in most areas. Weathermen said that the hills and some other areas of north Bengal and the neighbouring state of Sikkim would experience heavy rain during the next couple of days. “Southwest monsoon is active over the region. There is a forecast of heavy rain or thundershowers in some places of Sikkim and Bengal during the next few days,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-418
07-08-2020||West Bengal||Panic buying before Nadia lockdown kicks in||Long queues were witnessed at markets in Nadia district on Thursday as people scrambled to stock food and essential commodities before the start of a week-long lockdown in eight municipal areas and 25 gram panchayats from Friday. The district on Thursday reported 95 fresh Covid-19 cases with Kalyani municipality topping the chart with 20. The total number of positive cases in the district till Thursday stood at 1,379. The spike in Covid cases had compelled the district administration to enforce stringent lockdown from August 8 to 14. However, the people appeared to be unperturbed about the rise in cases as they jostled at crowded markets throughout Thursday. Most buyers and sellers were wearing no masks. The panic shopping, coupled with incessant rain, resulted in a sudden spike in prices of vegetables in some areas. Demand for potatoes was the highest. The produce was sold at Rs 32 a kilo, while tomatoes were priced at 150 a kilo. Frenzy buying was witnessed at markets in Kalyani, Chakdah, Ranaghat, Santipur, Krishnagar, Tehatta, Karimpur, and Geshpur. In the morning, hundreds stood in long queues in front of shopping complexes, grocery shops, medicine stores and bakeries. In Santipur, chaotic scenes in the markets forced traders to take the help of police to control the crowd. Ashish Kumar Naha, a state government employee from Chakdah, who stood in a queue outside a departmental store, had to return as the wait became too long for him. “There was a huge rush everywhere in the market. People panicked as if they would get nothing eventually...I finally gave up and returned home. I will try on Friday,” Naha said. The administration’s order that all shops and markets would remain closed during the lockdown contributed to the rush. But, essential services like medicine shops and LPG supply would run as usual. District magistrate, Nadia, Vibhu Goel said: “We have given ample time to the people to store essential items in sufficient quantities. Our objective is to keep people confined to home during lockdown.” A homemaker in Kalyani said: “The administration’s intention is good but the way it is being carried out is wrong. Storing vegetables for seven days is an impractical idea even for those who have refrigerators.” “The administration should find an alternative way while ensuring stringent monitoring. The administrative order has also pushed up prices of vegetables, while people crowded markets ignoring the protocol of physical distancing,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-418
07-08-2020||West Bengal||Scholar Amaresh Datta no more||Professor emeritus Amaresh Datta, a noted scholar of English from Assam who evoked awe and respect in equal measure from his students and admirers, passed away at his Dibrugarh residence on Thursday morning. He would have been 102 in November and is survived by his wife and five sons. Datta was cremated with full state honours at Chowkidinghee, about 2km from his Naliapool residence in the Upper Assam town. In attendance were Dibrugarh MP and Union minister of state Rameswar Teli, Dibrugarh MLA Prasanta Phukan, Dibrugarh deputy commissioner P.G. Jha and SP Sreejith T, among others. Glowing tributes and the heartfelt condolences poured in from all quarters, an indication of the impact Datta had on people he came in touch with. An ex-student and former head of the English department, Dibrugarh University, Udayon Misra, 75, said Datta was the “doyen of teachers” of English Literature in the region and in his long career he “inspired” several generations of students. Former student Kashi Nath Hazarika, a member of Assam State Innovation and Transformation Aayog and former chairman-cum-managing director of NEDFi, said, “…these rare and diminishing breed of revered teachers reflected the values of their times... simplicity, integrity, passion and sheer joy of teaching.” Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal described Datta as a “stalwart of modern education in India”. AASU chief adviser Samujjal Bhattacharjya said the demise of the “scholar” has created a big void in the field of education. Datta started his teaching journey at Sagar University in Madhya Pradesh in the early fifties before moving to Gauhati University from where he retired as professor and head of the department of English. He joined Dibrugarh University as head of the department, English, and moved to Delhi as chief editor of the Encyclopaedia of Indian Literature, a project of the Sahitya Akademi. Datta was an authority on Shakespeare. His book, Shakespeare’s Tragic Vision and Art published in 1963, received appreciation from eminent scholars and critics like professors G. Wilson Knight, E.M.W. Tillyard and A.G. Stock. His collection of poems, Captive Moments (1952), bagged an award from the International Association of Poetry in Rome. Some of his published works include Time’s Harvest and Lotus and the Cross. Datta also received an honorary doctorate degree by Assam University, Silchar, the title of Professor Emeritus by Gauhati University, the Kamal Kumari National Award in 2010 and the Krishna Kanta Handique National Award in 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-419
07-08-2020||West Bengal||Mamata opts for low-key Independence Day celebrations||The Bengal government has decided to scale down the celebrations this Independence Day because of the Covid-19 pandemic, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said at Nabanna on Thursday. “Only (the national) flag will be hoisted and some Covid warriors will be felicitated, but by maintaining social distance,” she said. “Clubs can hoist the flag with four to five people...,” she said, urging people hoist flags at homes. She emphasised that Independence Day was “the most important day in our lives”. Sources in Nabanna said that since 2011, Independence Day celebrations were taken to new heights as the Trinamul-led state government shifted the venue of the programme to Red Road from Writers’ Buildings. Cultural events and tableaux focussing the achievements of the state government were included. “But since the ministry of home affairs has issued a guideline to scale down Independence Day programmes this year, the state government would do the bare minimum,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-419
07-08-2020||West Bengal||CPM veteran Shyamal Chakraborty passes away||Veteran CPM leader and the party’s central committee member, Shyamal Chakraborty, 77, breathed his last in Calcutta on Thursday. Known as a labour leader, Chakraborty, a many-time MLA who had been Bengal’s transport minister and a Rajya Sabha member, had tested positive for Covid-19. He had been put on ventilator on August 1. Condolences poured in from chief minister Mamata Banerjee, CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury, CPM leaders Biman Bose and Surjya Kanta Mishra, Congress leader Abdul Mannan, among others. He is survived by his daughter, actor Ushasie. Expressing her grief over Chakraborty’s demise, Mamata tweeted: “Saddened at the passing away of veteran leader, former Member of Parliament and former Bengal minister Shyamal Chakraborty. My condolences to his family, friends and supporters.” Yechury tweeted  to mourn the death of a “friend and comrade”. “He was an astounding fighter for the rights of the working class and was a very able parliamentarian.” CPM leader Biman Bose remembered his colleague as “a student leader, a labour leader and a mass leader”. “I was among his friends and he was one of my mother’s favourites,” Bose said. Mannan said they had “ideological differences and yet shared a cordial relationship”. A popular trade union leader, Chakraborty became a member of the undivided Communist party in 1959 and was elected as MLA in the 1981 bypoll and in 1982, 1987 and 1991. He had served as a member of the Rajya Sabha from  2008 to 2014. At present he was the state unit president of the CPM’s trade union wing, Citu. Mishra added that all Covid safety protocols would be followed during the cremation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-419
07-08-2020||West Bengal||Relatives to get access to Covid patient data||The Bengal government has decided to upload health parameters of all hospitalised Covid-19 patients on a website and make the same available to relatives in an apparent bid to scotch charges that families are kept in dark about the condition of the admitted positive persons. The details will be uploaded on the website of the state health department and the public can get to know overall particulars like the number of critical patients and those in ICUs. “We have already started maintaining the records of coronavirus patients admitted to both government and private hospitals and monitoring their condition under the Critical Covid Patient Management System (CCPMS ) that was launched on August 1. Details of the patients’ condition will be uploaded on the health department’s website within two weeks,” said a senior state government official. “A mechanism will be developed so that only relatives can access the health parameters of patients. Common people will be able to know the overall condition like, how many are critical or the number of patients on the life support system,” added the official. The move — assumed to be the first in the country — was initiated purportedly to counter allegations that relatives were not informed of the health details of the patients admitted to Covid hospitals. At a news conference at Nabanna after a cabinet meeting on Thursday, chief secretary Rajiva Sinha said 96 doctors of the health department were monitoring all admitted Covid patients 24x7 under the CCPMS. “All health parameters, including oxygen saturation level, pulse rate, blood sugar, functioning of different body parts, are being shared by hospitals at regular intervals. A team of doctors is monitoring reports of each patient and suggesting next course of action,” said an official. Sources said the government was forced to take the step to bring details of each hospitalised patient to the public domain as pressure was mounting on the authorities amid complaints that death toll was rising because of improper treatment. The CCPMS was introduced in the state with an aim to bring down the number of deaths after the authorities found that the allegation of neglecting Covid patients were true at some hospitals. The sources said the CCPMS would ensure that hospitals were on their toes to provide proper treatment to the patients as they would be under scanner all the time. “If a patient dies because of low oxygen saturation, the hospital would be liable to say whether he/she was put on oxygen support. As everything would be made public, all hospitals would be under pressure,” said a source. The top brass of the government was hopeful that the step would help them in making public aware that patients with comorbidities were vulnerable to the coronavirus. “The health parameters will make it clear which patients are more critical. This would erase misconceptions,” said an official. The state government is also laying stress on putting several other facilities in place so that people don’t panic about the pandemic. Besides arranging ambulances for the patients who are calling up the helpline (1800 313 444 222), the government is also making arrangements for hospitalisation of the patients. “We have arranged ambulances for 54,571 patients since July. We have admitted 72,158 patients to the hospitals during the same period,” said the chief secretary. He also said people were being helped through telemedicine helpline. A total of 42,584 people have secured consultation from the service. “All these assure people that there is somebody to help in case of an emergency. Our target is to ensure that people don’t panic,” said an official. On Thursday, the state cabinet approved recruitment of 500 house staff to government hospitals. Besides, the government allowed the Calcutta Municipal Corporation to recruit 53 doctors and 18 medical technicians through walk in interviews.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-419
07-08-2020||West Bengal||Bengal government seeks to calm nerves amid Covid spike||The Bengal government on Thursday tried to soothe nerves over the spike in Covid-19 cases, asserting that it still had “full control” of the pandemic’s management and underscored certain “qualitative aspects” of the data to allay fears. Hours before the daily Covid-19 bulletin from the state health department reported the highest 24-hour  rise in new cases at 2,954, chief secretary Rajiva Sinha had suggested at a news conference — attended by chief minister Mamata Banerjee — on Thursday that there was more to the statistics than meets the eye. Sinha announced that the state had achieved on Thursday the target Mamata had set for August 15, that of taking the number of tests from around 10,000 a day to 25,000. With Thursday’s 25,224 tests — the maximum intra-day test count — the total crossed 10.28 lakh, at 11,425 per million. “Because we are testing a lot more, of course, we have been getting more cases. But our decision is firm, we will keep ramping up testing, tracing and tracking… irrespective of what some other states might be doing. Because there is a lot more testing, there are more cases being found,” said Mamata. Sinha pointed out that out of the total Covid-19 cases of nearly 87,000, only around 24,000 were active cases and there were over 61,000 recoveries. “Of them (the active cases), as of 9am, 1,144 patients were critical, 1,043 patients moderate, 1,946 mildly symptomatic…. Each patient in Bengal, we have every status update,” said the chief secretary. “We issue all key statistics in our daily Covid-19 bulletins, but some qualitative aspects are not adequately reflected, sometimes, in them. Therefore, some points I would really like to assert here…. The targets, by way of capacity augmentation and necessary intervention, that we have been setting, we have been achieving,” said Sinha. “The entire Covid management, even now… is under full control of the state government and the associated partners.” Sinha said the recovery rate of the state was now 70.34 per cent. On Thursday, till 9am, the state reported 2,061 more recoveries in 24 hours. With 56 deaths being reported on Thursday, the toll from Covid-19 rose to 1,902. But Sinha offered further insight. “The mortality rate is 2.2 per cent. So, barely two out of every hundred Covid-19 patients have died. Of those two, 87.8 per cent (1,670 of the total) were comorbid,” he said. “Covid-19 on its own is not that dangerous, only if there are comorbidities, it is a deadly combination…. Many deaths have been because of delayed hospitalisation, because they thought they would be okay for three more days, but deteriorated drastically in three hours,” he added. Sinha also asserted that the state had bettered by 60 its target to augment the number of dedicated Covid-19 beds by 500 by July 31, taking the total bed count to 11,560. “Occupancy, over the past 10 days, we have kept around 39 per cent. That means over 60 per cent beds remain available. No dearth of beds, even in high-load districts,” he said. Mamata advised the administration to have a survey conducted and a helpline set up for police to come to the aid of senior citizens living alone, especially at urban centres. The chief minister said she had found out on Wednesday that one of her neighbours was ill and needed hospitalisation. “He is very senior. Both his daughters are professors. One of them came to visit him yesterday, and then everybody came to know he had been with fever for three days, living alone…. The Kalighat police station hospitalised him immediately,” she said. “He could have died like that, then it would have been said that nobody looked out for him…. It got me thinking. Something must be done specifically for such elderly,” added Mamata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-419
07-08-2020||West Bengal||Festivals forced change in Bengal lockdown dates: Mamata||Mamata Banerjee said on Thursday that the Bengal government had rescheduled dates of complete lockdown because of festivals and sought to address concerns over rumours of district/townwise weeklong complete lockdown. “We have already given you some dates for the lockdown, for the complete lockdown. Saturday is the next one. After that, August 9 was planned, but there is a tribal occasion (International Day of the World’s Indigenous Peoples)…. So, after Saturday, August 2021. 2728 and 31,” the chief minister told a news conference at Nabanna on Thursday. On July 28, she had announced complete lockdown on August 2, 5, 8, 9, 16, 17, 23, 24 and 31. Later that night, August 2 and 9 were dropped from the list. But the Opposition and apolitical netizens were outraged when the dates were changed again on Monday. “Everything has to be seen... In this, we have Manasa Puja, on August 17, so that date had to be changed. Janmashtami (on August 11), Parsi New Year’s Day on August 16… all of this had to be factored in. These festivals and occasions have been taking place in Bengal. Nothing new,” said Mamata. Although the saffron camp had mounted a hate campaign against her over complete lockdown in the state on Wednesday — the day of the bhoomi pujan at Ayodhya — the Trinamul Congress chief steered clear of trying to explain that choice of date. “Everything has to be accounted for in taking these decisions. We still have to break the chain using this complete lockdown method, which is scientific… two days at a |time, wherever possible,” she said. Mamata went on to soothe nerves over rumours of district specific or townwise complete lockdown by districts administrations over several days. “Some lockdowns in the districts, being carried out by the district magistrates and the district police chiefs. That is not related to the state (government). This was advised by the Centre, that district magistrates could exercise discretion and do this in their containment areas, on |a needbased basis,” said |Mamata. “I am sure they are not going to shut a whole district down. Some neighbourhoods, some areas, where infections are high or chances are high. At those places, the district administration sometimes implement localised lockdowns. Not complete, mind you, but containment areabased lockdowns,” she added. “There is a great deal of difference between complete lockdowns and this.” Sources said the chief minister had been aware of panic being triggered over widely circulated “information” on social media regarding complete lockdown in the districts and wanted to convey a message of calm. “Complete lockdowns, only the state government can declare, which we have done. These are specific to a village, or a ward, or a neighbourhood,” she said. “Where four six cases have suddenly been found, it has to be done, there is no way out… maybe just one small road, or neighbourhood, or area, nothing larger.” “But not three days at one go… or seven days. No more than two days in a row… in small areas. Where there is no need, there will not be such measures. Where there is need, it must be done, for the sake of the people,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-419
