08-08-2020||West Bengal||Webinar with education minister Partha Chatterjee||Does Bengal offer enough options to get you ready for the national and global job market? Is the state’s education infrastructure developed enough to impart training on the careers of the future? Find the answers as the heads of some of Bengal’s leading institutions discuss the prospects of higher education in the state with education minister Partha Chatterjee at a webinar. The Bengal Education Leaders’ Summit is the opening session of CampusToCareer 2020, where Chatterjee is the keynote speaker, on August 12, 11am to 1pm. CampusToCareer is a webinar series geared towards emerging careers, presented by ABP Education. The Bengal Leaders’ Summit webinar will be moderated by Anjan Bandyopadhyay, the editor of Anandabazar Patrika Digital. Meet some of the speakers on the panel: Prof. Suranjan Das, Jadavpur University vice-chancellor: Having completed DPhil from  Oxford University, Das had joined the history department of Calcutta University and went on to serve as pro-vice- chancellor of the university for six years and vice-chancellor for seven years before joining JU as vice- chancellor. Prof. Anupam Basu, director of National Institute of Technology, Durgapur: A professor-on-lien in the computer science and engineering department , IIT Kharagpur, he is an active researcher in cognitive and intelligent systems, embedded systems and language processing. Father (Dr.) John Felix Raj, SJ Vice-Chancellor St.Xavier's University, Kolkata Prof. Samit Ray, Chancellor, Adamas University;  Chairman, RICE Education Mr. Taranjit Singh, Chancellor, JIS University Managing Director, JIS Group. Mr. Satyam Roychowdhury, Chancellor, Sister Nivedita University Founder Managing Director, Techno India Group Prof. (Dr.) Saikat Maitra, Vice-Chancellor MAKAUT Sign up for the webinar for free here. You will also receive a Certificate from ABP Education after participating in these webinars on Zoom.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-417
08-08-2020||West Bengal||TMC-BJP clash at Bhatpara, bombs hurled, bullets fired||At least 10 persons were injured in a clash between the supporters of the Trinamul Congress and the BJP at Ramnagar here on Thursday night. Local sources said several bombs had been hurled and bullets fired by supporters of both the parties. No casualty was reported. A large police team brought the situation under control. The police have detained 10 persons in connection with the violence. The area remained tense even on Friday, particularly after the visit of BJP MP Arjun Singh in the morning. He had gone to meet the injured BJP supporters. Police sources said the clash had taken place over the control of a party office that a section of the BJP leadership had allegedly occupied a few months ago forcefully. Local sources said the trouble began about 9.30pm on Thursday when a group of Trinamul-backed goons allegedly hurled bombs at a BJP office at Ramnagar when a feast was being held there. “Goons with Trinamul connection came on four bikes and started hurling bombs at the party office. They also fired indiscriminately. Our party workers tried to escape but got injured while coming out of the office. The goons had tried to paint the party office green, but they failed as our supporters from the nearby area rushed to the spot,” said a BJP leader. A group of BJP activists attacked Trinamul supporters in retaliation and hurled bombs. This led to a clash turning the area into a battlefield. Local BJP MLA Pawan Singh alleged that top Trinamul leaders had unleashed terror in the area out of vengeance as it failed to bring the area under their control ever since their defeat in the last Lok Sabha election. However, Trinamul leader from Bhatpara Dharampal Gupta refuted the allegation. “Goons having proximity to BJP had occupied our party office and our workers were attacked when they had gone to take control of it on Thursday night.” DC Zone 1, Barrackpore, Ajay Thakur, said: “Three persons have been arrested for their involvement in the clash. We are probing the incident.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-417
08-08-2020||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court order to DGP on journalist ||Calcutta High Court on Friday asked director general of police to furnish with it in three months a report detailing the reason for the arrest of a journalist who had “exposed” alleged corruption by Trinamul Congress leaders and supporters at Arambagh in Hooghly. Justice Jaymalya Bagchi expressed surprise and concern over the arrest of Safiqul Islam, a journalist and the owner of web channel Arambagh TV, his wife and a cameraman. The trio were arrested soon after a realtor had lodged a complaint at Arambagh police station, alleging that the journalist had demanded money. According to the FIR, Safiqul and his cameraman had threatened the realtor that the channel would telecast news items to malign him. Safiqul’s wife is the co-owner of the channel. Justice Bagchi directed the DG to assign a senior police officer for the inquiry in detail, prepare a report and then place it before the court in three months. “This is a serious issue. How can police harass and arrest a person in such a way?” Justice Bagchi asked the state government’s lawyer, B. Chowdhury, before passing his order. Safiqul moved the court seeking bail and an order asking the police to quash the proceedings drawn against him. The court on Friday first heard the plea for quashing the case against the journalist. Moving the petition, senior advocate Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya claimed the police had framed false charges against his client as he had been regularly publishing news exposing corruption of ruling party leaders and supporters. “My client was being threatened for a long time both by the police and ruling party for telecasting news items on misdeeds and corruption. So, they framed a false case, raided his house on the same night and took him and other members of his family to the police station,” Bhattacharyya said. The court will hear Safiqul’s bail application on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-417
08-08-2020||West Bengal||Villagers block NH 12 to protest at Covid victim cremation||Around 300 villagers in Arambagh’s Brindabanpur blocked a state highway for over 12 hours in phases on Friday to protest against cremation of Covid-19 patients near their area as they feared it would spread the infection. Police and administrative officials tried to convince the villagers that there was no chance of infection spread as the cremation site was 2km away from residential areas.  However, the villagers refused to budge and blocked the highway. “The police are coming at midnight and cremating Covid bodies at our village. The villagers who go to feed their cattle found several leftovers of the bodies, including clothes. We are not ready to allow such cremation in our area,” said Mangal Hansda, a villager. Sources said the villagers had started blocking the Arambagh-Khanakul state highway from Thursday night. After a blockade for five hours, the villagers resumed the agitation early on Friday morning and it continued till 3pm. On Friday afternoon, a police team and local block officials went and spoke to the villagers. Heeding to the demand of the villagers, fire brigade was called to sanitise the village. “The villagers are rigid and we suspect that they are doing it over panic and instigation by a group of outsiders. The land where the new cremation ground has been set up is far away from habitats as it is located on the bank of the river Dwarakeswar,” said a police officer in Hooghly’s Arambagh. “However, the villagers are very rigid and we will change the place if they stick to their stance. We have already cremated three bodies there,” he said. Sub-divisional officer in Arambagh Nripendra Singh said: “The villagers were instigated by some outsiders. Our staff and officers are trying to convince them that there was no fear of infection spreading to the village.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-417
08-08-2020||West Bengal||Bengali rider for forest jobs binned||The Bengal forest department has come up with a corrigendum in the notification for recruitment of “bana sahayaks”, saying job applicants can select any of the official languages in the state for evaluation purpose. On July 30, the department had announced recruitment of 2,000 bana sahayaks (forest assistants) on a contractual basis with a monthly salary of Rs 10,000 each. The recruitment drive, however, sparked a controversy in north Bengal because it was mentioned that 60 out of 100 marks would be to evaluate a candidate’s reading and writing skills in Bengali. A number of political parties, community-based organisations and the MP and MLA of Darjeeling, wrote to state forest minister Rajib Banerjee, mentioning that such a clause (ability to read and write in Bengali) would deny the jobs to youths who had not studied at Bengali medium schools. The issue was flagged by parties like the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Binay Tamang faction), an ally of the Trinamul Congress, BJP, Greater Cooch Behar Peoples’ Association and the Akhil Bharatiya Adivasi Vikas Parishad, which all said there should be option for other languages like Hindi, Nepali, Rajbangshi and Santhali. The forest department on Friday uploaded on its website “Corrigendum to Engagement of Bana Sahayaks”, mentioning that ability of a candidate to read and write in any of the languages recognised by the Language Act of the state would be considered. “Ability to read Bengali or any officially recognized language of the state as applicable in the district under the West Bengal Official Language Act of 1961 as amended from time to time,” reads the corrigendum. Sources have said the Language Act of 1961 that was amended in 2018 mentions that languages like Kamtapuri, Rajbangshi, Kurmali, Bengali, Nepali, Urdu, Hindi, Santhali, Oriya and Punjabi can be used for official work and communication in such areas of the state where at least 10 per cent of the people speak in those languages. Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista has welcomed the corrigendum. “It would provide a huge relief to youths of north Bengal, one of the linguistically diverse areas of the state. I thank the state forest minister for acting on the issue and giving significance to other state languages in the selection process,” said Bista. A senior officer of the state forest department said: “We believe the issue has been resolved. Thousands of candidates have already applied for the job and we expect some more applications to pour in.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-417
08-08-2020||West Bengal||Bengal logs 2,912 Covid cases and 52 deaths in a day||Bengal on Friday logged 2,912 Covid-19 cases and 52 deaths from the disease as the total number of patients reached 89,666, of whom 63,060 had recovered. The tally of active patients is 24,652, while the total death toll is 1,954. With 2,037 cured cases being reported in 24 hours till 9am, the recovery rate was 70.33 per cent, still ahead of the national rate of 68.36. With 25,258 tests, the state logged the maximum tests in a day, bettering Thursday’s high of 25,224. The total test count is now over 10.54 lakh and the 11 lakh mark is likely to be surpassed on Sunday. “We are at 11,717 tests per million people as on Friday, nearly twice the 6,361 reported a month ago, when the daily testing was around 10,000,” said a minister. “We are looking to double our tests per million in the next couple of weeks, now that we have ramped up testing by over 2.5 times,” added the minister. However, owing to the sharp spike in new cases, the positive confirmation rate is now 8.5 per cent, which was 4.34 per cent a month ago. The state had on Thursday surpassed the 25,000 target for daily testing, set for August 15, by chief minister Mamata Banerjee. “While this is something to be pleased with, there is no room for complacence. As the chief minister said yesterday, we will have to keep at it, increasing our tests, tracing and tracking, relentlessly,” said the minister. Of the 2,912 new cases, Calcutta accounted for 675 and North 24-Parganas, 573. The two districts, which have contributed 45 per cent of all Covid-19 cases in Bengal, now have 51 per cent of the active positive cases. On the plus side, the two districts have added nearly 32,000 recoveries as well. Of the total 1,954 deaths reported, Calcutta alone accounted for 907, with 20 till 9am. North 24-Parganas reported a total of 444 deaths, 14 of them on Friday. The state government reported 1,719, or 88 per cent, as deaths with comorbidity “present”. In the past month, there were 1,127 deaths, of which 1,061 were reported as comorbid by the state. The mortality rate of infected males has improved from 3.35 to 2.33 in a month. The infected females’ mortality rate dropped from 3.29 to 1.88 per cent. Bengal’s overall mortality rate improved to 2.17, from 3.33 per cent in a month. The national rate is now 2.04. “Now, one of our foremost priorities is to get the mortality rate to fall further, to below 2, within the next couple of weeks,” said the minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-417
08-08-2020||West Bengal||Covid-hit Trinamul leader dies||Senior Trinamul leader and administrator of Panihati municipality Swapan Ghosh, 75, died at the Bangur Institute of Neurosciences on Friday morning. He had tested positive for Covid-19. Swapan, who was the chairman of the outgoing civic board, fell ill in June but was detected with the infection later. His brother and Trinamul’s chief whip in the Assembly Nirmal Ghosh had also tested positive for the novel coronavirus in June but recovered. Family sources of Swapan said Swapan had been undergoing treatment at home since June. “Last week, he was admitted to Medica Super-specialty Hospital after his condition deteriorated. On Wednesday, his condition turned critical and he was shifted to Bangur Institute of Neurosciences, where he died around 3.45am on Friday,” said a family source. “Three years ago, Swapan had undergone a bypass surgery. But he later developed kidney problems and had been under medication since then. Doctors had advised him to be careful in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. But he never preferred to remain at home,” said a bereaved family member. Trinamul’s North 24-Parganas district president Jyotipriya Mullick said: “We have lost a leader who was close to common people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-417
08-08-2020||West Bengal||Villagers attack cops on mission to rescue alleged ‘child lifter’||At least 10 civic volunteers and three policemen were allegedly attacked and their vehicle was ransacked by a group of locals as they tried to rescue a woman who was assaulted by the mob on suspicion of being a child lifter in the Mothabari area here on Thursday. Later, additional police forces went to the spot and managed to rescue the injured volunteers, cops and the woman. The police said 14 persons had been arrested so far. Sources said some people spotted the woman carrying a child and moving through a mango orchard in Chak-Pratappur. The child was sleeping in her lap that triggered a suspicion among the onlookers that she has stolen the child, a girl. They intercepted her and some took the child to a nearby health centre while others started beating her, accusing her for stealing the child. Soon a police team along with civic volunteers went to the spot. As they tried to dissuade the crowd to rescue the woman, the mob attacked them with bricks and stones and even manhandled them. “We are probing the incident. Raids have been conducted and 14 persons have been arrested so far,” said Alok Rajoria, SP, Malda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-417
08-08-2020||West Bengal||Production halted at tea factory, INTTUC blamed||Work came to a halt at a bought-leaf factory (BLF) that processes tea in the Rajganj block of Jalpaiguri district since Thursday evening. Ruchi Agro Products Pvt Ltd which runs the standalone BLF filed complaints with police and the block administration, alleging that local INTTUC leaders had prevented workers from joining duties without any reason. Leaders of the trade union affiliated to the Trinamul Congress denied the charges and said the management had closed down the unit on its own. “When the second shift was about to start on Thursday evening, some people stopped workers from joining duties. This morning, we found a flag of the INTTUC planted at the entrance to the factory. Some workers who arrived to join duties were not allowed to enter. This has affected our production,” said Nabajit Dey, the manager of Ruchi Agro Products Pvt Ltd. The factory was opened at Schoolpara in Fatapukur in October last year. These days, 10,000 to 12,000 kilos of green tea leaves are processed at the unit a day. The BLF employees over 25 contractual workers and more than 10 other staff members also. Tapan Dey, a joint general secretary of the Terai Dooars Plantation Workers’ Union that is backed by the INTTUC, said the management had halted the work at the BLF. “The management makes workers serve for 12 hours a days but pays less wages. A labourer had suffered injuries during work three months ago, but he was not given compensation. The workers wanted to form a union and so they were at a meeting with us yesterday. We didn’t stop anyone from working. It was the management that stopped the production. We want the factory to function again,” said Dey. Surajit Paul, the general secretary of the North Bengal Industries’ Association, said workers could form a trade union and submit a charter of demands to the management. “This is a common process in any industry and none has an issue with that. But stopping workers from joining their duties is undesirable and affects the work environment. INTTUC leaders should realise that tealeaf is a perishable item and needs to be processed in due time or else, the management would suffer losses.” Rajganj Trinamul MLA  Khageswar Roy said: “I am looking into the issue. We will see that the impasse is resolved.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-418
08-08-2020||West Bengal||UAE tourney plan lifts Richa Ghosh’s spirits||Richa Ghosh, a member of the Indian women cricket team who hails from Siliguri, is eagerly waiting to hit the ground, particularly after the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) has said it plans to host a women’s challenger cricket tourney in the United Arab Emirates in November. The tournament that would be conducted in IPL format is likely to be played in the UAE from November 1 to November 10. “I am excited after the announcement of the BCCI. Since March this year, we have been out of ground and have not played any match or attended proper practice sessions. The planned women challenger tournament will definitely provide a platform to return to serious cricket,” said Ghosh, who has been staying at her home here since Covid-19 broke out in the country. It was in March that the Indian women’s cricket team played for the last time. The team could make it to the finals of the ICC Women T20 cricket tournament that was held in Melbourne. Richa was one of the youngest players of the team with ace opener Shafali Verma and had played in the finals as a concussion substitute for wicketkeeper T. Bhatia. “I have not been able to practise in the field as everything is closed now because of the pandemic. But I try to maintain my fitness with free hands and practice at home,” she said. Manabendra, her father and a common face in the cricket arena of Siliguri, has set up a temporary facility at their house at Subhashpally here. It is there that Richa has been practising every day to hone her batting skills, along with physical exercises, to beat the Covid 19 blues for the past four months. “We have also watched the recently concluded England and West Indies test series played in England last month,” the young cricketer’s father, who also played cricket at local clubs, said. Richa pointed out that along with the proposed challenger tourney, there were some other reasons which had left her optimistic to return to the 22 yards. The BCCI, she said, is also planning to host two more T20 series against South Africa and West Indies before and after the challenger tourney. The performance of players at these events will be considered during selection of the Indian women’s cricket team that will play in the next T20 world cup that is likely to be held in New Zealand in March next year. “I am waiting for the day when guidelines would be issued for crickets like us so that we can go out and practise in the field,” Richa said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-418
08-08-2020||West Bengal||Weeklong lockdown in Nadia called off||Nadia district administration on Friday revoked its decision for a weeklong comprehensive lockdown from August 8 and instead opted to impose shutdowns on August 13 and 14 in some specific areas. The decision for the weeklong lockdown has been modified apparently after chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday spoke against such a long spell of shutdown. She had advised the district administration not to announce a lockdown that extends beyond “two days in a row”. Sources in the district administration said after the chief minister’s statement, several people, including politicians, had called up senior officials to modify the lockdown. The district administration eventually modified the order on Friday in line with what Mamata had wished. However, justifying the climbdown, district magistrate Vibhu Goel said the initial order was modified following “several requests and appeals received from different quarters to relax the lockdown”. The Nadia district administration had on Wednesday announced a weeklong comprehensive lockdown from August 8 to 14 in eight municipality towns and 25 gram panchayat areas to arrest the spread of Covid-19. On Friday, the district recorded 53 fresh positive cases, taking the number of total patients to 1,147. A senior official of the district administration said: “We had planned a strict weeklong lockdown since a section of the people in the district was blatantly violating safety norms. But we were compelled to change the decision since the weeklong lockdown did not go down well with Nabanna.” The authorities of two municipalities — Rampurhat and Sainthia — have closed their offices for at least four days after an employee from each of the offices was diagnosed with Covid-19 on Thursday night. Chairman of Rampurhat municipality Aswini Tiwari said though the office would remain closed, emergency services would continue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-418
08-08-2020||West Bengal||One more arrested in BJP MLA death case||One more person who had been named in the suicide note purportedly found on the body of Hemtabad MLA Debendra Nath Roy was arrested from Kashimbazar near Mothabari in Malda district on Friday afternoon. Mabud Ali was arrested by police who handed him over to the CID which has been probing the MLA’s death. Niloy Singha and Mabud Ali were named in the “suicide note” as well as an FIR filed by Roy’s wife Chadima Roy. The CID had already arrested Singha from Malda. Recently, CID sleuths had come to know that Ali had taken shelter at his relative’s place somewhere in Kaliachak and passed on the information to three police stations of the area. “Soon after receiving the note from the CID, we explored all our sources. Thus, we came to know that Ali was being sheltered by one of his relatives at Babla village. He was changing his hideout every night to evade the arrest. We arrested him on Friday afternoon when he reached Kashimbazar on a two-wheeler,” said Bitul Pal, the officer-in-charge of Mothabari police station. The MLA had defected from the CPM to the BJP last year. The resident of Baliadighi village in Hemtabad block of North Dinajpur was found hanging in front of a shop on July 13 morning. After the death, the investigators said Singha and Ali had borrowed Rs 1 crore from Debendra Nath Roy. The BJP is still not ready to buy the suicide theory and alleged that the legislator had been murdered. “We have doubts about the suicide note and suspect it is a ploy by the police to shield those who killed the MLA. We are not satisfied with the probe by the CID and will stick to our demand for a CBI investigation,” North Dinajpur district BJP president Biswajit Lahiri said. Sandip Biswas, the spokesperson for the district Trinamul, said the CID had proved its competence by arresting both the accused men. “The BJP had tried to politicise the MLA’s death and the true nature of the party will be exposed soon,” said Biswas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-418
