09-08-2020||West Bengal||Centre plea for those stranded in Bangladesh||The Centre has repeated its request to the Bengal government to let in 2,680 people from the state, who are stranded in Bangladesh since the nationwide lockdown was imposed in March, through two of the six land borders between the two countries. “Our Mission in Dhaka has once again reported that 2,399 people are seeking to return to Bengal from Bangladesh through the Petrapole-Benapole integrated checkpost and a further 281 citizens are seeking to do so through the Phulbari-Banglabandha land border,” reads a letter by Vikram Doraiswami, additional secretary of ministry of external affairs to the Bengal chief secretary, Rajiva Sinha. Sources in Nabanna said that the Centre had sent similar letters in the past few weeks requesting it to allow the citizens to enter the state through land borders as they cannot afford to fly under the Vande Bharat evacuation mission. A senior state government official said the (Bengal) government was considering the request. “...A mechanism could be worked out soon to bring the stranded people back,” the official said. The letter from Doraiswami, who is likely to take charge of the Indian High Commission in Dhaka later this year, says that most of the stranded people are unskilled or semi-skilled labourers or poor people who had gone to visit relatives in rural Bangladesh. “Many are living in extreme distress, including sheltering in school verandah or public parks...,” reads the letter. “We are trying to solve problems one by one. We resolved the issue of trade through land borders with a mechanism to ensure that Covid does not spread in the bordering areas. We will take up this (repatriation) issue soon,” said a bureaucrat. The MEA wrote that railways could arrange special trains to bring back stranded people once the Bengal government approved it. Sources in the state government said it could be the best possible solution but the Centre had to ensure health screening of the stranded people before they board the trains. “We had proposed it during an informal conversation with the centre. Now it has to be seen what steps the Centre is taking to ensure that the passengers are screened properly and they are sent to institutional quarantine facilities after returning to India,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-416
09-08-2020||West Bengal||‘Politics’ whiff in Delhi audit in Bengal||Bengal’s ruling establishment is livid at the Centre’s decision to send a team to audit the state’s expenditure under the 100 days job scheme, with insiders saying it looked like Delhi was trying to discredit the state government’s claim of creating 16.62 crore mandays between April and early August. Sources said Bengal had “routinely” created more than 22 crore mandays a year over the past few years but no central audit team had ever been sent to the state before. A senior official commented that with Assembly elections nearing, Bengal’s rural job mandays would become a political issue. A minister in the Bengal government said: “This is a political move to harass the state government that worked hard during the pandemic to secure jobs for rural populace... The Centre should release Rs 53,000 crore first, which is due under various schemes, and then they should send teams to find out if we have done any wrong.” The minister said that they would cooperate with the teams, but the Centre must clear all dues so that the state can carry on with its development activities. Last week, the panchayat and rural development department was informed that central teams would conduct an audit of expenditure incurred under the 100 days job scheme — officially known as Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act —  since 2017-18. The panchayat department was told that the team would visit Bengal between August 10 and 14 and tour multiple districts. The team, sources said, would visit multiple districts with a primary focus to scan the books of accounts related to expenditure under the scheme between April and first week of August 2020. “The trigger behind the audit team’s proposed visit is Bengal’s creation of 16.62 crore mandays under the scheme during this period which is more than 75 per cent of its annual target of creating 22 crore mandays,” said a source. “It has spent Rs 4,865 crore under the scheme during the period which is over 76 per cent of proposed annual expenditure,” the source added. The Bengal government has asked district authorities to cooperate with the team. On why the audit, Trinamul insider said: “The BJP was finding it hard to stomach the state government’s success in creation of jobs in the rural areas during the lockdown when people were in dire need of income opportunities.” A source in the administration said the move to send central teams was initiated after the state uploaded figures that it created 1.25 crore mandays in April and 4.47 crore mandays in May amid a nationwide lockdown in the major part of the time. “No other state created such a huge number of mandays during that period. We explained that as there was no curb on agriculture and its allied sectors, we focused on these areas to create rural jobs. It appears that our explanations did not satisfy Delhi,” said a senior official. The BJP welcomed the Centre’s move while alleging gross irregularities under the scheme in the past four months. State BJP president and Midnapore MP Dilip Ghosh said: “The central team should examine ground realities for themselves. The Union government allocates the highest funds for Bengal. However, the money never fully reaches beneficiaries of MGNREGA fully. The state government juggles with figures. They cannot be trusted. Where is all the money going? What is wrong if the team wants an audit?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-416
09-08-2020||West Bengal||BJP leaders voice  conflict of interest concern over Agnimitra's sari||The BJP does not have any dearth of national issues to tie itself up in knots. Yet, it has fallen upon the sari to land an associate organisation in a tangle. Some leaders are discussing threadbare whether an audio message by Bengal BJP Mahila Morcha president Agnimitra Paul passes the conflict of interest test. Paul’s message entreats  members of the women’s wing to buy a sari featuring the lotus, the BJP’s symbol. Such symbol-laced merchandise is fairly common in the country now. But here’s  the catch: Paul, who is also a fashion designer, designed the sari. Besides, the appeal was uploaded on the 39 official WhatsApp groups of the Mahila Morcha. The sari is priced Rs 280 apiece and the sale proceeds will not go to the party fund. All of which appear to have stitched together a perfect ensemble for a whisper campaign. “How can anyone be allowed to sell any item through an official platform of the party if the proceeds do not go to the party fund?” asked a senior BJP member who did not want to be named. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh said in response to a question: “I’m aware of the initiative and have approved it. The proceeds from these sales will not come to the party.” Some members of the Mahila Morcha said the message from Paul, who had joined the BJP in March 2019 and became the president of the women’s morcha in June 2020, shocked them. The BJP Bengal headquarters on 6 Muralidhar Sen Lane in Calcutta has a party-run store which sells books, masks and caps with the party symbol. Sources in the party said income from the Vastu Bhandar went to the party fund. Paul expressed surprise at the controversy. “I believe that in any programme, if all of us wear similar dresses, it will look good. The money from the sale will go directly to the vendors who are making this sari. I’ve designed it but without any remuneration,” Paul told this paper. She added that her studio had been closed for four months because of the lockdown and the saris would not be made by her company. “The saris I make are quite expensive. (For the lotus saris) vendors, out of their love for the party, are charging only the cost of the raw materials,” Paul added. So far, 13 saris have been sold, she said, out of the 40 initial orders. The prospects are brighter if the audio message connects with all the members, totalling over 800, of the 39 WhatsApp groups. Evidently, the statistical twists and turns of the sari are tracked closely. A member said: “In May 2019, during the rally led by Amit Shah in Calcutta, she designed 1,170 saris and sold them for Rs 750 each.” Paul said she was asked to design the saris for Shah’s show.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-416
09-08-2020||West Bengal||Cabin crew member from Hooghly did his job: Dad||Crew member Abhik Biswas, 24, who was in the Air India Express repatriation flight that skidded off the tabletop runway at the Calicut International Airport and split into two in a valley, called up his family in Hooghly’s Konnagar on Friday night to say he was safe and had saved lives of at least 30 fliers. Abhik’s elderly parents said they were shocked after they switched on the television on getting Abhik’s phone call around 8.30pm on Friday. Only then did they realise the gravity of the accident, which till Saturday, had left 18 dead including flight’s captain-in-command, Deepak Vasant Sathe and co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar. Abhik was one of the four crew members who survived. His father Ajay Biswas, a trader in Konnagar, said he and his wife Bharati were in shock. “My son called last evening around 8.30pm (Friday) to say his plane had met with an accident less than an hour ago. He assured me he was safe and could save some 30-40 passengers by getting them out of the wreckage through an emergency exit,” said Biswas on Saturday. “I am relieved my son survived but when I learnt many people had died, I was deeply pained,” the trader added. On their son saving some fliers, Biswas said: “It was his duty as a crew member to save passengers.” The parents did not share Abhik’s phone number. “He asked us not to disturb him as he is in trauma. He is in Kerala, we don’t know when he will come home,” said his mother. Abhik had joined Air India as a crew member around three years ago after quitting his previous company IndiGo.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-416
09-08-2020||West Bengal||Traders use Tagore as eviction shield||Rabindranath Tagore could not have imagined that people someday could hope that his bust would protect them from possible eviction by Visva-Bharati authorities. Traders and artisans of Kabiguru Handicraft Market, along the road leading to the Visva-Bharati campus on Friday, inaugurated Tagore’s bust, which they hoped would make the Visva-Bharati authorities think twice before evicting them. The dispute over the market erupted after Visva-Bharati claimed ownership of the land while traders said their shops were located on land owned by the public works department (PWD). On Friday, Tagore’s 79th death anniversary, a member of the board of administrator in Bolpur Municipality, Sukanta Hazra, unveiled the bust and said it would save the traders from eviction. The traders had raised Rs 12,000 for Tagore’s concrete bust sculpted by artisan Dipak Das, who also owns a shop. There are some 140 shops, mostly owned by artisans selling leather and kantha-stitch items for past 40 years. Varsity officials said they were trying to evict the market for a cleaner look to the campus. An official added that Tagore’s bust was no protection. “Tagore never believed in idol culture. So a bust is immaterial,” he said. “The present administration tried to recover the encroached land. On August 5 last year, the varsity officials, headed by vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty, sat on a 12-hour hunger strike demanding removal of the shops,”the varsity official said. “We offered them another stretch for rehabilitation. But traders say the present location is good for business.” On charges that the land was not the varsity’s but PWD’s, the official said: “If the land was not ours, why did we offer them land for rehabilitation?” Traders think otherwise. “Visva-Bharati has been trying to evict us since last year though the land belongs to the PWD. We installed a bust of Tagore as we think it will protect us from eviction,” said Aminul Huda, Kabiguru Handicrafts Unnayan Samiti secretary. Another trader added: “We hope Visva-Bharati does not demolish Tagore’s bust to evict us.” Hazra said many shops on the campus had been demolished. “Now Visva-Bharati is trying to evict artisans too. Tagore’s bust will be a safeguard against eviction.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-416
09-08-2020||West Bengal||51 fresh deaths take total toll past 2,000||Bengal on Saturday reported 2,949 new Covid-19 cases and 51 more deaths, on one hand, and 2,064 recoveries and 25,148 tests, on the other. The total infection tally is now nearly 93,000, including the 65,000-odd recoveries. In eight days in August, Bengal logged 22,427 new cases and 424 deaths, 16,750 recoveries and over 1.86 lakh tests. The state on Saturday crossed 25,000 in total active Covid-19 cases and 2,000 in deaths. Of the 51 deaths reported on Saturday, 20 were from Calcutta and 19 from North 24-Parganas. Of the 2,005 deaths reported so far, Calcutta accounted for 927 and North 24-Parganas 463. “August seems to have begun dramatically, but the rise is both in good and not-so-good parameters,” said a minister. “But we are also just a day from crossing 11 lakh tests and our recovery rate remains firm at 70.32 per cent,” said the minister. Bengal’s total test count now is 10.79 lakh, at 11,996 tests per million people. The minister pointed out that Bengal was able to ramp up testing exponentially, from around 10,000 daily to 25,000 over the past couple of weeks. “We are looking to take our tests per million to beyond 25,000 in the next few weeks,” he added. Of the 2,949 new cases, Calcutta accounted for 670 and North 24-Parganas, 644. The two districts, which have contributed 51 per cent of all Covid-19 cases recorded in Bengal since the onset of the pandemic, now have 50 per cent of active positive cases. But the two added over 33,000 recoveries as well. “In eight days, these two districts alone reported over 10,000 new cases and 289 deaths. These two districts are being handled by most senior and able administrators, who are determined to rein in the outbreak,” said the minister. The state government reported 1,769, or 88.2 per cent, as deaths with comorbidity “present”. Of the 424 deaths in these eight days, 401 were reported as co-morbid by the state. “Hypertension remains the most lethal co-morbidity, followed by diabetes and cardiac ailments…. The 61-75 age group continues to be the most vulnerable to death in case of infection, in absolute numbers,” said the minister. Bengal’s overall mortality rate improved to 2.16, from 2.25 over the eight days. The national rate is now 2.02 per cent. The mortality rate in infected males is now down to 2.32, while that in infected females improved to 1.86 per cent. Bengal reported 38.09 per cent occupancy in the 11,560 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 83 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic. The Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) that had clamped a two-week long lockdown across the hills has decided not extend it from Sunday. Sources said the decision was taken after a slight drop in cases in the urban areas under the GTA, but the administration said it was keeping a close watch on the situation and would act accordingly. Anit Thapa, chairperson of the board of administrators of the GTA, said: “We thank people of the GTA region who followed the lockdown strictly for two weeks. We are monitoring the situation. If required, there will be a lockdown in containment zones. However, there will be no further extension of the lockdown.” In a similar manner, the subdivisional administration of Dinhata in Cooch Behar district decided to de-notify the entire Dinhata civic area that had been declared a containment zone on July 16. “We will, however, keep marking areas as containment zones in the town if fresh Covid-19 cases are reported,” an official said. These decisions have come as a big relief for hill residents and those in Dinhata. However, the number of Covid-19 cases keeps rising in north Bengal, particularly in Malda and Darjeeling districts. In each of the districts, the number of infections have inched closer to 3,000. In Darjeeling, 35 people have died so far of Covid. Among other districts, more than 1,200 people in each district —  North and South Dinajpurs, Cooch Behar and Jalpaiguri — have been infected by the novel coronavirus. “The number of cases is comparatively less in Kalimpong and Alipurduar districts. However, in the recent weeks, cases of Covid infections have been reported even from the smaller hamlets and remote areas in the hills. We are keeping a close watch over the situation,” said a source in the state health department. Ajit Mahato, 43, a contract worker who was tested Covid positive in South Dinajpur district, leapt to his death on Saturday morning from the roof of an Industrial Training Institute (ITI) at Bansihari. The building is being used as a safe home. Mahato, who came from Bhaior village of Bansihari block, had been staying at the safe home for the past few days. Police said a probe was on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-416
09-08-2020||West Bengal||Consumer officer thrashed for e-buy gripe||A state consumer affairs officer was “slapped, kicked and punched” at home by youths who claimed to be representatives of a private courier firm on Friday after he filed a complaint with an e-commerce company over delivery of a wrong item. Uttam Paul, the consumer welfare officer of Jalpaiguri, filed complaints with Kotwali police and cyber crime police for the attack and online fraud, respectively. According to Paul, on July 17 he had booked a mattress worth Rs 6,849 from a prominent e-commerce website and paid in full. “On August 6, the order was delivered. But on opening it, I found it was a thin blanket. I felt there was some mistake on the part of the company and filed a complaint with the company’s customer care,” said Paul. “I told them when I had booked the mattress, the product was on offer and it was stated (on the company’s website) that once the order is placed, it could not be cancelled. There was an option to change the ordered item and with other items of the same value.” On Friday, a group of four youths, who claimed to be representatives of the private courier company that delivered the product, turned up at his residence. “They barged in my home and asked me why I had opened the packet. I tried to clarify but they started shouting and assaulted me in front of my wife and daughter. I was kicked, slapped and punched. I fell on the ground. My shouts alerted neighbours and the youths left,” said Paul. The officer added that he had suffered a cardiac arrest last month. “I fell ill after the assault and was hospitalised. I was released on Saturday. But my family members and I are feeling insecure. I don’t even know if I can continue working in Jalpaiguri,” Paul said. Prabhakar Gayen, a deputy assistant director of state consumer affairs department, said it was “disappointing that the police have not arrested any of the attackers till Saturday evening”. “We have learnt that the police were reluctant to receive his complaint,” Gayen added. “We have been working for over five years in Jalpaiguri and have never come across such a situation.” The police said they were looking into both the complaints. Representatives of the courier agency could not be contacted by this paper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-417
09-08-2020||West Bengal||Lab in Siliguri tops Bengal in Covid test tally||The Viral Research Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) of the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) on Siliguri outskirts holds the top slot in Bengal for Covid-19 tests — with close to one lakh tests — and the third in India. At four months, it is one of the youngest laboratories in Bengal. However, it is working steadily since March 29. According to the state health department bulletin on Friday, 96,202 samples has been tested at the lab so far in rRT-PCR (real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) method. Arunava Sarkar, the principal investigator of the lab at the NBMCH, said: “Unlike many other labs of the state, ours is just over four months old. With the help of our team, we have reached the first position in the state and third in the country,” Sarkar said. As of now, he said, there are enough of doctors, technologists, molecular microbiology scientists, data entry operators and other staff at the lab who work in three shifts a day, testing swab samples of suspected Covid-19 patients. “The chief medical officer of health, district magistrate of Darjeeling and state tourism minister Gautam Deb have put in a lot of effort to develop the infrastructure of the lab. We made additions to manpower, got new machines and extra financial allocations which largely contributed to our position in the state and in the country,” added Sarkar. Every day, around 1,200 samples are tested at the lab. “Officially, we are yet to cross the one lakh mark as it takes time to update the data. But otherwise, we have conducted over one lakh tests at the lab,” said a doctor posted in the VRDL. Sources in the NBMCH said that according to the World Health Organisation (WHO) guidelines, if five per cent of the total samples tested in a lab are found Covid positive, it confirms that the lab is working in its best capacity and testing enough samples. “Our data shows that out of the samples tested here so far, 5.08 per cent have been tested positive. This reconfirms that we could meet the expectations of the state and Centre,” the doctor said. This apart, the Malda Medical College & Hospital lab has also tested close to 52,000 samples. “That’s almost half the number of samples tested at the NBMCH,” said a virologist at the NBMCH.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-417
