10-08-2020||West Bengal||‘Bid’ on BJP leader life||BJP leader and former Naihati civic chairman Ganesh Das, 62, escaped an alleged bid on his life when miscreants hurled bombs at his car on Sunday early morning. The bombs were hurled at Das’s car at three spots along  the Kanchrapara-Barrackpore road in Halisahar, leaving the vehicle severely damaged. Das was returning home after lodging a complaint at Bijpur police station in connection with a separate incident. “I survived thanks to my driver who sped through the attack. The attackers were clearly ready to kill me,” Das alleged. Sources said groups of Trinamul Congress and BJP workers had clashed at a youth club in Balibhara around 9pm on Saturday, leaving several supporters, including the BJP's Naihaiti unit chief, injured, prompting Das to respond to the incident. Sources said a police team responded late on Saturday and brought Das back to Bijpur, releasing him only on Sunday morning. BJP sources on Sunday, however, accused the police of playing a “partisan role”. “They did not arrest the miscreants named in the earlier complaint,” said a BJP leader in Barrackpore. Police sources, however, said Das had been brought to Bijpur station for “protection” and an investigation had been started in connection with the attack.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-415
10-08-2020||West Bengal||‘Took loan from MLA, no threats’||Mabud Ali, a resident of Chanchal in Malda, arrested by the police in connection with the July 13 death of Debendranath Roy, the BJP MLA of Hemtabad in North Dinajpur, admitted he had borrowed money from the MLA. CID sources probing the case said Ali admitted that he had taken loans from Roy many times and repaid it. “Because of financial problems, he said, he could not repay one loan, but denied that he and Niloy Singha, another accused, had threatened the MLA.” The MLA was found hanging near his home in front of a shop. Police had found a suicide note with names of Ali and Singha. Roy’s wife Chandrima alleged that the duo had taken money from her husband and threatened him over phone if he asked for it. The police and the CID nabbed Singha from Malda soon but Ali was arrested from Mothabari, also in Malda, last Friday. “Investigators will verify Ali’s remarks,” the source said. Uttam Sutradhar, the BSF constable who on August 4 gunned down an inspector and a constable of the force with his service rifle on the India-Bangladesh border of North Dinajpur, was handed over to BSF’s custody by the police on Sunday under paramilitary rules. “BSF officers had filed a petition in a local court here so that they could take him into custody and start court proceedings against him under laws that govern the paramilitary force. The court approved it on Saturday and Sutradhar was handed over to officers of the BSF 146 battalion on Sunday,” a policeman said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-415
10-08-2020||West Bengal||Youths say sorry, assault case withdrawn||An officer of the state consumer affairs department, who filed a police complaint alleging four youths of a courier firm assaulted and threatened him on Friday, said on Sunday that he withdrew the complaint after the accused apologised profusely. Uttam Paul, the consumer welfare officer of Jalpaiguri, said the youths met him at Kotwali police station late on Saturday and said sorry. “They said that if they are named in a police case, their careers would suffer. I decided to withdraw my complaint,” Paul said. Last month, Paul had ordered a mattress from an e-commerce site. Last Thursday, a thin blanket was delivered. Paul complained to the customer care centre of the e-commerce company. On Friday, four youths employed by the courier firm that arranged the delivery, went to his home and assaulted him. Paul said his complaint with cyber cops against the e-commerce company for supplying a different item stood. “I have been cheated,” he said. “I have also decided to file a case at the circuit bench of the West Bengal State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission against the company. I paid over Rs 6,500 for a product but got a different and cheaper product,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-415
10-08-2020||West Bengal||Rs 54cr sanctioned to widen Eastern Bypass in Siliguri||Bengal tourism minister Gautam Deb said on Sunday that the state government had sanctioned funds to repair two major roads in Siliguri and finish the construction of another road through Baikunthapur forest. “It has been decided to repair and widen Eastern Bypass that connects northeast of Siliguri with the southeast part. It is a 10km-long road and Rs 54 crore has been sanctioned for the project. Another 10km-long road that connects Gurungbusty with Milan More (a prominent arterial road in the northern part of the city) will be repaired and the state has allocated Rs 5 crores for it. Both the works will be carried out by the state public works department,” Deb told a news conference in his office at the Mainak Tourist Lodge Complex here. He also said Rs 70 lakh had been sanctioned to finish the construction of a 12km-long road that would move through Baikunthapur forest, connecting the Bengal Safari Park and Bhorer Alo, the mega tourism hub developed by the state government at Gajoldoba near the Teesta Barrage Project. “The state forest department has been assigned with the project,” said the minister. A government official said around 500 trees would be removed to widen the Eastern Bypass and the necessary approval had been given by the forest department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-415
10-08-2020||West Bengal||TMC bid to woo tribals ||The Mamata Banerjee government on Sunday celebrated Biswa Adivasi Diwas or the International Day of the World’s Indigenous People, across the state, including some areas in north Bengal. The scale of celebrations is being seen as an attempt by Trinamul to win back the tribal population, most of whom had supported the BJP in the Lok Sabha polls last year. Officials of the district administration and even the police organised a slew of events to celebrate the day, as did Trinamul leaders of the region. Cultural events and felicitations of tribal faces featured in many of the events, which gave an opportunity to Trinamul leaders to trumpet state government initiatives for the tribal population. North Bengal has 20-odd Assembly seats (in total, there are 54 seats in the region) where tribal votes decide the results. In 2019, when the BJP won seven of eight parliamentary seats from the region, it was clear that most tribal people had voted for the saffron party. A political observer said that Trinamul was trying to recover lost ground. “Trinamul tried to utilise this day to reach out to tribal people, using administrative and party machinery. The recent inclusion of Chhatradhar Mahato as a secretary of the state committee also indicates the party’s strategy.” Cultural events were held in Alipurduar and Jalpaiguri. The main government event in north Bengal was held in Kumargram, the farthest block of the state from Calcutta, where backward classes’ welfare minister Binoy Krishna Burman promised Adivasi cultural centres in the Dooars.  In Malda, Sarala Murmu, who heads the Trinamul Adivasi Cell, attended events in Habibpur and Bamangola blocks.  “Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has always seen your demands as priority,” she told the tribal people. “Trinamul leaders could not bank on their party, and engaged the administration and police to plan events to woo the tribal populace,” scoffed Khagen Murmu, BJP MP of Malda (north).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-415
10-08-2020||West Bengal||Lockdown: Trauma outguns job thirst in Bengal||The blisters of the lockdown are still raw. The head hunters of one of the largest private engineering firms in India have failed to source even half the labour requirement from Purulia after a three-week effort. The uncommon experience underscores how the ill-conceived Covid lockdown — announced by the Prime Minister with a four-hour notice at night — and its harrowing fallout are still preying on the minds of some prospective migrant labourers and have cast a shadow on the flow of workforce in a labour-surplus economy like India. “We contacted various labour organising agencies in Purulia, where we never faced any trouble before in sourcing labourers. But for the past three weeks, we have not been able to meet even half the labour demand for our projects,” said an official from the human resource wing of the company on the condition of anonymity. He said the company had suffered a loss of Rs 2 lakh recently as an air-conditioned bus it had sent to Purulia to ferry 35-odd workers to a project site in Maharashtra had to return empty. The workers declined to board the bus, changing their minds at the last moment. The workers had been offered a monthly pay of Rs 20,000 and company-provided shelter and food, the HR official said. “Six months ago, this situation would have been unimaginable,” the official said, referring to the unexpected shift in the labour market where, all of a sudden, supply has fallen short of the demand. The balance in India’s market for semi-skilled or unskilled workers had always been tilted in favour of the employers because of the labourers’ poor bargaining power. The labour-surplus economy was characterised by large-scale migrations of workers from rural areas to urban centres. The Purulia development does not appear an isolated one. Sources said they had come across similar reluctance among the workforce in some other parts of Bengal as well as in neighbouring Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha — key suppliers of labour to western and southern India. District officials in Purulia said this week that in anticipation of Unlock 1, they had begun compiling a database of the migrant workers who had returned during the nationwide lockdown, in order to match them with prospective employers and ensure livelihood for them. After the compilation, the officials had launched a website in June so that companies could make use of the data and take labour-sourcing decisions. “The company in question used our website in late June, asking for 1,500 workers — 900 masons, 200 fitters, 200 welders and 200 carpenters. But we were able to enlist barely 700 from a district that had seen at least 40,000 youths return during the lockdown,” said district magistrate Rahul Majumdar. He said the rest were unwilling to leave the villages. “They all said they would rather work in low-pay rural scheme jobs than go through the harassment they had faced while navigating the closing and reopening of the economy…. That’s why we are trying to help these people in getting employment in various government-run schemes in the state,” he said. Labour agencies, which supply labourers to project sites across the country, confirmed the trend. “We are finding it difficult to enlist youths for the large-scale infrastructure projects outside the state…. They seem to be scared because of the ordeal they faced when the lockdown was announced,” a labour contractor said. The labourers agree. “I don’t care about my income right now. Nor do the thousands of other youths like me. Safety and proximity to home are more important, like they are for everyone. Until the virus dies out, we will not be the cogs of an unreasonable machine,” Sambhu Mudi said. A migrant labourer from Arsha village in Purulia, Mudi was able to make it home from Maharashtra only in mid-June after weeks of attempts yielded him a ride on a private truck plying materials. While Mudi considers himself “lucky to still be alive and healthy”, he is unwilling to take a gamble on what he termed “the new Covid economy”. Industry insiders and economists said the trend may hurt industrial output in the near future. “This is a very unconventional picture because it is hard to conceive a scenario where the labourers would refuse to go to their workplaces,” said Saswati Chaudhuri, associate professor of economics at St Xavier’s College, Calcutta. She said the supply shock in the labour market might result in a disproportionate reduction in aggregate demand, because lower earnings by the labourers would result in lower spending that, in turn, would further squeeze demand and hence industrial output.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-415
10-08-2020||West Bengal||Administration orders probe into alleged negligence of a Covid doctor||The Nadia district administration has ordered a probe into the alleged negligence and apathy on the part of a doctor in treating a critical patient “gasping for air” who eventually died on Saturday at a Covid hospital in Kalyani. Sources said a number of patients and staff of the hospital repeatedly appealed to the doctor in question to attend to the patient, but she refused to respond. The patient, suffering from acute respiratory problems, who was admitted to the Covid hospital on Saturday afternoon, died a few hours later in the evening. Sources said the Nadia administration on Sunday was left red-faced when it transpired that a staff member of the Kalyani-based SNR Carnival Hospital put up a video on social media showing patients complaining against the “indifference” of the doctor. SNR Carnival Hospital is the designated Covid hospital run by the state government in Kalyani. Sritama Deb, the staff member who shot and put up the video on social media, on Saturday had lodged a complaint with the district’s chief medical officer (health) against the alleged apathy of the doctor, who ordered an internal probe into the allegations. Sources said the family members of the deceased patient had also lodged a complaint with the nodal officer in charge of the hospital. Acknowledging the incident as “unfortunate”, Kalyani subdivisional officer Dhiman Barai said: “The allegation (of the doctor’s indifference towards a dying Covid patient) is being examined. Senior officials of the district health administration are making inquiries to find out what exactly happened. It will be too early for me to comment now.” Without coming on record, multiple sources said that the Covid patient with serious respiratory troubles had been admitted in a critical state to the SNR Carnival hospital on Saturday, but neither any doctor nor nurse bothered to attend to the patient. “The patient went on gasping for air and eventually died,” said a source. In the video clip, a woman patient at the hospital is seen saying: “No doctor went to visit that patient with acute respiratory troubles. Later we found him lying dead. Even hours following his death, no doctor bothered to go near him. There is no doctor or nursing staff inside the ward to take care of patients. Patients are panicking at the sight of such negligence inside the hospital.” Deb, who lodged the complaint, was also seen in the video saying she went to inform doctors about the critically ill man at the behest of some other patients. “The doctor on duty abused me verbally and pushed me out of his room. Three nurses present there refused to listen to me and did not bother to visit the dying patient.” A senior official involved in the probe refused to identify the woman doctor. “It is an internal matter. We will do what is needed for justice. But nothing can be said at this stage without an investigation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-416
10-08-2020||West Bengal||Safe homes solely for police||Bengal police have started setting up safe homes in south districts exclusively for its members who test positive for Covid-19 but show mild or no symptoms as over 500 novel coronavirus cases were detected in the force. Sources said the law enforcers were looking for right buildings to convert them into safe homes following a recent directive from the state police directorate to take care of its members during the pandemic. “Police personnel are playing one of the most vital roles in keeping people safe from the coronavirus by implementing the lockdown or maintaining law and order problems during the current crisis,” said a senior IPS officer. “Most police personnel are posted far away from their home districts and often reside in barracks or quarters. So, if they are found to have Covid, it is impossible to keep them in home quarantine. On the other hand, if police occupy government safe homes, other patients would suffer,” the officer added. According to government protocol, asymptomatic and semi-symptomatic civilian patients are to be admitted to the state-run safe homes for 14 days with monitoring by local health officials. If they develop serious symptoms later, they are transferred to government hospitals. The sources said more than 500 police personnel had already contracted the novel coronavirus in the state. In districts like Birbhum and Hooghly, the police have already established safe homes for each station. “We have set up safe homes for each station so that there will be no need for asymptomatic police personnel to travel a long distance. It would help to control the spread of the infection,” said Birbhum police chief Shyam Singh. In Birbhum, 24 buildings, including guest houses and a motel, have already been earmarked to be converted into safe homes. Fifteen police personnel have already been infected by Covid in the district. In Hooghly, there are 16 police stations in rural police districts and seven in the Chandernagore police commissionerate. Sources said at least one safe home each for all police stations had  been launched in the district. “In Chandernagore, we have already selected 16 safe homes. Most of them are either guest houses or empty buildings or flats,” said Chandernagore police commissioner Humayun Kabir. Source said nearly 130 police personnel had tested positive for Covid so far in the Hooghly district and around half of them were yet to recover. In East Burdwan, the police have set up two safe homes in Burdwan town that can house more than 200 patients. “We did not set up safe homes at every police station here because there is a spurt in cases only in a few areas. Setting up safe homes is expensive as we need to maintain infrastructure. Only 8 percent of beds are accommodated at our safe homes in Burdwan town,” said a district police officer. “If needed, we can increase the number of safe homes anytime,” said East Burdwan police chief Bhaskar Mukherjee. Around 45 police personnel, including senior officers, were infected in the East Burdwan district but most have recovered and the rest are asymptomatic and in home quarantine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-416
10-08-2020||West Bengal||Bengal crosses 11 lakh tests||Bengal on Sunday reported a new 24-hour high in Covid-19 tests at 26,242, taking the total number of tests past 11 lakh. On Sunday, the state also logged 2,939 new Covid-19 cases and 54 deaths, besides 1,996 recoveries. The current recovery rate is 70.24 per cent. The total test tally reached 11,05,899 on Sunday, 82 days after completing 1 lakh tests. It took four days each reach the test figures of nine lakh and 10 lakh. The previous number of highest intra-day tests was 25,258 recorded on Friday. Even a month ago, the state was conducting around 10,000 tests daily. The total case count rose to 95,554, of which 67,120 are recoveries. Of the 26,375 active Covid-19 cases, 7,041 are in Calcutta, while 5,774 are in North 24-Parganas. The highlight of Sunday’s bulletin on Covid statistics, according to a minister, was the total test count of 11,05,899, at 12,288 per million people. “We began testing in early February and it took over three-and-a-half months to get past 1 lakh, on May 19,” he said. At that stage, Bengal was among the least testing states in the country, a tag it has been striving to shed. On Sunday, Bengal was ninth on the list of states conducting the most tests in the country, a list topped by the likes of Tamil Nadu, with around 32 lakh tests, Uttar Pradesh, with around 31 lakh, and Maharashtra, with over 27 lakh. “We crossed 2 lakh in 12 days (on May 31), 3 lakh in 11 days (on June 11), 4 lakh in 10 days (on June 21), 5 lakh in 11 days (on July 2), 6 lakh in nine days (on July 11), 7 lakh in eight days (on July 19), 8 lakh in seven days (on July 26), 9 lakh in six days (on August 1) and 10 lakh in four days (on August 5),” said the minister. “We covered the latest lakh in just four days, again. We will go past 12 lakh on or before Thursday. We are looking to better even this rate,” he added. However, owing to the sharp spike in new cases, the positive confirmation rate is now 8.64 per cent, which was 4.56 even a month ago. Of the 2,939 new cases reported, 615 were from Calcutta, while 588 were from North 24-Parganas. Of the total 2,059 deaths reported, Calcutta alone accounted for 948, with 21 till 9am. North 24-Parganas reported a total of 478 deaths, 15 of them on Sunday. The state government reported 1,822 deaths (88.5 per cent) as those with comorbidity “present”. In a month, there have been 1,179 reported deaths of Covid-19 infected people, of which 1,116 were comorbid, according to the government. Bengal’s overall mortality rate improved to 2.15, but still lagged behind the national rate of 2 per cent. Calcutta’s mortality rate fell to 3.4. Of 11,560 beds earmarked for Covid-19 patients at 83 dedicated hospitals in Bengal, 39.08 per cent are occupied. Besides, 53,467 people have availed themselves of telemedicine consultation for the pandemic till now, and nearly 3,000 of those calls were reported on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-416
10-08-2020||West Bengal||5 lakh more seek Amphan relief, surprise officials ||Over 5 lakh fresh applications have been filed for compensation for homes damaged during Cyclone Amphan, surprising many in the Bengal government who were not expecting such a high number nearly three months after the storm. The government is now verifying the authenticity of the claims of the 5 lakh-odd people who applied for Amphan aid on August 6 and 7. A senior official said that if the claims of most of the new applications were found genuine after verification, it would raise the question why such a large number of people were left out from the initial lists. On the other hand, if many of the claims are found to be fictitious, it would suggest some form of political intervention, without which such a large number cannot be organised. In the second scenario, if the Opposition can organise such a huge number of bogus applications in just 48 hours, it would beg the question whether the ruling party is losing its grip on rural areas of Bengal, said a bureaucrat who did not want to be named. The new applications were submitted at BDO or municipality offices after the state government asked people who felt overlooked in beneficiary lists to come forward with their claims. An official said that of the 5 lakh-plus fresh applications, 2.07 lakh came from East Midnapore, 1.17 lakh from North 24-Parganas, and over 1 lakh from South 24-Parganas, while some applications came from the Calcutta Municipal Corporation area, Howrah and Hooghly. “It was assumed that 10,000 to 15,000 applications would be received. Nobody expected 5 lakh,” added his colleague. A senior IAS officer at Nabanna commented that the numbers were “unusual”. “So many affected people can’t have been left out of the initial list. Field surveys by district authorities in the next two days to verify the applications will clarify the picture,” he said. Before this, 22 lakh applications had already sought compensation for homes, of which, 17.30 lakh applicants were considered eligible and 14.82 lakh got compensation. The state initially announced Rs 20,000 as relief, then revised it to Rs 20,000 for homes totally damaged and Rs 5,000 for those partially damaged. Allegations that a large number of people were left out of Amphan relief had been simmering since May-end, amid accusations of nepotism and corruption in the distribution of Amphan relief. In June, chief minister Mamata Banerjee asked people with grievances to file complaints with local police. “Some 40,000 applications were received at that time and 34,000 were genuine,” said a source. But protests of people “left out of the loop” went on, forcing the Bengal government to open a window for fresh applications, which resulted in these 5 lakh applicants. A senior official said there were errors in the primary list of beneficiaries soon after the cyclone as the state government hurried to give compensation. “A window of eight hours was given to BDOs to verify the lists given by panchayat functionaries. So, some mistakes were bound to happen,” said the official. Now as well, the state government wants to upload verified applications on its official website by August 14. Verifying each complaint within such a short span would prove to be difficult, said sources. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-416
