11-08-2020||West Bengal||Cremation solution for Covid-19 bodies||Hooghly district’s Arambagh Municipality will restart a burning ghat lying unused for the last 30 years to cremate the bodies of Covid patients. The move comes after residents living near the town’s crematorium protested against cremating the bodies of Covid patients who did not belong to the locality. Subdivisional officer of Arambagh Nripendra Singh, and chairperson of board of administrators of Arambagh Municipality Swapan Nandi, along with the police and senior officials, held a meeting on Monday afternoon to decide on reopening the old crematorium on Pallishree Circus ground. The SDO and other officials visited the ground on Monday evening and decided to set up a makeshift tin-sheet boundary around the place where bodies would be cremated. “Some 30 years ago, this place used to be a crematorium. We faced several problems in cremating Covid bodies and so decided to reopen the old crematorium. There should be no objection now,” said Nandi. Arambagh has so far reported 230 Covid cases and four deaths. An official said Arambagh town had half a dozen crematoriums, but residents were not ready to allow bodies of ‘outsiders” to be cremated in those. “The old crematorium is far away from any residential locality and we hope there are no objections now,” he added. Rajesh Choudhuri, a member of the board of administrators in Arambagh Municipality, said the area was deserted and was a dumping yard.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-414
11-08-2020||West Bengal||Team to probe Covid-19 death in Kalyani||The Nadia district administration formed a three-member team to probe the alleged “negligence and apathy” of a doctor at the SNR Carnival Hospital in Kalyani that allegedly led to the death of a Covid patient without treatment on Saturday. The SNR Carnival Hospital is a Covid-designated hospital. A top official of the district administration said the JNM hospital’s medical superintendent would lead the inquiry team. “The team will visit the Covid hospital on Tuesday and summon the doctor for her version. The complainant (hospital employee Sritama Deb) and all other persons present will be questioned,” said the official, terming the incident as “most unfortunate”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-414
11-08-2020||West Bengal||Plantation management serves herbal tea to boost worker immunity  ||Herbal tea, a concoction that has been gaining popularity because of the Covid-19 outbreak and is considered as a drink for boosting immunity, is now being served by the management of a tea estate in Alipurduar district among people who make the principal ingredient of the drink. In the Kadambini tea garden, the management prepares the herbal tea and serves the same among the workers twice a week to improve their immunity. Simultaneously, the managerial employees encourage the workers to prepare the concoction at their homes regularly and drink it at least twice a day. Located around 32km from here, the Kadambini plantation has 1,064 permanent workers. This is the first time that any tea garden in Alipurduar district has come with such a move for the workers. So far, no Covid case has been reported in the garden where around 5,000 people reside. The factory and office premises are sanitised on a regular basis, soaps and sanitisers have been provided to the workers and norms like social distancing are strictly followed in the garden, said Samik Ghosh, the manager. “Added to these, we are also providing labourers with herbal tea twice a week. Usually, it is distributed at the factory in the afternoon hours. The hot brew is given to the labourers after they finish their work. We want to continue this practice till the crisis is over. We feel it is necessary that the drink that has become popular these days is provided to those who make tea, the main ingredient,” Ghosh said. The herbal tea, Ghosh said, is prepared with a number of items which include cardamom, bay leaf, lemon juice, clove, turmeric, black cumin, black pepper and ginger. When the workers are handed over the concoction, they are also being asked to prepare similar herbal tea at their homes, said another managerial employee of the garden. He said each worker would get 400 grams of tea in a month from the estate. “Occasionally, we tell workers about other ingredients also,” he added. The initiative has earned appreciation from an organisation of tea planters. “It is a commendable initiative. Some other gardens have taken similar steps and we feel it would encourage more tea estates to help the workforce,” said Sanjay Bagchi, the secretary of the Dooars Branch of Indian Tea Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-414
11-08-2020||West Bengal||Cave-ins rise, as do political tempers||West Burdwan’s coal belt has reported a spurt in subsidence in the past one and half months, triggering a blame game between the Trinamul and BJP. Last week, land close to homes in Satgram of Raniganj block caved in, causing at least 2,000 people to spend sleepless nights. In July, a woman was buried alive in debris when her home caved in at Jambad village in Andal block. Around two dozen private homes and a primary school were damaged in Harishpur, Andal again, when land caved in, and 1,200-odd people left their homes in fear. In Salanpur block, a truck driver had a narrow escape when his vehicle was trapped under a cave-in. Harishpur, Jambad and Satgram are among the 146 human habitations with a population of around 2 lakh in the coal belt area identified as subsidence-prone, but people live here without rehabilitation. Trinamul has blamed the Eastern Coalfields Limited (ECL), under the central government, for not allowing them to build homes to rehabilitate people in subsidence-prone zones. The party, riddled by factional feuds and corruption charges in the district, has taken up subsidence to use it against the BJP with an eye on the 2021 Assembly polls. West Burdwan coal belt is represented by BJP MP and Union minister Babul Supriyo, elected twice since the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. The BJP on the other hand has alleged rampant illegal mining backed by Trinamul led to the spurt in subsidence. ECL sources said subsidence has “increased suddenly” because of illegal mining at abandoned mines. An ECL official said there was no subsidence-linked death in the past two years but as people started digging coal from abandoned mines the situation worsened this year. “Usually subsidence occurs in monsoon when soil becomes loose in rain. But now, land is unstable with pilferers extracting coal from abandoned mines,” he said. Land becomes “unstable” when voids are not properly filled up by those who illegally extract coal, said sources. But Jitendra Kumar Tiwari, Asansol mayor and Trinamul MLA and district party president, blamed the Centre’s “apathy” to rehabilitate people living in subsidence zones. “People here elected Babul Supriyo of the BJP that runs the government in the Centre but no one is taking the initiative to address the issue (subsidence) and people are compelled to live in danger. A woman was killed and many people lost their homes to subsidence in the past one and half months,” Tiwari said. The Bengal government, he alleged, got “no cooperation” from the Centre on rehabilitation. “The ECL does not allow us to construct homes for them on the land we have identified. Our chief minister is trying hard to rehabilitate people but is facing obstacles from the Centre, the BJP MP elected from the area is also not coming forward,” added Tiwari. Bengal housing development and the Asansol-Durgapur Development Authority (ADDA) planned around 33,000 dwellings to rehabilitate around 2 lakh people. But though they need 400 acres to construct the homes, they received permission for only 172 acres from the ECL. ECL sources said the area had coal reserves within 600 metres of the surface and could be mined in near future. “The ECL is only concerned about coal and business, not people. They did not allow us to construct homes on land under their leasehold area with coal reserves,” alleged Tapas Banerjee, a Trinamul MLA and chairman of the ADDA executing the Centre-funded rehabilitation project. Laxman Ghorui, BJP chief in West Burdwan, however, put the blame squarely on illegal mining. “Trinamul-backed smugglers loot coal from abandoned mines. That leads to subsidence. People know everything. We will stop all such illegal activities after coming to power next year,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-414
11-08-2020||West Bengal||BJP focus on north Bengal||The Bengal BJP has its eye on north Bengal, including minority-dominated Malda, ahead of the 2021 state polls. In the 2016 state election, the BJP won two Assembly seats out of 54 in the region, but its Lok Sabha performance — where it won seven of eight seats — has increased its confidence. The party is reaching out to minority-dominated Malda, tribal belts of the Dooars and the Rajbanshi-dominated Cooch Behar and Jalpaiguri in equal measure, said sources. Gobinda Mondal, Malda district BJP chief, said: “We are visiting minority belts to tell people that though they did not vote for us, the Centre has come up with schemes for them and they are getting benefits. We are iterating they are Indian citizens and that they have nothing to fear.” The BJP also claimed credit for a recent language-criterion tweak for a state forest recruitment drive, which it said helped many north Bengal youths apply for the job. In North Dinajpur, state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh on Monday held a meeting in Hemtabad, where party MLA Debendranath Roy was found hanging last month, and repeated that Roy had been murdered and only a CBI probe would help.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-414
11-08-2020||West Bengal||Active cases fall from Sunday count||A rise in recoveries has lowered the number of active Covid-19 cases from the previous day for the first time since July 28 in Bengal. The number of active cases till 9am on Monday stood at 26,031, a fall of 344 from corresponding figure on Sunday. On Monday till 9am, the state reported 2,905 new cases and 41 deaths. Total recoveries have gone past 70,000, and the recovery rate has risen to 71.43 per cent. The national rate now is 69.54 per cent. The state carried out 26,297 tests on Monday, taking the total to 11.32 lakh at 12,580 per million population. Out of the new cases on Monday, 618 were reported from Calcutta and 492 from North 24-Parganas. As the two districts reported 846 and 604 recoveries, respectively, the total active cases fell by 242 in Calcutta to 6,799 and by 124 in North 24-Parganas to 5,650. “We focused on the high-incidence districts and these two were right at the top. There will be further improvement over the next few weeks,” said a minister. Owing to the sharp spike in new cases, the positive confirmation rate is now 8.7 per cent, which was 4.7 even a month ago. Of the total 2,100 deaths reported, Calcutta alone accounts for 962, with 14 in the 24-hour cycle till 9am. North 24-Parganas has reported a total of 490 deaths, 12 of them on Monday. The state government reported 1,861, or 88.6 per cent, as deaths with co-morbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate improved to 2.13, from 3.18 per cent a month ago. But it still lags behind the current national rate of 1.99.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-415
11-08-2020||West Bengal||Iskcon bars visitors to temple for at least a month||Iskcon authorities in Mayapur have decided to shut its temple premises and suspend the daily darshan of deities for at least a month amid the rise in Covid-19 cases in Nadia district. Till Monday, Nadia recorded 1,340 Covid cases, most of which were reported in the past one month. No visitor, devotee or pilgrim can enter the Chandrodaya temple premises at the Iskcon headquarters in Mayapur till further notice, the Iskcon communiqué says. The decision was taken ahead of Janmashtami scheduled for August 12. Iskcon Mayapur’s head of communications Subroto Das told The Telegraph: “Only pujaris will be allowed to enter the temple premises to carry out the daily services for the deities. We have urged all the devotees to use the online medium to participate in the Janmashtami festival.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-415
11-08-2020||West Bengal||Hilsa makes a comeback, thanks to August rain ||Hilsa fishermen of coastal East Midnapore and South 24-Parganas this weekend ended their dry spell of the past two months. Sources said that fishermen returned to Digha in East Midnapore, and South 24-Parganas, with a hilsa haul of 50 tonne between Friday and Sunday. To put this figure in perspective, fishermen from these areas normally expect a daily hilsa haul of 1,000 tonne in early August. “It is nothing compared to hilsa hauls in other years, but whatever it is, it will help us recover some money,” Bijon Maity, secretary of Kakdwip Fishermen’s Association in South 24-Parganas, said, adding the catch in June and July was “virtually nothing”. Fishermen and other stakeholders of hilsa trade attributed the haul to the recent low-pressure formation over the Bay of Bengal. Though a sea fish, the hilsa swims from the Bay of Bengal to rivers to spawn. Rain and easterly winds help the shoals reach the rivers, say fishermen. “Low pressure formation last week is starting to induce the fish to flock to rivers,” said a source in Digha Fishermen’s Association. “Since June, we faced unexpected weather, including westerly wind and lower-than-usual rainfall. That made the hilsa stay away and everyone connected with the trade suffered.” Agreed Digha Fishermen and Fish Traders Association secretary Shyamsundar Das: “Easterly wind and rain are helping the hilsa reach rivers. We hope we can recoup our losses of the last few months.” Das said while it was too early to speculate on hilsa trade numbers this year, they would be underwhelming even though the fish is being sold in markets for anywhere between Rs 800 and Rs 2,000 per kilo, depending on size. “These premium prices are not enough to recoup our losses in fuel and maintenance (for fishing trawlers) and maintenance that we suffered since June,” Maity explained. Assistant director of fisheries (East Midnapore) Surajit Bag held out hope for “higher volume” of hilsa catch during the rest of August. “Weather patterns seem to be changing for the better,” Bag said. Diehard hilsa fans are already celebrating. Digha resident Gourishankar Bijoli on Monday bought the hilsa for “nearly Rs 2,000 a kilo”. “I could not resist splurging on the fish for my family,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-415
11-08-2020||West Bengal||BSF raids village, youth shot dead||A youth was shot dead when BSF personnel raided a village in the Tufanganj subdivision of Cooch Behar district on Sunday night to search for alleged cattle smugglers, triggering protests from local people who ransacked an ambulance, blocked roads and prevented police from taking away the body. The residents of Madhya Balabhut eventually allowed the police to seize the body of Shahinur Haque, 19, around 11am on Monday, almost 15 hours after his death. “There have always been allegations of highhandedness by the BSF from the other side of the border in Bangladesh... Now, Indians are also accusing the BSF of excesses,” said a senior police officer. Sources said BSF personnel had entered Madhya Balabhut village, which is in Balabhut panchayat, around 8.30pm on Saturday and told some residents that they were in search of cattle smugglers. “We heard gunshots after they entered the village. After some time, Shahinur Haque was found lying dead with bullet injuries. A young man was killed for no fault of his,” said Minati Das, the pradhan of the Trinamul-run Balabhut panchayat. The death of Haque, a weaver, sparked protests, prompting deployment of Tufanganj police. North Bengal development minister Rabindranath Ghosh raised fingers at the BSF and said he would seek the chief minister’s intervention. “We have seen how certain activities of the BSF along the border have been criticised by the Bangladeshi authorities. Now, the security force that is supposed to guard the border and people living in our country is entering Indian villages and shooting people. I will seek the intervention of the chief minister to stop such atrocities by the BSF along the border,” said Ghosh. BSF sources, however, claimed that security personnel had to open fire as they had been attacked. “Those involved in cattle smuggling attacked the team. To save themselves, the team opened fire,” said a source. When the police brought an ambulance to take away the youth’s body for post-mortem on Monday, a section of villagers turned violent and ransacked the vehicle. After Ghosh spoke to the protesters over the phone, they allowed the police to seize the body . The minister asked why the BSF had entered the village that is not next to the barbed wire fences but a kilometre away. “It is away from the border and we have doubts whether they have any authority at all to raid villages. If they had information of any wrongdoing, they could have intimated the same to the police or planned a joint raid. I will visit the village on Tuesday,” said Ghosh. A few months back, he said, BSF personnel were accused of ransacking a market in Balarampur that is around 15km from the border. Also, in February, three farmers had suffered bullet injuries after BSF had fired at them at another locality in Tufanganj, the minister said. Tufanganj subdivisional officer Arabinda Ghosh said: “We are trying to find out why the BSF entered the village. We will also convene an administrative meeting on the issue where officials of the force would be called.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-415
