12-08-2020||West Bengal||Government changes complete lockdown dates for fifth time||The West Bengal government on Wednesday pared down the number of state-wide complete lockdown by one day, making it the fifth change to the shutdown schedule this month. The lockdown on August 28 (Friday) has been done away with keeping in mind the interest of banking and business operations, a state government order said. The decision drew the ire of the opposition parties, which alleged that it was taken to facilitate a function marking the foundation day programme of Trinamool Chatra Parishad, the student wing of the ruling TMC. TMC denied the charge as "completely baseless". According to the state government order signed by chief secretary Rajiva Sinha, the decision to withdraw the complete lockdown on August 28 was taken after several communications were received citing difficulties to conduct business and banking operations because of two days' lockdown on Thursday (August 27) and Friday (August 28) in the last week of the month followed by another the following Monday (August 31). Complete lockdowns were slated to be held on the three dates as per the earlier decision of the government. "The state government has considered the requests for the relaxation of the lockdown as would be necessary and essential. Therefore, in partial modification, the lockdown on Friday (August 28) as noted earlier is hereby withdrawn," it stated. State-wide complete lockdowns will now be observed on four days for the rest of this month instead of five days as announced earlier. The dates of the complete lockdown will now be August 20, 21, 27 and 31, it said. Earlier this month complete lockdowns were observed on August 5 and 8. The change in the total lockdown evoked sharp reactions from the opposition parties. They criticised the TMC regime alleging that it was completely clueless as it had failed to manage the Covid-19 crisis. BJP national secretary Rahul Sinha said, "The state government has not only failed, but is also clueless about the way forward. "The state government could change the dates but it didn't yield to our request to do so on August 5 the day of bhoomi pujan for the Ram Mandir at Ayodhya. It changed the lockdown dates to facilitate TMCP foundation day," he charged. CPI(M) legislature party leader Sujan Chakraborty said Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and her government has turned the lockdown into a "farce". "Is celebration of TMC Chatra Parishads's foundation day more important than the lives of the common people?" he asked. The TMC in its turn dubbed the allegation that the day was changed for TMCP's foundation day as "completely baseless". "We observed the July 21 Martyrs' Day this year virtually due to the pandemic. The decision to change the complete lockdown dates was taken due to difficulty in conducting business and banking operations," TMC leader and spokesperson Sougato Roy said. West Bengal has till Tuesday reported 1,01,390 coronavirus cases and the toll has touched in 2149.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-413
12-08-2020||West Bengal||Bengal govt effects change in complete lockdown for fifth time||The Bengal government on Wednesday effected a change in the state-wide complete lockdowns in the state for the fifth time and decreased it by a day by withdrawing the slated one on August 28.  The decision to withdraw the complete lockdown on August 28 was taken after several communications were received citing difficulty to conduct business and banking operations because of two days' lockdown during Thursday (August 27) and Friday (August 28) in the last week of the month followed by the one-day lockdown on the following Monday (August 31), the order issued by chief secretary Rajiva Sinha said.  Complete lockdowns were to be held on the three dates as per the earlier decision of the government.  "The state government has considered the requests for the relaxation of the lockdown as would be necessary and essential. Therefore, in partial modification, lockdown on Friday (August 28) as noted earlier is hereby withdrawn," it stated.  Statewide complete lockdown will now be observed on four days for the rest of this month instead of five days as announced earlier.  The dates of state complete lockdown will now be on August 20, 21, 27 and 31, it said.  Earlier this month complete lockdown was observed on August 5 and 8.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-413
12-08-2020||West Bengal||Loan riders cloud Covid fight ||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to withdraw for a year the conditions for raising the borrowing limit to 5 per cent of a state’s GDP to ensure that Bengal can fight the Covid pandemic more efficiently. The appeal came at a time officials have said the Bengal government is spending around Rs 2,000 crore a month on the Covid battle while revenues are languishing around Rs 1,200 crore a month because of the lockdown restrictions. Sources said on Tuesday that during a videoconference between the Prime Minister and the chief ministers of 10 states, Mamata said the Centre should consider the proposal as it would help the states arrange funds to fight the pandemic at a time the states’ own revenue generation has dried up and the Centre has failed to transfer the GST compensation to the states. “It is good that the borrowing limit has been increased to 5 per cent of the state’s GDP. But only 0.5 per cent could be availed of unconditionally. I request you to withdraw the conditions attached to the remaining borrowing opportunity,” a source quoted the chief minister as saying. In May, the Centre had increased the borrowing limit of the states to 5 per cent from 3 per cent under the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act. The Centre had linked the increased borrowing limits to participation in the “one nation, one ration card” scheme, ease of doing business and reforms in power distribution and urban local bodies. As the ruling party in Bengal is principally opposed to some of the reforms, the state has not got the full benefits. The sources said Mamata pointed out that the Centre was yet to clear a tranche of dues of Rs 4,135 crore in GST compensation. The total amount due to Bengal from the Centre is Rs 53,000 crore. “In a situation like this, an unconditional increase in the borrowing limit for a period of one year could help the state battle the pandemic more efficiently,” the chief minister was quoted as saying. The sources said that the chief minister raised the issue as the state government was struggling to arrange funds to fight the pandemic. “In brief, we are spending more than Rs 2,000 crore a month to battle the pandemic. But we are not getting financial assistance from the Centre,” said an official. Sources in the finance department said the state was generating a revenue of about Rs 1,200 crore a month since July — far short of the usual average monthly revenue of Rs 5,000 crore. Mamata urged the Prime Minister to send more ventilators to the state. “We have so far received 100-odd ventilators under the PM CARES Fund. More ventilators will help the serious patients,” said a health department official. The chief minister requested Modi to issue guidelines on which vaccine should be procured and used by the states when it is available in India. Modi said 10 states, including Bengal, should test more and trace the contacts of positive patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-413
12-08-2020||West Bengal||Bista and Thapa trade charges on Covid care||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Binay Tamang faction) leader Anit Thapa, and Raju Bista, the BJP MP of Darjeeling, have traded charges of apathy during the Covid-19 pandemic. “Till April this year, some leaders of GTA claimed that the situation is under control. However, now that Covid cases are being reported across the hills, they have no answer and can’t even be found these days,” the Darjeeling MP said in a news release. The BJP MP has time again questioned the Mamata Banerjee government and the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA), alleging that the state government and the autonomous body had failed to handle the pandemic in the hills and the plains. Bista said that the hospital for Covid patients set up at Triveni in Kalimpong had poor infrastructure. Thapa, also the chairperson of the board of administrators of the GTA, has reacted sharply to Bista. “People across the hills have seen what we and the GTA have done to handle the pandemic. Residents have also seen the role of the MP in this situation,” said Thapa. The Morcha leader played the son of the soil card, an issue that was raised ahead of the Lok Sabha elections last year as the Tamang faction of the Morcha that allied with Trinamul, fielded Amar Singh Rai, a veteran of Darjeeling hills, against Bista. “I should have asked the MP about his whereabouts these days but I didn’t as it is his prerogative where he stays. But I have realised and I believe residents too have realised that whoever is elected from here should be from the hills,” said Thapa, also the general secretary of Morcha’s Tamang faction. He said the GTA was doing its best at the Covid hospital in Triveni. North Dinajpur police have filed a case against state BJP president Dilip Ghosh and 26 other leaders of the party for violation of the Disaster Management Act in Raiganj on Tuesday. Ghosh and others held a party meeting in Hemtabad on Monday to remember Debendra Nath Roy, the BJP MLA of Hemtabad who had been found hanging in July.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-413
12-08-2020||West Bengal||Burning ground protest in Arambagh||A police vehicle was ransacked and six cops injured when a group of people, mostly women, clashed in Arambagh on Tuesday with cops to protest the reopening of a burning ghat shut 30 years ago to cremate Covid bodies. The police arrested 14 persons, 13 of whom were women, and slapped non-bailable sections under the disaster management act on them for using force to deter public servants from performing their duty. “There was no reason to protest as it is an isolated place. But residents, instigated by a group, blocked the state highway on Tuesday. They attacked the police who went for talks with them,” said an officer. Trinamul leaders blamed the BJP for instigating Tuesday’s protest. “The BJP is fanning panic among residents,” said Rajesh Chowdhury, a member of the board of administrators in Arambagh municipality. Biman Ghosh, the BJP president in Arambagh, denied the allegation and said the Trinamul-run civic body had failed to manage the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-413
12-08-2020||West Bengal||Truck kills schoolboy on cycle||A 13-year-old schoolboy was crushed to death by a truck on Kashiram Das Road here on Tuesday morning when he was cycling to the market to buy sweets and flowers for Janmashtami puja, the accident spurring residents to set the vehicle on fire. Subhrajyoti Mandal, a Class VII student and resident of Sreenagar Pally in the town’s Benachity, had come to his maternal uncle’s home in Durgapur Steel Plant township on Monday for the festival. The truck with stone chips hit the boy around 9am on Tuesday and its wheels dragged him for at least 20 feet. Subhrajyoti was declared brought dead at the Durgapur Steel Plant hospital. As news spread, a mob set the truck on fire before the police arrived. The driver fled. Protesters blocked the road to demand compensation for the deceased’s family members and refused to budge till the police promised to deploy traffic policemen in the area to rein in reckless heavy vehicles on the narrow road. A hunt for the driver is on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-413
12-08-2020||West Bengal||Minister meets slain youth’s kin||A state government team of North Bengal development minister Rabindranath Ghosh and senior government officials visited Madhya Balabhut village on Tuesday to take stock after a 19-year-old was shot dead on Sunday night by a BSF posse that had raided the area. The team met the family members of Shahinur Haque, and spoke to villagers who complained about highhandedness of the BSF personnel and sought action against those behind the murder. Ghosh assured them that the state government would take steps so that such incidents did not take place in future. A BSF team had entered the village in search of a group of cattle smugglers. The smugglers had attacked them after the team seized some cattle heads which prompted them to fire, BSF sources had said. The villagers brushed aside the charges and said that the team shot Shahinur, a weaver, without provocation. “He was a migrant worker and had returned home in the lockdown. We find no reason as to why the BSF should kill him. We want stringent punishment for all those responsible for my son’s death,” Mehena Bibi, his mother, told Ghosh. Ghosh told reporters that he was visiting the villager on the instructions of chief minister Mamata Banerjee. “The BSF is supposed to guard the borders and not kill common people who stay near the borders. I have collected all possible information and have sent a message to the chief minister. Such atrocities by the BSF should be stopped,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-413
12-08-2020||West Bengal||BJP trio lock up teachers over Krishna birthday||Police arrested three BJP workers on Tuesday evening for locking up teachers and non-teaching staff at their school building in Ashoknagar in North 24-Parganas as “punishment” for keeping the institution open on Janmashtami. The BJP workers had locked the main gate of Ashoknagar Kalyangarh Sanskriti Sangha Sikshaniketan, a state-run school, “to teach the staff a lesson”, headmaster Prabir Kumar Saha alleged. Based on his complaint, the police arrested BJP workers Parthapratim Chakraborty, Shyamal Mullick and Nilratan Mitra. A local source said that on Tuesday the headmaster and some other staff opened the school despite the lockdown and Janmashtami holiday to discharge some urgent work. But, this angered the BJP workers, who, led by the party’s local convener Swapan Kumar De, allegedly barged inside the building and created a furore. Saha said: “They threateningly asked me why I dared to open the school on Janmashtami. We tried to explain that we were compelled to open the school for a few hours only. They insisted we stop our work immediately, but we refused to oblige. To teach us a lesson, they left the campus and locked us in.” Contacted, BJP leader Swapan Kumar De appeared unrepentant. “We advised the headmaster to keep the school closed today (Tuesday) because it was Janmashtami. We did nothing wrong as he misbehaved and refused to listen to us,” De said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-413
12-08-2020||West Bengal||NBMCH to start plasma therapy||The Regional Blood Transfusion Centre (RBFC) of the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) has finally got the approval to start plasma therapy for Covid positive patients. Mridumoy Das, the RBFC director, said they had come to know that the state drug control authority had approved their request to start plasma therapy. “However, certain details have to be finalised. We need to know by when we can start collecting plasma, what would be charged from the patients who get this treatment and how the therapy would be carried out,” said Das. Following the Covid-19 outbreak, plasma therapy has already started in Calcutta and some other states of the country. This treatment involves collecting antibodies from the blood of a person who has recovered from Covid and transfusing it into a coronavirus infected patient. It stimulates the immune system of the patient to help him combat the infection. In Siliguri, a dentist who had recovered from Covid-19 had approached the NBMCH authorities here and offered his plasma for therapy on a patient who was critical. However, as the authorities did not have approval from the state then, they could not proceed with the plasma therapy. The patient later died. A senior doctor at the NBMCH said critically ill Covid patients could get this therapy, provided their families agreed. “There are many people in north Bengal who have recovered from the infection and are ready to donate their plasma. We feel that this therapy can help in places like Siliguri and Malda where the number of Covid cases has steadily risen,” he said. Das also said that they did not need the sophisticated plasmapheresis machine right now as the regional transfusion centre had four refrigerated centrifuge machines. “We can use the centrifuge machines that remove cells from plasma by centrifugation,” Das explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-413
12-08-2020||West Bengal||Bhutan lockdown blow to border trade ||Bhutan announced a nationwide, indefinite lockdown from Tuesday to battle the spread of Covid-19 in the country, the decision — the first in the kingdom since the pandemic broke out — pressing a pause button on trade between India and Bhutan. A senior police officer in Alipurduar, one of the two Bengal districts that shares borders with the Himalayan country, said the state would extend all necessary cooperation to the neighbouring country. “There will be no traffic movement through the India-Bhutan borders,” he said. Between India and Bhutan, bilateral trade is governed by the India Bhutan Trade & Transit Agreement of 1972 that was later renewed in November 2016 and came into force in July 2017. According to government sources, the annual volume of trade between India and Bhutan is above Rs 9,000 crore. Out of Bhutan’s total imports, 84 per cent comes from India. Of the total exports made from Bhutan, around 78 per cent come to India. Bengal plays an important role in the bilateral trade via land as almost two-thirds of the trade volume is routed via Phuentsholing ,the business capital of Bhutan that sits on the other side of Jaigaon in Alipurduar district of Bengal. Goods worth another Rs 1,500 crore, which Bhutan trades with other countries like Bangladesh, are routed through Bengal. “The lockdown and its impact on movement of goods through the international borders will affect trade,” an exporter from Siliguri said. Administrative sources in Alipurduar said around 500 goods trucks would enter Bhutan from India before the pandemic. During the past few months, the number had dwindled to 100 in a day. Trucks completely stopped plying from Tuesday. Traders in Jaigaon sounded perturbed. They pointed out that for six days till Sunday, marketplaces were closed in Jaigaon to check the spread of Covid-19. “It was on Monday that shops opened, and after just one day, lockdown was announced in Bhutan. Traders and suppliers are worried. But we want the pandemic situation to improve on both sides of the border,” said Jayant Mundra, a trader in Jaigaon. Alipurduar apart, Jalpaiguri in Bengal shares borders with Bhutan. Assam is the other Indian state bordering Bhutan. The Himalayan kingdom reported 113 Covid cases so far. Among them, 97 have recovered. There are 16 active cases in the country as of now. Bhutan has not recorded any death from Covid till date. Bhutan’s ministry of economic affairs said they had adequate stock of essentials such as  rice, oil, pulses, sugar, milk powder, salt and toiletries in the country to last another six months. Bhutan announced the lockdown after it was found that a young woman of Gelephu, who returned from Kuwait on June 26 and was in mandatory quarantine in Paro and later released after treatment, had moved around in a number of places and come in close contact with many people when she was infected. “The government enforces restrictions on movement of people and vehicles within the dzongkhags (primary subdivisions of Bhutan) and beyond.Everyone is asked to stay home to protect themselves and their families from the disease, should there be undetected, rampant transmissions,” said a release issued by the office of the Prime Minister of Bhutan on Tuesday. During the indefinite lockdown in Bhutan, all schools, education institutions, offices and commercial establishments will stay closed. The country’s ongoing exams will be postponed and students and trainees in boarding facilities will be there in the campus and follow safety protocols, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-413
12-08-2020||West Bengal||BSF seizes smuggled medicines||A cache of medicines and medical gadgets valued at Rs 21.69 lakh was seized by Border Security Force (BSF) personnel early on Tuesday near the Bangladesh border. The BSF had to open fire and lob stun grenades to disperse smugglers trying to push their illegal consignment to Bangladesh through a stretch of the Ichhamati river close to the Haridaspur border outpost in North 24-Parganas. Under the thick cover of water hyacinths, the smugglers were trying to push 20 bags of medicines towards Bangladesh through the river when BSF personnel of the 158 battalion spotted them. A source said that during the past two months the BSF seized medicines, mostly life-saving drugs, that were being smuggled to Bangladesh. The source added that as formal export between India and Bangladesh had come to a crawl because of Covid curbs since March, smuggling gangs were active. Most gangs use out-of-work migrant workers as handlers, the source said. The BSF sources said the consignments seized on Tuesday included huge quantities of life-saving drugs of popular brands, which were handed over to customs at Petrapole. The source said as people from Bangladesh come to Bengal and other centres in India for treatment, medicines popular in India have a huge demand in the neighbouring country. The formal supply line has been hit because of trade restrictions, while illegal trade of medicines is flourishing. DIG (general) of BSF’s South Bengal Frontier S.S.Guleria said: “This is an unusual trend. We have never seen medicines smuggled in such huge quantities earlier.” The BSF almost on a regular basis seizes Phensedyl, a codeine-based cough syrup that is abused as an intoxicant in Bangladesh. Seizure of Phensedyl by the BSF shot to an all-time high during the lockdown. But smuggling of life-savings drugs, including medicines required to treat cancer, kidney and cardiac problems, diabetes, and psychiatric disorders, is a new trend, said a BSF official. “Smugglers are desperate, they tried to smuggle medicines to Bangladesh through a goods train carrying export items,” added a BSF official, referring to seizure of medicines from a Bangladesh-bound goods train last month at Gede and Petrapole. “Many Bangladeshi people visit Calcutta for medical reasons and return the same day. Existing curbs on people’s  movement between the two countries has created a crisis in the supply of medicines to Bangladesh,” said a BSF official in Petrapole. An official of a private hospital on EM Bypass in Calcutta, patronised by many Bangladeshi patients, said they usually buy medicines for two months. “The lockdown has landed them in a big mess.” “For any critical disease like cancer, kidney troubles a prescription issued by doctors remains valid for two months unless otherwise advised. So Bangladeshi patients who procured medicines before lockdown are not in a position to arrange medicines even from Bangladesh as the validity of their prescriptions has expired,”  the hospital official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-414
12-08-2020||West Bengal||Tea Board of India flags unregulated entry of tea from Nepal||The Tea Board of India has got in touch with the Union commerce ministry for its intervention to enforce rules to prevent the “indiscriminate import and sale of Nepalese tea” in the country. For the past few years, tea planters, particularly those who make Darjeeling tea, have time and again sought action from the Centre and the Tea Board over tea from Nepal being passed off as Darjeeling tea without certification. “This finally made the Tea Board act... On Monday, Rishikesh Rai, board secretary, sent three letters to Anjali Anand, the under-secretary in the ministry, and said that it was necessary to enforce rules to check the import and sale of Nepal tea,” said a source. According to Tea Board sources, in the past six years, around 71.9 million kilos of tea were imported from Nepal. “...there is no known national standard fixed by the Government of Nepal for teas produced in their country. Though we have FSS (Import) Regulations, 2017, for ensuring import of FSSAI compliant teas into India, the said regulations are not being enforced fully in the sense that out of 34 parameters of tea, only three to four parameters are checked..,” a letter said. “Tea being an item of mass consumption in India, any tea not FSSAI compliant could pose serious health hazard,” reads one of the letters. Rai also cited instances when tea imported from another country was sold as Darjeeling tea, causing financial loss to hill tea producers.  “The ministry can consider a notification that makes it mandatory to specify the country of origin of imported teas by wholesalers, packers and retailers,” Rai wrote. Sandeep Mukherjee, the principal advisor of Darjeeling Tea Association, welcomed the initiative of the Tea Board. “Long due and we welcome it.” “If these decisions are made, it will be a big relief for the connoisseurs of Darjeeling tea in India who have been taken for a ride for decades,” said Mukherjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-414
12-08-2020||West Bengal||Nabanna reserves 2 lifts for Didi, core team||The Bengal government will reserve two VIP lifts in state secretariat Nabanna, one for the chief minister and the other for a handful of senior bureaucrats, as a precaution after a number of employees posted in the building tested positive for Covid-19 recently. “While Mamata Banerjee will use one lift, the chief secretary, home secretary and the director-general of police will use the other,” said an official at Nabanna. In the past one week, about six employees, mainly security personnel posted in the secretariat, had tested positive, said a source. “As lifts are considered a potential source of spreading the virus, the use of VIP lifts has been restricted for the benefit of the state,” the source added. As the use of two VIP lifts is restricted, a previously general lift is now reserved for the use of other bureaucrats and ministers who either have offices at Nabanna or visit the building on official purposes, said an official. “It won’t create any problem if a general lift is reserved for senior officers. Offices are being run with 50 per cent staff strength (physically present) to prevent crowding.” Sources in the PWD said that a second office of the chief minister has been set up in Upanna, the newly inaugurated building near Nabanna. Along with the chief minister, offices of the chief secretary, home secretary and the secretary to the chief minister have also been set up in the new building. “Offices of the chief minister and other senior officers may be shifted temporarily to Upanna in case of an extreme emergency,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-414
12-08-2020||West Bengal||Chhau dancer survives on NGO dole||Karna Karmakar, a 27-year-old chhau dancer who has performed in the US, Scotland, Brazil and France, on Tuesday morning motorcycled 40km to Purulia town to collect a packet of relief essentials worth Rs 1,200 for his family of six. Karna, who lives in Barabazar, had to borrow Rs 100 from a friend to refuel his bike for the trip to the town to collect the relief packet from NGO Nanritam. “Six months ago, I never would have never thought I’d bike 40km for a packet of relief items. I used to earn Rs 9,000 a month by performing chhau. But now, my savings are wiped out. I am grateful to Nanritam,” Karna said. He added that he was one among thousands of chhau performers battling poverty amid the pandemic. In Purulia alone, there are 30,000 chhau and jhumur performers who like Karna are jobless since the outbreak of Covid-19 in March. The only income of these artistes is the monthly Rs 1,000 provided by the state government. Karna, who runs his chhau team Kharipahari Manbhum Janashakti Chhau Nritya Samiti with 20 dancers, said that it hurt him to see his colleagues roaming around in search of other jobs. “I often dream of Tagore’s drama-in-verse Kacha and Devyani that I had staged in Scotland and New York. That ovation was real, so is this poverty. I don’t know when we will return to the stage,” he added. Like Karna, Shankar Tantubai, a jhumur singer from Barabazar, also came with 16 others on Tuesday to collect relief items from Nanritam. The outfit is helping 10,500 needy families in Purulia since mid-April, said its secretary Ranjana Sengupta. Nanritam has former World Bank chief economist and C. Marks Professor of international studies and professor of economics in Cornell University Kaushik Basu as its chief mentor. “We started to provide relief among the poor and needy people since April 19. We are running community kitchens for tribal groups involved in folk art in remote corners of the districts. We started the service on April 19 to commemorate the birth anniversary of Swami Lokeswaranandaji Maharaj, the former president of Ramakrishna Mission and our inspiration,” said Ranjana Sengupta, the Nanritam secretary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-414
12-08-2020||West Bengal||Bengal 7th among states in Covid tally||Bengal on Tuesday reported 2,931 new Covid-19 cases, taking its total number of infections past 1 lakh with 1,01,390 lab-tested cases. The state now ranks the seventh in India in terms of most recorded novel coronavirus cases. Maharashtra with 5.35 lakh, Tamil Nadu with 3.08 lakh and Andhra Pradesh with 2.44 lakh have reported the most number of Covid-19 infections in India. Since the first infection in Bengal on March 17, the state has taken 147 days to log 1 lakh cases. Of the 1 lakh cases, nearly 74,000 are recoveries. “We doubled from 50,000 in 19 days, which is better than the 14 days we took to double from 25,000. Prior to that, we doubled in 21 days from 12,500, in 15 days from 6,250, and from 3,125 and 1,562 in 13 days each,” said a minister. On Tuesday, 49 patients died of Covid in Bengal, taking the total state toll to 2,149. Calcutta reported 18 deaths and North 24-Parganas nine on Tuesday. In all, 980 people died of Covid in Calcutta and 499 in North 24-Parganas. On the brighter side, for the second consecutive day on Tuesday, a rise in recoveries lowered the number of active cases from the previous day. The number of active cases fell by 185 to 25,846, as 3,067 recoveries in 24 hours till Tuesday 9am bettered the 2,931 new infections. The recovery rate rose further to 72.39 per cent, ahead of the national rate of 70.31. “Active cases, which is the key (indicator), is only a fourth of the total number of infections now, a major plus,” the minister said. Of the new cases, 711 were reported from the city and 643 from North 24-Parganas. These two districts also reported 877 and 658 recoveries, and active cases fell by 184 in Calcutta, to 6,615, and by 24 in North 24-Parganas, to 5,626. The state achieved another new high in daily testing, with 27,015 tests done on Tuesday.  bettering Monday’s 26,297. “We are looking to go past 35,000 tests daily in the next couple of weeks,” said the minister. The state now has done nearly 11.6 lakh tests, at 12,880 per million people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-414
