13-08-2020||West Bengal||Unemployed mason killed in Sunderban tiger attack||A mason in his 40s who lost his job during the lockdown was mauled by a tiger in the Sunderbans when he ventured deep into the forest to catch crabs for a living. Haripada Mandal had set out on a small boat with several others from the Bali 2 area in Gosaba block near Pirkhali in the Sunderban Tiger Reserve early on Wednesday, a forest official said. The tiger attacked him from behind inside the forest where he had gone to catch fish and crabs, the official 
said. The lockdown and Cyclone Amphan, which has left most fields and ponds inundated with saline water, have resulted in loss of livelihood for many people, according to foresters and people working for the welfare of those living in the Sunderbans. Even inexperienced groups have been venturing out in the forests in search of a living, an official said. His relatives have said Mandal used to work in Calcutta and adjoining areas. He had returned to the village as it was difficult to get work in the city once the lockdown started, a forest official said. Embankments in the Sunderbans delta — a Unesco World Heritage site — breached as the surge caused up by the cyclone flooded several kilometres of the islands. “Many migrant workers have returned to their villages after losing their usual means of livelihood during the lockdown. Several have fallen back on the forest and have taken to catching crabs and fish in order to make ends meet,” Sagnik Sengupta, a member of Stripes And Green Earth (SAGE), an NGO, said. Members of the NGO had visited several ranges in the Sunderbans, including the Pirkhali forest area, to distribute relief materials in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan. Another forest official said the men had cast their nets in a shallow creek that flows through the Pirkhali 
forest. The tiger attacked Mandal from behind and before the other men on the boat could realise what was happening, the animal had dragged him away. The tiger tried to drag him deeper into the forest when at least three men managed to hit it with axes and sticks. “They hit the tiger with sticks and after a few minutes the animal let go of Mandal’s neck,” the official said.
Rajib Banerjee, the state’s forest minister, said the men had ventured deep into the forest when the tiger attacked them. “The men told our officials that they had gone to catch fish when the tiger attacked one of them,” Banerjee said. The group could not produce a fishing permit, a forest official said. “Their boat was moored inside the forest where they were not supposed to be,” the official said. The big cat count in the Sunderbans is close to 100 according to the latest Census.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-411
13-08-2020||West Bengal||August 28 off lockdown list||August 28 will not be a complete lockdown day in Bengal, a state government official has said, changing afresh the shutdown roster for the month. “Earlier, it was announced that the complete lockdown would be in place on August 27 (Thursday), August 28 (Friday) and August 31 (Monday). Since August 29 (Saturday) and August 30 (Sunday) are general holidays, it would have been a stretch of five days when everything, particularly banking operations, would have been closed. We responded to appeals made from various quarters. So, there will be no lockdown on August 28,”said the official. The number of the complete lockdown days in August has now come down to six from the original nine. The next full lockdown days for August will be on 20 (Thursday), 21 (Friday), 27 (Thursday) and 31 (Monday). The complete lockdown roster for August has undergone multiple changes because of national holidays and festivals. The original schedule for the month had nine complete lockdown days, which have now been lowered to six. The BJP questioned the changes. “If prolonged weekend is the reason, why did the government not consider this before announcing the complete lockdown days?” asked Rahul Sinha, a state BJP leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-411
13-08-2020||West Bengal||‘When will the saviour of life come?’||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, known for wielding the pen on burning issues, on Wednesday posted on social media a poem titled Phyakashey and Pale in Bengali and English, respectively, on Covid-19. Although the chief minister did not explicitly state that the poem had been written by her, senior leaders in her party acknowledged it was hers. PaleThe sky looks pale
The clouds look grim.
Smokes emanating from dirt and dust
Have changed the world.
“COVID War” has invaded.
The human world is invaded by
Frustrations of black terror 
Breathing is devoid of trust. The face is deaf and dumb.
Half of the face is Eclipsed.
The lunar journey is tired by full eclipse.
The public life is criss-crossed. Darkness at noon in the midst of daylight
Volcanoes of terrible terror pervade the media -
As if husk and chaff have been burnt.
Beds are snow-covered.
Environmental and bodily pollution converge.
The pollution of sound remind of funeral ashes.
When is its end? Nobody knows.
When will the saviour of life come?
There is no clarity.
Waiting waits for waiting||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-412
13-08-2020||West Bengal||3 cubs at Siliguri park||Shila, the Royal Bengal tigress at the popular Bengal Safari park on Siliguri outskirts, gave birth to triplets on Wednesday. The birth of three more cubs has increased the tiger population to seven at the popular open-air zoo. Dharamdeo Rai, the park’s director, confirmed the birth of the three cubs, but said their gender could not be determined as no one could go near Shila right now. He added that Shila had mated with Vivan, a tiger of the same park this May, and delivered the cubs after around 100 days of pregnancy. The cubs, sources said, were born between 4.45am and 7.20am. Since then, officials, vets and security guards are monitoring the health of the newborns who are in an enclosure with their mother. Back in 2018, the tigress had given birth to three cubs here. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had named the cubs Ika, Rika and Kika. Ika, however, developed an infection and died within the space of a few months. “This is why we are extra cautious this time (about the health of the cubs). Our team is keeping a close watch on the newborns and the tigress who so far appear to be doing well,” Rai said. A forester said they were elated over the second successful captive breeding of Royal Bengal Tigers within two years. “It is an achievement for us as tiger population is increasing here (at Bengal Safari). In due course, we hope the park gets recognition from the Centre under its national tiger conservation programme,” he said. The park, a crowd-puller before the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, is spread over 297 hectares, and has enclosures for tigers, leopards, the Asiatic black bear, gharials (fish-eating crocodiles), rhino, different species of deer and an aviary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-412
13-08-2020||West Bengal||Fixed business hours for Burdwan shops||The East Burdwan district administration has ordered a staggered opening of shops and markets in Burdwan and Memari municipal areas to arrest the spike in Covid-19 cases in the district. East Burdwan reported 1,611 confirmed infections in all till Tuesday and a toll of eight since the onset of the pandemic. In an order issued on August 10, the administration specified fixed hours for the opening of markets and shops in Burdwan town. The order states that all wholesale fish and vegetable markets in Burdwan town would be open from 4am to 7am while retail vegetable, fish and meat shops would do business from 7am to 10.30am. The fruit markets and flower shops will be open from 7am to 11am. Grocery and other shops have longer operating hours, from 11am to 5pm. Hotels and restaurants will operate from noon to 9pm. The order has not gone down well with traders’ organisation Burdwan Zilla Babosayee Suraksha Samiti, which has called business hours too short to suit traders. The organisation has written to district magistrate Vijay Bharti requesting longer hours. “Our traders have already faced big losses during the three-month-long lockdown. We have requested the administration to allow shops to operate from 10am to 6pm,” said Bisweswar Choudhury, the association’s general secretary. The administration also fixed a schedule for Memari municipality. In Memari, all retail vegetable and fish markets will be open up to 11.30am. For other traders, business hours will be from 8am to 5pm. Hotels and restaurants in the town will be open from 10am to 2pm and from 6pm to 10pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-412
13-08-2020||West Bengal||2,936 new Covid cases and 54 deaths||Bengal on Wednesday reported 2,936 new Covid-19 cases and 54 deaths from the disease, besides 2,725 recoveries and 27,712 tests. The total number of patients in the state went past 1.04 lakh, of which over 76,000 were recoveries. The state’s recovery rate now is 72.96, which went up from 67.6 per cent in two weeks. The national rate now is 70.56. “Various measures, including some days of total lockdown put in place to get a grip on the outbreak, are beginning to yield results,” said a Bengal minister, adding that in two weeks since July 29, there were 39,000-odd new cases, but also 32,000-plus recoveries. “That is over 82 per cent. In the two-week period prior to this (July 15-29), there were 31,000 new cases and 23,000 recoveries, which was 74 per cent. The next two weeks will produce a much larger number of recoveries, in comparison to new cases,” he added. After two consecutive days of rise in recoveries lowering the number of active cases from the previous day, Bengal did see a spike in the total of active cases, to 26,003 on Wednesday, but by only 157. “Of the two biggest high-incidence districts, which contributed half the state’s Covid-19 cases, North 24-Parganas saw a fall in the total active case count for three successive days and improved from 5,774 on Sunday to 5,540 today (Wednesday),” said the minister. “The other one, Calcutta, saw a fall over two days and a rise of only 20 on Wednesday. The city’s total active cases improved from 7,041 on Sunday to 6,635 on Wednesday. This is remarkable,” he added. The numbers indicate improvement in Howrah and Hooghly as well, with South 24-Parganas being the last remaining of the five most high-incidence districts yet to show signs of a turnaround. The 27,712 tests recorded on Wednesday were another 24-hour high for the state, bettering the 27,015 of Tuesday. The total test count is almost 11.87 lakh now, at 13,188 per million people. The state reported 2,203 deaths, of which 999 were from Calcutta, including 19 recorded in 24 hours till 9am on Wednesday, and 512 from North 24-Parganas. Of the total, the government reported 1,958, or 88.9 per cent, as deaths with comorbidity “present”. In two weeks, there have been 713 reported deaths of Covid-19 infected people, of which 676 were comorbid, according to the government. Bengal’s overall mortality rate now is 2.11, from 2.28 per cent two weeks ago. The national rate now is 1.96. Owing to the spike in new cases, the positive confirmation rate is now 8.79 per cent, which was 7.62 even two weeks ago. The state reported that 36.57 per cent of the total 11,775 beds earmarked for Covid-19 patients at 83 dedicated hospitals were occupied as on Wednesday. Telemedicine consultation for the pandemic has been provided to nearly 63,000 people, including 3,625 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-412
13-08-2020||West Bengal||9-year-old’s kidnap ends in murder, cousin held||The nine-year-old son of a Trinamul panchayat member here, allegedly abducted for ransom on August 9, was found murdered near his village on Wednesday. Two men, one of whom is the victim’s cousin, were arrested for the kidnap and murder of the boy, police said. Police suspect he was strangled. According to the police, Umar Faruque, 9, the son of panchayat member in Malda’s Mothabari block Hafizul Islam, was abducted while he was playing in front of his house in Amlitala village. Hafizul and other family members combed the area for Umar but could not trace the boy, a Class IV student. The same night, they received an anonymous ransom call asking Hafizul to pay Rs 50 lakh, sources said. Hafizul, a labour contractor, had made some money in the past few years. On August 10, the family lodged a complaint with the police, which formed a special investigation team, but their search for the boy did not succeed. On Wednesday, some residents spotted the boy’s body near a bush in Chak-Pratappur village, some 3km from his home, and informed Hafizul’s family and the police. Police probe pointed to Rashidul Sheikh, Umar’s cousin, and Rashidul’s friend Ramzan Sheikh. Malda SP Alok Rajoria confirmed the arrests and said: “The boy has been murdered for money. We are trying to get more information.” Hundreds came to the boy’s house and demanded exemplary punishment for the accused. Trinamul MLA Sabina Yeasmin consoled the family. “The duo had planned to extort money from Hafizul. We suspect that when our team started investigating, the duo got nervous and killed the boy. The boy knew both and the duo feared that they would be identified if they released the boy,” said a police source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-412
13-08-2020||West Bengal||Two jumbos electrocuted in Buxa Tiger Reserve||Two wild elephants were found electrocuted at the Buxa Tiger Reserve (BTR) in Alipurduar on Wednesday, coincidentally observed as World Elephant Day. Foresters said two elephants came in touch with an electric pole that became lethal after a short-circuit at the Bhutri beat under the Hamiltanganj forest range of the BTR west division late on Tuesday night or before daybreak on Wednesday. The forest department filed a complaint against West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (WBSEDCL) with Kalchini police, said BTR field director Subhankar Sengupta. Forest guards out on patrolling found the two elephants apparently slumped motionless. Their posture was so unusual that the guards immediately alerted the range office. When a WBSEDCL team  disconnected the power line, the forest guards found the elephants — an adult female and a younger female — dead. A BTR official said an elephant herd had been moving in the area on Tuesday night. Two members of the herd came in contact with the live electric pole. “The short-circuit may have happened because of rain,” the forester said. “An electrical short circuit claimed the elephants’ lives. We have filed a complaint with the police. Those working in the power supply company will ensure that electric lines are checked in forest areas to avert such incidents,” said Sengupta. Animesh Bose, an environmentalist based in Siliguri, said he was shocked. “Five wildlife anti-electrocution cells were formed in North Bengal but all are inactive.” “There is simply no monitoring as to whether the areas through which wild elephants move are safe or not. That is why electrocution deaths are on the rise,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-412
13-08-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul pins hope on cops’ tribal outfit||Police in West Burdwan’s tribal-dominated areas have launched first-of-its-kind grassroots initiative for adivasi youths to address the problem of their alienation. The move stands out as local political leaders have been left out of the outreach programme that aims to improve the image of the Mamata Banerjee government. Police in Kanksa block inaugurated the Adibasi Unnayan Manch at the local police station on the occasion of World Tribal Day on Sunday. “The intention is to create a support system for tribal people in the area so that their needs and queries can be attended to without delay. The Manch will work primarily as an NGO backed by police personnel and civic volunteers,” said Abhishek Gupta, deputy commissioner of police (east). “Whether it be arranging an ambulance or clearing a doubt regarding a government scheme, this platform is here to help them,” added Gupta. Sources said the platform would function on a day-to-day basis over a WhatsApp group consisting of youths with smartphones as well as Kanksa police personnel and volunteers. “Once we are informed of a grievance through the group, we will get in touch with the local residents and respond immediately,” said Arnab Guha, inspector-in-charge of Kanksa police station. While the police are pitching it as a community initiative, sources in the Trinamul Congress said the aim was to reach out to the tribal community ahead of the next year’s Assembly polls. “The local politicians are discredited... It’s better to involve police in addressing the problems of tribal people,” said a Trinamul insider. The district police’s initiative in addressing tribal population’s grievances, ahead of a major election, has political reasons as Kanksa is home to over 67,000 voters spread across 89 villages. Traditionally supporters of the CPM, adivasis of Burdwan, along with those in neighbouring districts like Bankura, Purulia, Jhargram and West Midnapore, began shifting to Trinamul following its ascent to power in 2011. The situation, however, started changing and the relationship between Trinamul and tribal communities soured with rising reports of Trinamul leaders’ corruption and lavish lifestyles. The nadir for Trinamul reached during the 2018 rural polls when the BJP — on the back of aggressive ground campaigns by RSS branches — performed unexpectedly well. The 2019 Lok Sabha elections, said a source in Trinamul, were “the final wake-up call for the party” when the BJP did remarkably well in Bengal by bagging 18 seats and securing huge leads in the adivasi-dominated areas. “We cannot afford to ignore the rise of the BJP among the tribal communities... We are on the verge of being sunk in this area, and this initiative by the police will be the make-or-break factor for the 2021 Assembly elections,” said a local Trinamul functionary. “If people can feel they are being attended to, then it can undo some past damages,” the leader added. The similar model, sources said, would be rolled out in other tribal-dominated areas across Bengal. Nagendranath Murmu, 62, morol (head) of Adibasi Unnayan Manch in Kanksa, welcomed the move. “It is a good initiative where we can directly interact with the government and police officials. Let us see how it works now.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-412
13-08-2020||West Bengal||Tea import plea sparks oversupply fear||A proposal by a national body of tea traders to import the produce for export has drawn flak from big and small growers in north Bengal as they think a portion of the commodity will be sold out in India where the tea industry has been plagued by the oversupply for the past five years. Two national forums of tea growers have fired off letters to Union commerce minister Piyush Goyal after they came to know that some tea traders were planning the import because of shortfall in the production in India, particularly in Bengal and Assam, in the past few months because of the lockdown and inclement weather. They have also quoted data of the Tea Board of India and pointed out that tea meant for re-export could leak into the domestic market and would eventually bring down the prices which have surged these days because of less supply. The Tea Board mentioned in one of its notifications on Tuesday that 60.35 million kilos of teas had been imported into India in the past three years and of them, only 23.43 million kilos had been re-exported. The rest 36.92 million kilos have been sold in the country. Viren Shah, chairman of the Federation of All India Tea Traders Association, however, has explained the logic for importing tea. “There has been a loss in tea production this year and prices of Indian tea have increased in the past few months. Last year, we could export around 250 million kilos of tea and to ensure that we retain the export markets, it is necessary that tea is offered at competitive prices in overseas markets. We can import tea by complying with all regulations and can use the same to develop our export front,” explained Shah. In India, importing tea from other countries draws a duty at the rate of 100 per cent if it is for domestic sale. But if tea is imported for export, the duty is nil. Tea imported from Nepal for domestic consumption attracts no duty. Vivek Goenka, chairman of the Consultative Committee of Plantation Associations (CCPA) — the apex body of tea planters in the country — has sent a letter to Goyal, mentioning that there had been accumulated surplus of 186 million kilos of tea in the country from 2013 till 2019. “The CCPA chairman has pointed out that if tea is imported, it can destabilise the industry and the prices. After many years, tea prices have shown a steady increase and if such prices sustain, it can largely help the industry,” said a representative of the Indian Tea Association, a constituent of CCPA. The Confederation of Indian Small Tea Growers (Cista) is the other organisation which wrote to Goyal. In India, around 1.2 million workers are being employed in the tea sector. The country is one of the largest producers of tea in the world and consumes around 23 per cent of the global production, with an export share of 13 per cent. Added to the organised sector, there are over three lakh small tea growers who are also dependent on the industry. “There is a wrong contention that rise in tea prices can affect domestic consumers. In fact, it has been found that a rise of Rs 100 per kg means an increase of 20 paisa per a cup of tea. Also, this rise in prices can help in mitigating the cost of production and import of tea can affect the industry’s prospects,” said a tea planter in Siliguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-412
