14-08-2020||West Bengal||How insured Covid-19 patients are left uncovered||A sizeable portion of the private hospital bills of insured Covid-19 patients who have not taken a virus-specific policy is now made up of “non-medical” expenses like the cost of PPE kits, facemasks, gloves and hand-sanitisers that are not covered by the insurance agencies. The patients, therefore, have to pay out of their own pockets for these articles, whether used by themselves or by the doctors and hospital staff involved in their treatment. Public health experts and hospital officials said these should be treated as medical expenses for the duration of the Covid-19 crisis, but insurance company representatives showed little enthusiasm for the idea. After an elderly Covid-19 patient died recently at a private hospital in Calcutta, the insurance agency approved payment for only Rs 107,032 against a bill for Rs 203,846, leaving the patient’s son to shell out Rs 96,814. At another hospital, a woman who was discharged on Wednesday was billed Rs 151,926 but the insurer paid only Rs 88,627. The non-medical expenses that the insurer refused to cover included the cost not just of the PPE kits, gloves, facemasks and hand-sanitisers but also of the injection syringes and cotton used. The insurer contended it was merely following the guidelines of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA). Many healthcare institutes have, therefore, welcomed Saturday’s advisory by Bengal’s regulator for private hospitals that allows them to demand an advance deposit of up to Rs 50,000 or 20 per cent of the estimated treatment cost, whichever is lower. The hospitals say that these deposits are a protection for them, because many patients decline to pay the sums that the insurers refuse to cover. Some insurance companies said they were paying for PPE kits in accordance with the ceiling fixed by the state government, which is Rs 1,000 per patient per day, but others said they were not covering this at all. This has led to thousands of people in Calcutta buying a new Corona Kavach insurance policy, announced by the IRDA and sold by all health insurers, which promises to cover most of these non-medical expenses. Launched in July, the policy also pays a fixed amount for ambulances. “In one month, between July 10 and August 10, we have sold 16,000 Corona Kavach policies. Barely a couple of claims from such policies have been submitted till date,” said Saurav Kariwala, assistant manager (media), of the National Insurance Company Ltd, Calcutta. He said another general health insurance policy launched in April had had barely 200 buyers till now. Most of those buying the Corona Kavach policy have, however, had another health insurance policy for years. “Instead of selling a new policy, the insurance companies should think of the thousands of their customers who have already been paying premiums for many years. The relatives of many Covid-19 patients are calling us every day to find out why PPE and other protective equipment have not been included in the insurance approval lists,” said Sudipta Mitra, chief executive of Peerless Hospital. “We have spoken to the insurance companies many times but they only tell us these items cannot be included in the admissible list.” Pradip Tondon, CEO of Belle Vue Clinic, said: “We have urged the insurance companies to be more flexible in these times and not to go by the rules so strictly. The unpaid amount is often causing disputes between the hospitals and patients.” In normal times, many insured patients undergo surgeries and procedures under specific insurance packages agreed between the hospital and the insurer, which leaves little room for dispute. An official at a private hospital said 40 per cent of insurance patients are admitted under such packages. But in the case of medical treatment whose course and requirements are unpredictable, and which therefore do not lend themselves to pre-specified packages, the insurers often refuse to pay a substantial portion of the bill. A large percentage of the items whose cost these companies refused to reimburse tend to be consumable items. Covid-19 falls under the head of diseases whose treatment requirements are indefinite. “So, there is no definite package and hence the inadmissible amount (the sum the insurer refuses to pay) is high,” an official with an insurance company said. While private hospitals blamed the patients’ woes over their bills on the insurers’ reluctance to cover the non-medical expenses, insurance officials put the blame back on the hospitals. An insurance official said the problem was that if consumable items were included in the approved list, some hospitals would indulge in “unethical business” — because it is impossible to monitor, for instance, how many gloves or facemasks were actually used. An official with another insurance company said the government should increase its scrutiny of private hospitals’ bills. “When private hospitals charge exorbitantly, we scrutinise the bill and if some amounts are not justified, we refuse to reimburse them,” said Dipayan Saha, medical officer, HDFC ERGO, a private insurance company. “But that amount then becomes the burden of a patient. We are bound by the rules and can’t do anything. The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission should find a mechanism to randomly scrutinise private hospitals’ bills.” Saha said his company was reimbursing the cost of PPE kits and doctors’ visits in accordance with the state government’s rates. Public health experts said that both the insurance companies and private hospitals needed to be more humane. “The insurance companies and hospitals should work towards making life less miserable for the Covid-19 patients, many of whom have lost their incomes. We have to be more humane in these difficult times and not think of protocols and profits,” said Dr Abhijit Chowdhury, a public health expert.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-410
14-08-2020||West Bengal||Bhutan lockdown adds to Indian traders' woes||The Bhutan government has decided to start relaxing the nationwide lockdown, prompting loud cheers among traders on the Indian side of the border. The neighbouring country’s move signals that cross-border trade, which had come to a grinding halt since August 11 when it clamped a total lockdown amid a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases, will resume. In Bhutan, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) announced on August 31 — after 21 days of lockdown — that the government would initiate the unlock process from September 1 in three phases over 10 days, that is, till September 10. Curbs will continue in Phuentsholing, Gelephu, Sandrupjonkhar and Samtse, near the Indian border. “As of now, only a few trucks carrying petro fuels are entering Bhutan. There has been an improvement in the Covid situation in Bhutan and we hope unlocking will soon start in Phuentsholing that has been marked as a red zone,” said Rakesh Pandey, secretary, Jaigaon Hardware & Electrical Goods Merchants’ Association. “This would bring some respite for us as we can resume supplying goods to the country. There has been a decline in supplies in the hospitality sector as tourist movement stopped. But even then, supplies that the Bhutanese population need can at least help us survive.” Ramashankar Gupta, secretary of Jaigaon Merchants’ Association, pointed that easing of Bhutan lockdown could help them in another way. “Because of the lockdown, we could not deposit Bhutanese currency we have with us in the banks in Bhutan. Many of us are sitting with hordes of Bhutanese notes and cannot use them to make payments (in India). Now that there are indications of relaxation, we feel we can get over this problem,” said Gupta. According to trade statistics of Bhutan, goods worth over Rs 8,000 crore are traded between the countries in a year, and if electricity is included, the sum is over Rs 9,000 crore. “Of the total imports of Bhutan, 84 per cent is sent from India, and 74 per cent of Bhutan’s total exports are sent to India. This indicates the mutual dependence of both the nations,” said a trade expert. The release issued by the PMO in Bhutan states: “We will strengthen vigilance along our borders and ensure augmented safety for trading interactions. Special and additional measures will be introduced in the high risk areas to protect the community. Additional tier of protection to avoid spillage of the disease from high risk to lesser risk communities will be ensured.” Travel trade stakeholders are keeping fingers crossed. “We don’t know what is in store for us in this year,” said Biswajit Saha, secretary, Jaldapara Lodge Owners’ Association. The Tourism Council of Bhutan says over 2.3 lakh Indians had been to Bhutan last year. This is 73 per cent of the total number of tourists who visited the country from other nations, says the data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-410
14-08-2020||West Bengal||Barrackpore boils as TMC and BJP clash||Recent political violence between Trinamul and BJP in several pockets of Barrackpore parliamentary constituency has unleashed panic among residents. Since July first week, at least 14 incidents of political violence occurred in pockets such as Kankinara, Bhatpara, Naihati, Halisahar and Bijpur. In most cases, goons enjoying political patronage of both parties attack rivals and their leaders with bombs and rods, and open fire indiscriminately to terrorise common people, reviving memories of violence that erupted in the belt after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls where BJP’ Arjun Singh won. A Naihati resident called ‘living here” a nightmare.  “Bombs are hurled frequently and we can barely catch our sleep,” he said. While both the Trinamul and the BJP blame each other for the violence, police find themselves helpless because of the Covid situation. Acknowledging the recent spate of violence, Ajay Kumar Thakur, DC (zone 1) of Barrackpore commissionerate said: “The bail provision because of the Covid situation is seriously hampering our work. If goons get bail for reasons not related to law, the police become helpless. Many of the goons out on bail are now involved in crime. It has become difficult for the police to control political violence.” Trinamul’s bête noire, the BJP MP Arjun Singh, however, blamed the “partisan” police for violence. “Peace will stay elusive if police and goons are synonymous. In Barrackpore, the police have turned into Trinamul stooges,” Singh said. The Barrackpore Lok Sabha constituency turned volatile since May 23 last year. At least seven lives were lost in the violent turf war between the Trinamul and the BJP, which was rejuvenated by Singh joining the BJP and his poll victory. The region has a strong presence of Hindi-speaking people who mostly work in the jute mills. Singh said: “The Trinamul chief (Mamata Banerjee)’s retaliatory mood has led to violence in the area. She is angry with the people of Barrackpore for voting for the BJP. People have understood her true colours and are organising themselves to retaliate.” Trinamul’s Bhatpara Assembly committee convenor Somnath Shyam acknowledged the incidents of political violence but said his party had little role in it. “Arjun Singh has managed to establish a reign of terror in the belt. It is his men who are involved in 99 per cent of the cases whereas our people might have one per cent involvement,” Shyam said. Skirting the issue of political rivalry, DC (zone 1) of Barrackpore commissionerate Thakur said it had become tough to “identify the goons who often come on motorcycles and escape after hurling bombs”. “We are trying our best to nab the goons by installing CCTV cameras in the vulnerable areas. The process will take some time,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-410
14-08-2020||West Bengal||Bengal BJP puts march over Covid protocols ||Bengal BJP doesn’t appear to practise what Prime Minister Narendra Modi preaches on social distancing amid the pandemic. At a time of curbs on mass gatherings to prevent the spread of Covid-19, the BJP on Thursday gathered some 1,000 workers, led by state-level leaders like Sayantan Basu and Raju Banerjee, to observe Black Day in Durgapur by marching towards the municipal corporation office. Opposition parties in Durgapur observe August 13 as Black Day since 2018 to protest the 2017 municipal corporation election that they allege were “massively rigged” by goons brought in by Trinamul that won all the 43 seats. During Thursday’s Black Day march, BJP leaders and workers rubbed shoulders with each other, some of them spotted without masks. Basu, the BJP’s state general secretary, called the eventa “spontaneous participation of common people” to oust the Trinamul from Durgapur and the state. On whether the party flouted Covid-19 protocol during the protest, he didn’t reply. BJP president in West Burdwan Lakshman Ghorui admitted social distancing had not been maintained properly. “We didn’t expect such a massive gathering,” he said. “ We urged people not to come out in large numbers but they came to protest against the anti-democratic ways of the Trinamul,” said Ghorui. The CPM’s protest near the civic body building saw 500 workers holding party flags and maintaining social distance. In Durgapur town, 544 people have tested positive for Covid and five of them have died since March. Durgapur SDO Anirban Koley said they would take legal action against those who violated Covid-19 protocol. “Any kind of mass gathering has been banned by the government now. We will take legal action,” said Koley. The political programme started around 12.30pm in front of the civic office building at City Centre and continued for an hour. However local residents questioned the BJP leaders for violating Covid protocol at a time when Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah were holding virtual rallies to avoid mass gathering. “Is this a time to hold such a massive gathering? Who will take responsibility if the Covid-19 situation deteriorated in the town after such a large political programme,” asked Sanjay De, a local resident. As has been the practice since 2018, on Thursday. The party staged an hour-long protest with workers maintaining mandatory social distancing norms. The CPM’s part flag protest saw a gathering of around 500 people who stood at distance holding black flags. “We maintained proper social distancing during our programme. Such mass protests cannot be held virtually,” said Pankaj Roy Sarkar, CPM district secretariat member. Criticising the BJP, Rakhi Tiwari, mayor-in-council member in charge of health at Durgapur Municipal Corporation and Trinamul leader, said: “A political party running the Union government behaved irresponsibly. The mass gathering was held at a time when the Covid-19 situation in Durgapur town had started to improve.” Durgapur SDO Anirban Koley said they would take legal action against those who violated Covid-19 protocol. “Any kind of mass gathering has been banned by the government now. We will take legal action,” said Koley.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-411
14-08-2020||West Bengal||Jaldapara National Park footfall same as Kaziranga National Park||A study by forest departments of three states about visitors in three prominent wildlife destinations revealed that though Jaldapara National Park in Alipurduar, Bengal’s largest habitat of one-horned rhinos, is smaller than Kaziranga National Park in Assam and the Corbett Tiger Reserve in Uttarakhand, its footfall is more or less the same as Kaziranga’s. The footfall per square kilometre is also the highest in Jaldapara compared to the other two reserves. Bengal’s forest department sources said that in the 2017-2018 fiscal, 1.77 lakh tourists visited the 216sqkm Jaldapara park. “The number of visitors who went to Jaldapara in 2017-18 was around the same as that of Kaziranga, a larger rhino habitat spread over 859sqkm,” said a senior forester. Though the number of visitors at Corbett, which is spread over 1,318sqkm, was 2.84 lakh during 2017-18, footfall concentration was the highest in Jaldapara. While the number of visitors per sqkm was 206.55 in Kaziranga and 215.47 in Corbett, it was 820.63 in Jaldapara, the study says. Seen as one of the few remaining grassland ecosystems of the country, the Jaldapara park in Bengal has been thriving since the mid-1980s. In 1985, there were 14 one-horned rhinos in Jaldapara. In 2019, there were 237. “This success has led to a surge in visitors in Jaldapara,” Animesh Bose, a wildlife conservationist based in Siliguri. “But comparative figures (of Corbett and Kaziranga) indicate the pressure of visitors in Jaldapara, and alternative habitats for rhinos and other wild animals must come up.” Senior forest officials said there were plans to promote more wildlife destinations in the region. The rhino population is going up in Gorumara National Park in Jalpaiguri and a third rhino habitat has been planned at Patlakhawa in Cooch Behar, foresters said. “We plan to introduce tigers in Buxa Tiger Reserve. The Bengal Safari near Siliguri has become popular. The idea is to ensure that the pressure of visitors does not mount in Jaldapara,” said Kumar Vimal, the Jaldapara DFO.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-411
14-08-2020||West Bengal||Arrest over false job offer at Indian Oil's Haldia plant||A 45-year-old man was arrested on Wednesday evening for allegedly defrauding a Haldia engineering graduate of Rs 11.3 lakh by promising him a job at the Indian Oil Corporation’s local refinery. Police arrested Tanmay Middya from his home at Durgachowk in East Midnapore on the basis of a complaint filed by Soumya Pal, a resident of Sutahata. “Over the past one year, Middya had taken money from me in instalments. But since the beginning of July, began to suspect that his claims were hollow,” said Soumya. “Finally in August, I demanded that he return the money. So, he gave me a few postdated cheques that later bounced,” added Soumya. The engineering graduate said he had finished paying the amount Middya had demanded to get him a job at the IOC refinery in Haldia earlier this year. “Since then, I had been repeatedly asking him for an update on the job.” “Starting April, I went to his house every week and asked him what was happening. He kept avoiding me. Ultimately, he threatened me with violence if I went back to his house,” said Soumya, adding that Middya had disappeared for a few days after the cheques had bounced. Additional superintendent of police (Haldia) Partha Ghosh said Middya had been arrested on charges of making fraudulent claims and misappropriating funds. “We are investigating whether others were involved in the job racket,” Ghosh added. Haldia IOC officials said on Thursday that one could get a job at the plant only through internal examinations. “Please don’t fall prey to claims of securing one a job at the plant,” said an IOC official. Middya was produced in a court here on Thursday and remanded in police custody for 10 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-411
14-08-2020||West Bengal||Murder probe leads cops to SIM card racket||The investigation into the abduction and killing of a nine-year-old has led police in Malda to bust a racket involved in collecting mobile SIM cards against forged documents. Three persons, who are suspected to be associated with the racket, have been arrested and searches are on to nab some others. On August 9, Umar Faruque, son of Trinamul panchayat member Hafijul Islam, had been kidnapped from near his house at Amlitala village under Mothabari police station of the district. Soon after the boy went missing, his father received an anonymous call which asked him to pay Rs 50 lakh as ransom for his son’s release. The lifeless body of the boy was found on Wednesday. While probing the case, the police found out that the SIM card from which the ransom call had been made had been procured with forged documents. “Rashidul Sheikh, the boy’s cousin and his friend Ramzan Sheikh, who were arrested in connection with the kidnap and the killing, admitted that they had taken the help of a racket providing SIM cards against fake documents,” said a police officer. “We grilled some traders who sell SIM cards and they admitted that issuing SIM against forged documents was common. We suspect a racket supplies SIM cards to people involved in criminal activities at higher prices. So far, three persons, who are suspected to be members of such a racket, have been arrested and search is on to find some more,” said an officer of Mothabari police station. Those arrested have been identified as Abu Bakkar Siddique, Sayem Islam and Noor Taslim. An investigator said on Thursday that all the five had been produced in a court and remanded in police custody for seven days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-411
14-08-2020||West Bengal||2,997 new Covid infections, dip in active cases in Calcutta||Bengal on Thursday saw 2,997 new Covid19 infections, the highest in a day, and 56 deaths. The state also tested 30,032 people, the highest in a day so far, and clocked a recovery rate of 73.25 per cent, above the national rate of 70.97. In all, the state has over 1.07 lakh cases, of which nearly 79,000 are recoveries and 2,259 are deaths. A minister pointed to a dip in active cases in highincidence districts Calcutta and North 24Parganas. Of the new infections, though 666 cases were from Calcutta and 582 from North 24Parganas, they reported 687 and 683 recoveries and their tally of active cases fell. “On Sunday, Calcutta had 7,041 active cases and North 24Parganas 5,774. Today, Calcutta has 6,598 and North 24Parganas 5,427,” the minister said. The minister said that they had crossed the 30,000 milestone in daily testing. “This is quite an achievement. We will now push for 40,000,” he said. “We also crossed the 12 lakh tests milestone (12,16,955 on Thursday), covering the latest lakh in just four days. The next target is covering the next lakh in three days,” he added. Bengal’s testspermillion count is now 13,522, which was 9,927 even at the beginning of August. After achieving the first lakh on May 19, Bengal went past 12 lakh in 86 days. In the 13 days of August, Bengal conducted nearly 3.24 lakh tests. Of the total 2,259 deaths reported, Calcutta alone accounted for 1,015, with 16 on Thursday. North 24Parganas 524 deaths, 12 of them on Thursday. The state government reported 2,005, or 88.8 per cent as deaths with comorbidity “present”. In August alone, there have so far been 678 reported deaths of Covid19 infected people, of which 637 were comorbid, according to the government. Bengal’s overall mortality rate improved to 2.1, but lagged behind the national rate of 1.95 per cent. Calcutta’s mortality rate fell to 3.33 per cent. The state reported 35.8 per cent occupancy in the 11,775 beds earmarked for Covid19 in the 84 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, beside 15.92 per cent in 11,507 beds of the 200 safe homes. Telemedicine consultation for the pandemic has been given to over 66,000 people, including 3,720 in the 24hour window till Thursday 9am.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-411
14-08-2020||West Bengal||Bengal govt asks all hospitals to transfer Covid patients only after condition stabilises||The Bengal government has asked all hospitals and nursing homes to set up isolation wards for suspected Covid-19 patients and make sure that their condition is stabilised before transferring them to medical facilities dedicated to treat the disease. The advisory has been issued after it was found that a number of patients were dying while on transit to dedicated Covid hospitals from medical facilities where they had been initially admitted. “All hospitals/nursing homes should not discharge Covid positive patients requiring medical attention without assured admission in Covid hospital,” reads the health department’s advisory issued on Wednesday. Sources said the health department had found that 30 to 35 per cent Covid deaths were taking place after hospitals were releasing critical patients as soon as they had tested positive for the disease. “There are 84 dedicated Covid hospitals in the state. All other hospitals, where patients are being admitted with other ailments but later found Covid positive, were releasing patients even if they remained critical,” said an official. As there is a rush to dedicated Covid hospitals, particularly in Calcutta, admission of patients was often getting delayed. “Many of the critical patients could not survive because of the delay and travel to dedicated hospitals. That is why the advisory was issued,” said an official. The department has explained how hospitals and nursing homes can stabilise Covid positive patients before referring them to dedicated hospitals. “Every hospital has been advised to arrange isolation ward for suspected Covid-19 patients and stabilise them before any transfer to the dedicated Covid-19 hospitals... A referral case summary should be attached during transfer out of the patients,” reads the advisory. Sources in the health department said there were complaints of some nursing homes and hospitals releasing critical Covid patients citing they did not have required infrastructure for treatment. There were also complaints of Covid patients being discharged even though they needed medical attention. The experts from the protocol monitoring team deputed by the health department found the allegations to be true after visiting some of the healthcare establishments. “According to the advisory, all nursing homes and hospitals would be forced to give primary health support to the positive patients and it would help in reducing the number of deaths,” said a source. “We have received reports that some people had died after they had returned home after being discharged by the hospitals,” said an official. “With this advisory, no hospital will be able to release Covid patients without securing admission to a dedicated hospital,” said an official. A bureaucrat said the model was successfully implemented in Delhi where daily death rate could be brought down to below 10 recently from over 100 daily a few weeks ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-411
14-08-2020||West Bengal||Student feared drowned in Kopai||A class XII student of Birbhum Zilla School in Santiniketan is feared to have drowned in river Kopai here when he and four friends went to take a dip and shoot a video clip on Thursday afternoon. Sources said , Mohammed Aman, 18, accompanied by three classmates and a college student came from Suri on motorcycles to shoot a video for a song sung by the college student. “The college student happens to be well-known locally as a singer and has performed in a popular reality show recently. He came to shoot a video for his song along with four friends. Unfortunately, the river had heavy current because of monsoon. As they got into the water to bathe, Aman was swept away,” said a police source. Police roped in professional divers to find the body but the divers were unsuccessful till evening. Aman’s mother Mohafuz Banu said all her calls to her son and his friends in the afternoon went unanswered. “I was informed from an unidentified number about what befell my son,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-411
14-08-2020||West Bengal||Fugitive with Covid in net after 11 days||Bhim Rai, the murder convict who tested Covid-19 positive and fled from an ambulance on August 2 while on way to a hospital in Kalimpong, was nabbed on Thursday evening near the Third Mile area under Senchal Wildlife Sanctuary, around 11km from Darjeeling. Rai had been sighted in the locality after his escape but residents did not catch him, fearing they would contract the infection. “On Thursday morning, a driver spotted Rai. As he tried to talk to Rai, he fled. The driver told us and we contacted the cops,” said a resident. Rai was caught by the police, forest guards, health staff and residents in the evening. “Some people asked him to accompany the health staff, but he was initially reluctant and pelted stones at us. In due course, his agitation subsided and he agreed to go to the hospital with health workers had worn PPE to avoid infection,” an eyewitness said. A Darjeeling police officer said Rai seemed to be very tired. “He was no longer in a position to run. He has been sent to the district hospital in Kalimpong,” the cop said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-411
14-08-2020||West Bengal||Error in compiling Covid tests leads to mix-up in identity||A 38-year-old police constable was told on August 10 that he was Covid positive but was addressed by a different name over the phone. A 65-year-old man from Hooghly’s Bhadreswar was called up around the same time and told that he had tested positive but was addressed by the cop’s name. Another person’s address was mistaken for the cop’s. The man is traceless as the centre where he gave his swab sample didn’t have his contact number and address. All three men are Covid positive. But the mix-up in names and addresses, it has emerged, was a result of errors in compiling Covid test reports by Hooghly district officials. The Telegraph accessed records that showed the name of the traceless person tagged alongside the cop’s address and phone number. The cop’s name was tagged with details of the Bhadreswar resident. The cop said he got calls from the state health department, local police and block level officials on August 10 and was addressed by a different name. When Arambagh SDO Nripendra Singh came to know about this, he sent a corrected report to the cop. “It was a mistake of the lab...might have happened at the level of the data entry operator. We corrected it immediately. I have told officials concerned to be aware about such errors,” said Singh. Officials are still trying to decipher how the two names got mixed up as each had given his swab sample at a different hospital. A senior official in Hooghly said if errors led to a mix-up of positive and negative results, it would have created a big mess. “People entering data should be more alert,” he said. Some officials also said that authorities collecting swab samples should keep an identity proof of each individual.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-411
14-08-2020||West Bengal||Plan for Covid antigen test on Siliguri traders ||The administration has decided to conduct antigen tests on traders at five prominent markets in Siliguri to arrest the spread of Covid-19. Siliguri subdivisional officer Sumanta Sahay said on Thursday that the decision had been taken as several Covid cases had been reported from the markets. According to sources, the antigen tests would be conducted on traders at the regulated market (the  principal wholesale hub of fruits, vegetables and fish), Nayabazar (the wholesale market of grocery items), Bidhan Market and the markets in Champasari and Gurungbusty. On Thursday, the SDO held a meeting with members of the traders’ bodies at the five markets where he had disclosed the decision on the antigen tests. Officials of the Darjeeling district health department said they had started antigen tests in some urban and rural areas in the hills. The hill subdivisions of Darjeeling, Kurseong and Mirik have nine blocks. The decision, they said, has been taken as fresh Covid cases have been reported from the hills on a regular basis in the past two-three weeks. “Antigen tests have started in some blocks in the hills and   the municipal areas of Mirik and Kurseong. We are keeping a watch over the situation and if required, more areas would be identified for such tests,” said a health official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-411
