15-08-2020||West Bengal||Web-series by students for virtual tour of campus||Students of Gargi Memorial Institute of Technology, which is a part of the JIS Group, have made a 30-episode web series to inform the admission aspirants more about the 10-year-old institute and the facilities offered on its Baruipur campus. The web-series, focusing on various aspects of campus life, was made so that aspiring students and their parents can get to know about the institute even without visiting it, said Bodhisattva Banerjee, vice-chairman of the private engineering institute. “The pandemic has restricted movement of people... So, the web series is part of an attempt to give a virtual tour of the campus,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-409
15-08-2020||West Bengal||Gautam Deb warns action over illegal structures at Bidhan Market ||An alleged attempt by some traders of Bidhan Market here to build new shops illegally has drawn criticism from state tourism minister Gautam Deb who has decided to take steps against them. Bidhan Market is the largest retail hub in the city with over 3,800 shops and several makeshift stalls. The land on which the market is situated is owned by the Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority (SJDA) and most traders do not have ownership claim on the plot. “I have come to know about some illegal constructions at the market. We will not allow encroachment of land and have asked the district magistrate of Darjeeling and the chief executive officer of the SJDA to remove all such constructions. The drive will be carried out after Independence Day and I will be present there,” the minister said here on Friday. “We have sympathy for the traders whose businesses have been affected during the pandemic. But that does not mean somebody will encroach on the land and set up unauthorised shops. We plan to revamp the entire market and the state has sanctioned Rs 50 crore for it in 2012. We are still sticking to the plan and no unlawful construction will be allowed at the market,” added Deb. While the minister sounded agitated over the alleged constructions, representatives of the traders’ association at the market have denied it. “No illegal structure has been built at the market. We always keep a close watch on the entire market area to prevent such practices,” said Bapi Saha, secretary, Bidhan Market Byabsayi Samity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-409
15-08-2020||West Bengal||Centre push for Bengal on to confer land rights Darjeeling hills residents||A senior official of the Union ministry of rural development has sent a letter to the principal secretary of the land and land reforms department of Bengal, asking him to take necessary steps for conferring land rights on people living in the Darjeeling hills. The letter was sent by G.L. Gupta, a joint director in the land resources department of the ministry. Land rights have been the longstanding demand of the hill residents. “As land is a state subject, the official has sent the letter to the principal secretary of the department concerned. He has sought appropriate action with regard to conferment of land ownership rights and also mentioned that the issue has been raised in the Parliament by Raju Bista, the BJP MP of Darjeeling, and the state government should send a reply to the MP on the issue,” said a source in the state government. In the Darjeeling hills and at some places in the foothills like Alipurduar, most of the residents, both urban and rural, do not have rights to their land. Time and again, the issue was raised by different political parties and political experts feel it would be raised again ahead of the Assembly polls next year. “As people in the Darjeeling hills and some areas of the Terai and the Dooars do not have the land rights, they are denied numerous facilities and schemes provided by state and central governments. It also leaves them vulnerable to eviction without compensation. That is why I had raised the issue in Parliament on July 18. It is high time that the state government takes necessary steps and resolve the issue,” said Bista. The move is seen as yet another attempt by the BJP to castle Trinamul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-409
15-08-2020||West Bengal||Govt ramps up Covid tests among women in Purulia||The district administration used Kanyashree Day on Friday to ramp up Covid-19 tests among women. The decision to have more Covid tests among women was taken after a survey revealed that the percentage of tests was far lower among women when compared to men. The district administration made a start on Friday by arranging for Covid tests for around 500 schoolgoing girls on the occasion of Kanyashree Day. Purulia has so far tested around 38,000 people and of them, 9,000 are women. However, the number of men who have tested positive for Covid stand at 1.35 per cent, while it is 1.05 per cent among women. On Friday, girls were called in small groups to the 20 Kanyashree Bhavan in the district and samples were collected for rapid antigen tests. Four girls were found positive during the rapid test and asked to be in home quarantine as they were asymptomatic. Officials said the number of girls found positive indicates there were many girls and women in rural areas who are living with Covid-19 but are yet to be tested. “We focused on the testing among women as they are the primary care givers in the families. If women are kept beyond the tests, it would be easier to spread the virus among the children and elderly persons. We have chalked out a plan to find out women with mild symptoms with help of these Kanyashree girls and do their tests. We would also do rapid tests among asymptomatic patients also,” said Rahul Majumdar, the Purulia district magistrate. Officials said Kanyashree girls were involved in campaigning against child marriage and various social stigmas in rural areas since the project was launched by chief minister Mamata Banerjee in 2012. “These Kanyashree girls can campaign at villages to increase awareness among women,” said an official. “It is crucial to get more women tested for Covid. Actually our goal is to find women with Covid-19 who remain untraced so far.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-409
15-08-2020||West Bengal||Independence Day tourist rush to Digha||Hoteliers in East Midnapore’s Digha and Mandarmani have a reason to smile after almost six months as tourists are back in decent numbers at the sea resorts to celebrate Independence Day. The outbreak of Covid-19 and subsequent lockdown had taken their toll on the hospitality industry in the region. Hoteliers in East Midnapore feel Independence Day will kick off the flow of tourists to the region and the humble increase in footfall this weekend is giving them hope after a long lull. “About half of our hotels have stayed open since July in spite of having occupancy between 10 per cent and 20 per cent. That jumped to about 35 per cent this weekend. So, we are quite hopeful even though it’s a low number,” said a hotelier in Mandarmani. “We hope I-Day will set the stage for the rebound of tourist industry here. The virus is still a threat, but people seem to be getting used to living with it.” In Digha, hoteliers say almost all hotels that were open had received 50 per cent bookings for this weekend. In normal times, Independence Day usually contributes to a temporary 100 per cent hike in bookings on average. At the 108-key Sea Hawk hotel, 35 per cent rooms have been booked from Friday through Sunday. “Following the July 1 reopening, most hotels saw an unimpressive response. That is understandable because most tourists rely on trains to get here. But we are seeing people driving in because even they need a break from the virus,” said assistant manager of the hotel Debkumar Jana. In Mandarmani, where private vehicles are the mode of transport for most guests even in normal times, the 85-key hotel Sonar Bangla received 50 per cent bookings this weekend. “We are operating according to Covid protocol and are almost at full capacity. We hear smaller hotels are also receiving bookings, which is encouraging to hear. We desperately need it,” said manager Sirsendu Das. In Digha, hoteliers’ association joint secretary Dipra Das Chakraborty admitted that Digha did not have the advantage of private transport that a larger share of Mandarmani visitors had, but agreed “30 per cent occupancy was a blessing in such times”. “This is encouraging for our region’s economy and extremely vital,” said Digha-Sankarpur development authority vice-chairman Akhil Giri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-409
15-08-2020||West Bengal||3,035 new Covid cases in Bengal||Bengal on Friday logged highest number of daily Covid-19 cases and tests at 3,035 and 31,317, respectively, as the total tally of patients went past 1.1 lakh, of whom over 81,000 had recovered and 2,319 died. Prior to this, the most number of cases were 2,997 recorded on Thursday. The previous figure of maximum tests had been 30,032, which were also reported on Thursday. The state also logged 2,572 recoveries and 60 deaths in a 24-hour period ending at 9am on Friday. Of the 3,035 new cases, 615 were reported from Calcutta and 606 from North 24-Parganas. But Calcutta and North 24-Parganas recorded recoveries at 635 and 546, respectively. Hence, total number of active cases fell again in the two districts. According to sources , the two most high-incidence districts have been showing signs of a turnaround because of a slew of measures to contain the outbreak. “On Sunday, Calcutta had 7,041 active cases, North 24-Parganas had 5,774. Today, Calcutta has 6,557, while North 24-Parganas has 5,471. There has been a remarkable progress over the past five days. But these are still early signs,” said a Bengal minister. “The share of these two districts in the total active cases fell from 48.58 per cent to 44.79 in just five days. The recovery rate of these two districts put together has gone up from 70.58 to 75.06 per cent in the five days,” he added. Bengal’s recovery rate on Friday soared to 73.57, ahead of the national rate of 71.36 per cent. With substantial ramp-up in tests, the state nearly trebled its daily testing in a month from 11,388 to 31,317. The tests per million count was almost doubled from 7,221 to 13,870. The total test count has risen from 6.5 lakh to 12.48 lakh in a month. “Now, we are looking at the goal of 40,000 in daily testing,” said the minister. Owing to the sharp spike in new cases, the positive confirmation rate is now 8.84 per cent, which was 5.3 a month ago. Of the total 2,319 deaths reported, Calcutta alone accounted for 1,036, with 21 till 9am. North 24-Parganas reported a total of 540 deaths, 16 of them on Friday. The state government reported 2,057 deaths (88.7 per cent) as those with comorbidity “present”. In a month, there were deaths of 1,319 Covid-19 patients, of whom 1,242 had co-morbidity, according to the government. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is now 2.1, still behind the national rate of 1.95 per cent. Calcutta’s mortality rate is 3.33. Of 11,775 beds earmarked for Covid-19 patients at 84 dedicated hospitals, 35.58 per cent were occupied on Friday. Besides, 16.2 per cent of 11,507 beds at 200 safe homes were occupied. Telemedicine consultation for the pandemic was provided to over 70,000, including 3,928, in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-410
15-08-2020||West Bengal||Internal security advisor probes BSF trouble near Bangladesh border||Rina Mitra, the principal advisor on internal security in Bengal, visited a village near the Bangladesh border in the Tufanganj subdivision of Cooch Behar district on Friday and spoke to residents to address their concerns following the death of a youth in BSF firing. During her visit to the Madhya Balabhut village, the retired IPS officer was accompanied by a clutch of senior civil and police officials. On August 9, Shahinur Haque, a 19-year-old youth, had died after a team of the Border Security Force (BSF) had opened fire at the village. A group of cattle smugglers had attacked the BSF team which made them fire gunshots, the BSF later said. The incident sparked protests against the BSF’s alleged highhandedness, following which minister Rabindranath Ghosh sought the chief minister’s intervention. Mitra spoke to the villagers and BSF officials. Before heading for the village, she had also held a meeting at the circuit house here, said sources. “The principal advisor collected all relevant information during her visit. She has also assured us that the matter will be looked into. We have told her how a section of the BSF personnel pose problems for residents,” said Ghosh. Political observers said Mitra had been sent to the village by the state to win the confidence of the people dwelling near the India-Bangladesh border. “Before Parliament elections last year, allegations had been levelled against some BSF personnel that they were trying to influence people to support the BJP in Cooch Behar. Now it seems Trinamul wants to send a message to the villagers,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-410
15-08-2020||West Bengal||Political rivals march together for school fee waiver in Durgapur||Leaders of the BJP, Trinamul Congress, CPM and the Congress walked together here on Friday in a rare show of solidarity with the Durgapur School Guardians’ Welfare Society demanding waiver of school fees. BJP West Burdwan district president Lakshman Ghorui, Trinamul leader and MLA Biswanath Padial, CPM MLA Santosh Deb Roy and Congress leader Debesh Chakraborty, along with activists of the four parties, walked in the silent march to submit a deputation to the subdivisional officer of Durgapur Anirban Koley around 12pm on Friday. However, none of the leaders, other than those of the CPM and the Congress, were seen interacting with each other. As photographers trained their cameras at the rally, Padial stepped behind the row of leaders to avoid being caught in the same frame with arch rivals. None of them also agreed to comment on the unusual show the town saw on Friday and said they had extended their support to the guardians as their protest was “justified”. “We have been supporting the guardians since they began their movement as their demand is justified. It is not a political platform or a political issue. It is a matter of humanity,” said Padial. He said it didn’t matter to him if other political parties extended their support or walked in the rally. The CPM and the Congress leaders also held similar views. “We have been with the guardians since the beginning. It will be wrong to drag politics into this. We are part of the movement because we feel the demand of the guardians is genuine,” CPM MLA Deb Roy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-410
15-08-2020||West Bengal||Birbhum police start probe into blast at Dubrajpur police station||Birbhum police have started a probe into a blast that injured a visitor inside the Dubrajpur police station on August 10. Police sources said the injured had been admitted to a private hospital and was undergoing treatment. Senior police officers said the explosion had taken place on August 10 morning, but they came to know about it late as it had not been reported immediately. “We came to know about an explosion inside the Dubrajpur police station. We are investigating the case to find out what actually happened there,” said Shyam Singh, district police chief. The sources said the explosion had taken place inside an almirah at the officers’ room. “We don’t keep any explosive in almirah and all seized items are stored at malkhana. We suspect a battery or condenser of a ceiling fan exploded,” said a police officer in Dubrajpur. The sources claimed it was an old building and the electrical wiring was also old.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-410
15-08-2020||West Bengal||Erosion leads to evacuation near Samserganj||An 800m stretch of the Ganga’s right bank here eroded early on Friday morning, forcing at least 10 families to vacate their homes and dismantle the houses from which bricks and fixtures were salvaged. An outpost of the Border Security Force’s 76th battalion outpost was also washed away, leaving a jawan missing for over half-an-hour. Residents of Samserganj’s Dhanghora were awaken around 1am on Friday to thrashing sounds and a cry of help from an adult male voice. “We heard a scream of ‘save me’ from near the zero point. A group of us responded but were initially hesitant because civilians are not allowed there,” said villager Barjahan Sheikh. “But soon, we realised the gravity of the situation and launched a search. We located the jawan half-an-hour later. Luckily, he knew swimming and could come out of the current,” Barjahan added. Residents of Dhanghora said the makeshift bamboo outpost with a 5ft height was usually manned by two jawans atop and two resting below during the night shift. Early on Friday, one of the resting jawans was washed away by the flood water that claimed a large stretch of the river bank. On Friday morning, at least 10 families, whose homes were within 150-200m of the damage, voluntarily demolished their homes, removed fixtures and moved out of the area with their belongings. Sources said at least 20 moored fishing boats carrying nets and other equipment had also been lost in the sudden erosion. “I lost all equipment for my livelihood. I docked around 8pm as usual last night and returned home. But it was a different scene this morning and all the boats were missing,” said fisherman Prabhash Halder. Samserganj block development officer Joyjit Chakraborty said engineers had been dispatched to the site on Friday morning and were surveying the area. “I will request the irrigation department to put in place safety measures in the area in order to prevent future erosion. I will survey the area on Friday evening,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-410
15-08-2020||West Bengal||HC grants bail to journalist arrested for telecasting alleged TMC corruption||Calcutta High Court on Friday granted bail to a journalist, who had been arrested from his residence at Arambagh in Hooghly after telecasting news items on alleged corruption by Trinamul Congress leaders. State authorities, however, claimed that journalist Safiqul Islam had demanded money from a realtor and threatened to telecast news against him if the payment was not made. A division bench of Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Aniruddha Roy granted bail to Islam, who runs a web channel. The court also granted bail to the cameraman of the news portal, Suraj Ali Khan. Justice Jaymalya Bagchi had last week expressed concern over the alleged over-action of police and asked the director general of police to file a detailed report in three months on the arrests of the journalist, his wife and the cameraman. The wife had already been granted bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-410
15-08-2020||West Bengal||State bid to speed up road work in north Bengal||The Mamata Banerjee government has taken up the responsibility of removing the hurdles the National Highways Authority of India has been facing in executing a major road project stuck for over 20 years in north Bengal. Nabanna has become proactive, sources said, because it realised the strategic importance of the road in the wake of changes in the Indo-China relationship in recent months. The project is the Bengal stretch of the East West Corridor — a 3,300km highway that would connect Porbandar of Gujarat with Silchar of Assam. The principal deterrent has been the issue of land. While at some places, people are reluctant to part with their land, there are also some stretches where people who had earlier allowed acquisition of their land are demanding more compensation now. “It is difficult for NHAI to handle such a situation,” said a source. The chief minister, sources said, has passed a clear instruction to Gautam Deb, the state tourism minister, to take the initiative and help the NHAI so that they can finish the project. Multiple sources said the state government had become proactive because of the strategic importance of the road, particularly after the recent activities of the Chinese troops near the border, whether in Dokalam or in Ladakh. “Time and again, the need to have a four-lane highway to Northeast has been emphasised at different levels. It is for the same reason that the need to build bridges over rivers like the Teesta and doubling of railway tracks was raised,” said a retired army officer in Siliguri. However, though a new bridge has opened over the Teesta and the doubling of railway tracks is in progress, there are several stretches in north Bengal along the alignment of the corridor which are yet to be widened into a four-lane road. Deb confirmed that he had held a meeting with NHAI officials on Thursday where he took stock of the situation. “The project has finished in most of the stretches but it is yet to complete between Ghoshpukur and Salsalabari, which is a 153km-long.  There are certain land issues at places like Dhupguri (in Jalpaiguri district) and in two blocks of Alipurduar district which we have planned to sort out at the earliest so that work can be finished,” Deb said. Ghoshpukur is on NH31 and NH 27 (as the corridor has been named) and is on the outskirts of Siliguri ,while Salsalabari is near the Bengal-Assam border in Alipurduar. In north Bengal, the corridor that enters from Bihar and heads for Assam, moves over a stretch of 270km, of which over half has been four-laned so far. He also mentioned that work on a 10km-road that would bypass the Islampur town is in progress and would be operational by the end of this year. Islampur, a town in North Dinajpur district, is close to the Chicken’s Neck, that is, the stretch between the district and its neighbouring Darjeeling district where the width of India is slimmest, with Nepal in north and Bangladesh in the south. In recent months, this is the first time that the state has made a move to help NHAI, a central agency. “The chief minister has instructed me to work on the issue. The NHAI has also agreed to build service roads in some areas as was demanded by local people,” said Deb. A former bureaucrat of the state has welcomed the initiative. “It is good that the state government has realised the importance of the highway. Along with strategic issues, a four-lane highway moving through north Bengal will also expedite movement of goods and passenger traffic in the region,” he said. NHAI officials, when asked about the project’s status, said it would take some more years to finish it. “We are preparing a detailed project report of the Dhupguri-Falakata stretch and work has started between Falakata and Salsalabari. The work is also in progress in some other areas of the route. Altogether, we feel it would take another three to four years for us to finish the project,” said Sanjeev Sharma, a project director of NHAI posted in Siliguri. Additional reporting by Anirban Choudhury||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-410
