17-08-2020||West Bengal||BJP ‘shield’ in wall protest||Visva-Bharati authorities on Sunday allegedly roped in BJP workers, along with over 150 staff and teachers, as a “shield” against a protest by residents, traders and students against a proposed boundary wall for the Pous Mela ground, violating Covid-19 protocols. Visva-Bharati officials, sources said, have taken up the initiative to put up walls around its land and Pous Mela ground is a part of it. Some Rs 70 lakh have been sanctioned from the Santiniketan Trust so far for the purpose. But the move to put up a wall near the eastern side of the century-old Pous Mela ground did not go down well with many traders, artisans, students and residents who said the area was used by all as a playground and walling it up went against the principles of varsity founder Rabindranath Tagore. Tension erupted over the wall on Saturday morning, when protesters and the contractor’s agents clashed, resulting in police complaints filed by both sides. Varsity officials alleged on Saturday that traders from Bolpur came to the site and stopped the boundary wall work by intimidating and thrashing the contractors. After the incident, varsity authorities allegedly asked staff and teachers to gather at Pous Mela grounds, and called up BJP workers to act as a shield against those protesting the wall’s construction, varsity student leaders alleged. “At least 25 BJP workers came on Sunday to stop our protest. It was a plan by authorities to use the BJP on campus. It is shameful for the varsity. The VC was present,” Somnath Sow, an SFI leader at Visva-Bharati, said. A well-known BJP leader from Bolpur, Ujjal Majumdar, admitted that he and other party members had been present. “But we went to the Mela ground to back Visva-Bharati not as BJP workers, but as alumni,” said Majumdar, one of coordinators of BJP’s Birbhum outreach drive launched by the Syama Prasad Mookerjee Research Foundation. Officiating public relations officer of Visva-Bharati Anirban Sircar sent a copy of an undertaking of the university to a WhatsApp group of mediapersons on Sunday, claiming: “Visva-Bharati has to inform Honble NGT (National Green Tribunal) by 19th August 2020 whether the work (boundary wall) has started or not.” The order further read, “...Visva-Bharati will demarcate the Mela ground and barricade the same so that the Mela ground will be a separate self-contained unit from the university and locality.” Sircar did not take calls or reply to texts from this paper about the BJP’s involvement or Covid protocol violations. Sailen Mishra, an advocate and Birbhum-based secretary of the Association for Protection of Democratic Rights, filed a complaint against the “violation of Covid protocol” on Sunday, naming vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty and others. “It was a planned mass gathering by the VC and other authorities violating Covid protocol,” he said. District police chief Shyam Singh said they received the mass-gathering complaint and two cases over the wall issue filed by a trader and a contractor. Probe is on, he said. An elderly Santiniketan resident, Suvaluxmi Goswamy, said she was pushed around by varsity staff when she came to the protest site. “I went to talk to the VC to request him not to put up walls as it goes against the culture of Santiniketan. He did not hear me and his men stopped me forcibly,” said Goswamy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-408
17-08-2020||West Bengal||INTTUC president dodges query on minimum wages for tea workers||The president of Trinamul’s trade union front Inttuc on Sunday came down heavily on rival tea trade unions here on Sunday but dodged a direct reply on fixing minimum wages for over three lakh tea workers of the state. Inttuc president Dola Sen, who was here on Sunday to hold meetings of her trade union, said: “In the tea industry, some trade unions under the banner of Joint Forum resort to movements to prove their own existence. They are losing their foothold and so indulge in such activities. Tea workers are aware of it and they have realised that it is the Mamata Banerjee government that has stood by them.” The Joint Forum is an outfit of 26 tea unions other than Trinamul-backed ones. Sen stressed the state’s intervention that saw a hike in tea workers’ daily wages from Rs 67 in 2011 to Rs 176 now. The Inttuc president, however, dodged a direct reply when asked about minimum wage. Back in 2015, the state government had formed a committee to fix and recommend the minimum wage rate for tea workers. It has not yet reached a decision so far. “It is necessary to consult with experts, work on parameters and consider a number of factors before fixing the wage. The demand was never raised when the Left were in power. We hope it will be decided in due course,” said Sen. She also spoke on doles by the state government to the tea population in the form of food grain and infrastructure upgrades such as drinking water facilities and roads. Sen’s visit to north Bengal at a time when the BJP plans to recast its focus in the tea belt from where it got overwhelming support in the Lok Sabha polls last year, is significant, hinted Trinamul insiders. “The chief minister (Mamata Banerjee) has many decisions and announcements for the tea belt, but we could not win the support of most tea workers and their families. It seems that Trinamul now intends to engage its trade union arm to garner support ahead of the Assembly polls,” said an insider. In north Bengal’s tea belt, Trinamul and Inttuc also face the problem of plenty trade unions — at least three trade unions claim to be affiliated to the Inttuc. In the past, even Mamata had said there should be only one union.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-408
17-08-2020||West Bengal||26kg gold found in waist belts, 3 held||The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) seized gold bars worth around Rs 14 crore on Saturday. Three men, all residents of Maharastra, have been arrested with the gold bars that had been smuggled into India from Myanmar. The trio had been carrying 160 gold bars, weighing around 26.5kg, hidden in custom-made waist belts, to Delhi. The DRI sources said they acted on a tip-off and raided the Brahmaputra Mail as the train reached the New Jalpaiguri station. The train had been headed for Delhi from Northeast. Those arrested have been identified as Saurav Samarao Sikhandey, Sandip Thappa Naraley and Sasikant Tanhaji Fute. “A team of the DRI conducted the raid and intercepted the three men, who were then taken to the DRI office from the railway station. As they were searched, the gold bars were found in specially made waist belts that all three had been wearing. They had taken the train from Northeast and were smuggling the gold to Delhi. It seems that they are associated with a gold smuggling racket,” said Tridip Saha, the lawyer representing the DRI. All the three were produced in a court here on Saturday. The court heard the case and ordered them judicial custody. In March this year, the DRI had made a similar gold seizure here, rading two buses of the North Bengal State Transport Corporation to seize 5.83 kilos of gold worth Rs 2.53 crores. Two persons had been arrested then.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-408
17-08-2020||West Bengal||Bhutan to ramp up Covid tests in business capital||The spike in Covid-19 cases in Bhutan in the past one week has prompted its government to start mass testing and hire extra health workforce for the job. So far, 138 Covid-19 infections and zero deaths have been reported in the Himalayan country. Last Tuesday, Bhutan announced an indefinite nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of the pandemic after it was found that a young woman from Gelephu who tested positive moved through different locations while carrying the infection. “The number of cases was 113 on August 11 when the lockdown was announced, but climbed to 138 as of Sunday. This spike made the government plan tests in Phuentsholing. Those who have been to Phuentsholing on or after July 27 till now, and have (Covid) symptoms are advised to get tested,” said a source from Bhutan. As a number of cases have been reported in Phuentsholing, Bhutan’s business capital, its government decided to engage an extra team of 50 health workers in and around the city for mass tests. Phuentsholing, with a population of 27,000, shares international border with Jaigaon, a town with around 50,000 people in Alipurduar district of Bengal. “Testing will let us know the extent of transmission. In the first phase, some 7,000 samples, one from each household, will be tested. Then, all of Phuentsholing will be tested,” the source said. The Bhutan health ministry also issued a notice to immediately employ MBBS graduates, nurses, lab technicians and radiographers for X-rays and USG. Bhutan, with around 7.5 lakh people, has nearly 6,000 healthcare workers. The country’s health bulletin 2020 puts the number of health workforce at 5,901 in 2019, including 376 doctors, 1,187 medical technologists and technicians, 620 health assistants and 1,364 nurses and other personnel. The Bhutan government’s decision of mass testing in Phuentsholing triggered a similar demand in Jaigaon, where traders and cops are among those who contracted Covid. “If the Bhutan government can make this decision, why can’t there be similar mass-scale tests on our side?” asked a Jaigaon trader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-408
17-08-2020||West Bengal||Covid patient dies, hospital head in dock||A 65-year-old Covid-19 patient succumbed to acute respiratory trouble while waiting in an ambulance for admission to Boroma Covid hospital at Panskura, East Midnapore, on Saturday night. The death came an hour after he had been referred to Panskura by the Tamluk district hospital allegedly without a proper inquiry about bed availability. The patient’s family on Sunday alleged that Tamluk district hospital superintendent Gopal Das had provided them with “insufficient information”, owing to which the sexagenarian was left waiting outside the Panskura hospital for over 30 minutes during which he had died. “When we arrived at Boroma, which is 40km away from Tamluk, a hospital doctor checked on my father and informed us he was in an acute condition. But no beds were available and the only other option was Chandipur, 60km in the opposite direction,” said the daughter of the deceased. “We were shocked at being refused admission at Boroma, but it is the officials at Tamluk who should have directed us correctly in the first place,” she added. Sources said the patient had been admitted to the Tamluk hospital with respiratory trouble on Saturday morning and his rapid test results returned positive on Saturday night. “When we were informed of the result on Saturday night, we requested the superintendent to let my father stay the night because it was late. But he assured us that he would be admitted to Boroma as soon as we arrived there. He said he had taken the necessary measures,” said the patient’s daughter. The patient arrived at Boroma around 11pm on Saturday and died half-an-hour later. The relatives had been told that there was no bed or ventilator available at the hospital. Opposition parties have demanded Das’s transfer. “This man is unfit for his job. Even though the district magistrate has pulled him up for not doing his job properly, he has still not changed,” said CPM district secretary Niranjan Sihi. BJP district secretary Nabarun Nayak said: “We demand his transfer immediately. This is a deeply disappointing incident.” BJP sources said the party would organise protests at the hospital if Das was not transferred soon. The family of the deceased hadn’t filed a police complaint till late on Sunday. Asked, the Tamluk district hospital superintendent said he had acted “according to protocol”. “I contacted the Boroma hospital in advance. So, I am unsure why they were denied admission. We did not do anything wrong on our end,” he said. Chief medical officer Nitai Mondal said the health department would launch an investigation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-408
17-08-2020||West Bengal||Barrage gap hits launch ride||Two launches brought by the state transport department for safer and faster journey between two river ports of Malda and Murshidabad districts could not be introduced for service as the height of the vessels surpassed the gap between the water level and the sluice gates of Farakka Barrage. The launches first needed to move from one side to another side of the barrage on the Ganga and only then, services can be launched between the Parlalpur Ghat in the Baishnabnagar block of Malda and Dhulian Ghat in Murshidabad. The two ghats, which are on the left and right banks of the Ganga, are located downstream the barrage. Such a situation has made the district administration of Malda plan of bringing in launches which have lesser heights. Sources said both the launches had reached Farakka from Hooghly about a fortnight ago. Each of the launches is 60ft long and 15ft wide with a height 20ft. A launch can carry 80 passengers. “Around Rs 4 crore have been spent by the state government to buy the launches. It was planned to introduce the launches to ferry people between Parlalpur Ghat of Baishnabnagar block in Malda and Dhulian Ghat in Murshidabad. As of now, around 2,000 people travel through on the route in motorised country boats every day. The launches were brought to ensure a safe journey to these people,” said an official of the administration.“The problem has cropped up as the launches reached Farakka the upstream of the barrage. As these vehicles tried to cross the barrage from under the sluice gates, it was found that the gap (between the water and the gate) is 15ft, while each launch has a height of 20ft,” the official added. According to him, there are two options. One is to send back the launches and get smaller ones as the administration has planned. “The other is to get those launches downstream through a turnaround route. But it is an elaborate process and we might even need the help of Bangladesh as the Ganga enters the country before meeting Bay of Bengal,” he said. The launches were brought to prevent accidents like boat capsise on the Ganga. Earlier, such incidents had happened in Malda and led to loss of peoples’ lives. In one year, there were two incidents of boat capsise in Chanchal and Baishnabnagar, which had led to the death of around 10 people.Rajarshi Mitra, the district magistrate of Malda, said: “We could not introduce the launch services between the neighbouring districts because of this problem. That is why we have requested the state to send us smaller launches with shorter heights and with capacity of around 40 passengers.” In Malda, boat services are available at a number of other locations of the district along the Ganga. Among them are the service between Jharkhand from Panchanandapur Ghat in Kaliachak-II block and Manikchak Ghat in Manikchak block. Also, boat services are available in Chanchal and Harishchandrapur blocks on the Mahananda and Fulhar rivers. The technical issue that has halted introduction of launch services between Malda and Murshidabad has left the daily commuters disappointed. “Journeying by launch is always much safer and quicker than boats. We had learnt about the launch service but later came to know that the launches could not cross the barrage. It is disappointing. We find this water route easy to access but the risk of travelling over the Ganga in a small motorboat is always there,” said Tarun Mandal, a cattle trader from Parlalpur who often visits Dhulian in Murshidabad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-408
17-08-2020||West Bengal||CBSE challenges order on IISER school||The Central Board of Secondary Education has filed an appeal before a division bench of Calcutta High Court, challenging an interim order that asked the CBSE to issue provisional affiliation to a school on the IISER-Calcutta’s Mohanpur campus in Nadia by August 14 so that it could register students who had passed Class VIII this year. The interim order had been issued by Justice Soumen Sen on July 30 following an application submitted by Satikanta Guha Foundation (SGF), which runs the Garden High School-IISER. In the appeal filed on August 13, the CBSE contended that Justice Sen had passed an “erroneous” and “unreasonable order” by “taking irrelevant factors into consideration” and ignoring relevant affiliation bylaws. The board also reiterated the need for a mandatory lease deed over the land where the school is located, which Justice Sen had rejected in his July 30 order. While the respondent, SGF, declined comments, IISER officials and guardians of the students said the CBSE was contradicting its own bylaw provision in order to harass students. In the July 30 order, the court had rejected the need for a lease deed owing to the existence of a formal agreement between IISER-K and the SGF on November 19, 2014.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-408
17-08-2020||West Bengal||BJP-TMC clash in I-Day murder protest||Eight motorcycles were vandalised and at least three persons injured as BJP and Trinamul workers clashed in a village in Hooghly district on Sunday amid a 12-hour strike called by the BJP to protest a party worker’s murder on Independence Day. BJP worker Sudarshan Pramanik was killed in Hooghly’s Khanakul on Saturday when rival party workers clashed as their respective Independence Day venues were less than 10 metres apart. The saffron party alleged Pramanik was killed by Trinamul supporters. Trinamul claimed Pramanik died because of infighting in the BJP. Six persons have been arrested for the murder. On Sunday, a clash erupted in Khanakul’s Jakra village when BJP workers allegedly hurled crude bombs at the home of panchayat chief Sanjay Dolui. The BJP alleged that TMC attacked “peacefully campaigning” BJP workers. “BJP workers armed with crude bombs first started shutting down shops in our area and finally hurled bombs at the house of our panchayat chief. People who protested against the violence were also attacked,” said Abhijit Bag, Trinamul block president in Khanakul.“The BJP men also forced the poor people to stop their work in jobs under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme,” Bag added. BJP sources claimed Trinamul intentionally attacked workers who were “campaigning peacefully” in support of the strike. “Trinamul attacked and beat up our party workers in Khanakul. They ransacked several motorcycles. One of our party workers is seriously injured and admitted to the Arambagh subdivisional hospital,” said Biman Ghosh, the BJP’s Arambagh president. Six persons were arrested in connection with the murder on the Independence Day and eight more in connection with the Sunday strike. “We arrested six persons accused in the murder case. Those arrested for putting up roadblocks were released on bail,” said Nirmal Kumar Das, subdivisional police officer in Arambagh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-408
17-08-2020||West Bengal||Over 3,000 new cases, tests rise in Bengal||Bengal on Sunday clocked 3,066 new Covid-19 cases and 51 deaths, but also did 32,286 tests to cross 13 lakh. The state has speeded up Covid-19 tests, conducting a lakh in three days and 13,14,772 in all. Bengal also reported 2,935 recoveries on Sunday. The total Covid count now is 1.16 lakh, including nearly 87,000 recoveries and 2,428 deaths. Bengal’s recovery rate is 74.48 per cent, higher than the national 72.41. “Chief minister Mamata Banerjee set a target of 25,000 tests a day by August 15. We reached that long ago and did 34,214 tests on August 15,” said a minister. He added that active cases in Calcutta and North 24-Parganas continued to slide. Of the 3,066 new cases reported on Sunday, 563 were from Calcutta, while 560 were from North 24-Parganas. However, since they reported 678 and 598 recoveries, respectively, their total of active cases fell. “On Sunday, Calcutta had 7,041 active cases and North 24-Parganas had 5,774. Today, Calcutta has 6,517, while North 24-Parganas has 5,484. All our measures for checking the outbreak in these two districts seem to have started paying off,” said the minister. Bengal’s tests per million went up from 9,927 at the start of August to 14,609 on Sunday. “Now, we are looking at crossing 40,000 daily tests in a matter of days,” the minister said. Testing in Bengal began in early February and the state took over three-and-a-half months to get past 1 lakh, on May 19. “From there, we crossed 2 lakh in 12 days (on May 31), 3 lakh in 11 days (on June 11), 4 lakh in 10 days (on June 21), 5 lakh in 11 days (on July 2), 6 lakh in nine days (on July 11), 7 lakh in eight days (on July 19), 8 lakh in seven days (on July 26) and 9 lakh in six days (on August 1),” said the minister. “After that, we crossed 10 lakh (on August 5), 11 lakh (on August 9) and 12 lakh (on Thursday) in four days each. Now, we crossed 13 lakh in just three days,” said the minister. “At least another 5.2-6 lakh tests are likely in the second half of August. If we get there, we will have conducted 10 lakh tests in a month.” Owing to the sharp spike in new cases, the positive confirmation rate is now 8.86 per cent, which was 7.86 at the beginning of the month. Of the total 2,428 deaths reported, Calcutta alone accounted for 1,070, with 13 on Sunday 9am. North 24-Parganas reported a total of 565 deaths, 10 of them on Sunday. The state government reported 2,153, or 88.7 per cent, as deaths with comorbidity “present”. In August alone, there have so far been 847 reported deaths of Covid-19 infected people, of which 785 were co-morbid, according to the government. Bengal’s overall mortality rate improved to 2.08, but still lagged behind the national rate of 1.92 per cent. Calcutta’s mortality rate fell to 3.31. The state reported 36.15 per cent occupancy in the 11,775 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 84 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, beside 16.4 per cent in 11,507 beds of the 200 safe homes. Telemedicine consultation for the pandemic was provided to over 82,000, including 4,120 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-409
17-08-2020||West Bengal||Covid test rider to meet officials backfires||The West Midnapore district magistrate issued an order on Friday asking all visitors to secure Covid-19 negative reports before they met government officials, causing embarrassment to Nabanna as senior officials felt the directive would create panic among people and put unnecessary pressure on testing centres. Amid murmurs that the directive did not go down well with the top brass of the Bengal government, district magistrate Rashmi Kamal told The Telegraph on Sunday evening that “the order is being withdrawn”. Later in the evening, the notification was withdrawn and a fresh order asking people to go for tests if they developed symptoms was issued. The order issued on August 14 by the district magistrate’s office had pointed out that officers at district and block levels were getting infected and that’s why visitors were supposed to follow certain measures before meeting the officials. “If there is no symptom, you must undergo Covid-19 rapid Antigen test... If you have symptoms, you should go for RTPCR tests,” the order reads. While mentioning the names of the hospitals where such tests were being conducted, the DM had written that the visitors should have a negative report which would be valid for 10 days from the date of test. “If we officers refuse to meet visitors without a Covid negative report, people would panic. Furthermore, people come to us with their problems and if we don’t meet them during this crisis, where will they go?,” said a senior official. A top bureaucrat said there was no central instruction in this regard as such an order could put unnecessary pressure on the testing facilities. Sources said officers at the block levels, particularly BDOs, had put pressure on the DM to issue such an order. “Three BDOs and about 100 government employees have already been afflicted by Covid-19 and the district magistrate had issued the order keeping in mind the spread of the disease among the government officers,” said a source. Senior government officers at Nabanna said demanding a Covid-19 negative certificate couldn’t be a solution to deal with the problem at a time the chief minister herself was telling people not to panic. “People in rural areas would meet officers with their problem. If people cannot meet the BDOs, how can they submit their claims like they did after Amphan. The officers have to initiate safety measures to keep themselves safe,” said an official. After the order had been withdrawn, some BDOs were unhappy with the decision saying it would leave them in trouble as leaders of political parties often come to meet them with a group of people. Senior officers said the BDOs could issue orders to ensure that he or she would meet only one person at a time. “They can put in place a system of health screening of visitors like temperature check. They can make it clear that they won’t meet anybody without a mask. But demanding a negative certificate is too much,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-409
17-08-2020||West Bengal||Community youth clubs to fight Covid in East Midnapore ||The East Midnapore health department, assisted by a Haldia NGO, has started a health equipment distribution drive among 300-odd youth clubs in the district to enlist “responsible youths” in the community to fight Covid-19. Starting August 14, the clubs spread across 25 blocks and five municipalities started receiving a pulse oximeter, a blood pressure monitoring machine and a digital thermometer each from the Satish Samanta Welfare Trust. “In addition to creating a physical space where people can go for a check-up, youths can spread the word on symptoms, monitoring and the importance of rapid testing,” said an NGO official. The move by the health department comes in the wake of a spike in Covid-19 cases in July in the district. As of this week, the daily average of new cases stood close to 200, a near 100 per cent spike since early July. District cases stood at 3,662 as of this week, with active cases at 1,384. On Sunday alone, 173 cases were recorded. NGO officials are training youths to use the gadgets. “Our district is facing rising Covid numbers and we are trying our best to ramp up rapid testing. People need to realise the importance of tests when they suspect symptoms and we hope clubs help us in this,” said chief medical officer (health) Nitai Mondal, thanking the NGO for its help. The Bengal government dispenses Rs 2 lakh a year to each of the selected clubs for “health and sports activities”. Trinamul MLA in Ramnagar Akhil Giri lauded the decision, calling it “wise”. Gopal Samanta, secretary of Khelaghar Club in Tamluk,  said: “We espouse social causes along with sports, and these equipment will help us play a bigger role in community health.” A senior citizen from Panskura welcomed including youth clubs in the Covid fight. “These equipment aren’t normally available at people’s homes, so we are grateful that we can access them now at nearby clubs,” Sunil Kar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-409
