18-08-2020||West Bengal||Migrant workers turn Covid warriors||Migrant workers who were diagnosed with Covid-19 after returning to Bengal and recovered, have now been roped in by the state government to help hundreds of those suffering from the pandemic and are undergoing treatment at different hospitals in the metropolis, a senior government official said on Tuesday. Forty nine migrant workers have been inducted by the state government as members of its 'Covid-19 Warriors Club' to assist the coronavirus patients. They hail from Birbhum, Coochbehar, Purba and Paschim Medinipur, Murshidabadand and are given a monthly honorarioum of Rs 15,000, he said. "The primary job of these Covid-19 warriors is to keep up the morale of the patients currently undergoing treatment in the coronavirus wards in hospitals by sharing with them their own stories of recovery. These men will also provide updates to the relatives of those being treated," he said. Before being engaged for the work, these migrant labourers were trained for at least seven days about the safety measures while assisting a patient at the Covid-19 ward, the official said. "They are basically providing non-medical services mainly through counselling. They will also play a role in raising awareness about the contagion among the patients, their relatives and others," the official said. These men have also been trained also on how to change oxygen cylinders, check blood pressure, body temperature and a few other basics of treating a patient, he said. Currently these 49 Covid-19 warriors are working in different hospitals in the city, including the state-run Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, the Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute at Rajarhat, M R Bangur Hospital, the official said. All of them have been put up at the Youth Hostel at Salt Lake stadium. As per the state government's plans similar such clubs are being set up in every district, the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-406
18-08-2020||West Bengal||Visva Bharati to seek central forces from PM after violence||Visva Bharati authorities have decided to seek Prime Minister Narendra Modi's intervention for deployment of central security forces on its premises, a day after vandalism forced its closure, a top official of the prestigious institution said on Tuesday. The heritage university founded by Nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore was shut down indefinitely on Monday following violent protests against Visva Bharati's decision to construct a boundary wall around the venue of Poush Mela, a prestigious annual cultural event started more than a century ago. "The executive council (of the university) has unanimously decided to write to the honourable chancellor (the prime minister) for deployment of any of the central security forces to deal with security issues on the campus," one of its members said. According to Shyam Singh, the Birbhum district superintendent of police, nine persons have been arrested for campus violence. Palpable tension prevailed at the institute with barely any movement seen on Tuesday morning. Meanwhile, a senior professor of the institution has alleged a group of protesters ransacked his residence early Tuesday, hours after the decision to close the university was announced. Biplab Lohachowdhury, the head of the university's journalism department, also said that he has filed a police complaint, and written to the registrar of the institute to intimate him about the incident. A senior police officer in Birbhum said an FIR has been lodged in the case, and the matter was being looked into. "They opened the gate, broke window panes and hurled abuses at me for supporting the university in its decision to build a fence around the Poush Mela ground," he said. The central university has said that the decision to shut down the institute, however, will not affect the admission process, examinations and other emergency work. According to district officials, tension had been brewing in the area over the past few days as local traders were miffed at the university's decision to cancel this year's Poush Mela, a year-end annual fair that draws lakhs of visitors from across the world. Trouble erupted on Monday after the fencing work began on the fair ground, with thousands of protesters vandalising construction equipment and tearing down the main gate. The Trinamool Congress government condemned the violence, but threw its weight behind the protesters. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said she was against any construction at the site and asked the district administration to convene a meeting of the stakeholders. The university authorities, however, said a fence around the fair venue was required to honour an order of the National Green Tribunal, which had on November 1, 2017, said that a "barrier needs to be constructed to demarcate the Mela ground from the university and the locality." "Given the vandalism today leading to the destruction of university property worth several lakhs due to the complete absence of police deployment in spite of having two police stations within the university campus, it is decided to bring this to the notice of the Hon'ble Chancellor," a Visva Bharati statement had said on Monday. It said the university will remain closed till the situation improved. Meanwhile, TMC's Dubrajpur MLA Naresh Bauri, who was present at the site during the violence, said he had gone there as a former student of the institute and not a party leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-406
18-08-2020||West Bengal||Rs 9 lakh snatched in daylight in Kalyani||Three motorcycle-borne men snatched a bag containing Rs 9.24 lakh from a middle-aged man when he was going to deposit the money in his son-in-law’s bank account on Monday afternoon. Around 2pm, Azizul Islam, 56, was on his way to deposit the cash belonging to his son-in-law, who runs a poultry farm in the locality. As Azizul was walking to the bank with the cash, the trio on a motorbike waylaid him near Anukul More in the town’s Jogendranath Colony area. When Azizul resisted the goons’ attempts to take the bag containing the cash, the trio hit him on his head repeatedly with bricks till he slumped on the road unconscious. He has been hospitalised. The goons decamped with the cash, opening fire when some of the residents gave chase. No one was injured in the firing. Police are trying to identify the goons by examining CCTV camera footage. No one has been arrested so far. Ranjit Biswas, an eyewitness, said: “I saw two youths trying to snatch a bag from an elderly man while the other was hitting on his head with a brick repeatedly. I raised an alarm but the goons threatened to open fire at me. The old man eventually fell unconscious and the goons fled on the motorcycle with the bag. When residents tried to run after them, one of the goons opened fire.” Azizul’s son-in-law Mosaraf Hossain said: “Since I was busy, I gave the money to my father-in-law to deposit it in my bank account. He often does it for me.  I never imagined such an incident of assault and loot could happen in Kalyani in broad daylight.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-406
18-08-2020||West Bengal||Infighting whiff in elephant death||A wild elephant was found dead on the premises of Binnaguri Military Station here on Monday morning. The elephant — a ‘makna’ or male without tusks — is suspected to have died due to infighting. Sources said the forest officials had recovered the carcass and it was taken to the Gorumara National Park for post-mortem and cremation. “Preliminary probe suggests that the animal has died of infighting. There are multiple injury marks on the carcass. We can, however, confirm the cause of death only after the autopsy report reaches us,” said Ravikant Sinha, the principal chief conservator of forests of the state. Sima Chowdhury, an honorary wildlife warden, said: “Male elephants fight with each other over possession of females. This at times, also leads to deaths.” The Sashastra Seema Bal and state forest department in a joint operation seized 13 deer horns and arrested three persons at Madarihat in Alipurduar district on Monday. The trio was carrying the horns to Siliguri, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-407
18-08-2020||West Bengal||Four test positive, but minus swab samples||Four persons from nearby villages in Goalpokhor-II block of North Dinajpur received reports confirming they were Covid 19-positive, the catch being none underwent a test. This is not the first time that anomalies have been detected in test reports, raising uncomfortable questions for the state health department. District health officials ordered an inquiry while admitting to this compilation error. “We have ordered an inquiry. Anybody found responsible will face departmental action,” said R.N. Pradhan, the district’s chief medical officer of health. Sources said that the district health department decided to conduct RT-PCR tests on swab samples collected at random from residents following a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases in the block. Accordingly, a list of 80 people from villages under Belon panchayat of the block was made by the panchayat and sent to the health department, panchayat member Tauf Alam said. On August 11, the health department held the camp where out of 80, 73 gave their samples. Among the rest seven, some did not attend the camp and a few left without giving their samples. All the samples were brought to the Raiganj Government Medical College & Hospital for the RT-PCR test and reports sent to Belon panchayat on August 14. Alam said the reports sprung the real surprise. “Among the 73 samples, 10 tested positive. But of the seven persons who did not give their samples, four reported positive. People started avoiding Feroze Alam, Mohammad Mamun Rashid, Mohammad Harun Rashid and Jahur Alam as Covid patients though they had not given their samples.” Feroze, who owns an oil mill and is a wholesaler, said he had to shut his business. Alam said they were trying to make residents believe that none of these four had been tested. “But now, of the 73 who gave their samples, the 10 who tested positive are questioning the veracity of test reports.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-407
18-08-2020||West Bengal||Car in gorge, 5 youths dead near Kurseong||Five youths died on Saturday night after the car they were travelling went off a hilly road near Kurseong and fell into a 500-foot-deep gorge. Policemen and firemen recovered the bodies of college students Subrata Das, Bikram Das, Rishav Das and Arghya Kundu and found the wreckage of the car early on Monday. By evening, the body of the fifth, Class XII schoolboy Raj Singh, was also recovered, police sources said. Sources said that on Saturday, the five youths, who are from Rathkhola and Deshbandhupara of the city, had decided to celebrate Independence Day. “The father of one of these boys owns a car. So they took out the car and went to Malbazar and Lataguri in the Dooars on Saturday morning. They returned in the evening and then decided to leave for Kurseong,” said Rinki Das, former councilor of ward 22 in which Ratkhola is located. “As the night rolled on, their families grew worried and started contacting them on phone. After 11.30pm, they could not be contacted,” she added. When the youths did not return on Sunday, the anxious families filed missing diaries with Siliguri police. The police probe revealed that on Sunday night a car went off the Subhash Ghisingh Marg also known as Rohini Road, the commonest route that connects Kurseong with the plains. “We learnt the car had fallen into a gorge near Kargildara, a locality along the road near Kurseong,” said a police officer. Search operations started at the site and on Monday, the five bodies were found. “We suspect an accident but we still need to know the exact cause of the deaths of the five youths from post-mortem,” a senior police officer said. “The damaged car will also be examined.” Shanta Chhetri, a Rajya Sabha MP of Trinamul who is also from Kurseong, has condoled the deaths. “This is just shocking. I contacted police officers in Kurseong as soon as I got to know,”she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-407
18-08-2020||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee announces police board overhaul||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday announced a restructuring of the Police Welfare Board to deal with the grievances of police personnel more efficiently. “There is a welfare board, but we are restructuring it so that police personnel can get problems addressed properly,” Mamata told the media at Nabanna on Monday. “The welfare board will address problems of Bengal police and Calcutta police. SPs will keep a close liaison with the board in districts.” The chief minister said that those who were criticising the state police should look into states like UP, Bihar, MP and Delhi and they would be able to see the difference. “Bengal’s police is one of the best... Calcutta Police is working better than the Scotland Yard,” she said. Mamata said both the Bengal police and Calcutta police worked really hard during the pandemic as they stayed on the roads to battle the spread of the disease. “They have worked overtime, they managed traffic, they helped the affected and even arranged food for them... Several policemen were inflicted and 18 of them died as they worked by risking their lives. Now we have some responsibilities towards them and their families. We will observe September 1 as Police Day,” said the chief minister. Nabanna sources said that discontent among policemen was rising amid the pandemic and Mamata stepped in to ensure that these did not foment trouble before Assembly polls. “Most grievances are over Covid-related issues such as lack of testing among policemen, barracks without social distancing,” said a bureaucrat. Commending the police for a great job during the pandemic and acknowledging that 18 police personnel died of Covid as they worked to contain the spread, Mamata said the state government would set up more barracks for police where social distancing would be kept in mind during construction. Mamata also announced a cabinet decision to give female police personnel scope for promotions on a par with their male counterparts. She also personally mentioned that some police personnel could genuinely need transfer because of a parent’s illness or a child’s education. Sources said that the chief minister tried to pacify some police personnel who had raised voices against the system in the past few months. “Policemen in the PTS and in some police stations in Calcutta had launched agitations demanding certain facilities. The chief minister has intervened on time before it (discontent) spreads further. The policemen also had grievances against the welfare board,” said an officer. Calcutta police has launched a mobile app called Niramoy for their personnel. Through the app, the health of those who report sick and are hospitalised or home quarantined will be monitored daily. This will help ensure timely intervention, police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-407
18-08-2020||West Bengal||Pous Mela wall against Tagore ideals: CM||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said the wall being built by Visva-Bharati on Pous Mela ground went against Rabindranath Tagore’s ideals, on a day thousands stormed the construction site to protest against the structure. The central varsity, whose stand is diametrically opposite to Mamata, announced in the evening the varsity’s closure in the wake of massive protests against the wall. Over 5,000 people reached the Pous Mela ground in the morning, vandalised a pandal, demolished an iron gate and damaged construction materials to protest against the upcoming wall. Protests had intensified in the past couple of days with many residents, students and traders calling “walls incongruous with the Tagore school of thought”. The developments indicate battle lines between the Trinamul-led state government and the central varsity — of which Prime Minister Narendra Modi is the chancellor — over alleged attempts by varsity authorities to saffronise it. “I don’t want any construction that would barricade the natural beauty of Santiniketan and its red soil,” said Mamata at Nabanna, quoting a line from a Tagore song on Santiniketan’s idyllic beauty. “The purpose of Rabindranath Tagore in setting up Visva-Bharati was to conduct academic activities, besides programmes like Basanta Utsav and Pous Mela, in the lap of nature, in the open air, under the trees, amid chirping birds…. He set up Santiniketan as an abode of peace, it wasn’t just about construction,” she said. Mamata brought up other issues from the recent past, such as the protest of Visva-Bharati students against a lecture on CAA by Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta in January, to make it clear that her objection to the varsity’s current dispensation’s actions was not restricted to the wall alone. Sources in Mamata’s party said she was particularly displeased to know that on Sunday Visva-Bharati authorities had allegedly involved BJP workers, along with 150 varsity employees, as “human shield” against the ongoing protests. Mamata directed the Birbhum district magistrate to hold a meeting with police, Visva-Bharati VC Bidyut Chakrabarty, students and representatives of residents to resolve the issue peacefully. In its news release later in the evening, Visva-Bharati said it “unanimously resolved” to close the varsity till the situation improved, citing vandalism on campus on Monday in the absence of police. Visva-Bharati said it was within its rights to build a fence as a shield against the alleged misuse of the ground. Birbhum’s BJP leaders also claimed that Trinamul supported the violence to defame Visva-Bharati.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-407
18-08-2020||West Bengal||TMC MLA dies after testing positive||Trinamul Congress’s Egra MLA Samaresh Das who had tested positive for Covid-19 breathed his last on Monday morning. Das was the second MLA who died after contracting the novel coronavirus. He, according to his party colleagues, had developed complications in the heart and the kidney. Trinamul’s Falta MLA Tamonash Ghosh had died in June. Over a dozen sitting lawmakers in the state have tested positive for Covid-19 so far. Some Trinamul councillors have also died from the disease. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee condoled the death of Das in a twitter message. “I am deeply saddened at the passing of East Midnapore’s Egra MLA Samaresh Das. His demise leaves an irrevocable void in the realm of politics. I express my sympathy to his family and followers,” wrote the Trinamul chief. Das, 76, was a three-term MLA from Egra. Trinamul Congress president of East Midnapore and MP Shishir Adhikary said: “He was a friend and a brother to me. He was very clear in his politics. I am saddened by the loss of someone very close to me.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-407
18-08-2020||West Bengal||Bengal reports 45 deaths and 3,080 infections in a day||Bengal on Monday reported 45 deaths from Covid-19 and the highest number of infections at 3,080, taking the toll to 2,473 and total cases close to 1.2 lakh, of which around 90,000 were recoveries. Hours before the day’s figures related to the novel coronavirus were made public, chief minister Mamata Banerjee and chief secretary Rajiva Sinha spotted several green shoots in the state’s fight against the pandemic, such as the mortality rate of 2.06 per cent and 36.87 per cent bed occupancy. “We have been trying everything, leaving no stone unturned to ensure people stay well, people stay healthy. Our mortality rate has improved to 2 per cent, only 2 now… it was 4.5 or so. We did a whole lot to lower this to 2… of which (around) 89 per cent are comorbid anyway,” Mamata told journalists at Nabanna on Monday. The current national mortality rate is 1.92. Bengal, in the initial months of the pandemic, had a much higher mortality rate. For instance, three months ago, the rate was 8.89, which improved drastically to 2.75 a month ago. “Our worries are mainly about comorbidities…. Despite that, with early detection and timely intervention, much like in the case of cancer, lives can be saved,” said Mamata. Calcutta alone accounted for 1,093 of the total 2,473 deaths recorded in the state. The city logged 23 fatalities for a 24-hour period till 9am on Monday. North 24-Parganas reported total 569 deaths, including four till 9am. The state government attributed 2,189 of the deaths to comorbidities. Of the new 3,080 cases, 548 were from the city, while 571 were from North 24-Parganas. However, they also reported recoveries at 618 and 490, respectively. “(Of the 27,402 active Covid-19 patients), 5,137 are admitted to hospitals. Of them, 1,817 are serious, 997 are moderate, 2,363 are mild,” said chief secretary Sinha. He reiterated that the state was on top of its Covid-19 management. “We are prepared in every possible way to meet the Covid-19 challenge. I don’t know if some aspects of the information we share with you daily are getting noticed,” he said. “For instance, our dedicated Covid-19 bed occupancy, when the pandemic began, was around 40 per cent. Today, that has reduced to 35 per cent (36.87 on Monday). Health infrastructure falling short of the pandemic needs is a huge problem across the country. But in Bengal, we have seen that our infrastructure is still adequate. Our 11,775 Covid beds… interestingly, to every bed, we are capable of providing oxygen, each and every bed,” he added. “What the rest of India is only beginning to realise, the ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) has begun talking about, that oxygen is most important, most crucial in treating patients.” Sinha said the state had bought 300 high flow nasal cannula and ordered 300 more at Rs 2.5 lakh each. The chief minister urged donors to come forward with contributions in this regard. “High flow nasal cannula, from two months ago, we started supplying. They are proving to be better than ventilators. We are strengthening this further,” said Sinha. Mamata added: “These cannula, we experimented with…. This is turning out to be more effective than ventilators for Covid-19 patients.” Sinha went on to flaunt Bengal’s position in testing. The highest 24-hour count was 34,214 on Saturday and 32,319 tests were reported on Monday. The total number of tests reached 13.47 lakh, at 14,968 tests per million people. “Testing, we are at 34,000, daily, already. We are increasing further. Our daily testing per million — the WHO norm is 140 — is 377 now. We will maintain this momentum, we hope,” said Sinha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-407
18-08-2020||West Bengal||Recreation awaits safe homes in Bengal||The Bengal government has decided to set up recreation facilities at 100-odd safe homes to persuade Covid-19 patients with mild or no symptoms to stay at such centres during treatment. “We are identifying a recreation room at each safe home. We are installing television sets, carom boards and some other recreation facilities at the safe homes so that asymptomatic Covid-19 patients or those with mild symptoms don’t hesitate to get treated there,” said a district magistrate. Sources said senior state government officials had asked district magistrates during a video conference on Friday to ensure that safe homes were made attractive for Covid patients. The safe homes were launched as more than 80 per cent of Covid patients were found to be either asymptomatic or with mild symptoms. As they did not require major medical support but were occupying hospital beds, serious patients were often facing troubles to get a hospital bed. The initiative — considered as the first such step in the country — started taking a shape about a month a ago when the government started sending asymptomatic patients to the safe homes. But the government was facing trouble from the very first day as patients refused to move to safe homes saying they would not get proper treatment there. “We then took several steps, including deploying dedicated team of doctors for each safe home and attaching the safe homes with a nearby Covid hospital so that a patient could be transferred to the hospitals immediately in case of emergency. But still, the response is poor,” said an official. In Calcutta, there are 1,500 beds at safe homes but the state could move only about 400 patients there from hospitals. “We have to decongest the hospitals, particularly in Calcutta and the surroundings, considering the fact that the state was probably yet to reach the peak. This is why we are trying to make the safe homes attractive for the patients,” said an official. Another district magistrate said they were also instructed to ensure that patients got proper services at the safe homes so that people didn’t hesitate to go there in case they tested positive and didn’t have enough space at their houses. “We are trying to ensure that people get good food, clean toilet and regular health check-ups at the safe homes. If we can do it, half of the battle would be won,” said the DM. Chief secretary Rajiva Sinha said the facility of providing information of a hospitalised Covid patient through the state health department’s website had been kicked off on Monday. “The service was introduced for the patients admitted to three hospitals — MR Bangur, Calcutta Medical College and CNCI — today and within seven days, the facility would be available for the patients admitted to all 84 Covid hospitals,” said Sinha at Nabanna on Monday. According to the system, a relative of a patient would be able to see the present condition of the patient on the health department’s website. The relative of a patient has to enter the name of the patient and an OTP would come on the registered mobile number. Once the OTP is entered, the relative would be able to see major health parameters like oxygen saturation, pulse rate. Information on whether the patient was kept on ventilation or whether the patient was given oxygen support would also be available in the window. “This is a major step towards bringing in transparency in the entire system to battle the spread of the disease,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-407
18-08-2020||West Bengal||Lottery sale & music at tea stalls ‘banned’ ||A kangaroo court (salisi sabha) has initiated unprecedented social policing measures for 12,000-odd residents of a village on the Murshidabad-Jharkhand border. The recently-formed samaj sanskar (social reforms) committee at Adwaita Nagar listed “punishable offences” like purchase and sale of alcohol, lottery tickets, tobacco and marijuana, playing TV sets at tea stalls and music from a phone, playing carom in public and listening to music on a computer. The committee that consists of at least three gram panchayat members of Trinamul and one from the Congress held the kangaroo court last week. The committee printed and circulated pamphlets, listing the alleged offences punishable by fines ranging from Rs 1,000 to Rs 7,000. It also announced rewards between Rs 200 and Rs 1,000 for informers. Sabha president and Trinamul supporter Azharul Sheikh said: “The diktat was issued in the interest of youths and obeying it is mandatory. The measure is a protective step to ensure that our youths do not go corrupt.” “Watching TV indoors is the only exempted activity. Playing TV at tea stalls distracts youths in the evening, when they should actually be studying.” Asked how the sabha would enforce the regulations, Azarul said it had already reprimanded two youths for violations related to marijuana and cigarette smoking. “However, we did not fine them. Our main interest is their well-being, so we just asked them to pray with folded hands for forgiveness before the sabha,” added Azarul. According to the flyers pasted across the area, the sale of lottery tickets and alcohol entails the highest fine of Rs 7,000. If one buys booze or lottery, he needs to pay a fine of Rs 2,000. Playing TV sets at tea stalls would attract a penalty of Rs 1,000. The same amount is charged for using smartphones or computers for music and organising carom. Playing carom would attract a fine of Rs 500. The penalty does not end with fines but there measures have been incorporated to publicly humiliate people for act the sabha things are “offensive”. Those found selling alcohol, the diktat says, would be tonsured and taken around the village. Similarly, those caught drinking will be made to hold their ears and do sit-ups in front of villagers. For other offences, the “offender” will have to apologise publicly apart from paying fines. “Lottery is gambling even if it is approved by the government. Police barely keep a watch here. So, who else is going to look after the well-being of our youths,” said sabha member and Congress leader Babul Akhtar. He added that the sabha was “society-oriented and not political”. Asked, superintendent of police (Jangipur), Y. Raghubamshi, said he had been informed of the development and had dispatched the OC to submit a report. “Anything illegal will be shut down. We are taking care to ensure there are no communal overtones,” he said and added that Samserganj OC K. Bishoyi had told him that a few youths of the village were behind the act and had confessed to their wrongdoing. “They have promised not to repeat this in the future.” However, committee president Azharul Sheikh refuted the SP’s claim and said they had not been contacted by police. “If the police want to discuss the issue with us, we are ready to meet them at the police station,” he said. Samserganj BDO said he was not aware of the issue but said he would send a team to look into it. Local Trinamul MLA Amirul Haque said he did not support the initiative, and expected “law to take its course" against the sabha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-407
18-08-2020||West Bengal||Warning to close Kohinoor tea estate||The management of Kohinoor tea estate in Alipurduar district issued a pre-lockout notice on Monday, saying the garden would have to be closed down if workers continued with their demonstrations. The garden has 888 permanent workers who have been holding demonstrations regularly since August 10 against the management’s alleged failure to deposit provident fund collected from them in the past 23 months. “The workers might have some issues but those can be discussed through trade unions at different forums. Tea production is getting affected in the garden at a time we need to work sincerely as there have been losses because of the lockdown and inclement weather,” said a management representative. “If such a situation persists, there would be no other option but to take stern steps. It has been made clear that the notice that has been served can be considered as a pre-lockout notice,” he added. Tea trade unions, however, said the tea company had collected the share of provident fund from the workers on a regular basis but not a penny had been deposited with the PF authorities in the past 23 months. “In January this year, the management had assured us that the deposits would be made but there has been no change in the situation till date. That is why the workers have launched protests but every day, after the demonstrations, they are joining their work. The management is just trying to evade its responsibility,” said Bidyut Gun, a leader of the Citu-backed Cha Bagan Mazdoor Union. On Monday, over 1,000 workers demonstrated on the Rahimabad tea estate, demanding payment of provident fund and gratuity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-407
