19-08-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul goes on induction spree||Trinamul Congress functionaries in north Bengal and some parts of the state’s south have been on an overdrive to re-induct into the party people who joined the BJP, Congress and the CPM. Many leaders have been into a kind of competition for the past one month, trying to outshine each other by getting on board hundreds who had deserted Trinamul or are supporters of other parties. Ministers, former representatives of civic bodies, leaders of Trinamul’s youth front and trade unions are at the forefront of the induction spree. All of them are busy finding people at towns and villages and encouraging them to join Trinamul. The efforts put up by these leaders, party insiders said, have been noticed after July 21, the day when party supremo Mamata Banerjee had asked deserters to return to Trinamul from the BJP, Left and the Congress. “Whether it is in Malda or Cooch Behar, our party supremo’s call seems to have triggered a competition among leaders. Every day, someone or the other is joining Trinamul in the presence of prominent district leaders at towns and villages. This is indeed good news for the party, particularly in north Bengal, where we were defeated by the BJP in seven of eight Lok Sabha seats,” said a senior Trinamul leader in Siliguri. In the past fortnight or so, north Bengal residents have witnessed a slew of activities by Trinamul. Hundreds of people were paraded at venues and they shouted slogans for Mamata Banerjee and her party while accepting Trinamul flags from prominent leaders. While addressing Trinamul workers virtually from Calcutta on July 21, the chief minister had also emphasised the need to strengthen the party’s support base across the state. A number of changes were made in the party’s hierarchy soon with constitution of new committees and appointment of fresh faces as office-bearers. Since then, the leaders have been putting up their best efforts to get more and more people on board. For example, in Malda, Amlan Bhaduri, a district coordinator of Trinamul, was instrumental in inducting around 100 Congress workers at Kaliachak. Dulal Sarkar, another coordinator, was not far behind. Within 72 hours of Bhaduri’s programme, he arranged for the joining of 50 families, who were with the BJP at Muchia of Old Malda. On Monday, Partha Pratim Roy, the newly-appointed chief of Trinamul’s Cooch Behar district committee, brought in 500-odd BJP workers and leaders to the ruling party. Within 12 hours, Abhijit Dey Bhowmik, the district president of Trinamul Youth Congress, held a meeting in Cooch Behar on Tuesday and claimed that a youth leader of the BJP and 100 others had joined Mamata’s party. North Bengal development minister Rabindranath Ghosh went to a village in Natabari — his Assembly constituency — on Tuesday and handed over Trinamul flags to 59 families. They had been with the BJP, he claimed. Asked if there was a competition among Trinamul leaders to increase the number of members, Ghosh said: “There is no competition. Each of us is trying to strengthen our base and using our own connections to induct more people into the party. There are many who had left us but are returning now, answering Didi’s call.” Around 1,000 BJP supporters and 200-odd CPM members in at least five panchayats under Sandeshkhali 2 block of North 24-Parganas district joined Trinamul on Tuesday. Local Trinamul MLA Sukumar Mahato handed over the party flags to them. In north Bengal, it is only Biplab Mitra and his brother Prashanta of South Dinajpur who can be considered as prominent faces whom Trinamul could get back on board from the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-405
19-08-2020||West Bengal||Covid: Negative report twist after death||The RT-PCR test results of the 65-year-old man’s swab sample collected at East Midnapore’s Tamluk district hospital on Saturday night came back negative on Tuesday from Calcutta, three days after he died in an ambulance for the lack of beds at Panskura’s Boroma Covid Hospital. The man’s rapid test result had shown he was Covid positive on Saturday, prompting Tamluk hospital authorities to refer him to Boroma Covid Hospital. His RT-PCR sample were sent to RG Kar Medical College and Hospital in Calcutta the same night the rapid test was done. East Midnapore health officials, however, claimed on Tuesday that their hospital’s rapid testing facilities were reliable and that a health worker had “erred” in collecting the swab sample. The deceased man’s daughter said when his condition worsened on Saturday night, the family did press hospital authorities for a rapid test. “Now that the RT-PCR test of the same swab has come back negative today, we have bigger questions about the efficiency of the whole (testing) system,” she said. “Had the rapid test come back negative, as we now see it should have, my father would have still been undergoing treatment at the Tamluk hospital, and more importantly, would have been alive,” she added. The family had on Sunday blamed Tamluk district hospital superintendent Gopal Das for assuring them that they would find a bed at the Boroma Covid hospital late on Saturday night. But now, after the RT-PCR came back negative, the issue is bigger than a hospital superintendent’s incompetence,” the daughter said. Sources said Das had been pulled up by the district magistrate for three prior incidents since March. Das did not comment on the RT-PCR result. Opposition leaders in the district have pressed for Das’s removal from the post. CPM district secretary Niranjan Sihi termed Das “unfit for the job” following Saturday’s incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-405
19-08-2020||West Bengal||Hundreds in Siliguri bid their ‘Ronaldo’ goodbye||Residents of Siliguri are stunned by the deaths of five youths whose Independence Day joyride in a car ended in a 500-foot-deep gorge near Kurseong on Saturday night, and whose bodies were retrieved on Monday after a massive search. College students Subrata Das, Bikram Das, Rishav Das and Arghanil Kundu, and their footballer friend Raj Singh, fondly nicknamed Ronaldo, had gone to the Dooars on Saturday, come back to Siliguri, and in the evening left for Kurseong. Rishav was behind the wheel when the car veered off the Subhash Ghisingh Marg on Saturday night and plunged into the gorge near Kurseong, said a family friend. He added that the youths had not taken any family car, as was initially reported, but had rented one for their trip. On Monday evening, Rathkhola residents saw Rishav, Subrata, Bikram and Arghanil — who lived there — make their last journey in hearses. On Tuesday, Siliguri’s Milanpally area bid a tearful goodbye to promising footballer Raj, 19, who was called Ronaldo after the Portuguese star Cristiano Ronaldo. Before the cremation, Raj’s mortal remains were taken to his home and to the Babupara Boys’ Club ground where hundreds had assembled. “Raj was a popular footballer and had contributed to many of our club’s victories,” said Abir Roy, one of the 100-odd club members. “We called him Ronaldo and we will all miss him.” Raj lived with his mother Molina Devi and two sisters. His father had passed away around five years back.
“On Sunday evening, we were playing in the club ground when his mother came and asked us if we knew where he was. Some hours later, we came to know about the accident on Saturday night,” said Joy Majumdar, another club footballer. Like Molina, Rishav’s mother Pramoli Das was inconsolable. Her neighbour said Pramoli’s husband Chanchal had died in a road accident seven years ago. Rishav was her only son. “She is shattered,” the neighbour added. “We had no idea that Rishav knew driving,” said a family friend Bagha Pain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-405
19-08-2020||West Bengal||CPM to start safe homes in Bengal||The CPM has decided to set up safe homes at a few places in Bengal for Covid-19 patients with mild or no symptoms as it feels government infrastructure is inadequate to handle the rising number of coronavirus cases and the party should stand by people during a pandemic. The first safe home will be opened at the CPM office in North 24-Parganas’s Nimta on Wednesday. The Congress is also involved in the Nimta project. CPM leader Sujan Chakraborty and Congress veteran Abdul Mannan will jointly inaugurate the eight-bed Dr Sankar Sen Safe Home at Rabindra Palli in Nimta. CPM’s North Dumdum MLA Tanmay Bhattacharjee took the initiative to set up the safe homes.
Bhattacharjee said the safe homes would offer ambulance services, ECG tests, screening of oxygen level and other medical facilities at rates charged under the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) to Covid patients. “But people belonging to the financially weaker section of the society will be offered services for free,” the MLA added. The Nimta safe home will have eight doctors, four technicians, two trained nurses and 100 dedicated volunteers. The team will be on round-the-clock duty to provide support to patients as well as their
families. Bhattacharjee said: “We have arranged for PPE kits for the volunteers and they will be provided with medical insurance of Rs 5 lakh.” The safe homes will work in coordination with the state health department and the team of volunteers will provide updates to the officials concerned about patients. In case of an emergency, the volunteers will shift the patient to the nearest Covid hospital. Asked whether the model would be replicated across the state, CPM leader Sujan Chakraborty said: “It won’t be a pan-Bengal model. That’s the job of the state government and it has miserably failed to do it. We will set up similar centres at a few places. This is an initiative entirely by the party and the Congress has come forward to support it.” Congress leader Pradip Bhattacharya said: “We have asked our workers in different districts to assess the possibilities of setting up quarantine centres. We are primarily trying to figure out how to source doctors, medical professionals and medicines.” Reiterating the CPM’s offer to the state government to use its cadres as Covid volunteers, Chakraborty said: “We had said our volunteers would work for the cause of the Covid-affected people and the (Nimta) centre is proof that we are sincere in what we say.” CPM leaders said the effort of the CPM in Bengal reflected what the party’s Visakhapatnam unit had recently done by throwing open its office to set up an isolation centre for Covid patients. "To begin with, we are starting with the eight-bed safe home at our party office. But in case of emergency, this can be increased up to 40 beds within 24 hours,” Bhattacharjee said. The recently announced Covid management protocol of the government advocates development of satellite health care facilities for asymptomatic patients by local bodies and private organisations. This, the government feels, will help ramp up accommodation facilities in view of the rising number of infected people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-405
19-08-2020||West Bengal||Darjeeling leaders prod CM on nurse training course quota||The West Bengal Nursing Council’s call for applications to auxiliary nursing and midwifery (ANM) and general nursing and midwifery (GNM) training courses has prompted a Rajya Sabha member of the Trinamul and the chairperson of the board of administrators of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) to write to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, seeking reservations for girls from the hills. The ANM and GNM courses are taught at 39 centres across Bengal. While the ANM course is of two years, the GNM is a three-year course. MP Shanta Chhetri wrote to Mamata and state health minister Chandrima Bhattacharya that many girls in Darjeeling and Kalimpong wanted to join the courses. Despite the Covid-19 pandemic, guardians of the girls also want it. But in 2019, only seven girls from Darjeeling and three from Kalimpong were selected...I urged the chief minister to see if a part of the total number of seats can be marked for girls of the two districts (Darjeeling and Kalimpong).” Anit Thapa, chairperson of the BoA of GTA, also urged Mamata to reserve 45 of the 90 seats at two training centres, each of which are located in the state-run hospitals in Darjeeling and Kalimpong . “We have requested the chief minister to reserve at least half, that is 45 seats, for the hill candidates. This will create an opportunity of employment in the hills. The move will be appreciated by the people residing in the GTA area,” Thapa said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-405
19-08-2020||West Bengal||Bengal: 3,175 Covid cases in a day, tests speed up||Bengal on Tuesday logged another highest single-day jump in Covid-19 infections, with 3,175 cases, and in tests with 35,107. Prior to this, the highest number of Covid infections reported in the 24-hour window was 3,080 on Monday, and the most number of tests was 34,214 on Saturday. The state reported 2,987 recoveries and 55 deaths in the 24-hour period ending at Tuesday 9am. Bengal has now gone past 1.22 lakh cases, of which nearly 93,000 are recoveries and 2,528 are deaths. Of the 3,175 new cases, Calcutta reported 600 and North 24-Parganas 664. But as Calcutta reported 636 recoveries and North 24-Parganas 607,  their total active cases fell again. Calcutta also accounted for 17 deaths on Tuesday and 1,110 deaths in all since the onset of the pandemic. North 24-Parganas reported a total of 580 deaths so far, with 11 of them on Tuesday. “Over nine days now, since August 9, the total active cases in these two high-incidence districts have been falling. On August 9, Calcutta had 7,041 active cases and North 24-Parganas had 5,774. Today, Calcutta has 6,371 and North 24-Parganas 5,607,” said a minister. “It can be said with a degree of certainty that this indicates the efficacy of a slew of measures to contain the outbreak in the two districts.” He added that the share of total active cases in the two districts fell in nine days from 48.58 per cent to 43.5 per cent. The recovery rate of these two districts put together went up from 70.58 per cent to 76.97 per cent in the same span. Bengal’s recovery rate now is 75.51. The national rate is 73.52 now. Bengal also upped its daily testing in one month from 13,471 to 35,107. The tests per million count almost doubled from 7,814 to 15,358. The total test count has risen from 6.03 lakh to 13.82 lakh in a month. “Daily test count of 40,000 will be achieved in a matter of days. We will look to achieve 50,000 within  August,” said the minister. Owing to the sharp spike in new cases, the positive confirmation rate is now 8.88 per cent, but was 6.04 a month ago. Of the 2,528 deaths, the state government reported 2,240 or 88.6 per cent as those with comorbidity “present”. In a month, 1,416 persons with Covid-19 have died, of which 1,316 had comorbidities, the government said. Bengal’s mortality rate is now 2.05 per cent, still behind the national rate of 1.92 per cent. Calcutta’s mortality rate is 3.31. The state reported 36.82 per cent occupancy in the 11,775 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 84 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides 16.97 per cent in 11,507 beds of the 200 safe homes. Telemedicine consultation for the pandemic was provided to over 91,000, including 4,737 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-406
19-08-2020||West Bengal||Siliguri hospital fire sparks infants’ shift||A fire broke out at the Sick Neonatal Care Unit of the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital here on Tuesday early morning, triggering evacuation of 56 infants admitted there. The blaze that started from a fan’s regulator prompted the authorities to inform the Siliguri Fire Station. Even before the fire brigade reached the spot, the flames had been extinguished by those present at the hospital. When the fire occurred around 3.30am, 56 infants were at the SNCU and all of them were evacuated from the ward immediately. An on-duty nurse has suffered a minor injury in the blaze, sources said. “All those children under treatment at the unit were immediately shifted. We suspect the blaze has occurred because of an electrical short circuit. Nurses and some parents helped us shift the children,” said Kaushik Samajdar, the superintendent of the NBMCH. Last year, a fire had broken out at the Critical Care Unit of the hospital. “These intensive care units are very sensitive areas of the hospital. There are so many gadgets at the units. On a regular basis, we examine the electrical points and the distribution cables to ensure that safety parameters are not compromised. Even then, we will conduct a probe to know what led to the blaze,” Samajdar said. The blaze left the parents of the children who were under treatment at the SNCU anxious.
“My child is 10 days old and was under treatment at the SNCU. As soon as the hospital staff had called us, we rushed upstairs and found that the room is dark and full of smoke. We somehow managed to get our child outside,” said Debanti Sahani, a mother. After the incident, all the children were shifted to other wards. The electrical connections would be checked, necessary repairs would be taken up and the whole unit would be sanitised before it is reopened, said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-406
19-08-2020||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court rejects Mahato plea to nix NIA probe||The Calcutta High Court on Tuesday rejected a prayer by Lalgarh Trinamul Congress leader Chhatradhar Mahato to quash a probe against him by the National Investigation Agency in a case related to the anti-land acquisition movement in 2009. Although Mahato had already obtained bail in the case registered at the Lalgarh police station in Jhargram district, the NIA started its own investigation through an order issued by the central government on March 30. Moving the petition on behalf of Mahato, advocate Neil Basu claimed before the high court that since his client had already been granted bail in the case, the NIA should not be allowed to initiate a fresh investigation. The Centre’s counsel said the court should ask the Bengal government to hand over case records lying with the state police to the NIA. After hearing both the sides, Justice Debangsu Basak held that the NIA should be allowed to proceed with its probe. Mahato’s counsel told the court that it would not be possible for his client to go to Calcutta for the probe during the Covid-19 pandemic. Justice Basak said the NIA would conduct the probe at Salboni in West Midnapore and it should be completed within four weeks. Mahato’s lawyer assured the court that his client would co-operate with the NIA probe. Mahato was the face of the anti-land acquisition movement that allegedly enjoyed the tacit support of Maoists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-406
19-08-2020||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati names & blames TMC ‘vandals’||Visva-Bharati authorities have filed a complaint of campus vandalism and loot against a Trinamul MLA and three other ruling party leaders, accusing them of leading a mob on Monday against the construction of a boundary wall on Pous Mela ground to pitchfork the controversy into a full-blown political battle. The central varsity has also written to the office of its chancellor, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking central forces to protect the campus, and said it would demand a CBI probe into the vandalism. In the complaint, officiating registrar Asha Mukherjee of Visva-Bharati accused Trinamul’s Dubrajpur MLA Naresh Bauri and three other party leaders of leading a mob on Monday to vandalise a gate of Visva-Bharati and a pandal erected as a camp office of the authorities, and of looting construction material. Visva-Bharati authorities have argued that as custodians of the Pous Mela ground, they had the legal right to put up a boundary around it. The varsity’s news release on Tuesday evening also clearly blamed Trinamul, indicating it was now putting the blame squarely on the ruling party for Monday’s incident. This comes in the wake of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s strong disapproval on Monday of a wall on Pous Mela ground. Citing varsity founder Rabindranath Tagore’s philosophy and ethos that went into setting up the institution, Mamata said at Nabanna: “I don’t want any construction that would barricade the natural beauty of Santiniketan and its red soil.” Birbhum’s Trinamul chief Anubrata Mondal dismissed the varsity’s charges. “Trinamul had no connection with Monday’s incident, which was a result of spontaneous mass outrage against Tagore’s ideology being slighted with a boundary wall. Varsity authorities are trying to politicise the issue and frame our leaders,” he said. “I know that authorities had called up a BJP group to use them as human shield to stop protesters (on Sunday).” Tension over the wall started brewing early this month, and escalated when a group of traders protested against the construction on Independence Day, Saturday, by allegedly heckling the contractor. On Sunday, Visva-Bharati allegedly called up some varsity employees and BJP workers to act as a human shield against protesters. Responding to the Trinamul’s charges, Birbhum BJP president Shyamapada Mondal called it the ruling party’s ploy shift blame. “The Trinamul is trying to shift blame now that they are formally accused of campus vandalism,” he said. District magistrate Moumita Godara Basu invited vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty to the Bolpur SDO office to discuss the issue with residents and students, in accordance with the chief minister’s Monday order. However, sources said Chakrabarty on Tuesday hinted he would not attend any such meeting. Visva-Bharati is yet to officially state its stand. In its news release on Tuesday, Visva-Bharati also clarified for the first time that it wasn’t planning to put up a wall but a four-foot high fencing. “The height of proposed fencing shall only be 4 feet from the ground, which will be decorated by creepers and plants…. and on top of it there will be a 3-feet iron grill…with seven gates on the eastern side of the mela ground,” it said. The varsity will hold a 12-hour “fast protest” on Wednesday against the vandalism, it said. Varsity officials also alleged that goons ransacked the Santiniketan home of journalism professor Biplab Loho Choudhury on Monday evening. “They threw brickbats at his house,” a varsity source said. So far, eight persons have been arrested for vandalism in the case filed by the police, district police chief Shyam Singh said. The varsity’s separate complaint is being looked into, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-406
19-08-2020||West Bengal||Online session on career tips held in hills||The Kalimpong-based Paramount School and eCorrigo, a cloud-based education platform, jointly organised the hills’ first online career counselling session on Monday night as part of an initiative to motivate and mentor students from the region in time of Covid-19 pandemic and beyond. The expert in the inaugural session called “Career Talk” was Sumeet Mohanty, founder director of Phycolonic Technologies, an agricultural biotechnology company. Each talk would have prominent professionals from different works of life from across the country talk about their journey and hold interactive session with the participating students and their parents. Anupam Lama, the principal of Paramount School, said the objective of the online initiative was to help the students from the hills and the region in general realise their potential and make informed career choices. “Career Talk will be a bi-monthly affair. It is free of cost and anyone can join from anywhere,” he said. The experts would be drawn from various fields, including business, music, cinema, art and sports. “The experts will try to introduce students to the nature and scope of the subjects of their choice and educate them on the skills required. The experts will also share their insights and provide tips to students,” he added. Shivangi Jain, the business development manager of eCorrigo, said Career Talk hopes to help spread awareness on different career opportunities and the pitfalls associated with every profession. “Ecorrigo is a Saas (software as a service)-based online learning platform crafted to fill the gaps in the education sector created by the pandemic,” she said. Most of those who took part in the inaugural session were all praise for the initiative of the organisers. “It was quite interesting and inspiring. Enjoyed his (Mohanty’s) talks and stories,” said Aaryan Pradhan, a Class XII student of Dr. Graham’s Homes, who wants to take up horticulture and landscaping as a career. Naveen Bajla, a guardian who attended the virtual session with his daughter, said it was more informative than physically attending career guidance programmes. “Such guidance would certainly help our children in choosing their streams and career according to their strengths,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-406
19-08-2020||West Bengal||Students seek exam scrap over Covid fear, lock up principal||B.Pharm final-year students at the Institute of Pharmacy here locked up the principal and some other faculty members for around 36 hours since Monday morning, demanding that their exams be cancelled and marks be calculated on the basis of previous scores as two of their batch mates were showing suspected symptoms of Covid-19. The final batch of the four-year course has 62 students who didn’t appear for exam on Tuesday. The final-year exams are slated to be held from Tuesday till September 5 by the West Bengal University of Health Sciences. “One of our batch mates is showing symptoms of Covid-19. If we sit for the exams, there is always a risk of some of us getting infected,” said a final-year student. The agitators locked up the principal, Sourav Singha Roy, and some other teachers in their respective rooms on Monday morning when the institute informed that the exams would be held according to the university’s schedule. The protests continued till Tuesday afternoon when the principal fell ill. Two agitating students also fell sick. Doctors and paramedics from the district hospital reached the college and examined them. An official of the Jalpaiguri district administration held a meeting with the faculty members and the students, after which the agitation was lifted. “The varsity authorities have been informed that the exams could not be held in the current situation. We will wait for further instructions from the varsity,” said Singha Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-406
19-08-2020||West Bengal||Left seeks more Covid tests in East Burdwan||Left Front leaders in East Burdwan met the district magistrate on Tuesday and urged him to ramp up tests to arrest the spread of Covid-19 and aired their grievances regarding delayed arrival of reports which they said was critically delaying treatment of patients. The leaders referred to two specific incidents where reports of Covid tests came nine days after swab samples had been taken. “It took nine days to get Covid test reports of members of a family in Burdwan town even after two persons from the same family had died of Covid. Two doctors and nine health department employees received their Covid positive reports after nine days. It is clear in the health bulletin that there is a difference of two-four days between collection of samples and tests,” said Apurba Chatterjee, a CPM district secretariat member. The leaders also told the district magistrate, Vijay Bharti, that the cremation of bodies was getting delayed by five to six days because of the late arrival of test reports. During the hour-long meeting, they told Bharti that in most cases, Covid patients did not know what to do as the dedicated number of the health department in East Burdwan hardly worked. Sources in the district administration said Bharti had acknowledged the issues Left leaders raised at the meeting and promised to address the grievances.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-406
