20-08-2020||West Bengal||Music is Malda duo’s mantra to kill Covid melancholy||Two police officers sing songs at their respective police stations in Malda to help relieve the fatigue and melancholy of colleagues who are at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19. Madan Mohan Roy, the inspector-in-charge of Englishbazar police station, and Tridip Pramanik, who holds the same post at Baishnabnagar, are happy that their songs have earned appreciation from the force. The duo’s melodious performances are encouraged by Malda district police chief Alok Rajoria. Over 200 police personnel, right from the rank of constable to deputy superintendent, and some civic volunteers have been infected with the novel coronavirus so far. While many of them have recovered, others are still under treatment. Roy, who got no formal training in singing, cherished the urge to sing publicly since his childhood. Being prompted by his knack for cultural activities, the Englishbazar IC has performed drama, recitation and songs since his teenage days. “However, in 2013, I started singing seriously. The skill is now helping me provide some musical relief 
to my colleagues. They are playing a praiseworthy role during the pandemic and often request me to sing some popular songs. I try to oblige them by singing Rabindrasangeet and modern Bengali songs,” said Roy, who is an ardent fan of singers Shyamal Mitra and Bhupen Hazarika. Somdev Goswami, an assistant sub-inspector at the Englishbazar police station, is also happy to rejuvenate his nearly forgotten experience of playing the “tabla”. “I accompany IC sir while he sings and stress is largely relieved,” the young officer said. Pramanik, the inspector-in-charge of Baishnabnagar police station, has also amazed the colleagues with songs. “I have no professional training in music. My mother’s melodious humming encouraged me to sing on my own. While I was posted in Bolpur, its proximity to Santiniketan helped me nurture my passion for singing. Now, I sing Rabindrasangeet mostly and help my colleagues forget the exhaustion with the ever inspiring notes by Tagore,” Pramanik said. The officer said Hemanta Mukherjee and Sandhya Mukherjee were his icons in music. Roy and Pramanik regularly perform at their respective police stations. The talents of these two officers have been appreciated by Malda SP Rajoria. “They sing really well. Even their songs help me to have fresh energy and happiness. Our men are fighting against Covid-19 with their best ability. The way Roy and Pramanik are trying to help them get energised is indeed laudable,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-404
20-08-2020||West Bengal||Draft out on quota at Siliguri rural body||The state election commission issued a draft notification on Tuesday, mentioning the status of the seats at the Siliguri Mahakuma Parishad (SMP), the smallest third-tier rural body in the state. In the Siliguri subdivision, the three-tier panchayat elections were held for the last time in October 2015. So, the next polls are due in a couple of months. The notification says five of the nine seats at the SMP are general, while two each are reserved for Scheduled Castes  and Scheduled Tribes. Among the nine, four seats have been reserved for women candidates. Sabhadhipati Tapas Sarkar and Opposition leader Kajol Ghosh will have to choose other seats if the quota is implemented according to the notification. “Both their seats have been reserved for ST women. However, it is only a draft and anybody can raise objections within 15 days from the date of publication of the notification for consideration of the state election commission,” said a source in the Darjeeling district administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-404
20-08-2020||West Bengal||Stranded in Bangladesh since lockdown, back home via land check posts ||Stranded in Bangladesh since the coronavirus-induced lockdown in March, a few thousand Indians from Bengal have begun to come home in batches from this week after the Union home ministry approved their entry through land border check posts. A group of some 25 Indian citizens, who hail from the districts of Nadia and North 24-Parganas, entered the country through Petrapole on Wednesday, ending their dire distress of the last few months. Bangladesh authorities allowed them to cross the border after the Indian nationals furnished their negative Covid-19 test reports. They were also examined by Indian authorities at the immigration centre before their entry to India. Ashanur Begum Biswas, 50, of Aranghata, and Feli Bewa, 55, of Banpur in Nadia, beamed on reaching Indian soil in Petrapole. Home after five months, Biswas, an epileptic who also has a kidney disorder, broke down in tears to see son Saibur at Petropole. Those who returned home said that last month the Indian High Commission in Dhaka  contacted them and asked them to choose between Petrapole and Phulbari as their convenient check post to come home. Stranded Indians with cancer, epilepsy, mental disorders and kidney troubles were in bigger trouble as the validity of their prescriptions expired and they could not buy medicines. Around 400 Indians from Malda are stranded in Bangladesh. The affluent ones have taken a flight to Delhi, paying over Rs 50,000 for airfare, and then spent two weeks of quarantine in Delhi before returning home. Zakir Husain, a retired bank manager from Malda’s English Bazar, who was stranded in Bholaghat area of Champai-Nawabganj of Bangladesh, came home last week. “I could return because I could afford the airfare. But hundreds from my district are in acute distress close to Benapole. Many are forced to beg to survive.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-404
20-08-2020||West Bengal||100-year-old Midnapore building falls, two buried alive||The bodies of two employees of a private contractor agency were extricated on Wednesday from the debris of a 100-year-old building in Midnapore town, a part of which collapsed during heavy showers on Tuesday. A team of 25 workers were evacuating materials from the district land and land reforms department office, housed in a derelict building slated for demolition, when the mishap occurred around 3pm on Tuesday. The deceased were identified as Subhadeep Pramanik, 23, and Ram Soren, 50, from West Midnapore’s Gharbeta. Subhadeep, an ITI graduate, had been supervising the work when a part of the structure came crashing down, said his brother Utpal. A 15-member National Disaster Response Force team from Ghatal recovered the bodies, said an official. Two critically injured workers were rescued on Tuesday 9pm, and hospitalised. Midnapore SDO Dina Narayan Ghosh assured “adequate compensation” to the deceased’s kin”. In Panskura on Tuesday night, Manisha Bibi, 30, and her infant son were killed when the mud wall of their home collapsed on them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-404
20-08-2020||West Bengal||Centre pays Rs 3cr to restore Buxa fort||The Centre has given over Rs 3 crore to restore Buxa Fort in Alipurduar, an important monument in north Bengal associated with India’s struggle for independence. Spread over 2sqkm, the remnants of the fort next to Bhutan hills bear testimony to how hundreds of freedom fighters were kept in the British detention camp for years. The Directorate of Archaeological Museums under the Union ministry of information and cultural affairs has sanctioned Rs 3.01 crore to restore the fort. The fund has reached the district magistrate, who has tasked the construction wing of the state PWD to execute the work in eight months. “Time and again, we asked for this fort to be restored. It is good that finally the Centre approved funds for it,” said Tamal Goswami, an archaeological consultant in Alipurduar, adding no contemporary materials would be used in the job. Pinaki Ghosh, associated with the restoration work, said cleaning and chemical treatment of walls, scaffolding and strengthening of structures, rebuilding damaged parts and landscaping, including putting up electric lights and restoring a pathway through the fort, would be taken up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-404
20-08-2020||West Bengal||Normal rain brings paddy relief in Bengal||Bengal agriculture department officials have heaved a sigh of relief as the initial assessment suggests normal rainfall in most of the rice-producing districts has helped in completion of sowing of paddy in 90 per cent of the 44-lakh hectares of cultivable land in the state. In view of the impact of Covid-19 on all sectors of the economy, the state government was worried about its likely impact on agriculture, the main vocation of over 70 per cent people in Bengal. “The rainfall and the sowing reports, as of now, are satisfying,” said a source. “The state has recorded 1,138.3mm of seasonal rainfall since June 1 till date against an average rainfall of 1,002.1mm during the period. As the rainfall has been distributed almost equally in the major rice-producing districts, sowing of paddy has been completed in 90 per cent of the cultivable land,” said a source in the agriculture department on Wednesday. The kharif season is very important for the economy of rural Bengal. All 72 lakh farmers cultivate land during the kharif season which contributes to 110 lakh tons of 155 lakh tons of rice produced annually in the state. A fall in production in the kharif season — sowing of which ends officially on August 31 — could have created a major problem for the state for multiple reasons. “People have moved back to rural areas after job losses and agriculture is absorbing them... Had there been poor rainfall, it would have caused social tension,” said a source. According to him, if farmers fail to cultivate land during the kharif season, the production drops sharply and results in large-scale rural unemployment, which the state government couldn’t afford. As everything went normal and more than 90 per cent of the farmland has been cultivated before the cut-off date for the season, the state government has heaved a sigh of relief. A rough estimate by the agriculture department showed that nearly 60 lakh people had secured employment opportunities in the kharif season, which comes as a blessing in the backdrop of the pandemic. “This has eased the situation in the rural areas. If the kharif season farming was hit, demand for employment would have increased. It could have been uncomfortable for the state government ahead of the 2021 Assembly polls,” said a source. While, majority of the districts received normal rainfall, two districts — East Midnapore and West Midnapore-- recorded lesser rainfall. According to records available with the agriculture department, West Midnapore recorded 44 per cent lesser rainfall and East Midnapore received 34 per cent lesser rainfall till date. “About 1 lakh hectares of land in each of the districts remained uncultivated till date. This could create trouble for the districts,” said an official. But agriculture minister Ashis Banerjee was hopeful of making up for the shortfall before the kharif season’s deadline. “By August 31, the shortage of rainfall in these two districts would be covered as heavy rainfall has been predicted in these areas in the next few days. I believe that by August 31, we will be able to cover 100 per cent of the cultivable land in the state,” said the minister. A Trinamul insider said if farmers could cultivate their land in the kharif season, it would solve many of their problems. “If there was a shortage of rainfall, the farmers backed by Opposition parties could have started agitation demanding irrigation. Many of the farm labourers would not be able to earn livelihood. All these would have gone against us ahead of the Assembly polls. It is very relieving that everything has gone normal so far,” said the Trinamul MLA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-405
20-08-2020||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati VC skips meeting on Pous Mela wall||Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty skipped the meeting held on Wednesday by the administration as ordered by chief minister Mamata Banerjee to resolve the ongoing impasse around a wall on Pous Mela ground. The VC’s absence triggered fresh speculations of a widening rift between the state government and central university, whose chancellor is Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In its news release, Visva-Bharati attributed the VC’s absence to the fact that the meeting’s time and venue had been fixed without consulting him. On Monday, hours after a mob of around 5,000 allegedly vandalised the campus and looted varsity property to protest against the wall, Mamata told the Birbhum district magistrate to hold a meeting with VC Chakrabarty, residents, traders and students to resolve the issue peacefully. She also made her stand clear against the wall, saying it went against Tagore’s ideals. The central varsity on Tuesday formally blamed Trinamul — including party MLA Naresh Bauri — for Monday’s vandalism. The Enforcement Directorate, a central agency, has started a probe into the source of funds to mobilise the mob. The central agency sent a letter seeking all complaints and documents related to the wall from district police chief Shyam Singh, he confirmed on Wednesday. Sources said Chakrabarty was told on August 17 evening about the meeting at the SDO’s office after he asked district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu to host it on campus. A senior varsity official said officials and professors had resolved that the meeting should be held on campus. “It was decided (in the varsity meeting) that the district magistrate should fix the venue and time by discussing those with the VC as minimal courtesy.” Godara Basu, however, said she convened the meeting at the SDO’s office in Bolpur following the order of the state government. “As I called the meeting, I fixed the venue.” Asit Mal, the Trinamul MP from Bolpur who was present during the meeting, criticised Chakrabarty’s absence. “The VC did not attend the meeting, which indicates that Visva-Bharati has no confidence in the state government,” he said. At the meeting, veteran residents of Santiniketan disapproved of any wall or barricade on Pous Mela ground. “Everyone said they did not want any wall on Pous Mela ground. We said many walls had come up on campus, we don’t want more,” said Supriya Tagore, a scion of the Tagore family and former principal of Patha Bhavana. But many also pointed out that like walls, vandalism was also against Tagore’s ideals. “We neither support walls, nor politics and vandalism over walls,” said Neela Bhattacharya, a member of the Tagore family. Officiating public relations officer of Visva-Bharati Anirban Sircar seemed to distance the Pous Mela ground from the Tagore legacy. “The land was acquired and transferred to Visva-Bharati by the Bengal government in 1947, six years after Tagore’s death. The surrounding lands were purchased directly from the Majumdar family in 1942, also after Tagore’s death. Pous Mela started here 20 years after Tagore’s death. This is no heritage ground. This was not part of the Maharshi (Debendranath Tagore, Rabindranath’s father)’s ashram,” he said. Visva-Bharati recently put up walls in front of Rabindrasangeet exponent Santidev Ghosh’s home and near Ratan Pally market. On Wednesday morning, some Santiniketan veterans, including members of the Tagore clan, protested in front of the wall outside Ghosh’s home and sang Tagore’s songs. Visva-Bharati on Tuesday had claimed the wall was only a 4-feet fencing decorated with creepers and plants and would have a 3-foot-high iron grill, with seven gates on the eastern side of the mela ground. “Authorities disclosed this plan suddenly after the issue turned big,” said Subir Banerjee, a veteran Santiniketan resident and Visva-Bharati alumnus. On Wednesday, the police also changed the armed constable posted as Chakrabarty’s security guard, citing “misuse of the cop”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-405
20-08-2020||West Bengal||Bengal Covid test count crosses  14 lakh||Bengal crossed 14 lakh Covid-19 tests with 34,358 tests being recorded in a 24-hour period till 9am on Wednesday. The state also reported 3,169 new Covid-19 cases and 53 deaths, besides 2,973 recoveries during the same period. It took 92 days for Bengal to reach the test tally of 14-lakh after logging the first lakh. The state reached the latest lakh in just three days. Bengal reported over 5.23 lakh tests in August so far, with the total test count at 14,16,556. The state has a total of nearly 1.26 lakh cases now, of which around 96,000 are recoveries and 2,581 are deaths. The recovery rate now is 75.97, which was 68.92 per cent even at the beginning of the month. The national rate right now is 73.79. “We have not been able to reduce the rise in new cases yet, but we have been doing a great deal in recovery and testing,” said a minister. “We are already at the 35,000 level in daily testing. We will go past 40,000 in a matter of days. Our aim is to get past 50,000 in the next few weeks,” he added. Bengal’s tests per million has gone up from 9,927 at the beginning of August to 15,740. Testing in Bengal began in early February and the state took over three-and-a-half months to get past 1 lakh, on May 19. “Even after considerable ramp-up, crossing the milestones between 2 lakh and 5 lakh took us 10-12 days each. Look at us now,” said the minister. “We crossed 10 lakh (on August 5), 11 lakh (on August 9) and 12 lakh (on August 13) in four days each. Now, we crossed 13 lakh (on August 16) and 14 lakh (on August 19) in just three days each,” he added. Owing to the sharp spike in new cases, the positive confirmation rate is now 8.89 per cent, which was 7.86 even at the beginning of the month. “Another 4.8 lakh tests are likely in what remains of August. If we get there, we will have conducted 10 lakh tests this month,” said the minister. Of the 3,169 new cases reported on Wednesday, 666 were from the city, while 657 were from North 24-Parganas. However, since they also reported 605 and 627 recoveries, respectively, their total of active cases increased only marginally. Of the total 2,581 deaths reported, Calcutta alone accounted for 1,121, with 11 till 9am. North 24-Parganas reported a total of 596 deaths, 16 of them on Wednesday. The state government reported 2,277 (88.2 per cent) deaths as those with comorbidity “present”.
Bengal’s overall mortality rate improved to 2.04, but still lagged behind the national rate of 1.9 per cent. 
Calcutta’s mortality rate fell to 3.28. Of 11,825 beds earmarked for Covid-19 patients at 85 dedicated hospitals, 38.24 per cent are occupied. 
Telemedicine consultation for the pandemic was provided to around 96,000, including 4,514 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-405
20-08-2020||West Bengal||Bengal BJP launches campaign to fight TMC's 'Didi Ke Bolo'||The Bengal BJP has launched a mass outreach initiative called “Durnitir Biruddhe Amader Dilipda” or “Our Dilipda against corruption” ahead of the Assembly polls with the campaign being seen as a direct response to Mamata Banerjee’s “Didi Ke Bolo” programme to address people’s grievances. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Wednesday unveiled a website and a phone number for people to register their complaints against the alleged corruption of the ruling dispensation. “This initiative will strengthen our fight against corruption in the state. People can contact us through these platforms anytime between 10am and 5pm from Monday to Saturday,” Ghosh said. The saffron brigade tried their best to dispel suggestions that the initiative was modelled along the Trinamul Congress’s successful digital campaign Didi Ke Bolo (Tell Didi). Some in the BJP saw in the initiative a bid to pitch Ghosh as the party’s tallest leader in Bengal and the direct competitor of Mamata. Such a positioning of Ghosh drew sharp reaction from a section of the BJP’s Bengal unit. “People will think that we are copying Trinamul’s campaign. Firstly, they had initiated their programme before us and secondly, there is a striking similarity in the names,” a BJP insider said. Another state leader said: “A party like the BJP should not project a person like this.” Trinamul MP Saugata Roy said the BJP programme was “a poor imitation of Didi Ke Bolo”. He added that the BJP had “false hopes” if it thought the people of Bengal would even wish to connect to Ghosh. “Such measures from the BJP will have no political impact whatsoever on the state,” Roy said. Reacting to Roy’s allegations, a BJP leader said: “Our online presence dates back to 1999. No other party has any match to the kind of penetration we enjoy on digital platforms.” Earlier in April, a website titled “Amader Dilipda” or Our Dilipda was launched. The website which primarily shared details about Ghosh and his activities turned into a platform for the people affected by Cyclone Amphan to register their complaints. The party had claimed it had received numerous complaints about misappropriation of relief materials and funds meant for the Amphan-affected families through this platform. A source in the BJP’s IT cell said similar programmes would be launched from time to time in the run up to the polls. A phone number was launched a few days ago under a campaign called “Aar Noye Anyay” or No more injustice and it was well received. “The response has encouraged us to come up with other programmes such as the one launched on Wednesday,” the source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-405
20-08-2020||West Bengal||North Bengal tea workers’ cash aid put on hold since April||The state’s financial aid of Rs 1,500 a month to each permanent worker of a tea garden that is closed for six months or more has been put on hold since April. The halt in the aid under the Financial Assistance to Workers of Locked-Out Industries (FAWLOI) scheme impacts over 15,000 tea workers and their families who stay near 15 closed tea gardens of north Bengal amid the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown. Raju Kerketta, a worker of the Dheklapara tea estate closed since 2002, said that usually they got the state’s financial aid once in a quarter, that is, three months’ of the dole clubbed together. “But this time, we got no money since the first quarter of the this financial year (April to June),” Kerketta said. The workers of closed tea estates said the halt in the aid worsened their distress amid the pandemic for two reasons. One, odd jobs at construction sites have dried up. Two, family members who were migrant workers returned home, and most homes had extra mouths to feed. A senior trade union leader in the Dooars said tea workers and their families get food grains from ration shops arranged by the state government, but “one cannot sustain only on rice and flour”. A source in the state labour department, which disburses money to workers’ bank accounts, admitted that no fund had arrived from state coffers in the first quarter. Md Rizwan, additional labour commissioner posted in Siliguri, however sounded hopeful. “Yes, there has been some delay but workers of all 15 gardens will receive money soon. We also decided to include workers of four more nearby gardens (Kalchini, Raimatang, Torsha and Birpara) under this scheme. The process to collect details of workers (of the four gardens) has started,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-405
