21-08-2020||West Bengal||Labelling scan on imported tea||The Tea Board of India has come up with a notification mentioning tea imported into the country should be properly packed and labelled with details related to the brew before it is sold here or exported to any other country. There had been a long-standing demand that steps be taken to prevent indiscriminate import of tea from neighbouring countries like Nepal and its sale in India. “This is the first time that the Tea Board has acted on this issue and we welcome it,” said Bijoygopal Chakraborty, president, Confederation of Indian Small Tea Growers. In the notification, it has been mentioned that according to the Food Safety Standard (Packaging and Labelling) Regulations of 2011, it is necessary that if any food item that is manufactured outside India and is packed or bottled in the country, should carry details like the name of the country or the origin of the food article, the name and address of the importer and also the “premises of packing or bottling in India.” Tea meant for sale in India attracts an import duty of 100 per cent. However, if it is meant for export, no duty is charged. Also, tea produced in Nepal can be brought in, both for sale or export, without any import duty. “As a result, over the past few years, tea from Nepal was being imported and sold in the domestic market. There are instances that the imported tea was passed off as Darjeeling Tea. This has been largely affecting our market,” said Chakraborty. The Tea Board has found in the past three years, 60.35 million kg of tea had been imported into India, out of which only 23.43 million kilos were exported to other countries. This means, the remaining 36.92 million kilos were sold in India. For quite some years, the Darjeeling Tea Association that represents tea companies which produce the world famous brew that also has the Geographical Indication tag, had been drawing the attention of the central government and the Tea Board to look into the issue of import of tea, particularly from Nepal. They had also pointed out that large quantities of tea were being imported into India without checking whether the product passes all parameters of food safety as had been stipulated by the Food Safety & Standards Authority of India (FSSAI). “It was clearly mentioned that such tea might be unsafe for consumption and can pose health hazards to people in our country,” said a tea planter in Siliguri. In the notification, the Tea Board has also highlighted this issue and mentioned that it is also aware that tea imported into India is sold without complying with the food safety standards. “That is why people who deal with such tea have been asked to follow all such parameters while selling such tea in the country,” said a source in the tea board.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-403
21-08-2020||West Bengal||BDO’s transfer lifts Opposition eyebrows||The state government on Wednesday transferred Sanjay Sikdar, the Sutahata BDO in East Midnapore, as Darjeeling (headquarters) deputy magistrate, amid questions on whether he was “punished” for filing a police complaint against a Trinamul-backed panchayat pradhan over Amphan relief irregularities. Though state government officials on Thursday claimed Sikdar’s transfer was “routine”, a source in the district administration said there could be more to it than met the eye. Sikdar’s complaint was used by Trinamul’s rivals to justify their charges of corruption against the ruling party over Amphan dole. As reported by The Telegraph, Sikdar on July 2 sent a complaint via email to Sutahata police asking for a formal probe into panchayat pradhan Shibani Bakuli’s beneficiary list, with alleged inconsistencies. “Sikdar was the only member of the administration who did this. TMC district leadership may have put pressure on the state government for his transfer,” a source said. A senior district officer dismissed any political angle. “He completed his tenure as BDO, he was supposed to get transferred to a higher post.” Sikdar said the transfer “was according to protocol”. Opposition leaders were blunt. “Sikdar’s stand against corruption led to his transfer,” said BJP district president Nabarun Nayak. CPM district secretary Niranjan Sihi termed it “political revenge”. District Trinamul leaders said they had nothing to do with the transfer. Trinamul’s Sutahata working president Tapas Maity said: “Darjeeling is a beautiful place.” The state government on Wednesday transferred 36 West Bengal Civil Service officers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-403
21-08-2020||West Bengal||ED versus police on Visva-Bharati turf||The Trinamul-BJP face-off over vandalism at Visva-Bharati triggered yet another battle on campus between the Enforcement Directorate, a central agency, and the state police. Amid murmurs that the saffron camp was determined to nail Trinamul on vandalism, the ED tiptoed into the campus on Wednesday to probe if money had been spent to mobilise the mob on Monday. A day after the ED sought all complaints related to the contentious Pous Mela boundary wall from Bengal police, the latter on Thursday summoned the officiating chief security officer of Visva-Bharati, Ganesh Malik, to appear at Santiniketan police station in connection with a criminal case of forcibly taking away a cellphone from a freelance photographer earlier this month. VC Bidyut Chakrabarty had been named in the FIR of this case as well. “We summoned the security officer as security personnel were involved in the case,” said Shyam Singh, Birbhum district police chief. Sources said the state police took exception to the entry of the ED, which probes economic crimes, in the case of campus vandalism that Birbhum police had been investigating. The police got a letter from the ED seeking copies of complaints and action-taken reports in all five complaints filed in connection with the wall issue. “We will write to the ED to know why,” said a senior police officer. Sources said the state police would start probing all pending criminal cases against the VC and other officials filed in the past year or so.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-403
21-08-2020||West Bengal||Covid cases jump by 3,197 in a day||Bengal’s total number of Covid-19 infections went past 1.29 lakh on Thursday with another highest single-day spike of 3,197 cases. Of the 1.29 lakh cases, nearly 99,000 are recoveries and 2,634 are deaths. The state also reported 3,126 recoveries and 53 deaths in the 24-hour period ending at 9am. Eleven persons died in Calcutta and 14 more in North 24-Parganas. Bengal also reported 35,059 more tests, which took the total number of tests past 14.51 lakh, at 16,129 tests per million people. “Our testing performance has improved substantially and we are working hard to complete 10 lakh tests in August alone,” said a minister. Bengal has conducted 5.58 lakh tests in August so far. Owing to the sharp spike in new cases, the positive confirmation rate is now 8.89 per cent, which was 6.45 per cent a month ago. Of the 3,197 new cases, Calcutta alone reported 583 and North 24-Parganas 747. But Calcutta reported 755 recoveries and North 24-Parganas 746, so their total number of active cases fell again. “Since August 9, except for marginal deviations on one or two days, the total active cases of these two most high-incidence districts has been falling. On August 9, Calcutta had 7,041 active cases, North 24-Parganas had 5,774. Today, Calcutta has 6,238, while North 24-Parganas has 5,608,” the minister said. “As we get a grip on the outbreak in these two districts, we can replicate measures that worked here in other parts of the state such as north Bengal,” he added. The share of these two districts in the total active cases fell since August 9 from 48.58 per cent to 42.77. The recovery rate of these two districts put together has gone up from 70.58 to 78.09 per cent in that time. Bengal’s recovery rate now is 76.51, still ahead of the national rate of 74.12. Of the total 2,634 deaths reported, Calcutta accounted for 1,132 so far and North 24-Parganas 610. The state government reported 2,316, or 87.9 per cent, as deaths with comorbidity “present”. In one month, there have been 1,452 deaths of Covid-19 infected people, of which 1,324 were comorbid, according to the government. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is now 2.03, still behind the national rate of 1.89 per cent. Calcutta’s mortality rate is 3.26. The state reported 36.24 per cent occupancy in the 11,935 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 86 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic. Telemedicine consultation for the pandemic was provided to over 1 lakh persons, including 4,437 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-403
21-08-2020||West Bengal||What Santiniketan thinks||Tagore’s abode of peace is torn between condemning Monday’s vandalism over the boundary wall on Pous Mela ground and expressing sorrow over Visva-Bharati authorities’ alleged estrangement from the culture of coexistence that defined the university town for decades. Many students, teachers and alumni of Visva-Bharati, and old-timers of the township accused Visva-Bharati authorities, led by vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty, of distancing themselves from Tagore’s values. This “deliberate estrangement, many residents and students said, was one of the reasons behind the vandalism that Tagore’s town witnessed on Monday. Some 5,000 people, allegedly backed by Trinamul, came to protest against the proposed wall on Pous Mela ground and damaged parts of the campus. Hours later, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said at Nabanna that the wall went against Tagore’s philosophy. The incident — the latest in a series of unsavoury ones in the past couple of years — turned the central varsity, of which Prime Minister Narendra Modi is the chancellor, into BJP-versus-Trinamul battleground. Visva-Bharati Students’ Unity, formed by students of various political alignments, said through a news release that the vandalism was the result of “outrage” of many against “autocratic” moves of “attempted saffronisation” by the varsity’s current authorities during the tenure of VC Chakrabarty, who joined in November 2018. “After this VC joined Visva-Bharati, we saw autocratic decisions such as a lecture in support of the CAA, despite huge student protests. A student was ousted from the hostel because he recorded the VC’s speech...,” said Falguni Pan, an economics student and a member of the students’ group. The “direct politics” in the boundary wall impasse came to the fore, students said, because a group led by the VC to resume the work on the boundary wall on Sunday comprised BJP workers as well. Somnath Sow, an SFI leader and students’ group member, said they “condemned” Monday’s violence but “there was provocation from authorities”. Visva-Bharati claimed they asked the district administration to impose prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC. Birbhum district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu said that request through email came at 10.18am on Monday, by which time the vandalism was almost over. Members of the Visva-Bharati University Faculty Association (VBUFA) said the incident could have been avoided through discussions. The VBUFA has protested against many decisions of Chakrabarty’s alleged attempts to saffronise the varsity and town. Traders had stopped work on the Pous Mela ground on Saturday, which triggered the events on Sunday and Monday. Some students on campus said that the trading community in Bolpur and Santiniketan were angry with Visva-Bharati as it did not hand over “refundable” security deposits of 1,400 traders during last year’s Pous Mela, amounting to Rs 1 crore. Varsity officials justified the “partial” confiscation of deposit as traders “did not vacate the ground in time”. Kuntal Rudra, alumnus and retired Bengali professor of Bolpur College, said much had changed in two years.  “There used to be cultural and social communication between Visva-Bharati and Santiniketan residents. During this VC’s tenure, that has ceased.” “Interestingly, he has started attacking all stakeholders, including ashramiks (old residents) in his recent missives,” Rudra said. Visva-Bharati officials claimed that the anger among the “so-called” stakeholders culminated in “Trinamul-backed vandalism” because Chakrabarty “started speaking the truth about them”. “The VC has unveiled the real faces of these so-called stakeholders in Visva-Bharati. So they’re targeting the campus and VC,” said an official. “There is no reason to discuss the wall with others as the land is the varsity’s property.” Aminul Huda, a leader of the traders, who along with others of the Bolpur Traders’ Association stands accused of Monday’s vandalism, said traders requested varsity authorities to return the deposit money to no avail. “We had to move consumer court to seek refund…. We don’t support violence, but we support the protest against the varsity’s unilateral decisions to divide the people of Santiniketan.” Officiating public relations officer Anirban Sircar did not respond to calls or text messages from this newspaper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-404
21-08-2020||West Bengal||Girl with cancer dies in mishap||An 18-year-old girl from Murshidabad’s Samserganj, who excelled in this year’s higher secondary examination despite undergoing treatment for cancer for nearly seven months, was killed in a road accident early on Thursday on her way back home from Tata Medical Center in Calcutta. Nabima Tabassum, 18, was killed instantly when the SUV she was in rear-ended a stationary lorry on NH12 near Chaksapur village around 4am on Thursday, said a source. Her father Shahidul Islam, 50, succumbed to his injuries a little later while on his way to a hospital in an eyewitness’s private vehicle. Her mother Nasima Biwi, siblings Asif and Noorain, who were in the SUV, and the vehicle’s driver are admitted to Murshidabad Medical College in Behrampore in a critical condition. It has been learnt that Nabima and her family went to Calcutta on Wednesday for her treatment at the cancer hospital. “They decided to drive back the same night because of the statewide lockdown on Thursday and Friday,” said a source. About seven months ago, she was diagnosed with a cancerous growth above her ear, which was in remission the past couple of months after treatment. This March, Nabima had passed her HS exam in the science stream getting 90 per cent marks. She had been studying for medical joint entrance exams scheduled for September this year. “There was traffic on the part of the road where the mishap occurred, and eyewitnesses slowed down to help the injured,” the source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-404
21-08-2020||West Bengal||Gorumara’s gaur killed, 1 arrested||A gaur (Indian bison) was poached and its meat taken away by a group of people from the Gorumara National Park in Jalpaiguri on Tuesday night. Foresters, who have started investigations, on Thursday arrested a man, Somra Munda, from Tilabari of Matialli block on the fringes of the park. Raw and cooked meat and a horn of the gaur were seized from him. Search is on for others involved in the crime. Janmejay Dutta, the additional divisional forest officer of Gorumara wildlife division, said a group of people from Tilabari entered the Gorumara park and killed the wild gaur with sharp and blunt weapons. “Our guards found the carcass of the animal. We found that its flesh was taken away. We started searching in adjoining areas for the culprits and arrested Somra Munda from Tilabari,” said Dutta. “During interrogation, Munda admitted he had entered the national park with some others. After killing the gaur, they took away its meat and on Thursday he cooked a part of the meat,” the forester added. Sources said the department has also engaged Orlando, a trained sniffer dog, to trace the culprits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-404
21-08-2020||West Bengal||Rivers in spate, earthen dam damaged||Several areas were inundated creating a flood-like situation in Minakha and Haroa block of North 24-Parganas and Roydighi in South 24-Parganas district because of overflowing of Bidyadhari and Mani rivers in incessant rain since the early hours of Thursday. In Minakha and Haroa at least 15 villages were inundated at Bachra-Mohanpur panchayat when two stretches of an earthen dam over a 5-km stretch of the Bidyadhari were washed away. The dam had suffered serious damage during Cyclone Amphan. The fresh damages caused on Thursday prompted the villagers to join hands with the local administration to undertake immediate protective work so that large tracts of agricultural land and fisheries, apart from residential areas, could be saved. The 5km-long dam was built a couple of years ago to prevent saline water from the river reaching the adjacent agricultural land and fisheries. Farmer Sariful Biswas said: “Amphan had caused irrecoverable damage and nature struck us again by spoiling our agricultural and inundated land with saline water.” Sources said vast agricultural land and fisheries suffered damage due to infiltration of saline water in several areas of the two blocks in Basirhat sub-division. Trinamul’s Minakha block president Mrityunjoy Mandal said: “The increased the water-level in the river damaged the dam.” North 24-Parganas zilla parishad member Sanjoy Biswas said: “As an immediate measure to protect the area we have started to repair the dam using bamboo structure and sandbags. Major repair works to be executed later.” Several areas in Roydighi in South 24-Parganas were inundated causing a flood-like situation due to high tidal waves that led Mani to overflow. The water entered Roydighi town inundating at least eight wards, including the main market. In Sagar, several areas under Muriganga-I panchayat were inundated since a stretch of an earthen dam over Muriganga river was washed away in Kachuberia due to the river’s increased water-level.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-404
21-08-2020||West Bengal||CM district review to resume||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-404
