22-08-2020||West Bengal||Covid patient found hanging||A 45-year-old Covid-19 patient was found hanging from the ceiling of a cabin in West Mindapore’s Salboni Covid Hospital around 2am on Friday. Gopal Ghorai, a resident of Kharagpur’s Sultanpur village, had been admitted to the hospital on August 12 after tests in the course of a sepsis infection treatment had led to Covid diagnosis. Ghorai was found on Friday morning hanging by a piece of cloth from the ceiling of a private cabin adjacent to the 200-bed main ward. Hospital sources said prima facie it seemed Ghorai had committed suicide. Ghorai’s son, however, alleged that it was a “murder” given that his father could barely walk on his own. “I refuse to believe my father could take this step himself since he could barely walk. He was murdered first and then hung,” said Biswajit Ghorai. Biswajit is also a Covid patient undergoing treatment at Midnapore town’s Ayush hospital. “My father had been suffering from crippling sepsis in his foot since July. So, how could he walk?” Biswajit added. Hospital officials on Friday said they were treating the incident as suicide, but sources said later on Friday that health officials had asked Salboni police station to start an investigation in connection with Biswaji’s complaint. “Since a formal complaint has been lodged by the son, we have requested police to do the needful,” said chief medical officer (health), Nimai Mondal, adding that a post-mortem had been completed. Hospital sources said Ghorai did not have any known problems with other patients in the ward, adding that investigations would cover all angles. The sources added that Ghorai’s body was being handled according to the Covid protocol. The 200-bed Salboni Covid hospital, sources said, was at its full capacity as of Thursday night. Total Covid cases in the district as of Friday stood at 2,500 with 1,706 having recovered and the death toll was 27.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-402
22-08-2020||West Bengal||Con bid in name of Covid-hit cop||Fraudsters have opened a social media account asking the public to donate money for the treatment of North Dinajpur superintendent of police Sumit Kumar who tested positive for Covid-19. After coming to know about the con, Kumar, who has been under medical supervision at his residence after being detected with Covid-19 on August 13, made a social media posts, asking people not to fall prey to the fraudsters. “A few days back, I had come to know that an account had been opened in the social media by some fraudsters who made posts mentioning my illness and appealing for money to bear my treatment cost. A number of such posts were made to draw money from people in my name. I have asked the cybercrime police station of the district to find out who all are behind it,” Kumar said over the phone. Police sources said the SP himself had made it clear that it was an old trick to ask for money from friends in the name of illness. “The tricksters asked for money to hospitalise the SP whereas he is in isolation at his residence,” said a police officer. The police said they had been informed by some residents of Raiganj about the social media account. Officers at the cybercrime police station said they were trying to track down those who had opened the account.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-402
22-08-2020||West Bengal||Mud dams breached in tides||Vast portions of Sunderbans riverine belt were inundated and large stretches of agricultural land and fisheries damaged after earthen dams in North 24-Parganas and South 24-Parganas districts were breached since the early hours of Friday. Heavy rainfall, triggered by low pressure and accompanied by spring tide, over the past few days has triggered the breach. Stretches of earthen dams along the Roymangal, Bidyadhari, Kalindi and Goureshwar rivers in several blocks of North 24-Parganas, including Haroa, Minakha, Sandeshkhali, and Hingalganj, have been washed away by tidal waves. Saline water has entered the areas damaging agricultural land and fisheries, while flooding residential areas and markets. According to preliminary estimates, at least 20 gram panchayats in the two districts have suffered fresh damage in the inundation. The situation has turned so serious that both the district administrations have been preparing to evacuate a large number of people from the affected zones apprehending increase in the water levels in the rivers. Hingal resident Azahar Mandal said: “We are apprehending bad days again after Amphan. The water level in the river is increasing at an alarming rate. If it continues to rain, the area will be flooded damaging houses and properties.” In South 24-Parganas, water level has been increased in several rivers, including Muriganga, Gangasagar, and Moni. This has led to damages to thatched dams at many places. On the Ghoramara island of Gangasagar, vast stretches of agricultural land has been inundated by saline water after a thatched dam was washed away. Officials of the irrigation department visited several affected places on Friday, but repairs could not be taken up because of high water level and incessant rain. “The water level is rising and nothing can be done at the moment,” an irrigation official said. Trinamul MLA Bankim Hazra, who is also the chairman of the Sunderbans Development Board, said: “Irrigation officials will undertake the job on an emergency basis to address the damage caused to the dams.” In East Burdwan’s Kalna, people put up bamboo railings for a 1km stretch along Bhagirathi to avoid accidents. The embankment has eroded following heavy rainfall. The villagers took the decision as a portion of mud road at Chak-Kamalpur village in Kalna’s Purbasthali 2 block was washed away. Soumik Bagchi, the block development officer of Purbasthali 2, said: “We have already sent a proposal to the state government for the repair of the embankment.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-402
22-08-2020||West Bengal||Devastation revisits Mousuni Island||A large part of Mousuni Island in the Sunderbans was flooded by saline water on Wednesday and Thursday, leaving homeless hundreds of people who are yet to recover from the devastation caused by cyclone Amphan. Local panchayat functionaries said embankments surrounding the island — which is encircled by two rivers, Muriganga and Chinai, and Bay of Bengal — were breached in at least six points and water surging over the dykes in other areas caused the damage. Nearly 3,000 people were rendered homeless. The Mousuni island is located at the southern edge of Bengal. “It all started from Wednesday with eastern wind coupled with high tide breaching the embankments in at least six points on the island… Close to one fourth of the island have been fully flooded, leading to around 3000 people being severely affected and many mud houses getting flattened,” said Suvendu Maity, a member of Mousuni gram panchayat, on Friday. South 24-Parganas district magistrate P. Ulaganathan, however, said there was no breach of embankment in the island. “Water overflowed because of rise in the water levels of the rivers in turbulent weather. There was no breach in embankments as they were recently repaired after Amphan. We have evacuated 150 families and taken them to nearby flood shelters.” He also said a team of engineers from the irrigation department had been sent to the island and they would undertake a survey to find out whether any of the embankments had been weakened because of the sudden rise of water level of the rivers. Local residents alleged that the maximum damage had been caused near the signal point in Mousuni mouza, where a stretch of 1.5km doesn’t have any embankment. “For the past four years, we have been constantly demanding the embankment in that area. Former irrigation minister Rajib Banerjee took an initiative to build an embankment for a few kilometres, but nothing has happened since he was removed from the department”, said a local resident. The latest disaster adds to the wounds of people living on the island, located close to Sagar Island, as they were yet to recover from the devastations caused by cyclones Amphan in May and Bulbul in November last year. “I had lost my house during Bulbul in November and partially rebuilt it by taking a loan. But again, the roof blew away during Cyclone Amphan. Now this has happened. Can’t the government ensure safe homes for us?” asked Muslima Bibi of Baliara Mouza on the island. G. K. Das, director of IMD, Calcutta said wind speed of about 40km to 50km per hour coupled with high tide had led to the situation. According to the oceanographic department of Jadavpur university Mousuni, along with Ghoramara and Sagar, is one of the most climatically impacted islands in the Sunderbans. The island, spread over barely 28sqkm, has lost about 5.8sqkm in the past five decades. “The rate of relative sea level rise in the area is about 8 to12 millimetres per year, which is three to four times over global average,” says Sugata Hazra from Jadavpur University.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-402
22-08-2020||West Bengal||Covid recoveries cross 1 lakh in Bengal||Over 1 lakh people were cured of Covid-19 in Bengal with 3,082 recoveries being reported on Friday. As the total number of recoveries rose to 1,01,871, the state also recorded yet another 24-hour high in tests at 36,229. The day’s death toll was 55. Bengal also logged 3,245 novel coronavirus cases on Friday, the highest intra-day count so far. Of the new cases, the city reported 462, while North 24-Parganas had 764. The highest number of new cases recorded on a single day previously had been Thursday’s 3,197. The maximum single-day test tally earlier was 35,107 reported on Tuesday. Out of the total 1.32 lakh cases, Bengal now has 1.01 lakh recoveries and 2,689 deaths. The recovery rate is at an all-time high of 76.96 per cent, ahead of the national rate of 74.52. “The first Covid-19 case in Bengal was found on March 17. Till July 31 — 136 days since then, we had 48,374 recoveries in total. In 21 days of August so far, we added 53,497 recoveries,” said a Bengal minister, underscoring the “whopping” 8 per cent rise in recoveries achieved in the three weeks of the current month. Asked whether the surge was largely on account of the altered hospitalisation protocol for Covid-19 patients, the minister said it was “only one of many” factors, including newer steps for “better, more timely” medical intervention before, during and after institutional medical care ensured by the state government. In the new hospitalisation protocol, fewer days of hospitalisation are required for those doing better. “For the three-week window between July 10 and 31, the percentage of recovery in comparison to new cases was 72. That, for these three weeks, is 86,” said the minister. The 36,229 tests took the total to past 14.87 lakh, at 16,532 tests per million people. “The World Health Organisation advisory specifies 140 tests per million, daily. Now, we are at 403, nearly thrice of that. Just to give an idea of how much ground we have been covering, rapidly… we were at 211, even on July 31. A month ago, we were at 156,” said the minister. “We are looking at getting at least 18.5 lakh tests (in total) done by the end of this month,” he added. Owing to the sharp spike in new cases, the positive confirmation rate is now 8.9 per cent, which was 6.63 a month ago. Of the total 2,689 deaths reported, Calcutta accounted for 1,154, with 22 till 9am. North 24-Parganas reported a total of 620 deaths, 10 of them on Friday. The state reported 2,360 (87.8 per cent) deaths as those with comorbidity “present”. In the three weeks of August, 1,108 Covid patients died and 992 fatalities, according to the government, were comorbid. Bengal’s overall mortality rate remained 2.03, still behind the national rate of 1.88 per cent. Calcutta’s mortality rate is 3.28. The state reported 35.84 per cent occupancy in the 11,935 beds earmarked for Covid-19 patients at 86 dedicated hospitals. Telemedicine consultation for the pandemic was provided to 1.05 lakh people, including 4,511 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-403
22-08-2020||West Bengal||New angle to Darjeeling railway in UK documentary||A British documentary maker who shot videos on the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway with active help from the UK-based Darjeeling Himalayan Railway Society just before the lockdown, has released the first part of his project. Peter Middleton, who had been making videos on railways for over three decades, came up with a unique documentary which shows the mountain railway from the seat of the loco pilot. “For the first time ever, an extensive video on the DHR has been released which showcases the railway from a driver’s eye. It has been planned to publish the video in two parts. One part would comprise the route from New Jalpaiguri to Tindharia and the other from Tindharia to Darjeeling. Recently, the first part, that is, the journey from Tindharia to Darjeeling has been released,” said Paul Whittle, the vice-chairman of the DHRS. The representatives of the DHRS also pointed out that it was more fascinating to see the DHR tracks and the idyllic landscapes in the surroundings from the front of a loco in a video, rather than videos which are shot sideways from the carriages or from chase vehicles. Some clips, which were shot from a chase vehicle or through drones, have added to the attraction of the documentary that is two hours and 24 minutes long. “It was in March that the team came here and shot the video in a charter train with steam loco. It is nice to see that despite having a short time, they could manage to get their job done and now a portion of the video has been released,” said Partha Pratim Roy, a DHR enthusiast based in Siliguri. Roy said it was a challenging task for the team to mount video cameras in front of the loco because of the vibration and swaying caused by short wheels of the loco. “It took time to place the cameras in such a way that there was no jerk. The efforts worked and the videos were found to be of good quality. It was nice to see the DHR from a different camera angle,” he added. The video, that is available with the DHRS, has yet another attraction – a narrative by Jonathan Kydd, a British actor who is also a prominent voice actor in the UK. “He has lent his voice in similar railway videos earlier. This time, he has narrated the beauty of the DHR and the landscape of Darjeeling,” said a DHRS member. The initiative has also earned appreciation from DHR officials. “In the past few years, we have seen a surge in the number of passengers and last year, the number crossed one lakh for the first time in the history of DHR. Such videos always help us in getting more tourists on board,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-403
22-08-2020||West Bengal||Murmurs over BJP seat scan  in Bengal||A section of Bengal BJP functionaries has started raising questions on the ongoing assessment of the party’s position in 154 Assembly seats as they think the state leadership, aided by district presidents, is rolling out a rosy picture by sweeping under the carpet its organisational weaknesses. “We couldn’t put up agents at over 30 per cent of the booths during the general election. Still, we won 18 seats primarily because of the public’s mood in favour of Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” said a party source. “Any fair assessment process should have started with the first question of whether we are now in a position to put up agents at 77,000-odd booths in the state,” the source added. On August 18 and 19, state BJP president Dilip Ghosh, national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, party’s co-in charge for Bengal Arvind Menon and other senior leaders like Rahul Sinha and Mukul Roy initiated the second round of a meetings to assess the party’s position in 154 Assembly constituencies. Some party sources present at the assessment sessions — conducted at Dilip Ghosh’s Rajarhat address — said that the leaders were in a “self-congratulatory” mode. “The district presidents were presenting rosy pictures claiming that the situation is favourable for the party. Both state and central leaders present at the meeting took the district reports for granted, without asking many questions,” a party leader said. This section of leaders believes senior leaders like Ghosh are hoping for a rerun of the general election. But a series of events took place since then, which suggest Trinamul’s resurgence in several areas. Not only the BJP failed to win in any of the three seats — including Kharagpur Sadar from where Ghosh was previously elected — in the Assembly bypolls, the political dynamics also changed in vast stretches of Bengal. Trinamul successfully launched anti-NRC and anti-CAA campaigns. Besides, hundreds of BJP supporters switched over to the Trinamul Congress at several places. “Our leaders don’t appear to have taken note of all of these events, which indicate Trinamul, at least to some extent, is recovering the lost ground,” said a source. Speaking of Trinamul’s recovery, a BJP leader referred to the Arambagh Lok Sabha constituency, which the BJP had lost by a margin of around 1,100 votes. “We have reports that Trinamul is leaving no stone unturned to cement its base in Arambagh. If we don’t start building our organisation from now, it will be too late for the polls,” this leader said. This person reminded that a BJP supporter had been murdered on August 15 in Khanakul — which comes under the Arambagh constituency — in Hooghly and suggested that this incident was a proof of how desperate Trinamul had become. “What are our leaders doing? Have you seen a single centralised rally over this death? Why will common worker support us if we don’t support them?” the leader asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-403
22-08-2020||West Bengal||Girl’s body found, rape suspected||A 16-year-old girl who had gone missing on August 10 evening was found dead in a septic tank on Thursday evening. Police have arrested three persons who are residents of villages in the girl’s neighbourhood. The police claimed the trio had admitted to abducting, raping and killing the Class X student and dumping her body in the septic tank. Rehman Ali, Zamirul Haque and Tamirul Haque were produced in the chief judicial magistrate’s Court in Jalpaiguri on Friday and remanded in police custody for eight days. A section of villagers demonstrated in front of Rajganj police station, alleging that the law enforcers hadn’t done enough to trace the teen. Local Trinamul MLA Khageswar Roy demanded the transfer of all those police officers who were involved in the probe. He reached the police station and spoke to the protesters. The MLA assured them that proper punishment would be meted out to the accused. Pradeep Kumar Yadav, the superintendent of police of Jalpaiguri, said: “Senior officers will probe the charges against the Rajganj police personnel. If the allegations are correct, they will face action.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-403
22-08-2020||West Bengal||Protests lined up against varsity VC in Santiniketan||The student and youth wings of the CPM will hold protests in Santiniketan on Saturday against the recent vandalism and alleged attempts by Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty and other varsity officials to saffronise Rabindranath Tagore’s institution. The twin protests by the SFI and the DYFI are among so many programmes lined up by political parties in Santiniketan over the next few days. “We condemn the vandalism, for sure. But we would also protest against the practices of the current VC, his bid to ruin the legacy of Tagore and his ideology here to saffronise the campus,” DYFI Birbhum district secretary Manotosh Majumdar said. The SFI highlighted several allegedly biased moves by Chakrabarty, such as disallowing a lecture by eminent Marxist economist Prabhat Patnaik and inviting Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta, a saffron ideologue for a talk on the controversial citizenship matrix. The Congress is also planning a movement against the proposed boundary wall. “Our Bolpur unit would conduct a protest on Sunday against Visva-Bharati by putting up walls,” said Birbhum district Congress president Sanjoy Adhikary. The BJP is yet to start a structured movement as the party wants to test the waters on the emotive issue of the wall, in particular, and Chakrabarty, in general, before taking a proper plunge. “We have been getting divergent opinions. We will have a meeting on Saturday with leaders of Bolpur and decide on the political course of action on the matter,” Birbhum district BJP chief Shyamapada Mondal said. Trinamul leaders said they would support all movements, irrespective of political affiliation, in protest against the varsity’s moves to “ruin the culture” of Santiniketan with walls and alleged saffronisation. “We are in favour of Tagore and his legacy, which Santiniketan and Visva-Bharati stand for. We will oppose whoever tries to act against them,” said Abhijit Sinha, a district coordinator of Trinamul. The SUCI, a Left outfit traditionally opposed to the CPM, issued a news release, demanding an end to politicisation of the campus by both Trinamul and the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-403
22-08-2020||West Bengal||Cash nod for land purchase  in Bengal||The state finance department has allowed expenditure on acquisition and purchase of land by government departments, the first such relaxation since Nabanna imposed a blanket ban on all non-Covid-19 expenses. An order issued by finance secretary H.K. Dwivedi on August 17 said that in partial modification of an earlier order, all expenditures on land acquisition and purchase would be allowed with prior approval of competent authority. Sources in the state administration said the August 17 order held significance as it made it clear the government was set to give a big push to projects that had got stalled midway because of Covid-19. The timing of the order is also significant, feels officials, as it was issued just ahead of the chief minister’s district review meetings, which would start from Monday through video conference. “A lot of ongoing projects of departments like public health engineering, irrigation and public works have come to a halt because of unavailability of land. The exemption given by the finance secretary would help the departments go for purchase of the land required for the projects,” said a senior government official. The chief minister’s office and the chief secretary’s office have asked the district magistrates to send progress reports on the ongoing projects ahead of the meeting. “The reports have started reaching Nabanna. The reports hinted that many projects could not be completed as land could not be arranged,” said a bureaucrat. Sources also said Mamata Banerjee was keen on completing the projects by year-end so that their benefits could reach people before the 2021 Assembly polls. The pending projects include pipeline-based water supply to homes, repair and restoration of several district roads and embankments and connecting farmland to irrigation facilities. “The projects don’t need huge quantum of land,” said a source. A senior bureaucrat, however, said lifting the ban alone would not help the districts at all. “The finance department has to allot funds for the land purchase. But I am not sure whether the government would be able to release funds immediately to buy land for projects given that the state’s revenue generation has dried up significantly since April.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-403
