23-08-2020||West Bengal||Mahato clout with NIA poser||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s strategy of inducting Chhatradhar Mahato — the face of the Lalgarh movement — into her party seems to be yielding results, amid reports that the NIA is planning to nab him for two murder cases. But with Mahato’s entry, Trinamul managed to organise 12 large meetings in the Jungle Mahal in less than a month and got over 3,000 BJP supporters to switch sides. Mahato, who has some 39 cases pending against him including involvement in Maoist activities under the UAPA and murder of a CPM leader in 2009, was arrested in 2009. Out on bail on February 2,  within five months he got charge of strengthening Trinamul’s base in the Jungle Mahal where in 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the saffron party won all four seats, including Jhargram, Mahato’s home district. “My first vision was to bring those back to Trinamul who joined the BJP...I got at least 3,000 BJP workers and leaders, who were my aides earlier, to join Trinamul,” Mahato told this reporter. But Trinamul leaders fear that the BJP would use the NIA against Mahato as he is helping TMC’s revival. The BJP dismissed this but said it condemned the Trinamul for using a “convicted man” to regain political clout. Recently, the NIA got a nod from Calcutta High Court to interrogate Mahato in connection with the murder of Prabhu Mahato, a CPM leader who was killed in 2009. “The NIA sleuths are moving around the area...  We think it is part of saffron strategy to use the agency against Mahato as the Trinamul is reviving in the area," said a Trinamul leader. Mahato himself admitted that the NIA is trying to ‘harass’ him to divert from ongoing political activities. “NIA is trying to harass me. They already summoned me to face the interrogation in calcutta. I skipped it because of the pandemic but not sure about their further plan. However, it would be good for Trinamul and me if the NIA arrests me," said Mahato. BJP’s Jhargram president Sukhamoy Satpati however said, “Chhatradhar has no impact on BJP's organisation at all at least in Jungle Mahal. But we condemn the Trinamu’s move of using a convicted person to regain political clout.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-401
23-08-2020||West Bengal||BJP supporter killed in clash||A BJP supporter was killed and 19 other party workers were injured allegedly in a clash that erupted on Friday night in East Midnapore’s Egra. Residents of Barida village said a clash broke out when Trinamul workers protested against BJP supporters’ efforts to build a new party office. “A clash broke out in which bricks and bamboo sticks were used. Many were injured,” said an eyewitness, adding two persons were grievously injured and rushed to Midnapore Medical College, but one of them died on the way. On Saturday, 19 others were admitted to a hospital in Egra with moderate to serious injuries. BJP sources said a group of recent joinees from the Trinamul had been “targeted”. “Trinamul resented that they shifted to the BJP and targeted them,” said BJP’s Contai district president Anup Maity. Trinamul sources denied the charges and called it a fall-out of “BJP’s infighting”. Confirming the death of a person in a clash at Egra’s Barida on Friday night, a police officer in Egra said: “We are probing the incident to see if there were political links.” At Basirhat in South 24-Parganas, a BJP activist who works as an office secretary at party’s subdivisional office, was arrested allegedly for selling firearms and ammunition. Bapin Das, 36, was picked up by a police team from his Colony Dalalpara home on Saturday. Police found one pistol and six rounds of live ammunition at his home. Das, who fought the civic poll as a BJP nominee from ward 13 in 2015, was produced before the ACJM court in Basirhat and remanded to police custody. The police said Das was named by recently arrested criminals in connection to an arms supply racket. A BJP leader said he was framed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-401
23-08-2020||West Bengal||Waves damage road to Digha park||A big part of the road connecting to a 10-acre recreational park, part of the Digha convention centre inaugurated by Mamata Banerjee last December, was severely damaged by strong tidal waves over Thursday and Friday night. The Dheu Sagar (Sea of Waves) park is a 10-foot-high, elevated park with murals, statues, benches and an amphitheatre and had played host to the chief minister’s guests comprising delegates and industrialists last year. Over 200m of the 3km-long road, spanning the Udaipur bridge, was damaged after the concrete guardwall took a beating from tidal waves spurred by a low-pressure formation and a new moon night. “We have asked the Digha-Sankarpur Development Authority to start inspection and renovation of the road at the soonest as this is a question of Digha’s image,” said zilla parishad chief Debabrata Das. “Not only is it a major tourist draw, the park also lends an air of recreation to the business centre, through which the CM intended to turn Digha into Bengal’s business and tourist destination simultaneously,” he added. DSDA vice-chairman Akhil Giri said efforts with the irrigation department would be underway on this “post haste”. On December 11 last year, Mamata Banerjee had inaugurated the park after holding lengthy deliberations at the adjacent convention centre. Talks had resulted in pledges for at least two star-hotels in the area and was followed by a cultural programme at the Dheu Sagar amphitheatre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-401
23-08-2020||West Bengal||Sanctuary wild boar killed for meat, one held||State forest department officers arrested a casual worker of a tea estate in the Dooars for killing a wild boar from Chapramari Wildlife Sanctuary, and cooking its meat, on Saturday. Foresters seized raw and cooked meat during the raid and Kilkott tea estate in Jalpaiguri’s Matialli block and arrested Romit Oraon, but others fled. Foresters said the wild boar was killed at Chapramari Wildlife Sanctuary. On August 20, a gaur or Indian bison from Gorumara National Park was killed for meat. In the Dooars, instances of people killing wild animals for meat had been reported some five years ago, and people had been arrested for killing deer and even leopard for its meat. But foresters said such activities had stopped in recent years. “But now some desperate people on the fringes of wildlife habitats have started this again. We have put our men on alert,” he said. State forest minister Rajib Banerjee expressed his concern over the incidents. “Senior forest officers in north Bengal have been asked to probe the incidents and submit a comprehensive report to us,” he said. A python was rescued from a bamboo plantation at the Rakhalhat-Majumdarpara area of Maynaguri block of Jalpaiguri on Saturday. Spotting the snake, people called up an outfit that works for wildlife conservation. A team of foresters also came to the spot. The rescue took two hours during which a member of the wildlife conservation team suffered a snakebite. The python was later released to Gorumara National Park, a source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-401
23-08-2020||West Bengal||NIT Durgapur online classes from September 7||NIT Durgapur will start online classes from September 7. An academic calendar has been uploaded on the institute’s website, announcing the start of undergraduate and postgraduate classes. The decision to start classes online follows a survey among students regarding their Net accessibility, an official said. The survey revealed about 12 per cent of 3,000 students lack basic Net connectivity. The institute will offer them the option of attending “crash semester” classes on the campus. Live classes will be held on Microsoft Teams or Google Meet. But the institute will upload recorded lectures on Facebook and YouTube for the benefit of students in case their Net connectivity gets disrupted during lectures. “If a student fails to participate in live classes, he/she can go through the recorded lectures,” institute director Anupam Basu said. A link will be shared with the students for them to access the recorded lectures. After going through the recorded lectures, students can clear their doubts by speaking to teachers either on the phone or through email or on WhatsApp. At NIT Durgapur, online enrolment of first-semester MTech and MSc students are likely to start from the first week of September. “No physical reporting or verification of documents will be undertaken during the pandemic,” another official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-402
23-08-2020||West Bengal||Why Ngultrum spells moneychangers||Illegal moneychangers are mushrooming at Jaigaon in Alipurduar district that shares borders with Bhutan’s commercial capital Phuentsholing. Reason: hundreds of traders in Jaigaon are helplessly sitting with Bhutanese currency for over 10 days now in the wake of Bhutan’s nationwide lockdown since August 11. Cash being in short supply, most Indian traders are desperately trying to exchange Bhutan’s currency — the Ngultrum — that they have on them with Indian currency notes. In Jaigaon, it is a common practice to transact with Ngultrum, though it is not officially recognised as legal tender in India. Bhutan, however, considers Indian currency valid. Usually, thousands of Bhutan residents visit markets of Jaigaon every day and pay in Bhutanese currency. Also, Indians who work in Bhutan pay the Ngultrum to Jaigaon’s traders. Once Jaigaon’s traders accumulate enough Ngultrum, they walk to Phuentsholing, where they have bank accounts, deposit the amount and get a demand draft or transfer the money to some other bank account in India. The lockdown in Bhutan stopped this. That’s where the illegal moneychangers stepped in. Indian traders are left with little option but their services as there is no money exchange counter on the Jaigaon –Phuentsholing border. Moneychangers offer Indian currency against Bhutanese currency but charge a hefty commission. “A section of people are minting money now, charging commission as high as 10 per cent, which means if I hand over 1 lakh Ngultrum, which is equivalent to Rs 1 lakh, I get only Rs 90,000,” said Rama Shankar Gupta, secretary, Jaigaon Merchants’ Association. But traders are desperate as they need to pay their suppliers in Siliguri and Calcutta, and run their families, Gupta said. “No bank here will accept Bhutan’s currency. There is no option other than to take the help of these people,” added Gupta. A trader said Indian and Bhutan currencies were transacted in Jaigaon and adjoining areas for years now without any hitch. But the novel coronavirus changed everything, he said. After the first Covid-19 case was reported in Bhutan, the entry of non-Bhutanese people was stopped in the country. “We started facing problems then but with the intervention of the administration, banks opened temporary counters right on the border where we could deposit the Ngultrum and collect bank drafts,” said a retailer. With the lockdown and Phuentsholing marked a red zone by the Bhutan government, temporary bank counters are gone. Jaigaon traders said money exchange counters on the border were needed. “That’s the only solution.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-402
23-08-2020||West Bengal||Red Stream to bridge CPM’s digital gap||The CPM seems to have woken up to the “better late than never” adage as it prepares to take the social media bull by the horns in a more organised way before the 2021 Assembly polls. Its rivals BJP and Trinamul enjoyed the first movers’ advantage in the digital world. To combat this, the CPM has decided to streamline its online presence through a network of WhatsApp groups and move towards an organised social media campaign — a first for the CPM in Bengal. “The BJP has successfully spread its hate campaign across Bengal, like in the rest of the country, through its digital sources. Trinamul has spent crores on Prashant Kishor to combat them. Both parties are spreading lies on social media platforms, we can’t sit back and watch,” a CPM leader said. He added: “The party has a fairly commendable online presence. But most social media posts and WhatsApp groups are either individual or group initiatives. A streamlined online presence will help us connect better with people.” The leader added that the exercise would also help collating demographic data on the prospects of the party ahead of the polls next year. In its latest communique circulated among party members about decisions taken at the state committee meeting, the CPM drafted detailed instructions on how to execute the digital outreach. The entire party structure — from the state level to booths — will be brought under the purview of the WhatsApp network named Red Stream. Party members at the booth level have been assigned the task of collecting mobile numbers of individuals to form WhatsApp groups. Collecting contact numbers, party workers will also collate data about the person’s language, gender, religion and age. “This programme will help our self-assessment. We may  figure out where we are falling short and work on it,” a CPM lawmaker said. The network will be headed by the Red Stream’s core WhatsApp group, which will include representatives from all district groups and those responsible for social media activities at state level. Similar structures will be followed at district and area levels as well. In July, the party held multiple meetings with members of the SFI and the DYFI, the party’s students and youth wings, on whom it is banking heavily to make the digital outreach a success. Party leaders said the drive is aimed at stemming the erosion in the CPM since its poll debacle in 2011. “We don’t have the kind of party machinery we once had. WhatsApp groups will help us bridge the gap,” one of the leaders said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-402
23-08-2020||West Bengal||Tea estate shut amid clamour for dues||The management of Longview tea estate, on the foothills of Darjeeling hills, declared suspension of work since Friday, citing worker unrest for over 10 days. The decision drew flak from tea trade unions, which accused the management of trying to evade responsibility and pointed out that the management had not paid workers their dues amounting to nearly Rs 90 lakh. This forced workers to resort to hunger strike since August 19, leaders said. Longview, spread over 500 hectares and with some 1,200 permanent and casual workers, falls under Kurseong subdivision of Darjeeling. It is one of the 87 tea gardens that make orthodox Darjeeling tea. Management sources said some workers resorted to protests since August 10, did not work, confined the manager a number of times and abused and intimidated him. “The garden can’t be run like this,” a source said, claiming that though efforts were on to resolve the issue through talks, most tea trade unions were not interested. “Wages of employees are up to date. But because of the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown, work stopped and arranging funds to pay a part of the bonus became a problem. It was agreed that bonus would be paid in September but still workers acted this way.” Tea trade union leaders brushed aside these charges. Four trade unions, backed by GNLF, the Binay Tamang faction of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, Trinamul and Citu, were organising the hunger strike and wanted the management to clear dues this month. Nima Lama, a senior GNLF leader in Kurseong, said payments of Longview workers were irregular since December, before Covid-19 problems emerged. The management declared a lockout and the garden was closed till January 30 this year, he said. “When it reopened, the management had said dues, including bonus dues, would be paid at the earliest. Seven months passed and dues are close to Rs 90 lakh now,” said Lama. “We want the state labour department to intervene and see that the garden reopens at the earliest,” another trade union leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-402
23-08-2020||West Bengal||Covid tests go past 15 lakh||Bengal held 36,318 Covid-19 tests on Saturday to go past 15 lakh in the total number of tests since the onset of the pandemic, 95 days after the first lakh and covering the latest lakh in three days. Bengal reported 3,232 new cases and 48 deaths on one hand, and 3,088 more cures, on the other, in 24 hours till Saturday 9am. Twelve died in Calcutta and nine in North 24-Parganas. The number of cases now is over 1.35 lakh, but nearly 1.05 lakh of those are recoveries, while 2,737 are deaths. The recovery rate is at 77.41 per cent, while the national rate is 74.84 per cent. In 22 days of August, the state has conducted around 6.31 lakh tests, after taking over six months to get past the 6 lakh tests mark, on July 11. “We are now looking to get past 40,000 in daily testing. Our tests per million has gone up from 9,927 at the beginning of August to 16,935 now,” said a minister. The state now has conducted 15,24,62 tests in all, having begun testing in early February. Bengal took over three-and-a-half months to get past 1 lakh, on May 19, then 10-12 days each to cross the early milestones of 2-5 lakh tests. “At the 10-12 lakh levels, we covered each lakh (of tests) in four days. Now, we are taking only three days per lakh…,” said the minister. “A World Health Organisation advisory specifies a daily minimum of 140 tests per million. Now, we are at 404. We are looking to get past 500 soon. Even when August began, we were at 211,” he added. Owing to the sharp spike in new cases, the positive confirmation rate is now 8.9 per cent. It was 6.83 a month ago. Of the 3,232 new cases, Calcutta reported 516 and North 24-Parganas, 547. But Calcutta also reported 708 recoveries and North 24-Parganas logged 651, hence the total active cases for the two high-incidence districts fell again, on the lines of the welcome trend that began on August 9. Of the total 2,737 deaths reported, Calcutta accounted for 1,166 and North 24-Parganas reported 629 deaths so far. The state reported 2,398, or 87.6 per cent of them, as deaths with co-morbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate remained 2.01, still behind the national rate of 1.86 per cent. Calcutta’s mortality rate is 3.26. The state reported 36.71 per cent occupancy in the 12,035 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 87 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic. Telemedicine consultation for the pandemic was provided to 1.1 lakh, including 4,539 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-402
23-08-2020||West Bengal||Tagore too was an outsider: VC||Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty on Saturday said Rabindranath Tagore “was an outsider himself” to Santiniketan, seeking to defend “outsiders” who have been blamed for fomenting the ongoing controversy over the Pous Mela grounds. In a “special missive” uploaded on the central university’s website, Chakrabarty said: “Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore was an outsider himself; had he not taken a liking to the area, Visva-Bharati wouldn’t have evolved. Besides Gurudev Tagore, his colleagues — who paved the way for Visva-Bharati to develop as a hub of knowledge creation and dissemination — all came from outside Bolpur.” The vice-chancellor sought to focus on two factors in his statement. One, “the sustained endeavour to alienate, exclude and ostracise those colleagues who are from outside Bolpur or West Bengal by labelling them as outsiders”. Two, the charge that the construction of the wall or fence was contrary to Visva-Bharati’s tradition. On Monday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said “some people and outsiders —whose presence was not right — were present to guard the construction” of the wall. The construction has been disrupted. The Trinamul Congress read a political message in the vice-chancellor’s statement uploaded on Saturday. Abhijit Sinha, district coordinator of the Trinamul, said: “The VC needs to support outsiders as he is keen to invite BJP leaders on the campus to saffronise Santiniketan. His idea just echoes the BJP’s theory. It is ridiculous that the VC has termed Tagore as an outsider. Even after the incident of vandalism, he stayed away from the meeting called by the state government to show his no-confidence in the state’s administration. His statement reeks of politics.” In the second part of the statement, Chakrabarty defended the plan for the wall. He cited several instances where playgrounds, including those at Santiniketan and Sriniketan, had been fenced off. He said the old Pous Mela ground had been fortified at least 30 years ago, adding that China Bhavan had been fenced off when Tagore was alive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-402
23-08-2020||West Bengal||Keepers. Preservers. Providers||In the last few weeks, the price of potatoes in West Bengal had gone up by 40 per cent, anything between Rs 30 and 40 a kilo. After weeks of negotiation between the state government and the Cold Storage Association of Bengal, the latter has just started releasing potatoes at Rs 23. These will be sold at Rs 25 by the state government retail chain. Bengal is the second largest producer of potatoes after Uttar Pradesh. While UP produces 1,50,00,000 metric tonnes of potatoes annually, Bengal produces 1,20,00,000 metric tonnes (1 metric tonne equals 1,000 kilos). Says cold storage owner Ramapada Paul, “Here, we need cold storages chiefly for potatoes. The crop is harvested in March. The farmers keep enough stock for April and May and put away the rest in cold storages for the rest of the year.” Paul owns three cold storages exclusively for potatoes and one for multiple things — dry fruits, oranges, apples, carrots, beetroots, frozen items, spices and so on and so forth. He set up his first cold storage in the small town of Gurap in Hooghly district in the late 1970s. Cold storages had by then mushroomed in several districts. Records confirm that cold storages debuted in the state in the early 1950s. At present, there are 585 such facilities, of which 483 are for storing potatoes, 23 that can store potatoes as well as other vegetables and fruits, and 79 of the type that can store multiple things. The cold storages are located in Hooghly, West Midnapore, Burdwan, Bankura, Howrah, Birbhum, Murshidabad, Dhupguri, Jalpaiguri, Malda, North and South Dinajpur, North and South 24-Parganas, Alipurduar, Coochbehar and Darjeeling, which also happen to be the major potato growing areas. In the early days, according to Paul, only Marwari businessmen could afford to invest in this business. “It requires a lot of money to build one himghar (cold storage). In the 1950s, one had to invest no less than Rs 10 lakh for a single cold storage.” Paul’s father used to trade in potatoes. He would buy the staple from cold storage owners and supply to retailers. Says Paul, “Many people come and deposit their products in a cold storage. There is the farmer who wants to preserve his produce after harvest; there are traders who have bought the produce from the farmers and now want to store and sell when prices are high, and there are cold storage owners themselves who buy the produce from farmers and store them to sell when the market is ripe.” He recalls the time when he opened his first cold storage. “Farmers used to queue up for some space. They would spend hours to collect bonds against their products,” he says. Every time someone needs space in the cold storage, one has to collect bonds. A bond works like a token and is meant to book space. The trader or farmer shows the bond at the cold storage, deposits produce/items and is handed a receipt. When time comes to collect the produce/items one has to show the receipt and pay the rent. The standard rent for a single packet — it equals 50 kilos — of potatoes is Rs 250 for six months. “This includes the cost of drying and sorting of potatoes,” says Lalu Mukherjee, who is the secretary of the West Bengal Pragatishil Alu Byabsayee Samiti. He also adds that one has to keep a minimum of 500 kilos of potatoes in the cold storage and the same amount has to be released at one go. Nothing less is allowed. “In the US, the cold storage is referred to as a refrigerated warehouse and in India and the United Kingdom, it is called a cold storage — a place where all kinds of perishable goods are stored for preservation,” says Ashish Jhunjhunwala, the owner of Hindusthan Ice and Cold Store in Alampur in Howrah. Jhunjhunwala explains how cold storages come in various sizes. The smallest are those found in hotels and restaurants, malls and supermarkets to store vegetables, meat, fish, and other frozen items. “They are called walk-in cold stores,” he says. Walk-in cold stores work on the same principle as refrigerators, the only difference being they are as big as a room and one has to walk in to collect things. The other types of cold storage are bulk cold stores, multipurpose cold stores, small cold stores, frozen food stores, controlled atmosphere stores and ripening stores. A single commodity is stored in the bulk stores — potatoes, chillies or onions. “Most of the cold stores in Bengal fall in this category,” says Jhunjhunwala. While the capacity of a cold storage can go up to 3,00,000 metric tonnes, Mukherjee estimates that one-and-a-half lakh tonnes is what is economically viable. This year only 440 of the 483 potato cold storages in Bengal are operational. It has to do with low production, a source in the state department of agriculture tells The Telegraph. No wonder the potato prices have soared. “The cold storages have played a key role not only in regulating market prices of fresh produce during the pandemic, but also in allowing the demand and supply chain to function undisrupted,” says Tarun Kanti Ghosh, who is the president of the West Bengal Cold Storage Association. He also points out how cold storages averted a food crisis post the Amphan. Jhunjhunwala agrees, but he is quick to point out that one must not assume cold storage owners have been immune to the pandemic or profited from the all-round distress. He says, “These last few months, the market has been erratic. Festivals — Bengali New Year’s Day, Ramzaan, Jamai Shashti — and weddings have been observed on a very small scale. Like every year, traders had stocked up in advance to meet the huge demand during these festivals but the lockdown happened and the markets shut down.” Syed Anwar Maqsood, who is secretary of the Howrah wholesale  fish market, had stored hilsa in the month of March expecting sale during the Bengali festivals. He says, “I have bought fish for Rs 1 crore. It is what I had paid for one container from Myanmar. But since sales were not as expected, I have to keep them in storage for longer than usual. And when the local catch comes in, where will I get storage space?” Then there is the added problem of labour shortage. Cold storages need labourers for stacking and loading. According to Paul, these labourers have the experience of handling items in a manner that is conducive to storage and easy access. But these men, who generally come from Jharkhand and Bihar, have all gone back to their homes. Even the usual maintenance staff stands reduced. Jhunjhunwala complains, “If a fan belt breaks down, repair takes more time than it used to take earlier and that might damage the products in the storage.” Jhunjhunwala tells us a story about the hilsa and the cold storage from 20 years ago. Those days, it seems, Bengalis were way less amenable to having frozen hilsa than they are today. Says the cold storage owner, “The standard practice then would be to release the fish the previous night, keep them in water for thawing and then have them masquerade in the markets next morning as taja machh.” He adds, “Now people don’t mind so much. And what is the alternative in times like this when Amphan has pushed all hilsa towards Bangladesh and robbed us of our season’s share?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-402
23-08-2020||Calcutta||Cycle row||In the 1950s and 60s, cars had expelled cyclists from the streets of Holland, but at great expense. By the early 1970s, road accidents were claiming thousands of lives every year and among the dead were many children. This led to a movement called Stop de Kindermoord, meaning stop child murder. In the Dutch capital of Amsterdam, activists adopted the bicycle in protest. Around this time, the Arab countries had imposed an embargo on export of oil to Holland and a few other European countries for supporting Israel. This led to a steep rise in oil prices. Even politicians began to see the advantage of a lifestyle not too dependent on oil. Holland, and especially Amsterdam, began to change. Amsterdam is currently known as the bicycle capital of the world. Calcutta today, despite all obvious differences, may be where Amsterdam was in the 1970s, feels Bicycle Mayor of Calcutta Satanjib Gupta. The title conferred on Gupta by BYCS, an Amsterdam-based global network that promotes the bicycle, may sound absurdly grand, but the lockdown has led to so many absurdities already. “Have you seen photographs of the Howrah Bridge during lockdown,” asks Gupta. “Full of bicycles, it was a wonderful sight.” The number of bicycles in the city’s streets, estimated to have been over three lakh before the lockdown, has gone up several times. Its sales have soared since June. “The cycle is not only helping maintain livelihoods but also opening up livelihood options,” says Gupta. It is helping the delivery of products and services. This, for Gupta, could be the moment of change for Calcutta. The bicycle is the perfect vehicle for social distancing, for exercise, especially for lung power — advocated during the Spanish Flu, too — and for immunity. It is fuel-free and hence an antidote to climate change; cheap and almost zero-maintenance. It ensures equality of all and had played its part in empowering women. And yet, how poorly it has fared in Calcutta, which also has the highest percentage (11 per cent) of bicycle commuters among all Indian metros. Over the last two decades, it has slowly been pushed off the streets by the authorities. A circular issued by the police commissioner in 2008 had banned bicycles, categorised as “slow-moving vehicles”, from 38 city streets. In 2013, another police circular raised the number of streets to an impossible 174. In 2014, that was brought down to 62 by yet another circular. Cyclists would complain of harassment by the police, who would stop them and impose fines arbitrarily. So this year, after a nod from the chief minister, on June 9, the latest police circular raised hopes. It stated that with public transport restricted because of the pandemic, all bicycles would be allowed in the lanes and bylanes. But the harassment of cyclists continues, claim enthusiasts, and there is no clarity about routes. “Why can’t the main thoroughfares be opened for now to bicycles,” asks Gupta. A humiliating fine had led Raghu Jana to found the Kolkata Cycle Samaj with his friends in 2009; its primary aim is to get the ban lifted. Jana, a private tutor, who took part in political movements, speaks about the peculiar position the bicycle occupies, or does not occupy, in the law and regulations of the city. The classic way to undermine someone is to look through. It applies to bicycles too. “The bicycle is never addressed,” rues Jana. It is only banned. “Two years ago, we saw a police notice asking cyclists to follow the rules. We were glad. They were speaking to us,” he says. Encouraged, he and his Kolkata Cycle Samaj colleagues met a senior police official. But nothing changed. Jana points out that the police circulars were issued under the West Bengal Traffic Regulation Act, 1965, and the West Bengal Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989, but there is no specific body of rules in the city relating to the bicycle. “We are only told what we can’t do,” he says. The roads have only “No Cycling” signs. Sabuj Sathi, the state government showpiece programme, is far more successful in distributing bicycles among school students in the districts.  This is ironic for a city in which the bicycle, which became popular in its contemporary form from the 1880s, had enjoyed pride of place. It is even said that in 1870, a Santragachhi resident manufactured a bicycle that would require two persons to ride it, says Gupta. Eminent Bengalis, including Dwijendranath Tagore, J.C. Bose and his wife Abala Bose, P.C. Ray and Nilratan Sircar, had all patronised the bicycle, Gupta adds. In Rabindranath Tagore’s short story Ponrokkha (1911), a young man yearns for a bicycle, which promises him freedom and joy, at only Rs 125. Personal Assistant, a 1959 Bengali film, has a beaming Bhanu Bandyopadhyay breezing through the still elegant and roomy central Calcutta roads on his bicycle, at par with motor cars. “Just the joy of riding a cycle,” says Jana. “Your body develops a unique relationship with it.” He questions the right of the police to decide the fate of cycles in the city. “This is a matter of urban planning,” he stresses. And of policy. Yet he is hopeful. “This is a moment of transition. Many may not want to give up on the joy of riding a bicycle when things normalise,” he says. The bicycle just needs a little encouragement in the city.“At the moment, it will be enough if the guard rails, lying everywhere now, are used to mark off a part of street at one end for cycles,” says Jana. Official bicycle lanes can be created later. “This is also the best moment for the ban to be lifted,” he adds. State transport secretary Prabhat Mishra is happy that so many cycles are in the streets. “But finding space in the city (for bicycles) is the biggest challenge,” he adds. In Calcutta, roads constitute only 7 per cent of the city area. The larger issue is an absolute lack of transport policy, says leading environment activist from the city, Naba Dutta. Since the formulation of the Comprehensive Mobility Plan (2001-2025) and discussions around another plan in 2011, there has been no planning for the city,” says Dutta. Roads, flyovers, overbridges have been built, but in a piecemeal, ad hoc way. “CNG buses are yet to roll out in the streets and bicycle lanes were part of the original plan of the E.M. Bypass.” The lack of planning has been made worse by the lack of environmental concern, says Dutta. Like bicycles, trams have been removed from the city streets. The car culture has overtaken everything and the bicycle has become the poor person’s vehicle. All this despite the fact that vehicular emissions are the biggest contributor to air pollution in Calcutta. At more than 350 cars per kilometre, Calcutta is one of the country’s most car-dense cities. Since the lockdown, with many cars off the street, the air feels much clearer. A study by the Centre for Science and Environment shows that peak levels of particulate matter or PM 2.5 and nitrogen dioxide have dropped by 46 and 74 per cent, respectively, during the lockdown compared with pre-lockdown days. “The stretch from Sealdah to Dalhousie can be made car-free. Before the lockdown, lakhs of people walked down the stretch every day to reach their workplaces and back. Same for the Chitpore to Esplanade stretch,” says Dutta. Calcutta could also use its waterways, he adds. “From our environmental platform Sabuj Mancha, we have been repeatedly asking the government for a comprehensive transport policy,” says Dutta, a cyclist himself. Urban planner Tathagata Chatterjee, who is professor in the department of Urban Planning and Governance at Bhubaneswar’s Xavier University, also insists on an overall transportation policy, but with planned intervention. “Just setting up bicycle lanes is not enough. This happened in Bhubaneswar, where now they are mostly used as parking.” “Planning for cycle and pedestrian infrastructure needs to be addressed together,” says Chatterjee, stressing on a strategy that uses different modes of transport. He assesses the disadvantages of Calcutta to accommodate such transport: the population density, extreme low road space, mixed traffic, road condition, encroachments, car parking, garbage dumps, movement of pedestrians, chances of collision with motorised vehicles, particularly autos, scooters and motorbikes, weather conditions of rain and heat, and lack of supporting infrastructure. Where does one park the bicycle is an important question he raises. But Calcutta has its advantages. It is a city of small distances. An average trip length in Calcutta is about five to six kilometres. Chatterjee says that this and a system of feeder transport can help the bicycle here. “In Calcutta, cycles should be used for short neighbourhood streets, not main roads. Dedicated cycle lanes are more suitable for planned areas such as New Town and Salt Lake,” he adds. According to him, while treating trams as feeder transport, authorities need to focus on creating a non-motorised rail-based mass transit system linking suburban rail, Metro rail and trams. Attention should be paid to good pedestrian infrastructure too. Thought has to go into creating parking spaces for bicycles. Cycle-friendly cities such as Copenhagen, London, Singapore — have done all of this. “The Comprehensive Mobility Plan has to be revisited,” says Chatterjee. In the meantime, here, the public sector undertaking Hidco is encouraging bicycles in the New Town area and the Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority has decided to take part in the national-level competition “Cycles 4 Change Challenge” organised by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs. A 56-year-old Calcuttan, Sudipto Roy, chief public relations officer of a multinational company that also manufactures car batteries, has turned cycle fan. He has taken to cycling to work every day during lockdown. He says, “In two months my blood pressure and blood sugar levels have come down.” He too has a question — “Why does this city reward the motorists and punish the cyclists?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-402
