24-08-2020||West Bengal||Glare on scheduled banks in farm credit disbursal||The Centre’s plan to bring 2.5 crore farmers under the Kisan Credit Card regime as part of its Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package to boost the country’s pandemic-hit economy seems to have tripped in Bengal because of lack of urgency shown by banks, especially scheduled commercial banks, to meet the target. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced the Centre’s much-hyped stimulus package in multiple phases in May. She had then claimed institutional credit provided through KCCs, which is facilitated and monitored through the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard), would provide relief to lockdown-hit farmers. The promise, however, seems to have remained only on paper as an internal status report circulated among commercial banks, cooperative banks, regional rural banks (RRBs), Nabard and the Reserve Bank of India on July 23 and accessed by The Telegraph shows in the case of Bengal, 9.49 lakh KCCs have been issued to non-loanee farmers against the target of 20.18 lakh. Though Bengal’s figure of 47 per cent achievement of its KCC target is above the national average of 45 per cent, the credit for it goes to much-maligned cooperative banks and RRBs. The two entities have notched up a figure of 87 per cent, with some banks outstripping their targets while the scheduled commercial banks, both public and private, have performed miserably meeting only 31 per cent of its target of over 14 lakh KCCs. “The performance of commercial banks, including the State Bank of India, turned out to be miserable in rolling out KCCs in Bengal. Private sector banks, including big names like ICICI, HDFC, IndusInd, and Bandhan Bank, have either sanctioned zero KCCs or are too negligible to be mentioned,” said a source in the banking sector. Bringing more farmers into the KCC fold is crucial for rural Bengal this year because the farm sector has been reeling from the twin blows of Covid-induced lockdown and Cyclone Amphan. The fact that the failure of the banks in meeting the target is affecting farmers is evident across rural Bengal as the farmers are running from pillar to post to get KCCs, which can solve their cash crunch. Marginal farmer Ujjwal Mukherjee, who tills his small piece of land at Rupsa village on the fringes of Sriniketan in Birbhum district, explained the problems he has been facing in this sowing season. “I have been banking on the KCC as my savings have been hugely eroded because of the lockdown. Where do poor farmers like us go? In my village I am not the only one running around to get KCCs,” he said. Debasish Basu Chowdhury, general secretary of the Bank Employees’ Federation of India, blamed Nabard and bank managements for not doing enough to achieve the targets. “Nabard’s lack of seriousness to monitor the performance of banks is the reason for the indifference shown by bank managements in meeting KCC targets. As state governments have major representation in State-level Bankers’ Committee, their role is critical in making banks meet KCC targets. The state government’s role in Bengal has not been up to the mark,” Basu Chowdhury said. Seeking to refute the charges of slack monitoring, Subrata Mondal, chief general manager, Nabard, said: “The performance of commercial banks is monitored by the RBI, while we take care of RRBs and cooperative banks. The performance of RRBs and cooperative banks shows we are doing our job.” The State Level Bankers Committee (SLBC) is an apex inter-institutional forum to create adequate coordination machinery for the development of the state and it comprises representatives of commercial banks, RRBs, state co-operative banks, RBI, Nabard, heads of government departments and representatives of financial institutions operating in a state. State agriculture minister Asish Banerjee passed the blame on the scheduled commercial banks. “The commercial banks are not cooperating to the extent they should in meeting Bengal’s KCC target. I will request our people in the SLBC to take up with commercial banks their indifference towards meeting the KCC target,” he said. Non co-operation of the scheduled commercial banks in extending credit to poor farmers or artisans in rural Bengal has often been cited as one of the major reasons behind indebtedness of the weaker sections of the society to moneylenders, who charge very high interest from the borrowers. The issue, along with failure in meeting annual KCC targets, are discussed regularly at SLBC meetings. The convener of the SLBC in Bengal, Ashwini Kumar Jha, said he was optimistic about the state getting closer to meeting the target, which would help infuse liquidity into the agriculture sector. He has admitted commercial banks are lagging behind when it comes to disbursing KCCs and the state government is aggressively pursuing the case at SLBC meetings. Jha said:“We have pushed ahead and managed to issue around 11 lakh KCCs in the current fiscal. As for private banks, their poor performance is primarily because of their lack of penetration in rural areas.” Reminded that last year the state had achieved only 68 per cent of its KCC target, Jha said: “This fiscal despite the lockdown and a raging pandemic we hope to do better.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-400
24-08-2020||West Bengal||Centre sets 30-day deadline for NH12 land ||The Centre has set a 30-day deadline for Bengal to hand over the rest of the “7 to 8 per cent” land to the National Highways Authority of India for a long-pending project to widen a 67km stretch of NH12 (erstwhile NH34) between Krishnagar and Baro Jaguli in Nadia, sources in the PWD have said. Such a deadline to hand over land is unprecedented, a senior bureaucrat told this paper. “The message from Delhi is clear... The future of the project will be uncertain if the land is not handed over in the next 30 days,” the official said. The land issue came up during a review meeting of the NH12 widening project — which started in 2009 and is held up because of the state government’s inability to hand over required land — chaired by cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba on Friday. State PWD secretary Naveen Prakash attended the virtual meeting. PWD sources said the Centre expressed its displeasure at district authorities for failing to clear encroachments on a 3km-stretch where shops and places of worship stood. “The Centre wants 100 per cent trouble-free land before starting work. Gurgaon-based KCC Buildcon Private Limited was hired for the Rs 1,113-crore project in October, 2019, but the letter of commencement hasn’t been given to it, without which it can’t start work,” said a senior PWD official. Sources in the department said they had tried to convince the NHAI to start work as  over 90 per cent of land had been made available. “But it wants 100 per cent land free from encumbrances,” said a source. A source said the Centre wanted the entire land because of a bitter past experience. “An agency was hired for the project… They deployed manpower and machinery and waited for four years to get land. Finally the contract with the agency had to be terminated, project cost shot up to Rs 1,113 crore from Rs 800-odd crore.” An NHAI source said that as the new agency was given 30 months to finish the project, the Centre wanted work to start at the earliest as 10 months are already gone. The project  includes a flyover, four road overbridges, seven footbridges and a toll plaza. “It is time-consuming work, and some 10 months have passed since the project was awarded,” said an official. Soutam Pal, director of the NH Project Implementation Unit in Krishnagar, admitted to the Centre’s pressure, but said there were religious structures and other buildings on acquired land and he was not sure when they would be cleared. Nadia district magistrate Vibhu Goel said the NHAI’s concern was uncalled for. “Owners assured us of dismantling the structures whenever work resumes in the final phase.” “They requested us to allow them to stay on their plots till work begins in the areas concerned. I don’t think that there is any reason to be concerned over such structures,” Goel said. Sources in the district administration, however, said some structures could not be removed as the owners were not paid land acquisition compensation in the absence of a PAN card and documents to claim ownership. “Arranging such documents have become difficult in the Covid-induced lockdown and overall situation,” an official said. The member of an organisation in Dignagar, which owns a building that still exists on the stretch, said” “We did not receive compensation as we don’t have PAN card in our organisation’s name. We will dismantle the structure once we receive compensation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-400
24-08-2020||West Bengal||Santiniketan survey on boundary wall on the Pous Mela ground||A group of senior police officers led by Birbhum district police chief Shyam Singh, dressed in ethnic-wear and riding bicycles, reached the doorsteps of half a dozen senior citizens of Santiniketan on Sunday afternoon to draft a ground report on the controversial boundary wall on the Pous Mela ground. Starting around noon on Sunday, the police team comprising additional superintendent of police (Bolpur) Shiba Prasad Patra and Bolpur subdivisional police officer Abhishek Ray, along with officers-in-charge of three police stations — besides Singh — undertook a 10km journey till about 2pm. Respondents included at least three members of the Rabindranath Tagore clan — Urmila Gangopadhyay, Supriya Tagore and Neela Bhattacharya. Sources said the police were trying to gauge “public sentiment” and assess “lifestyle changes” caused by Visva-Bharati’s alleged wall-building spree under the current dispensation of vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty. Singh said the team had visited the homes of senior citizens in order to take stock of the boundary walls. “We were informed of an example, where the varsity had put up a high wall in front of the home of an elderly woman…. We will send the report to the state government.” Asked about the attire and the cycles, Singh said: “There is a tradition of this in Santiniketan, where even a Nobel laureate (Amartya Sen) used to roam on a bicycle. Kurta-pyajama is also part of the culture of Santiniketan.” The boundary wall issue has snowballed into a political battle between the Mamata Banerjee government and the central varsity, of which Prime Minister Narendra Modi is the chancellor. The police team held brief talks with senior residents in order to know their opinion. Neela Bhattacharya, a member of the Tagore family and a resident of Ratan Pally, reportedly showed the cops how Visva-Bharati authorities were putting up a high boundary wall that blocks the view from her home. “Rabindranath’s elder brother Dwijendranath was my great maternal grandfather, and we have been associated with Santiniketan for so long. It hurts me when I find a high wall just in front of my house blocking my view. I tried to object, but nobody listened to me,” said the septuagenarian. Besides the Pous Mela ground, Visva-Bharati recently also put up two walls at Ratan Pally in front of the house of Santidev Ghosh, a notable Rabindrasangeet exponent. “We found at least two high walls that were recently put up, which the veterans protested against fiercely,” said Singh. During the team’s visit, Shanta Bhanu Sen, a cousin of Amartya Sen, also met Singh by a concrete wall near Sangeet Bhavana. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has already spoken against such constructions, citing Tagore’s philosophy. Police sources said the move to compile the ground report was taken following a meeting by citizens with the district magistrate on August 20. Vice-chancellor Chakrabarty had skipped the meeting. The VC convened an “emergency” meeting on Monday to discuss the boundary wall issue and activities on the campus, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-401
24-08-2020||West Bengal||Minister infected, Bengal registers 3,274 new Covid cases||Bengal’s public health engineering minister Soumen Mahapatra on Sunday said he tested positive for Covid-19, a day the state logged yet another highest 24-hour spike in new infections, with 3,274. The state also reported 3,048 recoveries and 57 deaths in the 24-hour window ending at 9am on Sunday. Eight persons succumbed in Calcutta and 18 in North 24-Parganas. With this, Bengal went past 1.38 lakh infections since the onset of the pandemic, of which 1.08 lakh are recoveries and 2,794 are deaths. Bengal also logged the most number of tests in a day, 37,149. Minister Mahapatra in his statement in the afternoon said that as he was asymptomatic, he was in home isolation. Mahapatra is the third minister in the Mamata Banerjee cabinet, after fire and emergency services minister Sujit Bose and minister of state for micro, small and medium enterprises Swapan Debnath, to test positive. Around 20 sitting members of the Bengal Assembly have so far been infected. The pandemic has also claimed the lives of CPM veteran and former transport minister Shyamal Chakraborty, Trinamul’s Egra MLA Samaresh Das and Falta MLA Tamonash Ghosh. Of the total 2,794 deaths reported, Calcutta alone accounted for 1,174 deaths and North 24-Parganas for 647 so far since the onset of the pandemic. The state government reported 2,439 or 87.3 per cent as deaths with comorbidity “present”. In two weeks, there have been 735 deaths of Covid-19 infected people, of which 617 were comorbid, according to the government. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is now 2.01, behind the national rate of 1.85 per cent. Calcutta’s mortality rate is 3.23. But a Bengal minister held out hope that the state should be able to lower mortality rate to below 2 this week. Of the new infections, Calcutta reported 563 and North 24-Parganas 696. But Calcutta also logged 575 recoveries while North 24-Parganas reported 575. “It can be safely said now that a turnaround is discernible in these two high-incidence districts. In two weeks, the total active cases in Calcutta fell from 7,041 to 5,890. In the same period, total active cases of North 24-Parganas rose only (marginally) to 5,796 from 5,774,” the minister said. The share of total active cases in the two districts fell in two weeks from 48.58 per cent to 41.63 per cent. The recovery rate of these two districts put together went up from 70.58 per cent to 79.4 in that time. Bengal’s recovery rate is now 77.78 per cent — an improvement by over 7.5 in two weeks — while the national rate is 75.1. With the new high in testing, total tests went past 15.61 lakh, at 17,348 per million people. “In August, so far, we have conducted 6.68 lakh tests. We are looking to cross 10 lakh in the month,” the minister said. Because of the sharp spike in new cases, positive confirmation rate is now 8.89 per cent. It was 7.86 even at the start of the month. The state reported 36.51 per cent occupancy in the 12,035 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 87 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic. Telemedicine consultation for the pandemic was provided to 1.14 lakh, including 4,511 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-401
24-08-2020||West Bengal||Siliguri’s first woman toto driver offers Covid patients free rides||She was already a pioneer as the first woman toto driver of Siliguri. Now, amid the pandemic, she is again breaking new ground as a frontline warrior on wheels. Munmun Sarkar, 48, is transporting Covid-19 patients to hospital “free of cost.” She also delivers essentials — grocery, medicines, among others — to those infected with the novel coronavirus and in home isolation. The idea to start this initiative came to the Shaktigarh resident when she realised that Covid-19 patients were facing lot of stigma. “Most drivers refuse to carry Covid patients out of fear of catching the infection. Even ambulances charge huge amounts. Those who have recovered from Covid-19 and have tested negative also find it difficult to arrange transport to go home,” Munmun said. Till date, Munmun said she had ferried well over 100 patients or those who recovered from Covid-19. She also does not charge any fare from them. “I realised many were not in a position to pay at a time like this...amid all their expense and stress. That is why I decided not to charge fares from any passenger who is infected or has just been cured,” Munmun said. Her free-ride decision not only hit her family finances hard but also made her vulnerable to stigma and jeers, but she is unafraid. As she ferries Covid-19 patients, she has to spend an extra Rs 3,000 on sanitisation. Munmun wears a PPE kit, carries a thermal testing gun in her toto, and sanitises her vehicle twice a day. Also, before getting any passenger on board her vehicle, she gets him or her sanitised. She says the moment she started ferrying Covid patients, the number of “healthy passengers” who used to avail her services dropped. But as she charges fares only from non-Covid passengers, her earnings have also dropped to Rs 6,000 a month now from the Rs 8,000 earlier. Over and above the financial stress, Munmun has had to overcome prejudices in her neighbourhood. “People used to tease and shout at me but this did not stop me,” she said. Her husband, Ananda, 56, who is into construction business and earns around Rs 15,000 a month, has been a source of constant support, she said. “We stay in different rooms after I started ferrying Covid-19 patients as a precaution,” Munmun added. She is quick to respond to calls from Covid-19 patients in home isolation. “I understand their mental state. They’re ill and many people are scared to help them. At a time like this, if I can bring them their essentials, they get some respite,” she said. The indefatigable Munmun now has one wish. “I work with Unique Foundation, an NGO in Siliguri. I now plan to drive an ambulance soon,” she smiled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-401
24-08-2020||West Bengal||Donation box for man’s best friend||It’s a dog’s life, they say. But a restaurateur in Nadia’s Krishnagar is trying to ensure that every stray dog has his day. Restaurant owner Suman Sen has set up a donation box to collect funds for stray dogs in the area who are malnourished or diseased. Sen, who owns the eatery near Krishnagar Judge’s Court Road, said the donation box, put up on August 18, was being looked after by him and three of his like-minded friends. Collections would be sent to local dog lovers’ organisations and individual social workers and vets, among others, working towards the betterment of stray dogs. On what made him come up with the idea, Sen said that street dogs suffered from ageing and illnesses just as “our beloved pets do”. But what’s more, street dogs who have to forage for food on roads and in markets, are prone to accidents as well as malnutrition, he said. During the lockdown, when roadside eateries are shut, strays can starve without the leftovers that happen to be their mainstay. “Unfortunately, most of the strays have no one to look after them,” he said. “I have seen people walk past injured or maimed street dogs without a care. Many times, the dogs have died painful deaths from untreated skin conditions alone. It is my aim to eliminate these things to the extent possible, at least in my area,” Sen added. But he added that many residents in his home town were dog lovers too. “I can vouch for the fact that the donation box, since it was set up on August 18, has met with overwhelming response from my restaurant’s patrons,” Sen said. “Even during the pandemic, the collection box gets Rs 1,500 or more every day.” He said most people love stray dogs but don’t know how to help them or lack the time to do so. So, giving them an accessible avenue like a donation box was a good idea. “People are always willing to help if you give them an avenue to do so,” said Sen, explaining that he had come up with the initiative after discussing it with like-minded friends. “Here’s how it goes. You give us a small amount, whatever you can, whether you are a patron or not at my restaurant. We will collect the money and send the fund to organisations with the manpower and expertise to take care of stray dogs,” he said. The restaurant has created and circulated many social media posts to popularise the donation box. “We have created the posts for donors as well as for fund-seekers with credibility. We have formed a small team of customers, who are all dog lovers, and who will examine the need and hand over the required amount of money to the person or engage a dog lovers’ organisation to take care of medical needs,” said an employee of the restaurant. A member of Prayas, a dog lovers’ organisation in Krishnagar, welcomed the initiative. “It is a great effort. If people come forward to donate for street dogs, many can be saved from untimely death,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-401
24-08-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul on youth induction spree ||At least 10,000 youths purportedly joined the Trinamul Congress in 14 Bengal districts on Sunday as a grand plan of poll consultant Prashant Kishor to boost the party's organisational strength and image makeover started showing dividends. Kishor and his platform, the Indian Political Action Committee (I-Pac), launched the "Youth in Politics" initiative in order to draw interested youths, aged between 18 and 35, to the ruling party. Sources said the events in the 14 districts -- including Calcutta, Nadia, North 24-Parganas, Birbhum, Malda, Cooch Behar and East Midnapore - on Sunday were timed keeping in mind recent moves by the BJP's district units. "I-Pac has already registered 4 lakh fresh faces…. More than half have already agreed to join Trinamul,' said a source. A senior Trinamul leader said the infusion of young blood would help the party in the months before the Assembly polls in 2021. "This is the first time that such a large number of youths are joining our party en masse…. They should also be able to help us wean youth votes away from the BJP," he said. Leaders such as Mahua Moitra in Nadia, Laxmi Ratan Shukla in Howrah, Mausam Noor in Malda and Anubrata Mondal in Birbhum handled the events in the districts. Senior party leaders such as secretary-general Partha Chatterjee and general-secretary Firhad Hakim welcomed the youths with motivational speeches and encouragement, virtually. "Youths were addressed by the popular district leaders. In most cases, the district presidents addressed the first batch of the new beginners," said a Trinamul leader. Sources in I-Pac said Sunday's induction events were the first leg of the enrolment and two more phases would be held, though slightly late because of Covid-19 restrictions. "As we are in the midst of a pandemic, we couldn't enrol all of the youths who wished to join the party at once. The entire process will be conducted over a few months," said a Trinamul source. Around 500 youths in Birbhum joined Trinamul in the presence of its district unit chief Anubrata Mondal. "Most of them are new to the party. I told them about the journey of Mamata Banerjee and how she worked towards the development of Bengal," said Mondal. At Krishnagar, after overseeing a similar event, Moitra said youths joining Trinamul was a ray of hope. "Trinamul is the only party that has been fighting against division over religion. The youths joined after being fascinated by developmental work undertaken by the Trinamul government over the last past decade, and its strong stand against communalism," said Krishnagar MP Moitra. Around 1,000 college students joined Trinamul in Malda. "Youths hold the key for tomorrow, our party is definitely stressing enrolling more youths and getting them actively involved in party affairs," said a district Trinamul leader. A similar event with around 250 youths was organised in Cooch Behar as well. Additional reporting by Soumya De Sarkar and Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-401
24-08-2020||West Bengal||Gold bars smuggled in knee caps, 2 arrested||The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (Siliguri unit) arrested two inhabitants of Rajasthan from New Jalpaiguri Railway station and seized from them 12 gold bars worth around Rs 1.14 crore. Intelligence officers acted on a tip-off to nab Mangi Lal, 47 and Yogesh Soni, 25, residents of Bikaner who were travelling by the Brahmaputra Mail on Saturday. The duo, who boarded the train from Guwahati and were bound for Delhi, had concealed the gold bars in knee caps that they were wearing, sources said. Officials suspect the gold bars, weighing 2kg in all, had been smuggled through the India-Myanmar border. The delivery point of the consignment was Delhi. Caught at NJP station, the two were taken to the the DRI office. This is the third major gold haul by the DRI in Siliguri in recent times. On August 16, officials recovered 26kg of gold worth Rs 15 crore from three Maharashtra residents. In March, the DRI seized 5.83kg gold worth Rs 2.53 crore from residents of Dinhata, Cooch Behar. Englishbazar police busted a job racket and arrested two persons from Manikchak in Malda district on Saturday. Rajkumar Mondal, 35, and Saddam Hussain, 32, of Khairtala village, Manichak, allegedly duped two youths of Mothabari area of Rs 19 lakh by promising them government jobs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-401
