25-08-2020||West Bengal||Land rights: Minister Arjun Munda tweets about forest dwellers||A recent series of three tweets by Union minister of tribal affairs Arjun Munda, that his ministry, in consultation with the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change, has decided to resolve the pending issue of land rights for forest dwellers has triggered a competition of sorts in Darjeeling hills with political parties busy trying to usurp the issue. In one of his tweets, Munda said that the distribution of “pattas” (secured land tenures or documents conferring land rights to a person) would be taken up immediately along with state governments. Now that the issue has taken centre stage, all political parties active in the hills want mileage before the Assembly polls on the issue that is crucial in the hills as those on the fringes of forests and tea estates do not have land rights, said a social scientist. Absence of land rights denies benefits such as access to home building loans from banks. The Centre in 2006 passed The Scheduled Tribes & Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006, under which people living in forestland or using it for farming and any other purpose for a living, would get land rights. But in reality, many forest dwellers have no land rights. The first to react to Munda’s tweets was BJP’s Darjeeling MP Raju Bista who showed a letter he had sent to Munda on July 3 on the issue. “Since I got elected, I have been working closely on this issue and I have said forest villagers in the hills have not yet received land rights,” the MP said. The Binay Tamang faction of the Morcha is working on the issue and intends to put it on their agenda, hinted party insiders. Land being a state subject, ruling party Trinamul that earlier made attempts to foray into the hills and succeeded at least once — the party won the civic polls in Mirik in 2017 — is unlikely to let others take credit, observers said. According to them, for tea workers of the state who also demand land rights, the Mamata Banerjee government announced the “Cha Sundari” scheme this February with nearly Rs 500 crore to be spent on their housing. A social scientist in the hills said political claims and counter-claims apart, “how long will people wait?” The issue needed a resolution, agreed a senior bureaucrat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-399
25-08-2020||West Bengal||Narada: ED seeks bank details of TMC leaders and suspended IPS officer||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has sent letters to some Trinamul leaders and to a suspended IPS officer seeking details of their bank transactions and properties in connection with the probe into the 2016 Narada sting operation. Notices were sent to MPs Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, Aparupa Poddar, Sougata Roy, transport minister Suvendu Adhikari and suspended IPS officer S.M.H. Mirza. Mirza was the only person arrested in connection with the probe into the sting operation by Mathew Samuel, CEO of Narada, in which some people resembling Trinamul leaders and suspended IPS officers were seen accepting money from the journalist who posed as a businessman. Mirza was later released on bail. The ED, which sent notices to senior Trinamul leaders related to the probe in June, said they now wanted to examine into assets of these persons so that they could be booked for assets disproportionate to their income. The Narada tapes are under CBI scanner following a Supreme Court directive. Trinamul leaders said they expect such mails and summons from central agencies CBI and ED more frequently as the Assembly polls draw near. “Both agencies have been probing into this case for long and they are yet to come up with a charge sheet. The idea is to try and embarrass our leaders by pulling out dated cases,” said a senior Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-399
25-08-2020||West Bengal||Tea unions approach state, GTA to reopen Longview tea estate||Tea trade unions wrote to the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) and state officials on Monday, seeking intervention to reopen the Longview tea estate as workers continued their relay hunger strike for the sixth day. Trade unions affiliated to GNLF, Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Binay faction) and Trinamul wrote to Anit Thapa, chairman of the BoA of the GTA, district administration and state labour department to end the stalemate over dues between Longview workers and management. “We sent letters seeking immediate intervention…we want operations to resume and workers’ dues cleared,” said Nima Lama, president of the GNLF’s Kurseong sub-divisional committee. J.B. Tamang, chairman of Darjeeling Terai Dooars Plantation Labour Union, the Morcha’s trade union arm, visited Longview on Monday. Raju Bista, BJP MP of Darjeeling, also spoke in favour of talks to resolve the deadlock. Bista said: “Instead of engaging with workers and finding a solution to the crisis, the management closed down the garden. I request the Bengal government, the planters’ associations and the trade unions to facilitate talks to resolve the issue at the earliest.” Longview, 26km from Siliguri, produces orthodox Darjeeling tea. Some 1,200 permanent and casual workers work there. Since August 19, workers backed by unions launched a relay hunger strike for their dues, including a part of last year’s bonus. The management suspended work from August 21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-399
25-08-2020||West Bengal||Students fast at Institute of Pharmacy for scrapping exams||Five fourth-year B.Pharm students launched an indefinite hunger strike at the Institute of Pharmacy here on Monday, demanding that their final exams be cancelled in the wake of Covid-19 spread and marks be calculated on the basis of their performances in previous papers. There are a total of 62 students in the final year course at the institute which is affiliated to the West Bengal University of Health Sciences. The varsity conducts B.Pharm course only at the Jalpaiguri institute. The final-year exams were supposed to start on August 18, but the students locked up the principal and other faculty members in offices. Hence, the varsity postponed the exams. The students said on Monday that more would join the fast in the days to come.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-399
25-08-2020||West Bengal||New Covid cases fewer than cures in one day||Bengal on Monday logged the highest number of recoveries in 24 hours, with 3,285, considerably higher than the new cases found in the same period, at 2,967, although chief minister Mamata Banerjee ordered the administration in the four districts adjoining the city to lower incidence rates. Prior to this, the most recoveries reported in a day was on August 10, at 3,208. Bengal now has witnessed nearly 1.42 lakh infections since the onset of the pandemic, of which 1.11 lakh are recoveries and 2,851 are deaths. Monday’s toll was 57, with 13 deaths from Calcutta and 12 from North 24-Parganas. The chief minister also pointed out the relatively high positive confirmation rates in the highly populous North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly. Though Bengal’s average positive confirmation rate is 8.88 per cent now, North 24-Parganas and Howrah show much higher numbers of infection. With 700 new cases on Monday, North 24-Parganas now has 5,879 active Covid-19 cases. South 24-Parganas reported 158 new cases, with 1,721 total active cases. Howrah, with 104 new cases in the day, now has 1,528 active cases, and Hooghly, with 108 new cases, has 1,493 active cases. As she has been doing in the past, the chief minister stressed the need for the three Ts of testing, tracing and tracking, and social-distancing norms, as well as standard Covid-19 protocols. Sources said Mamata did not bring up Calcutta figures, because there have been clear signs of a turnaround in the city since August 9. The total number of active cases here fell from 7,041 to 5,691 on Monday. Calcutta reported 465 new cases, but 651 recoveries lowered the total number of active cases by 199. “She wants Calcutta’s neighbours to learn from its example and rein in the outbreak,” said a minister. “Recovery rates have also been high, which is good,” the chief minister said. Bengal’s overall recovery rate at present is at an all-time high of 78.46 per cent. Of the total 2,851 deaths in Bengal from the pandemic, 1,187 are from Calcutta and 659 from North 24-Parganas. The state government reported 2,483 deaths or 87.1 per cent as comorbid. Comorbidities are most often related to hypertension, diabetes and cardiovascular diseases. Bengal’s mortality rate now is 2.01, while India’s stands at 1.84 per cent. Calcutta’s is 3.23 per cent. Mamata also stressed the need to lower mortality rates in North 24-Parganas, now at 2.19, and Howrah, at 2.71. With 35,267 tests during the day, the total number of tests in the state rose to nearly 15.97 lakh, at 17,740 tests per million. Bengal also reported 35.57 per cent occupancy in 12,035 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in 87 dedicated hospitals. Telemedicine consultation has been given to nearly 1.19 lakh people, including 4,612 people in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-400
25-08-2020||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati to resume ‘essential services and student-related activities'||Visva-Bharati on Monday decided to resume “essential services” and student-related activities. The central university had earlier decided to close “indefinitely” after last Monday’s vandalism over the Pous Mela boundary wall. The decision to resume some of the activities was taken at an emergency meeting attended by vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty, principals, heads of departments, officials and directors. Visva-Bharati’s officiating public relations officer Anirban Sircar issued a news release that said employees and teachers would continue to “work from home”. as the campus was still “volatile” and the environment unsafe for women employees. Although the release did not list the “essential services”, it did shed light on the “services related to students’ interest”, such as the admission process, exams and online classes. These activities will resume. The news release added that the varsity would review the situation on August 31 and decide accordingly. Amid the pandemic, the normal functioning of the university will continue by “following the ministry of home affairs’ SOP, the news release said, referring to Covid safety protocol. Sources said varsity authorities were under “pressure” as the closure of the central varsity for an indefinite period did not go down well with officials at the Centre. Students’ organisations had also been protesting against the varsity’s decision to close the campus indefinitely. The SFI on Sunday had sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the varsity’s chancellor, and President Ram Nath Kovind, the visitor to Visva-Bharati, urging that the varsity activities resume. Referring to the vandalism and past “undesirable incidents on the campus”, the varsity stated that it would “issue a detailed description of why the construction of the fence/barricade/ wall was needed to protect and ensure the security of students...” On Monday, the BJP’s students wing ABVP protested against the allegedly Trinamul-backed campus vandalism last week. But ABVP also told the Visva-Bharati authorities not to discontinue festivals such as the Pous Mela, which the varsity had decided to discontinue at the executive council’s meeting in July.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-400
25-08-2020||West Bengal||Twelve bridges swept away due to rising water level ||Twelve bamboo bridges over the Kangsabati river for a stretch of 15km in East Midnapore have been washed away because of rising water level and discharge of water from a barrage at Mukutmanipur in Bankura. Around 50,000 residents of at least 100 villages on one side of the river now can’t access Panskura and Serampore on the other side following the destruction of the bridges last week. A wooden bridge connecting East Midnapore and West Midnapore over the Keleghai was also washed away last week. The bridge was at Sabang in West Midnapore. All political parties have appealed to the state government to build a new concrete bridge. Both the Kangsabati and the Keleghai had risen because of heavy rainfall triggered by a low pressure in Bay of Bengal. The villages cut off from the Panskura and Serampore towns include Prajabar, Saraighat, Raisahar, Paobanki, Domghat, Maguri, Uttarsai and Konchoki. Sources said East Midnapore district administration officials had provided canoes to the affected people to cross the Kangsabati while the bridges were being repaired, but the residents said still, it would take long time for commute. “We have to either wait for boats now or take 10-15km long detour on foot,” said one villager, referring to three concrete bridges near Serampore, Panskura and Harinarayan Chowk. “Besides, we have to trek through a lot of muck because our side of the river is not very developed,” he added. The district officials said other than the boats, no viable option remained for the affected villagers till the repairs got over. “The water level of the Kangsabati is higher than usual because of the weather and subsequent release of 10,000cusec water from the Kangsabati barrage last week. The bamboo structures could not withstand the force of the current. We are working to restore the bridges at the earliest,” said irrigation department executive engineer Anirban Bhattacharya. Residents of Sabang rued the loss of the old wooden bridge which acted as a link to Bhagabanpur and Moyna. “Over 10,000 persons are directly or indirectly affected. So, we are pleading chief minister Mamata Banerjee for a concrete bridge here,” said MLA Gita Bhunia. “Officials have already conducted a survey. We hope the bridge will be announced soon,” said Trinamul Rajya Sabha member Manas Bhunia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-400
25-08-2020||West Bengal||Malda policemen become crater-fillers ||A group of policemen and civic volunteers in Malda town on Monday took up the task of filling craters along a 10-km-long stretch on a state highway that connects the district headquarters to Manikchak block. The initiative, however, brought under scanner the role of the state PWD that is tasked with maintaining the highway. Policemen, including officers posted at Milki police outpost in Malda, along with volunteers, hit the highway with bricks, mortar and tools. They stopped at regular intervals, unloaded bricks and mortar, and filled potholes and craters that had come up on the highway these past few months. “The highway is at its worst now and minor accidents occur daily. Light vehicles such as two- and three-wheelers often lose balance and flip on one side or turn turtle after hitting the craters. The road is unsafe even for mid-sized vehicles,” said Badal Sheikh, a Milki resident. The highway, sources said, is 30km long, of which a stretch of 20km — between Amrity and Manikchak — is in bad shape. As policemen filled craters, they drew praise from traders and residents, and some volunteered to join the cops. Mohammed Monirul Islam, officer-in-charge of the outpost, explained their initiative. “Whenever a road accident takes place, it is our responsibility to see to it that the injured get primary treatment and that they are sent to hospitals. These days, minor accidents have become common along the highway. That’s why I took up the matter with my colleagues at the outpost and decided on primary repairs of one stretch at least so that the number of accidents falls,” he said. “Seeing us, some residents also joined us,” he added. Alok Rajoria, the district police chief, praised the policemen and volunteers. “We believe the road will be thoroughly repaired in due course, but what our men did on an emergency basis is laudable,” he said. Senior engineers posted at the state PWD (roads) department in Malda, when told about the initiative, refused to comment officially. “The work of repairing the state highway has already started from the Manikchak side,” said a PWD engineer who refused to be named . “It is our onus and proper repairs will be done soon.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-400
25-08-2020||West Bengal||Mamata stresses transparency, welfare schemes and grievances in district review meeting||Mamata Banerjee on Monday laid emphasis on transparency in government projects, redress of people’s grievances and proper execution of welfare schemes at her first district review meeting amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The chief minister held the review meeting of Howrah, Hooghly, North 24-Parganas and South 24-Parganas districts over video conference. Here is a sum up of the key issues raised by Mamata during the meeting she held from Nabanna. The chief minister first raised the issue of repeated breach of river embankments, which left hundreds of villages marooned in the past few days, particularly in South 24-Parganas and North 24-Parganas. “Some of the embankments, which were breached, have been repaired recently (after Amphan). Those who are doing it (the repair) should do it seriously. I would like to know the reason behind these (the breaches),” said Mamata. Sources said local people blamed the breaches on irregularity on the part of the authorities in carrying out the repair. In Bengal, repairing an embankment remains a political issue. Every time when an embankment is breached, it is alleged that the repair was not done properly by the executing agency but the authorities cleared their payment without raising questions. Mamata asked the finance secretary to ensure that agencies supplying bicycles under the Sabuj Sathi scheme took liability of the defective cycles for the next three years so that they could be replaced or repaired. There were complaints that the state government was supplying to students bicycles of inferior quality even though it had spent handsomely over the past few years under the scheme. The chief minister then said her government maintained transparency while battling the pandemic. “We have received little over Rs 150 crore in the Covid fund (where the state government appealed to donate) and we are spending the amount through finance department by maintaining transparency,” she said apparently to counter the allegations that funds were misappropriated while buying equipment and other items to battle Covid. Mamata laid stress on continuing welfare schemes and undertaking the pending schemes, which could not be completed because of the pandemic, immediately. The chief minister was visibly unhappy with the backward classes welfare department as it could not complete distribution of nearly 2 lakh bicycles though it was supposed to be completed by March. “I want the students to get the cycles as soon as possible. It is your responsibility to send the cycles to the homes of the beneficiaries as schools are closed,” she said. Mamata asked finance secretary H.K Dwivedi whether required permission had been given to the backward classes welfare department for procuring 2 lakh bicycles. As the finance secretary said the permission had already been given, she asked the department to complete the process at the earliest. The chief minister has also asked officials to ensure that students get scholarships on time even though schools and colleges are closed these days. The same missive was for old age pensions and benefits for tribal and Scheduled Caste populace. Mamata finally asked the officials to make necessary arrangements so that she could release all benefits — which are transferred directly to the bank accounts of beneficiaries — through a programme on Wednesday. Mamata directed the officials to address the grievances, which were lodged with the chief minister’s office and forwarded to them for necessary actions. “Some departments are not dealing with these properly. Departments like panchayat, labour, PHE and agriculture have not addressed many of the grievances forwarded to them,” said the chief minister. She said 95.7 percent of the grievances forwarded to officials had been addressed in Hooghly. Similarly, Howrah has addressed 95 percent of the grievances, North 24-Parganas 93.20 percent and South 24-Parganas 93.96 percent grievances. Mamata asked the officials concerned to address the complaints as soon as possible as people had expectations when they sent a letter seeking redressal of their problems. Sources said Mamata was depending heavily on addressing grievances as she had received feedback that this helped her regaining people’s faith at many places after the Lok Sabha polls where the ruling party in Bengal lost 18 seats to the BJP. “After the Lok Sabha polls, the grievance redressal cell was activated and it received more than 8 lakh complaints within one-and-a-half year. According to records, more than 90 per cent of the complaints were resolved so far. This has apparently negated the anti-incumbency wave to some extent. This is what the state agencies reported,” said a bureaucrat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-400
25-08-2020||West Bengal||Mamata’s jibe at PM CARES Fund||Mamata Banerjee on Monday lashed out at the BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s PM CARES Fund, albeit without taking names, and rejected allegations from the saffron camp that purchase of equipment for Covid-19 management in Bengal was a “scam”. The Bengal chief minister said her government probed every allegation of graft from citizens and didn’t even spare senior officials or ministers, without any political interference. “Even once, did you try to find out? Where all the money was coming from… for buying the oxygen, the ventilators, the (high flow nasal) cannulas, crores and crores of masks, lakhs and lakhs of PPE (personal protective equipment),” she said at an administrative review meeting in Nabanna. “We had set up a Covid-19 fund, openly, with full transparency, we had said how much we got and where it is being spent… every paisa is being spent through the finance department. Over Rs 150 crore (received in donations),” added the Trinamul Congress chief. “But what the others collected, nobody got to know… with the Take Care fund…. Go, see yourselves in the mirror.” Although she did not take the proper name of the fund and steered clear of naming parties or people, it was clear that the chief minister was mounting an attack on Modi and his PM CARES Fund. The Prime Minister is the ex-officio chairman of the PM CARES Fund while the defence, home and finance ministers are the ex-officio trustees. Mamata had on a few occasions criticised alleged lack of transparency in the PM CARES Fund. Her attack on Monday came six days after the Supreme Court had upheld the validity of the PM CARES Fund, saying the mere fact that the administration of the trust was vested in trustees like the Prime Minister and his cabinet colleagues would not take away its public character and no budgetary allocation had been made for the purpose as it was purely “voluntary”. Mamata on Monday implied that those who had the PM CARES Fund to answer for should not point fingers at her government. “Nobody should ask where the state government is buying masks from,” she said, apparently dismissive of an allegation raised by Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Twitter, which was picked up by the saffron camp for noise on social and mainstream media. The chief minister pointed out that the testing kits had been withdrawn by the Centre’s Indian Council of Medical Research, in April, because they were found to be faulty. “They were caught… fake, faulty kits. The ICMR withdrew them…. When they were caught, there must have been something behind them,” she said. “First, they should answer where these fake kits they bought were from. These things must be remembered,” she added. Mamata then reiterated Bengal’s demands for release of funds owed to it by the Centre, which she has repeatedly asked Modi for. “The Centre’s dues, Rs 53,000 crore… Rs 4,500 crore for GST. For Covid-19, where is the money? Has anything come? Those demanding answers, standing on the streets, some giving big lectures, if they stood by one Covid-19 patient and helped, that would have been something,” she said. “So many governments, of so many parties, in so many states…. Which other state government has been able to deliver what we have done, despite the pandemic and the super-cyclone?” she asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-400
