26-08-2020||West Bengal||Bengal to lift six-city flight ban from September 1||Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has announced partial resumption of flights to Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Chennai and Ahmedabad from September 1. The 6 city flight ban was imposed since 6 July. “Flight services from six cities were suspended. From September 1, flight services to Kolkata from the six cities may resume and can operate on three days. We cannot allow complete resumption of flight services as of now,” she said after a cabinet meeting. The general coronavirus lockdown has been extended in Bengal till September 20, with total lockdown shceduled for 7, 11, and 12 September. Banerjee also noted that the state governemnet has no issues with resuming metro services, if proper social distancing norms are maintained. “We have no problem if Metro wants to resume services in and around Kolkata after maintaining physical distance (between passengers). Local train services may also start in a phased manner - one fourth at a time. We have no problem. Railway authorities can speak with us,” she said. The state government, which was earlier planning to reopen schools on September 5 if the Covid-19 situation improved, said that schools and colleges would remain closed till September 20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-398
26-08-2020||West Bengal||Alipurduar plans to decongest roads||Police and civic authorities in Alipurduar town will draw up a plan to reduce traffic congestion at the insistence of MLA Sourav Chakraborty. They have also decided to visit busy thoroughfares and crossings of the town to check out the situation during rush hours and take steps to ensure smooth vehicular movement. MLA Chakraborty said he had received a number of complaints from residents about rush hour snarls on arterial roads. “They say it is difficult to move on vehicles or on foot. They allege footpaths are encroached by shops, trucks move during the day and vehicles are parked on roads to load and unload goods. I have taken up the issue with the SDO and we will do a survey on August 28. Then the police will enforce suitable curbs,” Chakraborty added. The MLA said they would ensure footpaths are free of encroachment for walking ease. “We will stop entry of trucks into the town from 9am to 3pm, and loading and unloading of goods have to be done ahead or after these hours,” he added. The police and the civic body, sources said, have been asked to work together and mark designated parking zones. “Once the zones are identified, no vehicle will be allowed to be parked anywhere else in busy areas of the town.” According to residents, the Chowpathi — a junction of four roads — is the town’s most congested area. Traffic also moves at a snail’s pace in the day along Buxa Feeder Road and Alipurduar-Kumargram Road. “Traffic jams need to be addressed as a priority. Ambulances carrying critical patients get stuck on roads,” said Kaushik Majumdar, a trader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-398
26-08-2020||West Bengal||Covid leads to rush of applications in north Bengal colleges||The Covid-19 pandemic has led to an unprecedented rush of applications in most colleges in north Bengal this year as parents don’t want their wards to leave home for higher studies. Authorities of a number of colleges in north Bengal say they have received a deluge of online applications — anywhere from twice to 10 times the number of seats available. Siliguri College, with 2,600 seats, has already received around 10,500 applications. Surya Sen College, Siliguri, has received 8,800 applications for 3,000 seats. APC Roy Government College, Siliguri, has only 352 seats but the number of application forms has crossed 3,000. Raiganj College in North Dinajpur has received around 8,000 applications for 3,152 seats. At Dinhata College in Cooch Behar, 7,000 applications have been made for 3,000-odd seats. An academic in Siliguri said thousands of north Bengal students move out of the region for college normally but not this time. “Because of the pandemic, most parents want their kids to stay at home and enrol in local colleges. Very few have applied to colleges in Delhi or other metros. If such a situation persists, colleges in north Bengal have to increase seats in undergraduate courses.” Senior faculty members of colleges, however, pointed out that after merit lists come out and admission starts, the situation might improve, because most students apply in more than one college. “As application fee has been waived in colleges and universities, students have applied in more and more colleges. So there is every chance that once actual admission starts, the number of applicants will drop in every college,” said Sujay Ghosh, the principal of Siliguri College.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-399
26-08-2020||West Bengal||Cloud on health worker death  ||A 54-year-old health worker from East Midnapore’s Tamluk died in an isolation facility at the district hospital here on Monday morning after being refused a rapid antigen test for Covid-19 on Sunday night, her son alleged on Tuesday. The son said pleas for rapid antigen test on Sunday night were in vain, as hospital authorities said it was not done between 6pm and 6am. The woman, a supervisor at the Nandakumar health centre, was rushed to the hospital around 9pm on Sunday when she complained of acute breathlessness. She died around 5am on Monday. “A doctor from afar prescribed medicines, after which I was asked to take my mother to the isolation ward outside the main hospital building. My mother’s oxygen kept plunging, and I pleaded with the nurse to call a doctor or to arrange for a ventilator. She said nothing could be done without a test,” he added. The woman tested negative for Covid over a week ago during a health check-up for frontline Covid warriors. On Sunday, hospital authorities refused to consider the Covid negative report and advised a fresh test, but no rapid antigen test could be done between 6pm and 6am, the son said. He said her body was handed over without any test and the family did not know what happened to her. Chief medical officer Nitai Mondal said the woman died of “hypertension-related cardiac failure, not Covid”. Tamluk district hospital superintendent Gopal Das said they were following a directive from Mondal that advised against rapid antigen testing at night. “The directive had cited concerns regarding moving positive patients to Covid hospitals at night, so in order to remove that logistic hurdle that directive had been issued,” said Das. Mondal, however, denied issuing any such directive, saying “all hospitals can conduct rapid antigen tests at their own discretion, weighing the seriousness of the situation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-399
26-08-2020||West Bengal||Binay camp takes on BJP with wish list||The Binay Tamang camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha has placed demands before the state, the Centre and the Election Commission that observers believe is an attempt to take on the BJP. The demands, which resemble the party’s manifesto for Bengal 2021 elections, surprised many with their stress on issues to be decided by the Centre. The Binay camp, an ally of Trinamul Congress, is at loggerheads with the BJP. It is unlikely that the Centre would warm up to Binay Tamang’s demands before Bengal polls. “The Binay camp is trying to turn the tables on the BJP that is raising hill issues,” said a political observer in the hills. The Binay camp had made the demand for land rights for tea and cinchona plantation workers its major issue during the 2019 Darjeeling Assembly bypoll, which Binay lost to BJP’s Niraj Zimba. But the camp wants to raise this issue louder before state elections, as over 70 per cent of hill people do not have land rights. But the BJP is also raising the land rights issue, loudly. On August 22, the BJP’s Darjeeling MP Raju Bista issued a statement, “ministry of tribal affairs will be working with the ministry of environment forest and climate change to ensure that all pending praja patta (land rights) issues related to forest dwellers are resolved at the earliest.” On August 14, Bista made public a letter by the ministry of rural development to Bengal’s land and land reforms department principal secretary, directing the state “to take appropriate action (need to give land ownership rights) …and to reply to Hon’ble MP directly…” Binay Tamang said the demands were chalked out during a recent central committee meeting. “We will work on them through the year, we’ve started working for land rights to forest dwellers,” he said. Party insiders believe they may be able to put pressure on the BJP with demands such as scrapping of Article VII of the India-Nepal friendship treaty which allows free movement of citizens of both countries, and for inclusion of Gorkhaland Territorial Administration in the ministry of development of north eastern region. Indian Gorkhas believe that the free movement clause in the India-Nepal friendship treaty has blurred their identity with Nepal citizens. Kiran B.K., president, Gorkhaland Sanyukta Sangharsh Samiti (GSSS) , a group advocating the demand for Gorkhaland, was arrested from Chowrasta, Darjeeling while organising a blood donation camp to observe “Balidan Diwas” (martyrs’ day) on Tuesday. Balidan Diwas marks the hanging of Gorkha freedom fighter Durga Malla by the British. Police said no permission was sought for the event. All mass events are banned amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “He also had some warrants pending against him and we are trying to find out if he got bails in these cases,” said a cop.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-399
26-08-2020||West Bengal||Experts say situation to improve by Sept 25: CM||The chief minister on Tuesday said the Covid-19 situation in Bengal, according to experts, would “more or less be under control” by September 20-25. Hours after Mamata Banerjee — also the health minister — issued the optimistic statement in a televised administrative review meeting via videoconference, the health department declared the highest 24-hour count of Covid-19 tests at 37,524 on Tuesday. The state also reported yet another fall in the total of active cases — two days in a row now — and recovery rate of 79.1 per cent. The national recovery rate is now 76.12. The total tests in Bengal went beyond 16 lakh with Tuesday’s number. “I am told the Covid-19 situation will, more or less, be under control by September 20-25. Experts have said so,” said Mamata at the meeting. Sources said there had been indications of a turnaround since August 9 in the state’s Covid-19 situation, after a fairly long spell of virtually relentless gloom from the last week of June. The state government reported 58 deaths on Tuesday. Of the death of 2,909 Covid-19 patients in total, 2,539 (87.3 per cent) were reported as comorbid by the government. Now the state has nearly 1.49 lakh cases in total, of which nearly 1.15 lakh are recoveries and 2,909 are deaths. “The total active cases is 27,349, after a fall of 345. That’s because the 3,251 recoveries on Tuesday again outweighed the 2,964 new cases. The same thing happened on Monday, as the total active cases fell by 375,” said a Bengal minister. On Tuesday, he pointed out, the five most high-incidence districts of Bengal — Calcutta, North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly — collectively recorded a fall of 434 in their total of active cases, with only Hooghly reporting a rise of 35. “The two biggest worries, Calcutta and North 24-Parganas, had 7,041 and 5,774 active cases, respectively, on August 9. Today, Calcutta has 5,588 and North 24-Parganas has 5,671,” he said. At the meeting, chief secretary Rajiva Sinha, along with health secretary N.S. Nigam, instructed all chief medical officers of health to ensure release from hospitals of mildly symptomatic or asymptomatic Covid-19 patients after three days with no symptoms. “If they can be released, our recovery rate will increase considerably,” said Sinha. Mamata endorsed the idea. “Yes, those who have been there for many days, after four-five days (Nigam later clarified the official instruction was for three days) of nothing, no symptoms, what is the point of keeping them? They will be much better off at home. Staying home in these cases is a lot safer,” she said. Nigam said: “Please do this, so that our bed occupancy reduces and recovery rate increases.” Bengal on Tuesday reported 35.17 per cent occupancy on 12,045 Covid-19 beds at 87 dedicated hospitals. Besides, 15.43 per cent of 11,507 beds at 200 safe homes are also occupied. Mamata also stressed the need for lowering the positive confirmation rate, which was 8.86 per cent on Tuesday. It was 7.29 per cent even a month ago. “Those from neighbouring states coming here for treatment must be recorded accordingly so that their numbers do not get added to our state’s tally. They must be counted separately. Those should be added to the tally of their home states,” said the chief minister. The overall mortality rate now is 2, while the national rate is 1.84 per cent. The chief minister repeatedly stressed the need for lowering the mortality rate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-399
26-08-2020||West Bengal||Bengal bid to reduce Covid mortality rate||The Mamata Banerjee government has launched a door-to-door survey to identify people suffering from comorbidities of Covid-19 as death of over 87 per cent of patients infected with the novel coronavirus was attributed to such health conditions. Officials said the Bengal government had devised the “proactive” management of patients with Covid-19’s comorbidities to lower the mortality rate. The survey, which has already started in Calcutta, will begin next week in other districts, said chief secretary Rajiva Sinha on Tuesday. “This is going to help us in quicker identification and isolation, which is very important,” Sinha said during an administrative review meeting — via videoconference — from Nabanna. The meeting was being chaired by chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Mamata said mildly symptomatic or asymptomatic people were getting better staying at home. “But those with comorbidities are of concern, they are the ones who need treatment immediately. Others are not that problematic.” The rate is currently 2 per cent in the state. The national mortality rate is 1.84 now. “More than 87 per cent of all Covid-19 deaths were on account of comorbidities. The mortality rate remains high among those with comorbidities largely because of patients’ late visit to hospitals or reluctance to go for tests in good time,” said an official. The state government, said sources, plans to keep tabs on the health conditions of such people so that they could be brought to hospitals as soon as Covid-19 was suspected. “The Asha (accredited social health activist) workers can visit their homes twice a week to check on them. In case any of them is found to be unwell, the Asha worker would report it to health department. A dedicated team would swing into action on the basis of the alert,” said another official. He said all such people would be given phone numbers of the respective Asha worker assigned to the area and the health officials concerned. “If we can’t be proactive, it would be tough to lower the mortality rate. We have already kept the mortality rate in control by monitoring Sari (severe acute respiratory infections) and Ili (influenza-like illnesses) cases in the state. If we can monitor the people with serious comorbidities, we will be able to reduce mortality further,” said the official. Mamata said the state, through the Asha network, had regularly conducted Sari and Ili surveys many months ago to make a difference. “We conducted a statewide survey, many times over, we saw that out of 10-odd crore people in Bengal, around 8,500 are Sari patients, while 3.5 lakh are Ili patients. Ili patients are not a challenge. Our main problem is the 8,500, whom we had to prioritise,” she said. Mamata said she had discussed with home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay earlier in the day about how deaths in Bengal had reduced considerably compared to 2019. She indicated that because comorbid deaths were getting recorded as Covid-19 deaths, the number of pandemic deaths appeared high. Chief secretary Sinha said the number of deaths in Bengal till June this year was 35 per cent less compared to 2019 and asked health secretary N.S. Nigam to update the figures till August. “The overall death rate has reduced considerably. But any death now, you are passing off as Covid-19. Those with existing ailments, prior conditions are getting infected…. Any death, from a stroke, a heart attack, bronchopneumonia, everything is getting included as Covid-19,” said Mamata. “This problem is happening because of some other serious disease, those who have it are a little weak. Because of that weakness, Covid-19 infects them and kills them,” she added. “Not every fever is Covid-19… this disease is becoming like a flu. Those without comorbidities, 80 per cent are getting better just by staying at home. This must be kept in mind.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-399
26-08-2020||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee for fast execution of rural projects||Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday asked district magistrates to lay stress on rural road connectivity and housing for the poor in the post-lockdown period. The chief minister expressed dissatisfaction over the progress of two schemes — one for building houses for the poor and the other for constructing roads — in the past few months despite the government laying stress on rural development schemes since May. Mamata made the comments during a review meeting which she held over video conference from Nabanna for five districts — Bankura, Purulia, East Burdwan, West Burdwan and Birbhum. “You should focus on Banglar Awas Yojana (known as Prime Minister Awas Yojana) and Banglar Sadak Yojana (Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana)... The panchayat department should appoint nodal officers to look after three important schemes — 100 days’ job, rural roads and Banglar Awas Yojana,” the chief minister said. Sources said Mamata was upset with the progress of the two schemes — often used as a key political issue to reach out to rural populace as their implementation is visible — even though she had asked officials repeatedly to focus on those projects. Mamata was unhappy with the progress of housing for poor scheme, too, as the state could construct about 1.2 lakh dwelling units so far even though the target was to build 9 lakh-odd units this year, sources said. She also expressed her displeasure when she heard that wages for some workers under the 100-day job scheme were pending. Senior officials said 93 per cent of the workers were paid within the stipulated seven days of their work and only 7 per cent were yet to be given wages during the period. “Make it sure that remaining workers also get their dues as early as possible,” Mamata instructed panchayat and rural development secretary M.V. Rao. The sources said Mamata was banking heavily on rural development schemes to reach out to rural pockets where the ruling party in Bengal performed poorly in 2019 Lok Sabha polls. A Trinamul insider said the party performed well in urban areas during the Lok Sabha polls. But it had put up a poor show in rural areas, particularly in the Jungle Mahal and north Bengal. “So, the chief minister wants to reach out to rural areas through development. But performance of important schemes does not paint a nice picture so far. That is why the chief minister was upset,” said a Trinamul MLA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-399
26-08-2020||West Bengal||Stakeholders plead for hill tourism to resume||Stakeholders of the tourism industry want the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) and the state government to take the lead and ensure tourists start visiting Darjeeling and Kalimpong hills again. Tourism at these scenic locales was halted by the pandemic, drying up the earnings of everyone linked with the sector, from hotel owners to waiters and drivers. Last Sunday, at a meeting in Gymkhana Club in Darjeeling, representatives of associations of hotel and homestay owners, transporters, drivers and tour operators stressed the need to open up the hills for tourists again. “Now that many services have resumed, we feel it is time to welcome tourists again to the hills. This will help all of us directly or indirectly associated with the tourism sector. That is why it was decided to approach the GTA and the state government so that a decision can be made on when tourists can start visiting the hills,” said Samrat Sanyal, general secretary, Himalayan Hospitality and Tourism Development Network. Stakeholders pointed out that some hill residents feared that the arrival of tourists would make them vulnerable to Covid-19. This is why tourism stakeholders want the GTA and the state to take up the task of convincing residents that safety protocols would be maintained at all costs. “We can’t bring tourists unless residents are taken into confidence. A message from the GTA and the state, coupled with a campaign, can help us a lot,” said Raj Basu, a veteran of the tourism sector of east and northeast India. Speakers highlighted their losses since March-end. “Thanks to the Centre’s order, banks and other financial institutions allowed a moratorium on loan installments till August. From September, everyone has to pay, but we have had no earnings since March. That is why we want the sector to open up,” said a Darjeeling hotelier. Basu said it was unlikely that thousands of tourists would start pouring in immediately, even if the hills opened, because regular train services and flight connectivity between Bengal and some prominent metros of the country were suspended. “Initially, we expect tourists from Calcutta and other parts of Bengal, some may arrive in their own vehicles, which is a new trend. But it is wrong to think that thousands will drop in and overcrowd the hills. We just want some boost for the sector,” said Basu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-399
26-08-2020||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court upholds CMC board||Calcutta High Court on Tuesday rejected three separate public interest litigation petitions challenging the validity of the state government’s decision to form an administrative board to run the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s day-to-day work till civic polls are held. The Calcutta corporation polls, due in May this year, could not be held because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Though the corporation’s five-year term ended on May 7, the state government through an order on May 6 formed a board of administrators headed by former CMC mayor Firhad Hakim to run it. Challenging the validity of the formation of the board, the PILs had contended that the state government was not within its rights to form a board without the legislative Assembly’s sanction. The division bench of Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Aniruddha Roy upheld the constitution of the board of administrators to supervise the functioning of the CMC. It also said that there was no need for the government to enact a legislation or issue an ordinance to form the board. “Extraordinary situations call for extraordinary measures,” the bench observed. The judgment was significant since the state had set up similar boards in many municipalities of Bengal where civic elections had to be postponed because of the spread of the coronavirus. The bench, however, said in its order that “the court desires that the state should now initiate the process for holding the civic body elections as early as possible”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-399
