27-08-2020||West Bengal||Irregularities in betel growers' Cyclone Amphan compensation||Another instance of alleged corruption in disbursal of compensation for people hit by Cyclone Amphan has been uncovered when a survey has found that many recipients of grants forked out by the Bengal government for betel leaf growers in East Midnapore were ineligible. A smartphone-based geo-informatics verification by block development officials found that several people had received Rs 5,000 each under the Amphan Betel Vine Grant Payment scheme even though they had no plants. The doles were delivered through panchayats and allegations cropped up that the ineligible beneficiaries were linked to panchayat members from the Trinamul Congress. The district administration had in July distributed Rs 20 crore to betel growers who had applied for the compensation. “Block development officials had received several reports of alleged irregularities in the initial beneficiary list. This led them to launch a smartphone-based geo-informatics verification through field workers. The survey is still on in the district’s 25 blocks,” said the source. Sources said the field workers had found that several of the 39,000 dole applicants did not have betel plants. “Approximately 80,000 farmers had applied for the initial dole and 39,000 were paid by block officials after reviewing eligibility,” said deputy director (horticulture), Swapan Kumar Sheet. In Ramnagar I block, sources said, more 834 of the 2,200 applicants were not bona fide. Block officials said they had begun to compile a fresh list post-verification and ineligible beneficiaries would be asked to refund the amounts. “We received reports that those 834 people are in some way connected to Trinamul,” said CPM leader Ashish Pramanik, adding that a written complaint had been submitted to the BDO. In the Trinamul-run Bhagabanpur panchayat, member Mangalmay Bhowmick and five family members have all returned their doles of Rs 5,000 each, saying it was a “mistake” on their part. “We have asked all other party members to return the doles they had wrongfully taken,” he said. Trinamul spokesperson Madhurima Mondal said: “All panchayat leaders have been directed to ensure the return of wrongfully received funds.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-397
27-08-2020||West Bengal||Two murders in Kalimpong district||A farmer in his 40s allegedly killed his wife with a sharp weapon in Nimbong gram panchayat in Kalimpong district and inflicted injuries to himself. Police said Pachyo Lepcha had been admitted to Kalimpong district hospital. His deceased wife, Santumaya Rai, is also in the 40s. In another incident, Subham Rai, 24, allegedly killed his grandfather, Mani Kumar Rai, 72, at Upper Cart Road near Children Park in Kalimpong town. Police said preliminary investigation suggested that other members of the family which included  grandmother and another grandson were present at the house at the time of the crime. “The suspects in both the cases have been arrested,” said Hari Krishna Pai, the Kalimpong district police chief. Subham has not fled after incident. “Subham had earlier gone to Delhi for work and it is suspected that he was into substance abuse earlier,” Roshan Thapa, a neighbour of the Rai family, said. The grandfather had suffered injuries from a blunt weapon. Police sources said both the incidents were linked to the “mental health” of the accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-397
27-08-2020||West Bengal||Talks to end  Longview tea garden impasse ||The Bengal labour department will hold a meeting with trade unions and the management of the Longview estate that produces orthodox Darjeeling Tea on August 28 to discuss the impasse in the garden. The management had announced suspension of work in Longview, located 26km from here and is in the Kurseong subdivision, on August 21, citing alleged lawlessness. Workers, other the other hand, accused the management of not clearing dues and started a relay fast in the garden. “The assistant labour commissioner of Kurseong has convened the tripartite meeting at Shramik Bhavan that is in Dagapur, on the outskirts of Siliguri, on Friday. All trade unions concerned and representatives of the management have been invited to the meeting,” said Nima Lama, the president of the GNLF’s Kurseong branch committee. “We feel all pending issues will be resolved through talks and operations will resume in the garden.” Darjeeling MLA Neeraj Zimba has threatened to join the hunger strike of the workers if no decision is taken by the state government to facilitate the reopening of the estate. He visited the garden on Tuesday to express solidarity with the labourers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-397
27-08-2020||West Bengal||GTA to wait for Bengal government decision on tourism||The Gorkhaland Territorial Administration has decided to wait for the Bengal government to take a call on opening tourism sector in the Darjeeling hills even though the tourism subject is vested with the GTA. At a meeting in Gymkhana Club in Darjeeling on Sunday, representatives of associations of hotel and homestay owners, transporters, drivers and tour operators had stressed the need to open up the hills for tourists again and decided to approach the GTA and the state government. Sources in the GTA said the hill body had held a discussion with the district magistrates of Darjeeling and Kalimpong and other officials on the issue on Wednesday. “The general discussion revolved over the fact that the Centre and the state technically opened hotels and the GTA couldn’t come up with a different set of rules. It was generally agreed that the GTA would wait till September 1 for new standard operating procedures to be laid by the governments specifically for the tourism industry,” said a GTA source. The overall understanding of the GTA is that the hill people are not yet ready to welcome tourists for fear of Covid-19 spread. “Of late, the number of Covid-19 cases are on the rise in the hills, even though not as exponentially as in the plains of Darjeeling district, and that is probably why the GTA is dragging its feet on taking a decision on tourism,” said a source. The GTA had come under tremendous public pressure after announcing that tourist sites under the hill body would start opening in a staggered manner from July 1. “It is a classic case of GTA being twice shy after being bitten once and it is clear that the hill body will not make a definite announcement in the coming days,” said a source. Tourism is the mainstay of hill economy with nearly 4 lakh tourists visiting the hills on an average annually. “The economy has been hit hard by the pandemic and tourism is one of the most sensitive sectors. The GTA is aware that many are employed in the sector but it also has to weigh public sentiments,” another source said. Sections among those involved with GTA have also tossed up the idea of opening up hill tourist sites only for residents of the GTA area. “Intra-GTA movement of tourists not exceeding 20 per cent of the total hotel capacity is something that can be discussed to build confidence and provide some income to hoteliers,” said a source. Many believe even residents of the GTA area want to move within the region for an outing provided hotels and homestays are open. “Locals might not oppose the overnight stay of people within the GTA area and this might be a small step ahead,” said the source. Tourism stakeholders had on Sunday pointed out that hill residents feared the arrival of tourists and hence decided to appeal to the GTA and the state government to take up the task of convincing them. “In any case even if the tourism sector opens up in the hills, one is not expecting hordes to arrive,” said a stakeholder. Unlike the hills, homestays and hotels have opened up in the Dooars.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-397
27-08-2020||West Bengal||Bengal to continue complete lockdown on certain days||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said Bengal would continue to observe complete lockdown on certain days at least till September 20. The chief minister announced three complete lockdown days on September 7 (Monday), 11 (Friday) and 12 (Saturday). The remaining full lockdown days in August are 27 (Thursday) and 31 (Monday). “I am declaring two to three dates when complete lockdown will be in place. The rest we will inform by September 20,” Mamata said. “As Covid cases are rising in different states, I feel that it will not be proper to withdraw the lockdown completely,” the chief minister said at Nabanna after a cabinet meeting on Wednesday. Mamata added: “Schools and colleges, which are closed these days, will remain closed till September 20. Status quo will be maintained in case of attendances in offices.” Government offices now operate with 50 per cent of their employees, and private enterprises are advised to encourage work from home wherever it is possible. Sources in the state secretariat said the government would review the situation across Bengal after September 17 and take a decision on whether further complete lockdown is needed in the rest of the month. The sources said a preliminary assessment of the complete lockdown being put in place in phases since July 23 suggested it had helped contain the spread of Covid to some extent. “On July 28, new Covid cases in Calcutta were 778. On August 25, it is 541. It is assumed that the strategy to impose complete lockdown has helped us contain the spread in Calcutta,” said a senior official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-397
27-08-2020||West Bengal||Life imprisonment for killing partner ||Udayan Das, who had murdered his live-in partner Akansha Sharma and buried the body in a marble-top tomb at his house in Bhopal three years ago, was sentenced to life imprisonment by a first track court in Bankura on Wednesday. Public prosecutor Arun Kumar Chatterjee said the judgment was pronounced on Wednesday but the court had convicted Udayan on Tuesday under Sections 302 and 201 of the IPC for murdering Akansha, 28, in 2017. While he was being whisked away by police after the verdict, Udayan told news persons that he would move the high court against the judgment. Bankura girl Akansha, who was the daughter of the manager of a nationalised bank, had befriended Udayan, who lived in Bhopal, through a social media platform in 2016. Akansha went to Udayan’s home in Bhopal, but told her parents that she was in the US. It later emerged that Udayan had killed his parents following a tiff over his career in 2012 at Raipur in Chhattisgarh. Sources said three separate cases were pending against Udayan at a court in Raipur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-398
27-08-2020||West Bengal||Trackless Toy Trains for north Bengal parks||The parks and gardens wing of the Bengal forest department has decided to introduce one trackless Toy Train each in three different parks of north Bengal. Anjan Guha, the divisional forest officer of the wing in the region, said the Toy Train service would be similar like the one introduced at the Bengal Safari Park located on the outskirts of Siliguri. “The estimated cost of the project is around Rs 1 crore. The service will come up at the parks in Malbazar town (Jalpaiguri district), Balurghat (South Dinajpur district) and at the N.N. Park in Cooch Behar town,” said Guha. “We have taken the task of cleaning and decorating all the parks and will come up with newer attractions like the trackless Toy Trains to pull visitors. So far, no decision has been taken on reopening the parks closed since March 17 in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic,” he added. According to sources in the department, nearly 39 lakh would be spent for the toy train project at N N Park while for Balurghat and Malbazar the department will spent 35 lakh and 30 lakh, respectively. The Toy Train, sources said, will run on battery or diesel engine, along with three coaches. Each coach, fitted with glass windows, will have a capacity of 25 to 30 passengers, along with CCTV cameras and alarms. “The Toy Train service introduced at the Bengal Safari Park has already earned popularity among the visitors. It would be new experience for people visiting these parks to take a trip in the train that will move through the entire park. But considering the current situation, we will allow only 10 to 12 passengers in a coach,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-398
27-08-2020||West Bengal||Plea to import raw jute from Bangladesh||Jute mill owners in Bengal have written to the Union government seeking permission to use raw jute imported from Bangladesh to manufacture bags they sell to central agencies. The unprecedented demand is the fallout of a dip in jute production in Bengal following Cyclone Amphan. “The industry will have to survive the effects of the cyclone this year. The yield has been adversely affected and will be lower by at least 20 per cent than what was estimated earlier. We have thus asked for this permission from the Centre so that we can meet the demand for jute bags,” a source at the Indian Jute Mills Association, a lobby group of mill owners, said. Mill owners in their letter — written on Tuesday and addressed to the secretary of Union ministry of textiles, Ravi Capoor — have said use of imported raw jute has become inevitable in the present situation. According to the letter, the IJMA had estimated a harvest of 75 lakh bales of raw jute this year. A bale is equivalent to around 180kg. But, post-Amphan, there has been a shortfall, which has also inflated the price of raw jute. On the other hand, mill owners are facing an all-time high demand for jute bags this year. Although no official estimate was available, a source at the office of Jute Commissioner said the demand may go up to 24 lakh bales of jute bags to pack food grains grown in the kharif season alone. “So, import is a must and we should be allowed to use the raw jute to make the bags that we supply to agencies like the Food Corporation of India,” said a source adding that the mill owners were expecting a favourable decision by the Centre. It has been mandated by the Jute Packaging Material Act that jute bags to be purchased by the Union government agencies for the packaging of food grains — rice, wheat and sugar — must be made of home-grown raw jute. The provision was intended to protect the interests of the farmers engaged with the jute cultivation. Hence, the mill owners’ plea to the Centre for permission to import jute from Bangladesh is unprecedented. Jute is mainly grown in India and Bangladesh. Abhijit Palit, the secretary of the Jute Balers Association, said use of imported raw jute for the manufacture of packaging bags would hurt the farmers. “The rate has gone a bit high towards Rs 5,300-5350 a quintal, which is normally not more than Rs 4,000 a quintal during normal times. This extra cash has proved to be useful for the farmer,” he said. Raghavendra Gupta, the chairman of the IJMA, however didn’t accept this logic. “This year, the farmers are already getting 12-13 per cent more than the minimum support price... Also, compared to the quality of jute being sold, the farmer is being well remunerated,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-398
27-08-2020||West Bengal||Mamata: Total deaths in Covid period low||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday furnished figures to substantiate her claim that despite Covid-19, Bengal had seen less deaths this year compared to 2019, suggesting that the extent and the effects of the pandemic were not alarming yet in the state. “I was trying to tell you this (yesterday). Last year, between April 1 and July 31, for all possible causes, total deaths in Bengal were 1,20,457. This year, also between April 1 and July 31, the total death toll of the state is 1,19,916. That is less, year-on-year, by 541…. This year’s figure includes the Covid-19 deaths,” the Bengal chief minister told a news conference at the state secretariat. Wednesday’s count of deaths from Covid-19 was 55, which took the toll to 2,964. Mamata was following up on her claim that deaths in Bengal had come down compared to 2019, while speaking of comorbid deaths getting recorded as Covid-19 deaths. As of Wednesday, 2,586 (87.2 per cent) of the total pandemic death toll was attributed to comorbidities by the state government. “There is this perception that many deaths are taking place because of Covid-19… this is what I was trying to say. Strokes, cancer, heart attacks, accidents… there are so many factors for death. We actually conducted a study to see if a lot of people are actually dying because of Covid-19,” said Mamata, who is also the health minister. The state’s mortality remained 2 per cent, while the national rate was 1.83. “Actually, those with comorbidities, only some of them are dying. Those with mild or no symptoms are getting well easily. Our recovery rate (79.75 per cent now) has been on the rise. We will have to ensure it keeps rising,” she added. Hours later, the health department’s daily Covid-19 bulletin reported yet another fall — deemed a significant positive — in the total active cases in the state, now 26,954. On Sunday, that total was 28,069. The state reported another 24-hour high in recoveries, at 3,314, which outweighed the 2,974 new cases. With 40,031 tests, the state managed to cross the 40,000 mark in daily testing, taking the total test count to over 16.74 lakh, at 18,601 tests per million. The turnaround for the five high-incidence districts of Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly continued, as they logged a collective fall by 349 in their total active cases. “These five districts had 18,048 total active cases on August 9, after which the turnaround began. On Wednesday, they have a total of 15,529 active cases. Calcutta alone has improved from 7,041 to 5,526,” said a minister. Bengal reported 35 per cent occupancy of 12,045 Covid-19 beds at 87 hospitals. Telemedicine services have been provided to nearly 1.28 lakh till now, including 4,617 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-398
27-08-2020||West Bengal||Mamata steals show at Sonia meeting||Mamata Banerjee was the cynosure of a meeting conducted by Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday to discuss a bunch of issues as the Bengal chief minister led from the front an attack on the Narendra Modi government. The 109-minute virtual meeting of some of the chief ministers of non-BJP parties seemed to be an early indicator of a platform taking shape for the anti-Sangh parivar forces to unite on. The meeting convened by Sonia, purportedly on the basis of an advice from Mamata, started out with issues at hand, such as the conduct of the JEE/NEET exams scheduled for next month. But it became a platform where non-BJP parties rolled out their pet peeves vis-a-vis the Modi regime. “The situation is very, very serious... If they want to arrest us, let them. We have to speak for the people,” said the Bengal chief minister, the first to speak after Sonia. “If we want to say something, then, of course, there are so many agencies. They will surround us. Let them…. I have not seen in a democracy these types of atrocities. Lots and lots of money being spent on speaking against us, from Facebook to fake news, everywhere… to damage the Opposition. They don’t care,” she added. Although the Trinamul Congress chief was to leave after her speech to attend a state cabinet meeting and later a government event, she stayed till the very end. Urged by Sonia, Mamata took over the reins and conducted most of the exercise, which included Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray and his Jharkhand counterpart and senior Jharkhand Mukti Morcha leader Hemant Soren. Congress chief ministers Amarinder Singh of Punjab, Ashok Gehlot of Rajasthan, Bhupesh Baghel of Chhattisgarh and V. Narayanaswamy of Puducherry were also present. All of them virtually echoed each other on the core issues, mainly the problem areas being faced by the state governments being run by non-BJP forces in the country. Mamata started with the JEE/NEET issue, taking it up in the public domain for the third consecutive day. Then, she moved to other issues like non-payment of GST dues to Bengal, alleged attacks on cooperative federalism, the bulldozing of non-BJP state governments and the “atmosphere of fear” in the country. “Every meeting (with Prime Minister Narendra Modi), I raise these issues. Where will states get money? Our taxes we give to the Centre. The Planning Commission no longer exists. Nobody is there to talk to,” she said, reiterating the Centre’s dues to the state to the tune of Rs 53,000 crore. Mamata said never before had she seen a Centre behave the way the Modi government did. “All central schemes, states will have to give half the funds. But the names of the schemes, they will decide and they will impose. We will have to share all data with them so that they can send letters to every individual, saying your state government is doing faltoo (rubbish) work, only the BJP is working, nobody else. This horror is going on,” she said. Later, in response to a question from this newspaper on whether the meeting was the start of a new formation, Mamata said: “It was an issue-based meeting…. This unbearable situation, some have to speak out. Today, these chief ministers spoke in one voice.” Mamata said there was a limit to intimidation and the people could no longer be kept back with fear. “Democracy will survive if all the democratic systems survive. If its pillars are destroyed, bulldozed, then a states-versus-Centre conflict is inevitable, which will not be good for the nation. We don’t want it. We want a united, inclusive India, abiding by the Constitution and its processes. That is what everyone agreed on,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-398
27-08-2020||West Bengal||Teachers: VC curbed freedom at Visva-Bharati||Visva-Bharati University Faculty Association has sent a letter to vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty, accusing him of lacking focus in academics and curtailing democratic environment on the campus while he extolled the virtues of freedom by quoting from Rabindranath Tagore’s poems. Coming in the midst of the ongoing controversy over building of a boundary wall on Pous Mela ground, the teachers’ body has highlighted in its letter how Chakrabarty’s role was detrimental to running the institution that Tagore had set up in keeping with his vision of education.  They have urged the VC to get back his focus on academic activities. In the past two months, Chakrabarty has written nine letters that ran into 56 pages and shared those in the public domain. Going beyond the nine letters, the VC had on August 22 issued a “special missive” that sparked off a controversy for describing Tagore as an “outsider” to Santiniketan. Referring to the gag order on Visva-Bharati employees, including teachers, the association flayed the VC for quoting Tagore’s famous lines — “Where the mind is without fear and the head is held high” — in his last of the nine missives issued on August 15. “While teachers and staff are not allowed to air their opinion in the public domain, the VC indulges in double standards by referring to the poem where Tagore urges his countrymen to realise the need to live in a free country,” a teacher said. The letter holds Chakrabarty responsible for the flaws that had crept into the Visva-Bharati system and led the varsity to lag behind other central universities. Firing its salvo at the VC, the teachers’ association criticised him for lowering the morale of Visva-Bharati stakeholders by blaming them for the deterioration of the institution. The teachers condemned the VC’s for repeatedly referring to the varsity as the proverbial “goose that lays the golden eggs”. The teachers’ body claimed the reference was deeply demeaning to the entire Visva-Bharati community. The teachers’ association has marked the letters to several dignitaries including Prime Minister and varsity Chancellor Narendra Modi, President and varsity Visitor Ram Nath Kovind and chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The letter states: “In the missives as well as on several other occasions you have publicly made extremely derogatory statements about the faculty members.” In a sharp criticism, the association describes the missives “...as an audit inspector’s report of a commercial company, not the prognosis and developmental agenda of the Vice-Chancellor of Visva-Bharati. We strongly object to such factually incorrect, grossly generalized, disparaging and deeply demotivating remarks”. The teachers “politely” reminded the VC that the institution did not require “sanctimonious reformers... We need leaders – firm, sympathetic, just and with vision”. Pointing to the undemocratic environment on the campus, the letter stated that the “faculty members, other employees, and students, who don’t even have any elected representation in the administration, or have little role to play in policy making and administration, kept bearing the brunt of the aggressive reformist agendas”. The letter said that VC’s repeated idea of “Visva-Bharati parivar” was antithetical to Tagore, who in his writings had deplored the concept of parivar (family) as he felt it was often “synonymous with paternalism and a tool for suppression of dissenting views”. The teachers urged Chakrabarty to initiate a serious campus-wide discussion for academic rejuvenation and development of Visva-Bharati before formulating the course of action. The teachers’ body has implored the VC to believe in the leadership as Tagore had envisioned and expressed in the most consummate manner in his song: “We are all kings in the kingdom of our kings”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-398
27-08-2020||West Bengal||Jio gets Bengal nod to build cable landing station at Digha||The Bengal cabinet on Wednesday approved a proposal by Reliance Jio to set up a cable landing station in Digha at an investment of Rs 1,000 crore. The project, once implemented, will create the necessary global connectivity in Bengal and the neighbouring states, which will give a big boost to business activities. “Reliance Jio had sent a proposal for a cable landing station in Digha and the cabinet cleared it today. It would invest a sum of Rs 1,000 crore. The infrastructure would generate employment opportunities in the state,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee said at Nabanna on Wednesday. Sources aware of the development said the cable landing station would connect Bengal to the data superhighway of the world and may provide a big boost to the IT & ITeS sector of the state . In this instance, the submarine cable will connect Bengal with Singapore. “Jio is likely to get a 1.5-acre plot from the state at the market rate to set up the station at Digha,” said a source. Sources at Nabanna said public sector telecom major BSNL had earlier proposed to set up a cable landing station in Digha in 2011. “But the project is currently gathering dust as the BSNL is not in the right position financially to carry forward the project. The proposal from Reliance Jio looked viable,” said a senior government official. According to him, over 15 such cables coming to Indian shores make landfall in India’s financial capital, Mumbai, or in the southern region, which accounts for bulk of IT sector. “This will be the first in eastern India,” he said. The submarine cables and their connections to terrestrial networks enable real-time access to business and consumer applications, social media, streaming video, websites, and many other bandwidth-intensive services. Tech companies planning to build data centres will be the beneficiaries of this important telecom infrastructure. “Reliance Jio is also set to build a data centre in Rajarhat where it has taken 40 acres of land from the state under Silicon Valley project,” said a source. Reliance Jio has two such cable landing stations in Chennai and Mumbai and if the proposal takes a shape, Digha would be their third such facility, the source added. “There are five places in the country — Mumbai, Chennai, Cochin, Thiruvananthapuram and Tuticorin — where sub-sea cables land at multiple cable landing stations set up by some of the major telecom players. If it comes up in Digha, it would be the first such station in eastern India. This will definitely help draw investments as connectivity will improve leaps and bounds,” said a source. The chief minister also said the state government had decided to develop the deep sea port in Tajpur on its own. “The cabinet has cleared the proposal that we will develop the deep sea port in Tajpur. The policy decision was ratified by the cabinet today and the rest, like who will be the partner, will be decided later on,” said Mamata. Earlier, the state government had given 74 per cent stake to the Centre to develop the Tajpur port in 2017. But the state had decided to develop the port on its own last year, saying the Centre was delaying the project unnecessarily. Sources said the decisions had been taken at the cabinet as Mamata was laying stress on creating job opportunities in the state ahead of the Assembly polls. She said the state was trying to start mining at Deocha Panchami in Birbhum as early as possible. “The chief minister is laying stress on these projects as these are capable of generating employment opportunities. This is what the ruling party is focusing ahead of the 2021 Assembly polls,” said an official. She said her government had given employment to nearly 5.6 lakh out of 10 lakh migrant workers who had to return during the lockdown through 100 days’ job scheme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-398
27-08-2020||West Bengal||Fee anxiety for trafficking survivor||Parul (name changed), 18, a resident of Kakdwip in the Sundarbans, wants to work in the IT industry as an accountant. She is enrolled in a Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) programme at a private management institute. A survivor of trafficking, Parul has fought through trauma and hardship to be here. But the lockdown has left the future she has been dreaming for herself looking elusive again. Parul was rescued in December 2018, three months after she had been trafficked to Gurgaon for prostitution. She had been 16, and a Class XII student. Parul was glad to be back home: she has a loving family and had been rescued without much time having been lost. Her neighbours welcomed her back warmly. “I never faced any stigma or negative reaction,” Parul says. Yet she could not escape the deep trauma that victims of trafficking almost invariably experience. She could not sleep at night. She often vomited blood, which requires immediate treatment. She was being counselled. But she still dreamt about her future. When she was finally through with the official processes and treatments after her rescue, only about a week remained for the 2019 higher secondary examination of the West Bengal board. She took it and passed with 56 per cent marks. That was a great boost for Parul and her family. “Especially for my father, who did not go to school,” Parul said. Her father, a mason, had always supported her studies. He had sent Parul away as a child to stay at a relative’s place so that her education could continue unhampered. Now he saw to it that Parul enrolled herself — at a cost he could barely afford — in the residential BBA programme at an institute in another district. It was an exceptional step. Very few survivors of trafficking can go back to school, mostly because of adverse circumstances. A minuscule proportion takes up higher education, which tends to be expensive and requires financial support from the family. Parul is grateful to the NGO Goranbose Gram Bikash Kendra (GGBK) for the steady support it has offered. She enrolled in the BBA course in August last year. “We had to pay Rs 43,500 at the time,” Parul said, “which my father had to borrow.” He did so willingly. In June, however, Parul’s father had to borrow heavily again after the institute set a deadline for the payment of all dues. Now the financial stress on the family was becoming unbearable: Parul feared that the cost of her education was plunging her father into spiralling debt. “In June, we had to pay Rs 26,500 to the institute, otherwise I would not be allowed to continue in the programme,” Parul said. The outstanding fees were meant to be paid in January. But the first semester was running slow; it was understood that the fees could be paid later, Parul said. “But suddenly the lockdown was imposed, and everything stopped. Then (Cyclone) Amphan came.” Then, in a notice dated June 9, and with the subject line “Final call to submit semester fees”, the institute informed the students that all outstanding fees must be paid by June 17. “We are in dilemma that some of you may not be interested to continue the course, so we are requesting you to confirm if you are continuing the course or not so that we can take further action,” the notice said. Verbally, the students were told they had to pay the fees or pull out. “Despite several attempts, I could not speak to anyone who could help me,” Parul said. Her father had stopped earning after the lockdown. Amphan had not destroyed their home but had damaged parts of it. “It’s true that every organisation faced a financial crisis during the lockdown. But the institute could have been kinder,” said Parul, who lives with her parents and two younger siblings. “Some students comefrom business families, but many are from families like mine.” Her father borrowed the Rs 26,500. “I don’t know from where,” Parul said. They then had to get a demand draft ready, which was difficult enough because of the lockdown. For some technical reason, it was not accepted. So it had to be cashed again and the money was paid through Google Pay, a process that too posed difficulties because of erratic connectivity. “My assignments were accepted only then,” Parul said. She does not know how long she can continue amid such difficulties. Namita (name changed), 21, a Class XII student from another Kakdwip village, too is a survivor of trafficking. She had returned home and resumed her studies in 2016, with support from her family and GGBK activists. She is as concerned as Parul about her future and her father’s increasing debt. Her father, a small farmer who also owns a paaner baraj (betel grove) and a modest poultry farm, can barely afford her education. “Everything has stopped now. Amphan destroyed our house and the paaner baraj. And in the days that followed, all the chickens were stolen. Now we have nothing,” Namita said. “My father is borrowing money from everywhere.” Namita would like to become an activist one day, just to help girls like her, she says. The lockdown and the impact of Amphan are affecting the girls’ lives in the severest ways, said Nihar Ranjan Raptan, GGBK founder secretary. The organisation works to empower the survivors of trafficking in Kakdwip, Namkhana, Canning, Diamond Harbour and Baruipur in south Bengal and some areas of north Bengal. “The Kakdwip and Gosaba areas in the Sundarbans have traditionally been advanced academically,” Raptan said. It’s a pity that Parul and Namita are facing this hopelessness, especially because of how they had to struggle, he said. “Only about 10 per cent of trafficking survivors go back to school.” A fraction of that go on to enrol for higher studies. Parul’s situation raises the question whether higher professional training is reserved for the elite, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-398
