28-08-2020||West Bengal||CLAT clashes with Bengal lockdown on September 7||The national entrance test for admission to law schools is scheduled on September 7, when Bengal is to be under a complete lockdown. Students and parents are worried how they would reach the exam centres and whether they would be allowed to step out of home at all. A senior official of the Consortium of National Law Universities that conducts the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) told The Telegraph on Thursday afternoon that the exam was still on schedule but they had yet to take the final decision on whether separate arrangements would be made for Bengal. The Bengal government’s lockdown calendar for next month, announced on Wednesday, includes September 7, a Monday. Only emergency and essential services are allowed during a complete lockdown, and facilitating exams is not part of either. “We came to know about the Bengal government’s decision last (Wednesday) evening. A meeting of the executive committee of the consortium will soon be held to decide whether it will be possible to conduct the CLAT on September 7 (in Bengal). The decision will be conveyed to the students accordingly,” Faizan Mustafa, vice-chancellor of the NALSAR University of Law, Hyderabad, and a member of the executive committee of the consortium, said. Bengal education minister Partha Chatterjee told The Telegraph: “Our stand on the law school admission test is the same as that on JEE and NEET.” Bengal, like several other states, has opposed the engineering and medical entrance tests (scheduled from next week) in the middle of the pandemic. The CLAT is held to admit students to 22 national law universities across the country. The National University of Juridical Sciences (NUJS) in Calcutta is one of them. IIM Indore too is to conduct the entrance test for its five-year integrated management course on September 7. An IIM Indore official said the entrance test would be held as scheduled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-396
28-08-2020||West Bengal||Antigen tests for lockdown violators||Around 80 people who had come out defying Thursday’s statewide lockdown at Kaliachak in Malda were intercepted by policemen and escorted to a centre for their antigen tests. This move made many loitering around rush home and helped the health department get random samples for the antigen test to know the extent of Covid-19 transmission. Following a steady spike in Covid-19 cases in Kaliachak, the health department opened a camp in Chowringhee, a prominent crossing in Kaliachak. Till afternoon, technicians at the camp collected  samples from 250-odd persons, one-third of them lockdown violators. A police officer said that among lockdown violators, one tested positive for Covid. “It was learnt that he is from Ratua (also in Malda district) and had come to Kaliachak during the lockdown without any reason,” the policeman said. In Alipurduar, a patient at the Covid hospital in Tapshikhata on the town’s outskirts fled and hid in a bush nearby. People who spotted him gave him food and told the police. Policemen and a doctor tried to persuade him to return to the hospital, but the man refused, citing poor services at the hospital. The police informed his family who took him home. He was advised home isolation. “He is comorbid, hence was in hospital,” said a health department source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-396
28-08-2020||West Bengal||Driver of ATM cash van flees with lakhs||Police are on the look out for a driver of an ATM cash management firm who has fled with Rs 86 lakh meant for ATM kiosks of a nationalised bank. The police said the accused, Raj Sardar, 35, sped with the cash in the vehicle on Wednesday around 4.30pm when an employee of the firm was busy filling cash at a kiosk of Punjab National Bank in Atpur area of Jagaddal and a security guard was guarding the ATM. An official of the firm said that the team was carrying around Rs 90 lakh to refill cash at ATM kiosks of which Rs 4 lakh was taken by the cash custodian to load. Sardar fled with the balance amount of Rs 86 lakh. An eyewitness said: “The security guard tried to chase the van but in vain. The vehicle sped fast towards Naihati.” The police on Thursday morning traced the vehicle, a Maruti Eeco van, in Bijpur, around 25km from the ATM kiosk where it was last seen, and found the empty cash trunk. Ajay Kumar Thakur, DC, (Zone 1) of Barrackpore commissionerate said hunt was on for Sardar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-396
28-08-2020||West Bengal||Arrests after Arambagh prod||Four large police teams headed by Hooghly (rural) police chief Tathagata Basu raided at least two dozen villages in Khanakul block, Arambagh subdivision, to recover firearms and bombs, and arrested six criminals on Wednesday night, after chief minister Mamata Banerjee on August 24 pulled up the police for its failure to rein in violence in Arambagh. The police recovered 72 bombs, six firearms, 30 bullets. All six persons who were arrested had criminal backgrounds. During her district review meeting through videoconferencing on August 24, Mamata had questioned the regular clashes in Arambagh, Hooghly district, and asked “SP Tathagata” to take control of the situation. “SP Tathagata…tomar okhane prai prai gondogol hoi keno? Samlate paro na naki? Ar jeno kono gondogol na hoi, take care (SP Tathagata, why disturbances are frequently reported in your area? You can’t control the situation? Take care there are no further disturbances),” Mamata had said. Police sources said Mamata had pointed to incidents of violence and political clashes in Arambagh in August that claimed the lives of two persons. On August 6, a Trinamul worker was killed as crude bombs were hurled on him allegedly during a clash with another faction of the party. On August 15, a BJP worker was killed in a clash between BJP and Trinamul workers over Independence Day celebrations at the same venue. Sources said had the police intervened sooner the clash could have been avoided. Trinamul leaders said the chief minister wanted to rein in violence in the run up to Bengal Assembly polls in Hooghly district where the BJP has managed to build its organisation. Khanakul, Jangipara and Arambagh in Hooghly have always been in the news for political violence since the time of the Left Front. “The BJP has made inroads in the district and violence gives the saffron camp an opportunity to launch protests. These incidents have to stop,” said a Trinamul leader. Police sources said they arrested one Hemanta Samanta from Durgapur village of Khanakul and recovered four one-shutter improvised pistols from him. Of the other five arrested, arms were recovered from two more criminals. “We selected pockets in violence-prone police stations, including Khanakul, Jangipara and Arambagh. We started with Khanakul on Wednesday night and our raids will continue for seven consecutive days, and then we will move to other areas,” said Basu. Asked if his action came after Mamata’s order, Basu said: “We always take action when a clash or incident takes place. But we launched a bigger drive after the chief minister pointed it out at the review meeting.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-396
28-08-2020||West Bengal||Landslide debris cuts NH10 link for 18 hours||Road connectivity between Siliguri and Sikkim-Kalimpong was snapped for around 18 hours after a landslide on NH10 in the 29thMile area of Kalimpong, some 40km from here, in the wee hours of Thursday. The debris from the hills buried a truck parked off the highway, and damaged four houses. Excavators worked throughout Thursday to remove the rubble and create room for vehicles to move in a single file by evening. Kalimpong had experienced heavy downpour that might have triggered the slide, said sources. “Because of the statewide lockdown, vehicles are few on Thursday. But as NH10 connects Sikkim and Kalimpong, we started restoration work,” said Krishna Gupta, a contractor who is assigned with the maintenance work of NH 10 by the state PWD (NH division). Residents, who feared fresh debris could fall in the highway if it rained again, raised the demand for early completion of the Sevoke-Rangpo rail project and the widening of an alternative road to Sikkim via Kalimpong.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-396
28-08-2020||West Bengal||Rain-fed rivers flood 50 Bengal villages ||Over 50 villages in West Midnapore’s Ghatal were inundated since Tuesday night after rivers Parang and Shilabati overflowed in the wake of heavy rainfall in the region. Over 40,000 persons in the region have been affected by floods in the district’s Daspur-I block, where sources say broken embankments have led to stagnant floodwater in farmlands and residential areas. Residents of Rajnagar and Narajal gram panchayat areas said on Thursday that almost all farmlands in the area were destroyed, though damage to residential settlements had been minimal owing to construction norms that specify homes on stilts. “Panchayat officials have been distributing hundreds of tarpaulins and dry food packets,” said Narajal panchayat pradhan Gagan Samanta, adding that 25 mud homes suffered severe damage and those families had sought shelter at a school in Rajnagar. Among them, Danikola’s Balaram Bhunia, 60, cried for his lost crops. “We got low rainfall at the start of monsoon because of which our crops suffered. Now floods took away whatever little we were left with. Initially, low rainfall had prompted most farmers to spend extra on hiring pumps (to irrigate fields),” he said, pointing out the irony. Rajkundu resident Manab Bakra, 64, said water was “waist-high”. “People can move around only on boats,” he said. Daspur I panchayat samiti chief Arun Dolai said officials were “keeping an eye” on the broken embankments and promised repairs soon. At Arambagh’s Khanakul subdivision in Hooghly district, five low-lying villages were inundated after heavy rain since Wednesday night. Teams led by Hooghly SP (rural) Tataghata Basu took part in relief work on Thursday. District magistrate Y. Ratnakara Rao inspected flooded sites and told residents that officials with life jackets on speedboats would be sent for relief work. Ferries in Khanakul did not ply. The administration used drones to monitor the situation. In East Burdwan’s Kalna, the overflowing Bhagirathi led SDO Suman Mohanty’s office to start a helpline.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-396
28-08-2020||West Bengal||Officials survey Birbhum mining site||A team of senior Birbhum district administration and police officials headed by Birbhum district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu and police chief Shyam Singh visited Chanda of Mohammedbazar on Thursday to identify 40 acres of government land where work on the Deocha-Pachami mining project would start. “We visited the area to make a ground report on the site. We have marked a stretch of 40 acres from where mining can start. The approach road to the plot will be ready soon,” Basu said. Sources said the visit came after chief minister Mamata Banerjee had referred to the project at the district review meeting. Deocha-Pachami coal block, located in Birbhum’s Mohammedbazar, spreads over 11,222 acres with coal reserves of around 2.2 billion tonnes. The coal block is so vast that it can generate jobs for at least 1.5 lakh people, said sources. Senior officials said the state government was keen to start the mining project before the 2021 Assembly polls to showcase it as an engine of economic growth in south Bengal. Sources have said the state government doesn’t want to go in for any confrontation with the local people to purchase land as was assured by chief secretary Rajiva Sinha during a meeting with landowners and other stakeholders in Deocha on July 9. “If we could start the project on government land, there would be no burden of acquisition or purchasing at all. As soon as the project will start, we will start talking to local people about compensation and other issues,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-396
28-08-2020||West Bengal||Covid: Central officials test positive||Two members of a team sent by the Union ministry of rural development to study the progress of different projects tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. They had undergone tests upon their arrival here on Monday. The team was sent to review the progress of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act and Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. The four senior officials arrived in Bengal from Delhi on August 24. While two went to Birbhum, others reached Bankura. Senior state government officials said they had asked the team not to visit districts because of the pandemic and told them that conducting the survey would be a problem. “As the team members said it was mandatory for them to inspect the projects, we advised them to undergo tests first before they set out to visit the sites,” said a senior district official. A senior official in Birbhum said the two officials from Delhi had undergone a rapid antigen test first and one of them was detected with the novel coronavirus. “After that, we sent their samples again and asked them to be in quarantine at a Bolpur hotel. Reports for the duo came positive today (Thursday) and we have asked them to be at the same hotel for at least 10 days,” said Moumita Godara Basu, Birbhum district magistrate. In Bankura, the two officials underwent a test and they were allowed to move after the report came negative. “We did not allow them to move out till their reports came. However, they were tested negative for Covid,” said a senior official in Bankura. One of the officials, who had been sent to Birbhum, said: “We have been verbally informed about our Covid report. We have no symptoms.” “We will take a final decision after discussing with our bosses in Delhi.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-396
28-08-2020||West Bengal||Covid: Overall toll past 3,000, but active cases fall in Bengal||Bengal’s overall Covid-19 toll crossed 3,000 on Thursday but the state also achieved three significant positives, a 24-hour high in daily Covid-19 testing with 42,474, crossing 17 lakh tests in all and surpassing the 80 per cent recovery rate. Also, with 3,189 recoveries in 24 hours till 9am on Thursday, which outweighed the 2,997 new infections in the same window, the total number of active cases fell for the fourth consecutive day. On Sunday, the total number of active cases was 28,069; on Thursday the figure fell to 26,709. The state crossed 1.5 lakh in the total number of cases, of which over 1.21 lakh are recoveries and 3,017 are deaths. Fifty-three persons died on Thursday. Bengal took over three-and-a-half months to conduct 1 lakh tests, on May 19. Exactly 100 days later, the state crossed 17 lakh in tests. A month ago, the state was conducting 17,000 tests a day, at 9,325 tests per million. Now it conducts over 42,000 a day, at 19,073 per million. “The (state’s) achievements in testing are the brightest of these silver linings in the pandemic cloud. Having begun testing in early February, we were at 8,39,211 tests till a month ago. In these 30 days, we conducted 8,77,396 tests,” said a minister. Another welcome trend is the dip in active Covid-19 cases in the most high-incidence districts of Bengal. On Thursday, yet again, the five most high-incidence states of Bengal in terms of the novel coronavirus infection — Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly — collectively recorded a fall of 354 in active cases. These districts have been logging more recoveries than new cases fairly consistently now since August 9. “The most high-incidence district of Calcutta had 7,041 active cases on August 9. Now, this number has fallen to 5,311. Today, it reported 770 recoveries and 571 new cases,” said the minister. Owing to the spike in cases, however, the positive confirmation rate is now 8.78 per cent, which was 7.86 per cent even at the beginning of the month. Of Bengal’s 53 Covid-related deaths on Thursday, 16 were reported from Calcutta. Of the 3,017 deaths in total, 2,628 or 87.1 per cent were reported as comorbid by the government. Comorbidities include hypertension, diabetes, cardiac, kidney and pulmonary diseases, tuberculosis and cancer. The overall mortality rate of Bengal also stayed put at 2 per cent, while the national rate is now 1.82 per cent. The minister iterated that chief minister Mamata Banerjee wanted priority on lowering the state’s mortality rate. “There are several measures being put in place to that end in the next few weeks,” he said. Bengal reported 34.69 per cent occupancy in the 12,045 Covid-19 beds in 87 dedicated hospitals, and 14.74 per cent in the 11,507 beds in 200 safe homes across the state. Telemedicine services have been given to over 1.32 lakh, 4,558 of them in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-397
28-08-2020||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati e-meeting on ‘present situation’||Visva-Bharati called two back-to-back meetings, for at least 1,100 teaching and non-teaching employees, on Friday to discuss the “present situation” of the varsity grappling with the Pous Mela ground boundary wall controversy. The meetings will be held online in view of Covid-19 protocol of physical distancing, varsity authorities announced on Thursday night, deviating from their earlier plan of holding two separate physical meetings for teaching and non-teaching staff at the Bangladesh Bhavan. Visva-Bharati officiating registrar Asha Chakrabarty had earlier in the day given two notices to this effect, raising eyebrows of varsity employees and the district administration. Birbhum district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu had asked the SDO Bolpur to tell Visva-Bharati authorities not to hold such a huge gathering amid the pandemic. “I have come to know about the meetings and the SDO has sent a letter to the varsity authorities alerting them to the Covid protocol. If there is any violation of Covid protocol, we will take stern action,” Basu had said. Sources said that this stern stand had prompted Visva-Bharati authorities to go for online meetings. A senior varsity official had tried to justify the physical meetings, saying: “We will allow 200 people inside the auditorium and rest will sit in the passages and other halls at Bangladesh Bhavan by adhering to the Covid protocol. We will scan all participants with thermal scanners and give them sanitisers.” A senior health department official had said that allowing an assembly of 200 people was not possible as the permissible limit was 50. Birbhum reported 1,617 Covid positive cases so far, 135 persons were infected on Thursday, the state health department report said. Twelve people have died of Covid in the district so far. At the meetings, vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty is expected to seek the support of the varsity fraternity against the campus vandalism on August 17, said sources. The central varsity has already blamed a Trinamul MLA and other party leaders for it. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on August 17 had said that walls went against Tagore’s philosophy. Many alumni, faculty members, students and residents have spoken out against walls that to them symbolise the lack of communication between the varsity authorities and larger Santiniketan ecosystem, and alleged bids to saffronise the varsity under VC Chakrabarty’s tenure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-397
28-08-2020||West Bengal||Centre asks states to ‘refine’ Covid fight||The Centre on Thursday nudged 10 states, including Bengal, to “refine and strengthen” their testing, contact tracing and containment efforts and improve their ambulance and treatment services to help lower mortality among patients with coronavirus disease. The Union health ministry, while iterating the need for the states to focus on “effective containment, contact tracing, and surveillance”, also advised them to “place in the public domain” the availability of beds and ambulances across Covid-19 hospitals. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, in a video conference called by the Union cabinet secretary, described the Covid-19 epidemic in the 10 states — Andhra Pradesh, Bengal, Gujarat, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh. These states or Union territories accounted for around 89 per cent of India’s Covid-19 deaths over the past two weeks. Five of them have case fatality rates higher than the national average of 1.8 per cent — Gujarat (3.3), Maharashtra (3.2), Punjab (2.6), Bengal (2.0) and Jammu and Kashmir (1.9). The health ministry has also advised the states and Union territories to make public the status of bed and ambulance availability in Covid-19 hospitals, reduce ambulance response times and ensure that patients receive effective clinical management. Health officials have also asked the states to monitor weekly mortality among Covid-19 patients in each hospital with a special focus on patients with underlying illnesses or those aged 60 years or older and at risk for severe disease. Weekly measurements of the mortality among hospitalised Covid-19 patients — also called hospital fatality rate — will allow health authorities to track and assess the efficacy of clinical management of patients and take steps to improve management if required, according to medical experts. In states where the numbers of new daily cases detected run into several hundreds or thousands, public health experts say the task of contact tracing will be challenging. The daily new cases on Wednesday, for instance, ranged from over 14,000 in Maharashtra to 8,580 in Karnataka and 2,974 in Bengal. Field staff with India’s nationwide disease surveillance units assigned contact tracing need to determine who was likely exposed to each new positive case detected over the two days prior to the diagnosis. “This is a mammoth task — if there are enough feet on the ground, if there is a robust fully operational workforce, then this could be done,” said Oommen John, a public health specialist with The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. Across India, health authorities on Thursday recorded 75,760 new Covid-19 cases, a fresh single-day high, raising the total number of infections to over 3.31 million, of whom over 2.52 million patients have recovered, 725,991 are under medical supervision and 60,472 have died. The epidemic’s continued growth, medical experts say, is nothing surprising. “This was bound to happen —there’s nothing we could have done about it,” said a senior epidemiologist who is a member of an Indian Council of Medical Research expert panel on surveillance. “Now, we see it spreading into smaller towns.” The health ministry also urged state officials to focus on promoting behavioural change to get people to adopt physical distancing, masks and hand hygiene.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-397
28-08-2020||West Bengal||Delhi pats Bengal bid to arrest Covid spread ||Union cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba praised some of the initiatives of the Bengal government in containing the spread of Covid-19 during a video conference he had with the chief secretaries and the health secretaries of major states on Thursday, said a source. “The cabinet secretary praised the state for initiating several innovative steps, including introduction of critical covid patient management system, telemedicine facilities for all patients and safe homes to decongest hospital beds for serious patients. He also appreciated the decision to carry out surveys to find out patients with severe acute respiratory illness and influenza like illness,” said the source. Gauba, however, asked the Bengal authorities to focus on measures to bring down the Covid death rate, added the source. Sources at Nabanna have said that as of now, Bengal has a Covid death rate of 2 per cent with 2,909 fatalities and a total of 1,47,775 positive cases. “The Centre wants us to bring down the death rate to below 1 per cent at the earliest. We have already brought down the death rate from 4.5 per cent to 2 per cent in the past one month,” said a senior official. Sources in the Bengal health department said the latest initiative to identify people with comorbidities and take special care of them could help the state bring down the death rate soon. “The Niti Ayog member, V. K. Paul, who was present at the meeting praised the initiative to identify people with comorbidities. He said that this is the first such initiative in the country and it could be a game changer as 86 per cent of the Covid deaths are attributed to comorbidities,” said a senior official. The survey to find out people with serious comorbidities has already started in Calcutta and it will begin across the state from Monday. “It is expected that by September third week, we will have the details of all people with serious comorbidities in the state. In case of Calcutta, the list could be prepared much before that. Once we get the details, we would implement a strategy on how to monitor their health conditions on a regular basis,” said another official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-397
28-08-2020||West Bengal||‘Caste bias’ stalls resettlement||Members of five Scheduled Caste families whose homes were either washed away or face threat from the swirling waters of the Hooghly in Nadia couldn’t settle on the land allotted by the local panchayat because of opposition from upper caste people. However, a member of the Chanduria 1 gram panchayat run by the Trinamul Congress denied that caste bias had stalled the rehabilitation of the five families belonging to the Dom caste at Mathpara village. “Our only fault is that we belong to the Dom community,” said Bijoy Chaudhuri, whose house can be gobbled by the Hooghly at Gournagar any time. As the village is prone to erosion, the Nadia district administration had drawn up a plan last year to rehabilitate 13 families at the nearby Mathpara, which is away from the Hooghly. Both Gournagar and Mathpara are in the Chanduria 1 gram panchayat. The 13 families were subsequently given government-vested land for living at Mathpara. The river devoured 12 homes and the families moved to the new settlement in March. Although eight families, all belonging to upper castes, could be rehabilitated, four Dom families faced objections from the residents of Mathpara. The four families have been forced to live along a village road in tarpaulin tents since March. The fifth family of Bijoy and his wife Bina Chaudhuri continues to live on the riverbank as they await rehabilitation. Bijoy is a trolley van driver. A Mathpara resident who was opposed to the rehabilitation of the Dom families said: “We cannot compromise with our culture and lifestyle. We have asked Trinamul to allot land at a different place for the Dom people to avoid any conflict.” Dom is listed as a Scheduled Caste in Bengal and its members are generally known as corpse burners. But members of all the five Dom families at Gournagar are into other occupations. According to the 2011 Census, 10.7 per cent of the country’s SC population lives in Bengal. Admitting that caste bias had come in the way of the resettlement of the five families at Mathpara, Nadia zilla parishad member and Trinamul’s Chakdah block president Tibrajyoti Das said: “I was shocked to learn about the objections raised by some people. In 2020 Bengal, such a mindset is unacceptable. The incident is inhuman. I am against such discrimination and will convince the people to come out of such mindset.” The panchayat authorities pressed a pause button on the resettlement of the Dom families as a section of the locality’s upper caste residents remained adamant. Asked what the administration had done to ensure that the Dom families did not face ostracism, Kalyani subdivisional officer Dhiman Barai said: “I had sent Chakdah BDO Debjit Dutta to Gournagar to conduct an inquiry. He spoke to the residents. We will take up the matter with the land department and do whatever is necessary to rehabilitate the families.” Sociologist Surajit Mukhopadhyay has said though caste bias doesn’t exist in Bengal in absolute terms, it would be wrong to perceive that it is not prevalent. “That perception of caste does not exist in Bengal is a myth that always gets torn apart when the society is faced with exigencies like the one in Nadia. Yes, it is not of the kind that exists in the cow-belt states. Caste is a primordial affiliation in India that has political utility, like racism is in the enlightened West. ” Kalpana Chowdhury, a member of one of the isolated families, said: “I had heard caste hatred existed outside Bengal, but never imagined that we could become victims of such discrimination.” “My husband Gurudas and I run a tea stall where people from various classes and communities come. They are never bothered about our caste,” she added. Gurudas said he had been issued the patta (land deed) at Mathpara, but the local Trinamul leadership had ignored his plight. Denying the charge of caste bias, Minati Biswas, a Trinamul member at Chanduria 1 gram panchayat, said: “There was no land to accommodate the five families. There is congestion (at Mathpara).”Told that the five families had been allotted land at Mathpara and two of them issued pattas, Biswas declined comments. Bijoy said he didn’t know where to move since the panchayat officials had expressed their helplessness. “It is all because of our caste. I had appealed to local Trinamul leaders for help, but they didn’t pay heed to our request. They asked us to live on a piece of land under an electric transformer. But we did not move there as it is too dangerous to live there.” Badal Halder, a Trinamul leader at Gournagar, said: “We don’t have any prejudice over caste.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-397
