29-08-2020||West Bengal||Ally questions BJP ‘coalition dharma’||The Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Bimal Gurung faction) has accused long-time ally BJP of deviating from “coalition dharma” by trying to eat into the party’s base in the hills. On Friday, general secretary of the Morcha (Gurung faction) Roshan Giri posted a news release on social media, saying the BJP had taken up a membership drive across the hills and foothills, which the Morcha considers its traditional base. “The Gorkha Janmukti Morcha and the BJP has a decade-old coalition and the Morcha has always upheld its coalition ‘dharma.’ It is a known truth that from 2009 to 2019, the Morcha has helped the BJP candidates to win but today, our feeling is that certain BJP leaders are not taking this coalition seriously,” says the release issued by Giri. Back in 2009, the Morcha joined hands with the BJP, which helped the BJP secure the Darjeeling consecutively in three Lok Sabha elections. The release mentioned Jaswant Singh and S.S. Ahluwalia, who won the seat in 2009 and 2014. “These two leaders never tried to extend their support base in the hills because at that time we were in control of the hills, Terai and adjoining areas and our leaders were also on ground. But today, as our leaders are forced to live a life in exile, it seems that the BJP is taking advantage of this situation, or for any other reason has started a membership drive in these areas. Our present MP (Raju Bista) is very enthusiastically involved in this drive.” The Morcha (Gurung faction) added that the MP should meet the demands of the hill people, which include Scheduled Tribe status to 11 hill communities, and come up with a permanent political solution for the hills. Such assertions from the Bimal Gurung faction — the other faction led by Binay Tamang allies with Trinamul — has triggered speculation on what lies ahead. “It’s evident they want the BJP to abandon the membership drive. As most leaders of the faction are not public for over three years now, there is a chance that some of their supporters may join the BJP,” said a political watcher. MP Bista said the Morcha (Gurung faction) could always voice its concerns in public. He said his party’s membership drive in Bengal was not limited to the hills, Terai and the Dooars. “Ours is a democratic alliance, and every partner has equal say...” Bista said. “As a party worker, I have my set of duties and responsibilities to fulfil. Our alliance partners are well aware of these facts, and they have every right to put forward their concerns,” Bista said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-395
29-08-2020||West Bengal||Elephant dead  near live wires||The carcass of a wild elephant was recovered from a farmland in Banarhat, Jalpaiguri district, on Friday. Binnaguri Wildlife Squad officials suspect electrocution as they found live wires near the spot, said a source. A post-mortem report is awaited. With this, in the past two months, seven wild elephants have died in Jalpaiguri, mostly of electrocution. One died from infighting. Residents of Dudumaribusty in Banarhat near the Khunia forest on the fringes of Gorumara National Park and Chapramari Wildlife Sanctuary noticed the carcass early on Friday and told foresters. They said an elephant herd entered the village on Thursday night and ravaged farmland. “If electrocution is established, those involved in laying live wires (to electrocute elephants) would be traced and arrested,” a senior forester said. The forester added that herds of elephants were often found roaming around Malbazar, Nagrakata, Banarhat and Binnaguri, and entered human habitats, damaging crops and hutments. Almost every day, wildlife squads and foresters steer herds back to the forests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-395
29-08-2020||West Bengal||Entrance exam help||The reputable Siliguri Boys’ High School will introduce coaching facilities for students for state and national level competitive exams. State tourism minister Gautam Deb, also the president of the school’s managing committee, said it would start coaching students in Classes XI and XII for exams such as NEET, JEE and others, as well as hone their skills to face interviews. As of now, the coaching classes will be held online, Deb said. “Once school reopens, the coaching classes would be held like any regular class. For lower classes, we will introduce Abacus and mental maths,” added the minister. The managing committee, sources said, has planned infrastructure upgrade in the school, including installation of CCTV cameras and solar panels, a new shed for serving midday meals to students, a new hall and an activity room. “Also, the school’s auditorium would be refurbished and new rooms will come up for the headmaster, other staff and for the school office,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-395
29-08-2020||West Bengal||Going the extra mile, with books and pills||Two young couples from Siliguri and Malda are literally going the extra mile amid the pandemic to bring education and healthcare to those who are economically disadvantaged. In Siliguri, Anirban Nandy and wife Poulami Chaki Nandy, a researcher and a research assistant at IIT-Kharagpur, now at home because of the pandemic, regularly visit villages and tea gardens with books stacked in their car as a “mobile library”. In Malda, doctor couple Jahangir Alam and S.R. Nasrin host free health camps on their own in remote areas of the district. Alam, a child specialist, and Nasrin, a gynaecologist and obstetrician, are posted at Malda Medical College & Hospital (MMCH). Anirban and Poulami, while doing a survey on development and economy in rural areas, came to know first-hand the problems of the poor amid the Covid lockdown. Anirban said Poulami and he realised that education for the poor had taken a beating. “Poor students can’t afford online classes with smartphone or laptop and Internet. So we launched a mobile library.” The couple approached friends and acquaintances for books and gathered over 6,000. “We piled books in our car and visited tea gardens and villages, asking students to keep the book they need for three months,” said Poulami. So far, the couple said, they covered 30 villages and 16 tea gardens in north Bengal, and around 1,580 students are linked to their mobile library. Eighty per cent of them are girls, Poulami said. Anirban added that he and his wife also introduced “Dosh Takar Tuition (tuition for Rs 10)” for English, computer, economics, geography, and political science. “Yes, we maintain social distancing during all of this,” he added. Malda’s Alam and Nasrin also started free health camps  for needy families during the pandemic for the same reason. “Healthcare for the poor gets hit the hardest when there’s a crisis,” said Alam. So far, the couple has held over 25 free health check-up camps across the district. “Brick kiln workers and bidi binders or rollers in Malda are very poor, and can’t afford doctors’ fees or medicines, Nasrin pointed out. “There are hundreds in Kaliachak I, II and III blocks. Their helplessness moved us,” Alam said. Alam said he was born in a village and had seen all his life how the poor face problems in accessing healthcare. “Covid-19 makes it worse. That is why we thought of organising medical camps for the poor, particularly now. We also make them aware of health safety protocols to help them avoid catching the coronavirus,” said Alam. Nasrin, who is from Rezinagar of Murshidabad, said she had faced poverty in her early life. “When Alam told me we should take some initiative to serve people with less or no money, I immediately agreed,” she said. He added that only he and his wife could not alone address the problem of healthcare for the very poor in Malda district. “We hope social organisations come forward for such camps, we will definitely serve at those camps,” Alam said. MMCH authorities have appreciated the efforts of Alam and Nasrin. “It is great to see that the two doctors, after doing their daily duty in these stressful days of the pandemic, are volunteering their services in villages,” said Amit Dan, MMCH vice-principal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-395
29-08-2020||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati ‘sorry’ on Tagore, soft on mela||Visva-Bharati on Friday said it was “sorry” and “wounded at heart” if anyone was hurt by vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty’s comment that Rabindranath Tagore was an “outsider” to Santiniketan. The central varsity also toned down its stand against the Pous Mela. It said the Visva-Bharati and Santiniketan Trust were “not opposed” to Pous Mela and its place in the Bengali sentiment. Sources said pressure from the Centre and the BJP, which do not want to hurt sentiments attached to the fair head of the Assembly elections, made the varsity change its mind. The construction of a wall on the mela grounds had triggered the latest controversy. The expression of regret was made in a news release issued by the central university’s officiating public relations officer Anirban Sircar. The release followed an online meeting the varsity officials held with teaching and non-teaching staff over the institution’s “current situation” in the wake of protests against a proposed wall on Pous Mela grounds. The release sought to explain the context of the “outsider” comment. “Tagore was an outsider — many people were hurt by this comment published in the news media. If anyone is hurt by this comment — we are sorry and wounded at heart,” the release said. “We are wounded at heart as we can’t accept the distorted explanation of this universal truth. The summary of our comment is that Gurudev and his father Maharshi Debendranath Tagore were not residents of Bolpur or Birbhum. They spent much of their time in Calcutta. They are outsiders in that sense of the term.” The VC in his “special missive” on the central university’s website on August 22 had said: “Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore was an outsider himself; had he not taken a liking to the area, Visva-Bharati wouldn’t have evolved. Besides Gurudev Tagore, his colleagues — who paved the way for Visva-Bharati to develop as a hub of knowledge creation and dissemination — all came from outside Bolpur.” The description of Tagore as an “outsider” had ruffled many feathers in the varsity’s fraternity and led to a wave of criticism on social media. Some politicians, including a few from the BJP, also condemned Chakrabarty’s comment. Many teachers, staff and old timers associated with Santiniketan and Visva-Bharati did not buy the latest apology and explanation of the central university. “I don’t know what his (the vice-chancellor’s) vision and logic are. I can only say that Tagore can’t be identified as an outsider by any logic,” said Supriya Tagore, a descendant of the Tagore family and former Patha Bhavana principal. Some also criticised the VC for not apologising publicly but choosing to say sorry and justify his logic to brand Tagore as an outsider through a news release issued by an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-395
29-08-2020||West Bengal||CM’s call to end tandav||Mamata Banerjee on Friday exhorted students to fight to end the Narendra Modi government’s tandav (rampage) across India and said Bengal would restore freedom across the country if they stood by her in the 2021 Assembly elections. Picking up from where she had left off at the meeting of some non-BJP chief ministers on Wednesday, the Trinamul Congress supremo pulled no punches in her attack on the Prime Minister and the BJP while addressing a virtual rally at the foundation day of her party’s student wing. “If, in this fight, students stand by us, Bengal will restore freedom across the country…. That will be the real fight of 2021,” the Bengal chief minister said in the virtual address at the Trinamul Chhatra Parishad event. “How will we do that? By speaking for the people, fearlessly. What if they send us to jail? We will go, we do not fear even death. No, we are not cowards. ‘Cowards die many times before their deaths; The valiant never taste of death but once’,” she added, quoting William Shakespeare’s Julius Caesar, in Bengali. Mamata also addressed pressing issues such as the JEE/NEET exams, the confusion over UGC exams, the New Education Policy and the saffron camp’s attacks on campuses. She also broached the alleged general atmosphere of fear and gloom in the country, the controversial citizenship matrix, the “divided” nation, curbs on freedom of speech and “draconian” laws. “This pandemic has come, it will eventually go. But more than that, using the excuse of the pandemic, the political pandemic that the BJP government has created for the nation, its tandav (rampage) across the country… is something we must also fight to end,” said Mamata. Sources in Trinamul have said the 18-35 age group forms a crucial chunk of the Bengal electorate. According to internal estimates, a sizeable portion in that age group had favoured the BJP in the Lok Sabha polls last year, enabling its unprecedented victories in 18 out of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats. “An illusion is being created, through fake news…. Crores and crores being spent, but not even a paisa for the poor…. When elections come, they will come with bags of money to buy votes. Take their money, if you must, don’t give them the votes. You were deceived once, in the Lok Sabha polls, you saw for yourselves how that turned out,” said Mamata. “The sky of India stands shrouded, dark, in a sheet of lies…. That sheet of darkness, you take it down. Overcome all obstacles, my beloved students, come forward… and take this pledge,” she added. Lambasting Modi and the Centre for allegedly rash decision-making and forcible imposition even on students, Mamata said whatever the state government controlled, such as school education, there would be no “endangering” of the student community. “The Centre, which seems to have washed its hands, even feet, of all responsibilities now and point at the court — which I will say nothing against — for everything…. Will you be able to answer the people when the time arrives?” she asked. “Now we are hearing of this NEP also… without discussion with anybody…. We are moving towards a frightful India,” she added. Mamata then directly challenged Modi, albeit without taking his name. “We are in such a fix. Such is our Centre, they do nothing but deliver lectures. From morning till night, only lectures are being delivered… Mann Ki Baat,” she said, referring to Modi’s radio programme aired on all outlets of India’s public service broadcaster. “So, on your Mann Ki Baat, just once, ask real students what they want, let them speak their mind, not staged, scripted interactions… ask them what they really want. Whatever they want, let’s accept,” she added. She also attacked the Centre, yet again, for withholding its dues to the states, including by way of GST compensation, allegedly gagging the national media, and using “draconian” laws to crush democratic dissent. “This nation, built on the ideals of the likes of Mahatma Gandhi, Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose…. Now go and try to have even a cup of tea, they will demand every detail of your entire ancestry. Or else, you are rejected, summarily dismissed. The NRC-CAA-NPR, all of that will be imposed by them, now there’s a lull only because of the pandemic,” she said. “The time has come for a decision. Hoy lorbeyn, naholey morbeyn. Konta korbeyn (You will either fight, or die. Which one will you do)? We will fight, we will survive, we will show them. The students… they will tear away the BJP’s mask of darkness,” she added. Mamata said Trinamul’s farmers’ wing would conduct a protest across the state on September 16 against the allegedly anti-farmer, anti-people policies of the Centre, standing on dykes in agricultural fields. She said she would try to join one of the programmes in an agricultural field close to Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-395
29-08-2020||West Bengal||Rivals slam TMCP over ‘distance norm flout’||Opposition parties in Bengal criticised the Trinamul Congress on Friday for allegedly flouting social distancing protocol while observing the foundation day of its student wing. Members of the Trinamul Congress Chhatra Parishat gathered in large numbers in different parts of the state to listen to party chief Mamata Banerjee’s virtual address. “The chief minister is using Covid-19 to silence the voice of the Opposition by not allowing any gathering. But her party is organising meetings, where social distancing norms are violated. This is a double standard,” CPM lawmaker Sujan Chakraborty said. TMCP president Trinankur Bhattacharya, however, said all social distancing norms had been maintained at its gatherings. “In some of the larger spaces, about 500 people gathered, while the crowd was not more than that of 50 persons each at smaller points.” Friday was also the 68th foundation day of the students’ wing of the Congress. However, in view of the pandemic, the administration denied permission for an event the party had planned. “While the TMCP can be allowed to gather hundreds of members inside a single auditorium to listen to the chief minister’s virtual rally, the Congress didn’t get permission to observe its event as planned,” read a statement by the Congress. The BJP has been alleging that the total lockdown on August 28 had been withdrawn to allow the TMCP to observe its foundation day. “Multiple cases have been registered against me and my colleagues accusing us of violating social distancing norms. What was the police doing today?” asked BJP leader Sayantan Basu. The Opposition parties alleged that the TMCP event was not the only one where social distancing norms were violated. “At a Trinamul event on Sunday, around 1,600 people turned out at an auditorium with a seating capacity of close to 1,400 in East Burdwan,” said a police source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-395
29-08-2020||West Bengal||Covid mortality rate falls below 2%||Bengal could finally lower its mortality rate in the Covid-19 pandemic to less than 2 per cent on Friday as the state reported 56 deaths and 3,286 recoveries. The mortality rate came down to 1.99 per cent on a day when the toll from the novel coronavirus reached 3,073. The state logged its first Covid-19 case on March 17 and the first death from the pathogen on March 23. On Friday, the state reported 3,286 recoveries and 2,982 new cases, resulting in a fall in the total number of active patients for the fifth consecutive day. On Sunday, the state’s total active cases were 28,069. The figure was 26,349 on Friday. Bengal now has 1.53 lakh cases, including over 1.24 lakh recoveries and the 3,073 deaths. The recovery rate continued to climb, at 80.86 now, far ahead of the national rate of 76.42 per cent. “There are many positives, but let’s keep the rest aside today. It is a momentous occasion for us, now that we finally have our mortality rate at below 2,” said a Bengal minister. The state’s mortality rate was 2.25 till July 31, 3.59 till June 30, 5.76 till May 31, and 12.86 per cent on April 30. The national mortality rate in the pandemic now is 1.81, with Gujarat and Maharashrta at the top of the pile, with 3.2 each. The others in the top five are Punjab and Delhi, with 2.6 each, and Madhya Pradesh, with 2.2. “We are in the sixth position in the country and our aim is to drop out of the top 10 states on this list. Our next goal is to take the rate to below 1 per cent,” said the minister. Of the 3,073 deaths, 2,674 (87 per cent) were classified as comorbid by the state government. The state reported 42,121 tests on Friday, taking the total to over 17.58 lakh, at 19,541 per million people. With the surge in testing – along with relatively less new cases found – over the past few days, the positive confirmation rate improved from 8.9 on August 22 to 8.74 on Friday. On Friday, yet again, the five most high-incidence districts of Bengal – Calcutta, North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly – collectively recorded a fall of 719 in their total of active cases, logging more recoveries than new cases fairly consistently since August 9. “Calcutta, which is the most high-incidence district, has 7,041 active cases on August 9. Today, with 593 recoveries and 427 new cases, it has improved to 5,134,” said the minister. Bengal reported 33.55 per cent occupancy on 12,045 Covid-19 beds at 87 hospitals, besides 15.29 on the 11,507 beds at 200 safe homes. Telemedicine services have been provided to over 1.36 lakh, 4,361 of them in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-395
29-08-2020||West Bengal||Social media test for TMCP members||The Trinamul Chhatra Parishad used its foundation day event on Friday to test how social media savvy its members were as it felt having the skill was necessary to take on the BJP’s IT cell engaged in spreading “fake news” about the Mamata Banerjee government and her party. As chief minister Mamata Banerjee virtually addressed the Trinamul’s students’ organisation on its foundation day, the party leaders had asked its workers across Bengal to share, comment and like the speech to test the social media skills of the youths. Trinamul insiders said all district presidents of the TMCP had been given specific targets to share, comment and like Mamata’s speech that went live on the party’s official Facebook page. “After the programme was fixed last week, all the TMCP leaders were asked to direct their juniors in various blocks, villages and towns to reach out to a significant number of people through social media platforms. As it was a virtual meet, the party wanted to know how many people would listen to Mamata’s speech,” a senior Trinamul leader said. Trinamul insiders say the BJP’s IT cell was busy maligning the state government to create an anti-Mamata narrative in the state. “We need to counter the BJP and this is where the social media skills of our workers will help,” said a Trinamul leader in Hooghly. Party sources said the effort wielded result as three lakh viewers commented on Mamata’s speech on Facebook while there were 56,000 shares. This is way above Mamata’s July 21 speech that drew 1.6 lakh comments and 15,000 shares on Facebook. “The statistics clearly show that the move worked. However, we need to make our young party workers even more social media savvy,” said a party leader. “The BJP is trying to misguide people by posting photographs and videos from Bihar, Rajasthan and Bangladesh to distort facts and circulating those through social media to malign the state. I believe that such moves to distort fact will not work at all as my force of youths and students is there on the ground,” said Mamata in her speech referring to the BJP’s IT cell and the need to counter it. Gopal Roy, the TMCP president in Hooghly, said: “We had a target to generate 40,000 shares and comments. I am yet to get reports from all blocks but it would be no less than a lakh.” Kiriti Acharya, the president of the youth wing in Purulia, said: “Our target was one lakh shares and comments and we did achieve it.” MLA from Bankura’s Bishnupur Tusharkanti Bhattacharya, who had left Trinamul to join the BJP after the 2019 Lok Sabha poll, returned to Trinamul on Friday. Battacharya had won from Bishnupur seat on a Congress ticket and later joined Trinamul. However, he had switched over to the BJP in the presence of party’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya in June last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-395
