30-08-2020||West Bengal||BSF jawan death hints at suicide||A Border Security Force (BSF) jawan of an outpost near the India-Bangladesh border in North Dinajpur district was found dead with bullet wounds on his neck and jaw early on Saturday. Police of Chopra block of the district suspect suicide. Kedarnath Hansda, 45, of the 94 battalion of the BSF, was on patrol duty at the border on Friday night. A police source said that around 4am on Saturday, wireless communication between him and other personnel at the outpost snapped. Then, gunshots were heard. Two jawans sent to search for him found him dead at a tea plantation near the border. The jawans informed others who rushed to the spot. They could also find his service rifle, a walky-talky and a torchlight – all the items which Hansda was carrying while on duty – from the spot. “It might be a case of suicide but we are waiting for post-mortem reports. We will also speak with the BSF personnel who were there at the outpost. His body will be handed over to BSF in due course,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-394
30-08-2020||West Bengal||Manager held for fraud||The manager of a women’s cooperative society here was arrested for allegedly embezzling funds from the society where poor women deposit their savings. Accused Triptikana Chowdhury has been charged with misappropriating funds to the tune of Rs 2 crore. Produced at a court here on Saturday, she was sent to police custody for five days. Sources said this March, resident Alok Roy filed a complaint in Alipurduar police station against Chowdhury, manager of Alipurduar Mahila Rwindaan Samabaya Samiti, accusing her of cheating depositors in connivance with some other staff. Roy accused her of defalcating over Rs 2 crore from the society. Police started probe at his complaint and recently arrested Sanjib Das, a clerk at the society. His interrogation led to Chowdhury’s arrest. The office of the assistant registrar of cooperative societies, under which the society functions, has also held an inquiry and found anomalies. “We are investigating the case and need to interrogate her further to obtain more information,” said Amitabha Maity, SP, Alipurduar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-394
30-08-2020||West Bengal||State buys land for bridge ||The East Burdwan district administration has started buying land directly from landowners to overcome acquisition hurdles that had delayed a 1km-long bridge on the Hooghly river to link Kalna in East Burdwan and Santipur town in Nadia. The Rs 613-crore bridge was announced by chief minister Mamata Banerjee in 2018, but work could not start amid land acquisition hurdles. “The project hit a roadblock at Hanspukur, Kuledaha, Barasat and Purba Sahapur mouza on the Kalna side after landowners expressed anger at the price of land offered by the state government,” said a source in the district administration. The issue was largely resolved after talks with landowners, but a few litigation issues further delayed the project. As the government is keen on rolling out the project, the East Burdwan administration recently started direct land purchase, sources said. Of the 48 acres identified for acquisition in the four mouzas, the district administration has bought 7.63 acres by paying Rs 4.63 crore, a source said. “Since 2013, the state government is buying land directly from farmers for development projects. The Mamata Banerjee government has always been averse to forceful land acquisition,” the source said. “We will soon finish buying the land required for the project in Kalna. There are 133 plots in four mouzas owned by 587 individuals. Apart from them there are other landowners too. To pay for the land we have sought Rs 13.80 crore from the state government. We are hopeful that work will begin soon,” additional district magistrate (L&LR) of East Burdwan Sashi Kumar Choudhury said. “To settle all disputes and clear payments, we are holding public hearings with landowners in Kalna. We are hopeful of sorting out all disputes by the end of September to pave the way for the start of work,” he added. The state finance department recently allowed money to buy land for projects, which had been restricted since April as a part of Bengal’s austerity drive amid the pandemic. The authorities woke up to the necessity of building a bridge after 20 persons died in a boat accident in May 2016. The plan to construct the bridge linking East Burdwan with Nadia district was conceived as a permanent solution for people in the two districts who frequently travel between the two sides. Every day, a few thousand people avail of the services of mechanised boats to cross the river to reach Kalna and Santipur. The authorities woke up to the necessity to build the bridge after 20 people died in a boat accident in May 2016. The proposed bridge would connect the STKK Road in Kalna with Nrisinhapur Road in Santipur that eventually leads to NH12. The national highway links Nadia to the districts of Murshidabad, Birbhum, and North Bengal as well. “Once constructed, the bridge would ease pressure on the Gouranga Setu that remains the only road link between Nadia and East Burdwan via Nabadwip town,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-394
30-08-2020||West Bengal||Yuvraj brings jumbo joy to state||The number of pet elephants of the state forest department reached 111 — Nelson in cricketing parlance — on Saturday as Yuvraj was born at the  Gorumara National Park of Jalpaiguri. Motirani, a pet elephant who was pregnant for over 18 months and staying at Medla camp in Gorumara, gave birth to a male calf early on Saturday. State forest minister Rajib Banerjee named the calf Yuvraj. “We had 110 pet elephants before Yuvraj. The male calf is the newest member of the family. Both the mother and calf are stable and under observation,” said V.K. Yadav, the state’s principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife). Banerjee, who was in Siliguri, at a meeting with department officials, hinted that they were planning to reopen national parks, wildlife sanctuaries and other parks and gardens of north Bengal ahead of Durga Puja. Like every year, reserve forests closed on June 16. Though they are scheduled to reopen on September 15 for visitors, the pandemic has made the reopening uncertain. “I have asked a senior official here to submit a report to me within a week on the present state of affairs of forests in north Bengal and how those can reopen for visitors with health safety protocols. We will decide on the issue based on the report,” said Banerjee. Meanwhile, state tourism minister Gautam Deb visited the Bengal Safari Park to know the conditions of the three newborn tiger cubs. “I will request the chief minister to name these cubs. We will also urge her to see that kangaroos and giraffes are brought at the park here. These would be added attractions for visitors and particularly for children” said Deb.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-394
30-08-2020||West Bengal||Fire safety audit of all Covid hospitals on cards||The public works department has decided to conduct fire safety audit of all Covid hospitals, quarantine centres and safe homes where patients have been put up. The decision was taken after a fire broke out at the sick neonatal care unit of the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) on August 18, and 56 infants had to be evacuated. “The fire at the NBMCH pointed out the necessity of fire audit at the hospitals and other establishments earmarked for Covid patients. In case of NBMCH, the fire broke out from an electrical gadget, either a poorly maintained AC or the regulator of a ceiling fan, and an emergency evacuation of sick newborns had to be done. It would be a difficult task to evacuate Covid positive patients in case of an emergency (like a fire),” said a senior government official. Sources in Nabanna said that the incident at the NBMCH drew the attention of the top brass of the government, and top officials were unhappy with the PWD’s reluctance to learn lessons from several fire incidents from electrical gadgets in the recent past at important buildings. “Repeated incidents of fire from malfunctioning electrical gadgets took place at the critical care unit of Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, the hostel of the National Medical College and Hospital and at a room of Calcutta High Court in recent times,” said an official. After being pulled up, the PWD department decided to go for a thorough fire audit of all Covid hospitals and other establishments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-394
30-08-2020||West Bengal||Sankarpur residents join hands to fix damaged embankment ||Nearly 500 residents, mostly fishermen, in East Midnapore’s Sankarpur have joined hands to temporarily repair a 1km stretch of an embankment that was damaged over a week ago by incessant rain and high tidal waves. “District officials have not been able to repair the embankment though the damage happened almost 10 days ago. So we thought we must do something to save ourselves,” said a villager in Sankarpur, a fishing harbour that is known for its dry fish business. The villagers embarked on the initiative to temporarily fix with sand bags the embankment that runs along the coastal road from Sankarpur to Tajpur as they fear that high tides might hit the area again on September 2, a full moon night, and further damage their village and properties. Huge tides, commonly known as spring tides, usually lash coastal areas around new or full moon nights. The tides rise higher than usual during the rainy season, often leading to floods in coastal belts. Over August 18 and 19, most of the coastal road stretching from Tajpur to Sankarpur in Talgachari-2 gram panchayat had been damaged by incessant flooding and the thrashing of larger-than-usual waves. Stone embankments along the area were razed as water flooded many villages and submerged roads. More than 1,000 residents of villages surrounding Sankarpur had to evacuate their homes. In Sankarpur, the effort of the villagers to repair the embankment with sand bags has been aided by the Digha-Sankarpur Fishermen’s Association. This week, the association helped the villagers with nearly 20,000 sand bags and heavy machinery, including excavators, to temporarily repair the embankment. “We have been working relentlessly for three days now.  We know it is a temporary measure but it is necessary to make an effort ahead of the new moon night when spring tides lash the coastal belt,” said one villager. Former CPM MLA and secretary of the Sankarpur Fishermen's Association, Swadesh Nayak, accused the district officials of “inaction”. “Villagers finally had to appeal to us to get work done, so we helped them,” he said, adding that over 2,500 fishermen lived in 12 villages in the area in makeshift homes. “By giving free labour to repair the damaged dyke, the fishermen are trying to save their homes and livelihood,” Nayak said. During the tidal waves earlier this month, homes of most of these fishermen were damaged and several quintals of dry fish had to be destroyed. However, East Midnapore district officials said that the irrigation department engineers had planned to repair the damaged stretch soon. Officials also termed the use of sand bags to fix the embankment, even if temporarily, as “unviable”. “Black stone embankments need to be reconstructed in the area. It will take some time, but we will get it done” said BDO (Ramnagar I), Bishnupada Ray. Digha-Sankarpur Development Authority vice-chairman Akhil Giri accused Nayak of playing “politics” with an eye on the next year’s Assembly elections. “He (Nayak) is trying to play with public sentiments. Our officials have already begun planning the reconstruction (of the embankment) and work will begin soon,” said Giri. However, this is not the first instance of villagers repairing damaged embankments. Shortly after Amphan hit the state on May 20, hundreds of villagers in South and North 24-Parganas had repaired broken embankments on their own to try and save more than 100 villages that were getting submerged twice a day during high tides.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-394
30-08-2020||West Bengal||Saumitra uploads, Dilip shoots down||BJP state president Dilip Ghosh shot down a list of district presidents of the Yuva Morcha within minutes of Saumitra Khan, the state chief of the youth wing, circulating it within the party and uploading it on social media on Friday evening. “I spoke to him (Khan) and asked him to withdraw the list,” said Ghosh on Saturday evening. On Friday, Khan circulated a list of the district youth presidents in the party’s WhatsApp group for the media and on the youth wing’s Facebook page. In less than half an hour, the list — it had 29 names though the BJP has 39 organisational districts — was removed from the WhatsApp group amid questions on why Khan pulled it out. The Trinamul turncoat told reporters on Friday that the list was not meant for the media. Ghosh, however, offered a different narrative when asked about the vanished list. “His (Khan’s) procedure was not right and so it was withdrawn. How can he announce the names of district (youth) presidents without a go-ahead from the state leadership?” asked Ghosh, making his disapproval of Khan’s list clear. “I as the party’s state president will take the final call on who would be the presidents of the youth wing in the districts,” Ghosh added. Told about Ghosh’s comments on Saturday evening, Khan hardened his stand and said the list he circulated on Friday was the final one. “In the capacity of the president of the Bengal unit of the (BJP) Yuva Morcha, I can tell you this is the final list... Dilipda hasn’t told me that it is not the final list,” Khan told this paper. Sources close to Khan said that he was upset with Ghosh for two reasons. “First, he shot down the list. Then, he insulted Khan by saying the process of selecting the district presidents was wrong,” said a source. Multiple sources in party said the furore over the youth wing list was reflective of the main problem in Bengal BJP. “Dilipda is against the idea of giving any space to Trinamul turncoats like Khan or Mukul Roy. This is creating factionalism, and that is only growing,” said a source. According to him, Ghosh and his associates have a set of names in mind for the Yuva Morcha. “But Khan wants his associates and that’s the conflict,” he said. This is, however, not the first time that Khan and Ghosh have been at odds with each other. Since June, when he was made the chief of the youth wing, Khan has been complaining that Ghosh was not allowing him to form the new state committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-394
30-08-2020||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati sacks former officiating VC||The Visva-Bharati executive council (EC) has removed its former officiating vice-chancellor Sabuj Koli Sen, former registrar Saugata Chattopadhyay and former finance officer Samit Ray from service on charges of tampering with the minutes of an earlier council meeting so as to extend Sen’s term as VC. The letter was sent by email late on Friday following an hour-long meeting of the EC. “The trio have been removed from their services and further legal action would be taken (against them). The varsity is likely to lodge a police complaint on the issue,” said an EC member. The row erupted in February 2018, when the President’s nominee in the EC Sushovan Banerjee and five other members wrote to the HRD ministry accusing Sen, Chattopadhyay and Ray of tampering with the minutes of the meeting. “The allegation is that Sen forged the EC resolution in collusion with the two officials to facilitate her extension as officiating VC,” said a source. Sen, also a philosophy professor, said she had received the email and said she was a victim of vendetta politics in the central varsity. “I was asked to submit documents in my defence...But I was given 48 hours when I wanted 10 days. They terminated my services just a day before my retirement. This is unethical, I was not granted time to reply. It was a predetermined move and nothing but vendetta politics,” Sen said on Saturday. Officials said Sen had become the officiating VC by virtue of being the senior-most director in Visva-Bharati. As her tenure as director was ending in February 2018, the onus fell on the EC to extend her term as officiating VC. The EC had in its February 2018 meeting decided not to extend her term as director. “But prior to the EC meeting, the HRD ministry asked her to continue as VC till November 2018,” said a source. Some teachers and officials argued that the HRD ministry’s letter dated March 5, 2018, had directed Sen to continue as officiating VC till the Centre found her replacement, and she could not be blamed for continuing as the VC. “But the issue is not about her (Sen’s) continuation as officiating VC, but about tampering of the minutes of the EC meeting,” argued a senior varsity official. The trio had been suspended in June after a one-man committee, headed by the Prime Minister’s nominee in the EC Dulal Chandra Ghosh, had submitted its report. The varsity then appointed former judge of Calcutta High Court Justice Jyotirmay Bhattacharya to probe the matter. Varsity sources said Justice Bhattacharya submitted his report on the alleged forgery in the EC minutes earlier this week after which the trio were sent a letter to respond to the charges against them. Chattopadhyay and Ray were not available for comments. Visva-Bharati’s officiating public relations officer Anirban Sircar did not take calls or reply to a text from this paper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-394
30-08-2020||West Bengal||Tests rise, active cases fall for sixth day in row||Bengal on Saturday went past 43,000 Covid-19 tests, with 20,000 tests per million people, surpassing 18 lakh tests since the onset of the pandemic of which half were done in August. With 3,312 recoveries in the 24-hour window till 9am Saturday outweighing the 3,012 new cases, the total number of active cases fell for the sixth consecutive day. Active cases on Saturday stood at 25,996, lower than 28,069 last Sunday. The Covid toll was 53 on Saturday, of which Calcutta reported 12. Of the 3,126 deaths in all, 2,720 (87 per cent) were reported comorbid by the government. Bengal’s mortality rate stayed at 1.99, the national rate being 1.79 per cent. But the total number of recoveries touched 1.28 lakh of the total 1.56 lakh cases, and the state’s recovery rate rose to 81.42 per cent, the national rate being 76.58 per cent now. Five high-incidence districts — Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly — collectively recorded a fall of 702 in total of active cases by logging more recoveries than new cases. “The most high-incidence district Calcutta had 7,041 active cases on August 9. On Saturday, with 560 recoveries and 470 new cases, active cases are 5,032,” said the minister. Bengal reported 43,232 tests on Saturday, over twice the daily level of 19,000 at which it began the month. It more than doubled the tests per million, from 9,927 to 20,022 in that same span. “In seven days, we conducted 2.78 lakh tests,” said a minister. “The World Health Organisation advisory specifies a daily minimum of 140 tests per million. We are at 481.” With more tests and relatively fewer new cases over the past few days, positive confirmation rate improved from 8.9 on August 22 to 8.7 on Saturday. Six women, who tested Covid positive over the past couple of days and are lodged at a safe home in Birbhum’s Mohammedbazar, on Saturday morning circulated a video accusing the local administration of giving them bad food. One of the women, who is an employee at an ICDS centre in Mohammedbazar, said the supply of food at the safe home was irregular and of inferior quality. The women accused the employees at the centre of threatening them after the video made by them surfaced on social media platforms. The block development officer and officer in-charge of the safe home personally listened to the complaints after the video started doing the rounds. The officials assured them of food on time, a patient said. “Those women who had been shifted to the safe home a day ago levelled allegations regarding supply of food. We visited the safe home and assured them that their demands would be met. We distributed fruits to the patients with the help of the police,” said Mohammedbazar BDO Asish Mondal. He added that the allegations of the women were not exactly true but did not elaborate. A senior official said all patients at the safe home were asymptomatic and had been given food in plastic packets. “This (serving food in plastic packets) they did not like and used the video to draw the attention of officials,” he said. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-395
