31-08-2020||West Bengal||IISER guardians irked with CBSE over affiliation||Guardians of students at the Garden High School-IISER in Nadia’s Mohanpur have accused the Central Board of Secondary Education of skirting the core issue of its affiliation and have said registration of Class IX students at another institution is a mere “consolation”. “The CBSE has been playing with the future of students without granting affiliation to the school. It is not just a question of Class IX, but of around 400 other students who have been suffering from anxiety for two years. The issue remained unresolved halfway into a new academic year,” said Anirban Mukherjee, a guardian. However, the CBSE’s action was in sync with an August 28 order by a division bench of Calcutta High Court. The order was issued on a petition by the CBSE which challenged a single-judge bench’s directive on July 30. Justice Soumen Sen had on July 30 directed the CBSE to issue provisional affiliation to the school and ensure admission to students who had cleared Class VIII. The order was issued on a petition by the Satikanta Guha Foundation (SGF) which runs the school. During the hearing of the appeal on August 28, the CBSE assured the division bench that it would “register” students of Class IX with another school of equivalent standard, subject to parental consent so that the wards could appear in the board’s final examination. The division bench comprising Justice Indra Prasanna Mukerji and Justice Abhijit Gangopadhyay approved the CBSE’s submission, setting aside the July 30 order, while offering the conditional option to register the students from Class IX within four weeks. The division bench stated if the condition (registration of Class IX students) was fulfilled, the CBSE “may not provisionally affiliate the school” and” await the disposal of the appeal”. Otherwise, said the court, the July 30 order (issue of affiliation) “shall remain in full force”. CBSE counsel U.S. Menon had assured the division bench of the registration of students. The CBSE’s move, however, was not well received by guardians. Goutam Majumder, a guardian, said: “The CBSE only pursuing the registration process is shocking.” T.K. Gopalan, the chief executive officer of the SGF, said the litigation was “jeopardising” the future of the students. The CBSE had rejected the affiliation on the grounds that the school had no boundary wall and the NOC by the IISER-K had not been vetted by the Union HRD ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-393
31-08-2020||West Bengal||School shut, classes on the go||A schoolteacher in West Burdwan’s Jamuria block has been moving from one village to another to teach his students, mostly from tribal communities, for a month now as regular classes have been on hold since March owing to the pandemic. Apart from taking classes in open spaces, Deep Narayan Nayak, 30, the teacher at the Tilka Maji Adivasi Primary School in Jamuria, distributes among children dry food, textbooks and notebooks that he buys with his salary. The lockdown has bared the digital divide between rural and urban students, which teachers like Nayak are trying to bridge with physical classes in free spaces, keeping in mind Covid safety protocols. Nayak said he chose vacant fields or village roadsides for the classes. Students sit comfortably, spacing themselves out so that social distancing is maintained. They are told to wear masks, and explained why they should. “At least 25 to 30 students are attending classes every day for over the last one month,” Nayak said, adding the school has 150 students, mostly from nearby villages. “I keep my venue flexible, as I move from one village to another. I also try and spread awareness among parents of the novel coronavirus and how to stay safe amid the pandemic,” the teacher said. On what prompted him to take the initiative, Nayak said he noticed that students from poor tribal families were becoming detached from studies in the absence of classes during the lockdown and had been put to work in fields. “I come to school every week to hand over the midday meal ration among students and their parents. I’ve seen many students grazing cattle or goats, or helping parents in farm work,” he added. “I thought, we don’t know when the pandemic will end, when normal classes will resume. But by then if these kids lose interest in studies, it may increase the number of dropouts. So I am trying to get them back to their books.” Before class, Nayak takes his students through a yoga drill, and then gives them dry food such as bread, biscuits, cakes, fruits, boiled eggs and chocolates. He spends around Rs 7,000 a month on food and stationery for his students. Asked about this extra expense, he made light of it. “I have been getting my salary from the government without working since March. It is only my duty to do something for my students with my salary. I can’t sit at home and enjoy this period as though this is a holiday,” Nayak said. Parents have appreciated Nayak’s efforts. “Our kids were losing interest in studies. As we are poor and spend most of the time working, we don’t have the energy and time to spend on them. This teacher (Nayak) is taking care of what we cannot do,” said a daily wage earner, whose son is Nayak’s student. Lakshmi Murmu, one of Nayak’s students, said she was happy to attend the class. “I was bored at home. Here (in class) I can dance, draw and study. I also get chocolates and cakes here,” she grinned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-393
31-08-2020||West Bengal||GTA worker union pen-down||The United Employees’ Union of Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) has decided to start a pen-down strike from Tuesday to demand the regularisation of more than 4,000 casual employees, a decades-long issue. These employees, who form over 90 percent of the GTA workforce, will continue the pen-down till September 10. “If we don’t get a favourable response, we will announce another round of agitation,” said Anil Rai, president, UEU (GTA). Many of these employees were hired on contract when the Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council (DGHC) was formed in 1988. Since then many have served under Bimal Gurung’s GTA, and under Binay Tamang, the former GTA head now replaced by Anit Thapa. During the pen-down, employees will report to work at 10am and stay in office till 4.30pm, but won’t work. “We have exempted health and PHE departments (from the strike),” said Rai. Over the years, the status of the GTA employees changed from “contractual” to “pay band” workers. Salaries start from Rs 10,000 for Group D staff and Rs 22,000 for Group A employees like engineers. The present employees’ union was formed in 2017, replacing the Janmukti Astai Karmachari Sangatan (JAKS) affiliated to Bimal Gurung-led Morcha. The UEU initially said it would remain “apolitical” but soon aligned with the Tamang camp maintaining only political will could solve their problems. On a couple of occasions, it seemed their demand had been accepted, but it was not. On September 17, 2009, following a hunger strike by the JAKS, the state government had given a written assurance to the JAKS to regularise 3,472 employees. The fast lifted, but the government said the promise was given under duress. On May 14, 2015, Calcutta High Court directed the state government to convene a meeting with the GTA in four months on how to set in motion the process of absorbing these employees in permanent posts, but not much progress was made. When the GTA was formed in 2012, there was a provision for a Subordination Service Selection Board to fill up Group D, C and B posts in GTA following financial approval from the state government. The board has not yet been formed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-393
31-08-2020||West Bengal||Erosion leaves villagers homeless in Malda district ||River bank erosion along the Ganga in parts of Malda district turned acute on Sunday, prompting hundreds to vacate homes. The river is fast submerging chunks of land in two villages on its left banks — China Bazaar and Sarkarpara — in Kaliachak-III block since Sunday morning, residents said. Manik Mandal, an elected panchayat representative, called it “unbelievable”. “The river is guzzling homes, fields and whatever else there is, people are dismantling homes to shift to safer places with their belongings. If this persists, we doubt how much land these two villages will have left.” Schoolteacher Jaiul Haque called this a fresh blow for migrant workers. “Many had returned home (in the early days of the Covid lockdown) jobless, now they are homeless.” Though the district administration and state irrigation department officials conceded the severity of the situation, they said they could not do much as the maintenance of the riverbank in these villages falls under the Farakka Barrage Project (FBP) Authority’s ambit. However, Malda district magistrate Rajarshi Mitra spoke to Farakka barrage authorities on the situation, sources said. “Around 60-odd families bore the brunt of the erosion. They have been shifted to safer places and given relief,” said Arnab Chatterjee, additional district magistrate (development) of Malda. State irrigation officials have also given a report to the administration. “Though the area is not within our jurisdiction, we are keeping watch,” said an executive engineer of the department. Officials of the barrage authority refused to comment. Sources said that after a major erosion in 2016 that damaged the home of Swadhin Sarkar, BJP MLA of Baishnabnagar, some jobs were undertaken in 2017 and 2018. “Since then, no major erosion in the area occurred. Now that it has been reported again, a team will make a spot assessment,” said a source. Youth Trinamul leaders of the district visited the affected villages, took photographs and recorded videos to send them to Youth Trinamul president and MP Abhishek Banerjee. “It is because of the indifference of the barrage authorities that people have become homeless. The river bed was not dredged for decades and no proper work was done to protect the banks. We have sought our youth president’s permission to launch a movement against authorities,” said Biswajit Mondal, a district Youth Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-393
31-08-2020||West Bengal||September 9 deadline to finish comorbid survey||The Bengal health department set a two-week deadline from August 26 for completion of a door-to-door state-wide survey to identify people with comorbidities of Covid-19 for better management of the pandemic and lowering of the toll from the disease. The deadline was issued on Monday for completion of the survey by September 9. The order was issued by Ajay Chakraborty, the director of health services, to all chief medical officers of health. In Bengal, 87 per cent of all pandemic deaths were attributed to comorbidities. “We want to get the database done immediately as it would be easier for us to provide special care to persons with comorbidities because the rate of mortality is the highest among them. All districts have already started the survey and have been asked to send their reports in time,” said Chakraborty. In the order, Chakraborty asked all district health units to upload the data and share the same with state officials within the deadline. In Covid-19, comorbidities are underlying health disorders, such as high blood pressure, diabetes, cardiovascular disease or kidney ailments. Most pandemic deaths around the world have been of infected persons with comorbidities. Besides, those with comorbidities have been found more likely to develop severe illness from the pathogen. Physicians say this makes it important for patients with such underlying health disorders to take special care to manage their illness during a pandemic such as this. In Bengal, hypertension has taken around a fourth of the lives of the Covid-19-infected persons who died, followed by diabetes, which claimed around a fifth, and cardiac ailments, which took around one-tenth of the lives. Health officials said the government noticed that patients with comorbidities who died had been admitted to a hospital too late. “If comorbid patients got to a hospital in good time, at least 70 per cent of those lives could have been saved. That is what we are trying to do, going forward,” said an official. “We plan to regularly call the patients we find from the survey and the Asha (accredited social health activist) workers will take their health report twice a week. It will help us monitor them and hospitalise them in time,” he added. The health department has given a specific format to Asha workers, in which one sheet will be dedicated for each family. There are seven kinds of diseases listed in the format, including diabetes, hypertension, liver-related disease and cancer. The list will also include the name and contact number of the head of the family. Asha workers on ground claimed that the stipulated time span was not sufficient for them. “We have other workers apart from those enlisted for this survey and it became an additional load on us to finish the survey and send the data within two weeks,” said an Asha worker in Birbhum’s Suri. “However, we are trying our best to meet the deadline.” However, a senior health official said Asha workers regularly visited households to monitor the health of Ili (influenza-like illness) and Sari (severe acute respiratory illness) patients since the beginning of the pandemic in the state. “The work has already started and we will send all reports to the state authorities in time,” said Himardi Ari, chief medical officer (health) of Birbhum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-393
31-08-2020||West Bengal||Drop in active Covid cases continues||Bengal on Sunday recorded a fall in the total number of active Covid-19 patients for seven consecutive days, riding on more recoveries than new cases. Amid a three-week spell of improvements in the battle against the novel coronavirus, the recovery rate rose to nearly 82 per cent. With 3,308 patients being cured of the disease on Sunday, nearly 1.31 lakh recoveries formed the lion’s share of the 1.6 lakh total cases. The state logged 3,019 new cases and 50 deaths during a 24-hour period till 9am on Sunday. The three-week spell of what is being viewed as a turnaround began on August 9 when the recovery rate was 70.24. On Sunday, it was 81.96 per cent. The national recovery rate now is 76.69. “On August 9, we were not even in the top 10 states, in terms of recovery rate. Today (Sunday), we are fourth among the states, after Delhi (88.9), Bihar (86.9) and Tamil Nadu (85.6),” said a Bengal minister. In the past seven days, the state logged 20,915 new cases, outweighed by 22,945 recoveries. “On August 9, our total active cases were 26,375, which slowly rose to 28,069 by August 23. With the remarkable seven-day fall, the total active cases were 25,657 today (Sunday),” said the minister. On Sunday, yet again, the five most high-incidence districts of Bengal – Calcutta, North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly – collectively recorded a fall of 143 in their total of active cases. “Calcutta, the most high-incidence district, had 7,041 active cases on August 9. Today (reporting 472 recoveries and 428 new cases), it is at 4,969,” said the minister. In another positive aspect, the state reported a new 24-hour high in testing, with 43,436, taking the total past 18.45 lakh, at 20,504 tests per million people. Because of the turnaround, the positive confirmation rate fell from 8.9 per cent a week ago to 8.66 per cent on Sunday. Of the 50 deaths reported on Sunday, 19 were from Calcutta. Of the 3,176 in total, 2,762 (87 per cent) were reported as comorbid by the government. The overall mortality rate dipped further to 1.98, while the national rate is 1.78 per cent. Bengal reported 32.69 per cent occupancy on 12,045 Covid-19 beds at 87 hospitals, besides 14.88 per cent on 11,507 beds at 200 safe homes. Telemedicine services have been provided to over 1.45 lakh, 4,181 of them in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-393
31-08-2020||West Bengal||Boys beheaded, pond owner & family detained||Two 16-year-old boys have been beheaded for allegedly catching fish which overflowed from a pond into adjacent fields following heavy rains at Kathalia village near here. Police on Sunday detained pond owner Sherful Sheikh, his three sons, three women members of the family and another person in connection with the twin murders. The bodies of cousins Anjarul Sheikh and Manjarul Islam were found with their hands tied and the heads severed in a field on Sunday morning. “My son and nephew went out to play as usual on Saturday afternoon, but we became worried when they did not return by night. We launched a search, but decided not to file a police complaint as Behrampore is more than 10km away,” said Alema Biwi, mother of Anjarul Sheikh, a Class IX student at Kathalia High School. Manjarul is a dropout from the same school and lived with his family adjacent to Anjarul’s home. The villagers found the boys’ bodies less than 1km across the local Katwa-Azimganj train line, where many agricultural plots and ponds are located. Sources said suspicion had immediately been pointed at Sherful, who had reportedly been involved in spats over fishing in the past. Villagers ransacked Sherful’s home and forcibly handed him and two of his sons over to the police. “The fish had overflowed into adjacent fields. So, who is he to claim that they are his?” asked a villager. Sources said the boys’ families were awaiting autopsy reports before filing a formal police complaint. The sources said the police had been compelled to detain Sherful and his family members in the face of the violent protests by the local people. Murshidabad district police chief K. Sabari Raj Kumar: “We have started an interrogation and are waiting for an FIR to start a formal investigation.” A 16-year-old madrasa student, Abdul Waqar, was shot dead allegedly by bike-borne men at a crowded market in Jagaddal, North 24-Parganas, on Saturday night. The incident occurred when the victim, along with other pedestrians, had protested reckless driving by the alleged miscreants. Eyewitnesses claimed two miscreants were apparently trying to speed through the crowded road and fired shots in the air in an attempt to clear the road. “Unfortunately, Abdul came in their way, and when he raised his voice against them, he was shot in the head,” said an eyewitness, adding that Abdul was rushed to the Bhatpara State General Hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival. One assailant was apprehended by bystanders and handed over to police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-394
31-08-2020||West Bengal||Race to ready rail projects||The Northeast Frontier Railway has said construction of the second rail bridge over the Teesta in Jalpaiguri district will be completed by January next year and Sikkim will be added to India’s railway map by December, 2022. The project to build tracks from Sevoke in north Bengal to Rangpo in Sikkim had been taken up in 2009 when Mamata Banerjee was the railway minister. The project is strategically important as Sikkim shares border with China, Nepal and Bhutan. The second railway bridge over the Teesta is along the principal rail route connecting Northeast with the rest of the country. “Both these projects are very important and we have decided to give special focus to complete them,” said S. Chanda, the chief public relation officer of the NFR. According to him, the NFR has taken the task of removing constraints in the mobility of trains and that is why it has been building railway bridge and doubling tracks along different stretches. “The new bridge is coming up over the Teesta near Jalpaiguri. We hope the bridge will be ready by January,” Chanda said. The bridge and its approach are together around 5.71km long, said railway sources. In north Bengal, it was a longstanding demand to have a second railway and road bridges over the Teesta. Last month, work on the road bridge — that is along NH27 near Jalpaiguri — was completed. For the past couple of years, the Union government has been focussing on the connectivity infrastructure in north Bengal, particularly through and beyond the Siliguri corridor, which is also known as Chicken’s Neck. India’s width is the thinnest in the corridor with China, Nepal and Bhutan in north and Bangladesh in the south. The NFR said the Sevoke-Rangpo railway route was likely to be completed in December, 2022. “Work has been affected because of a number of reasons, the last being the Covid-19 pandemic. This year, the work was halted from March to May. But keeping in mind the importance of the project, all agencies concerned are trying to finish the work at the earliest,” said an NFR official. Sources said the total length of the rail route would be 44.96km, of which 41.55km fall in Bengal. The remaining 3.41km will be in Sikkim. There will be 14 tunnels (which cover around 92 per cent of the length) and 13 bridges along the route which will have four stations. The railways, which electrified the tracks that connect New Jalpaiguri with Calcutta and Delhi, also plan to finish the double line work between Betgara and Gumanihat stations (both in Bengal) by March next year. “Once completed, there would be two railway tracks to run trains from NJP to New Bongaigaon. The electrification of the tracks between NJP and Guwahati is in progress,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-394
