01-04-2021||Calcutta||Corporate houses and welfare associations of housing complexes make jab bookings||Corporate houses and welfare associations of housing complexes are approaching private hospitals to vaccinate their employees and residents who are 45 or above against Covid-19. From Thursday, anyone aged 45 or above can get a Covid shot. Till Wednesday, senior citizens and people between 45 and 59 with comorbidities were eligible for vaccine doses. Hospitals, too, have decided to approach the companies with whom they have agreements on hospitalisation and routine check-ups for vaccination. Hospital officials feel the need for a structured approach to inoculation as the Centre’s decision on people aged 45 or above has created a bigger target population for vaccination. Since those who are in their late 40s and 50s are stepping out regularly for work, it is important to vaccinate them as quickly as possible, the officials said. Several private hospitals in Calcutta have been approached by private corporations, banks as well public sector units (PSU) that are keen to get their staff vaccinated. “We have received confirmations from five companies who will get their employees vaccinated at our hospital,” said R. Venkatesh, the regional head (east) of Narayana Health, which owns the Rabindranath Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences. “We have also finalised agreements with three housing complexes that will send their residents to our hospital for the jabs. We are actively promoting the message that vaccination for anyone who is 45 or above is now open. They should come and take the vaccine.” Ventakesh said they were also offering prospective recipients time slots of their choice. “Many employees of companies want to take jabs after work, so we are offering them slots between 5pm and 9pm.” Two housing complexes that will send their residents to the hospital are Ekta Heights at Ganguly Bagan and South City Gardens in Tollygunge. AMRI Hospitals have tied up with three private corporations for the inoculation of their employees. The group has also received requests from associations representing various communities. Rupak Barua, the group chief executive officer of AMRI Hospitals, said they would be prepared to vaccinate up to 1,500 people at their hospitals in Salt Lake, Dhakuria and Mukundapur. “We are vaccinating about 900 people daily. We will remain prepared to take the number up to 1,500 a day from Thursday. If we get an adequate number of vaccine vials, we can reach that target. This will help vaccinate the 45-and-above population faster since we have to cover a very large population,” said Barua. AMRI, he said, is offering working people slots between 4pm and 7pm to take the jabs. The ILS Hospitals, too, have been approached by three companies and two professional associations to vaccinate their employees and members. “An association of chartered accountants is among those that have approached us for vaccinating their members. We have not yet finalised any agreement because we want to have an idea of the turnout in the first few days. We are actively promoting the vaccination in social media, informing people that they can get the jabs at our hospitals in Howrah, Salt Lake and Dum Dum,” said Debashis Dhar, the group vice-president of ILS Hospitals. Peerless Hospital has decided that it will approach private corporations and PSUs with whom it has a tie-up for the treatment of their employees. The management will also approach the housing complexes in the vicinity of the hospital. Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of the hospital, said they would first approach the companies with whom the hospital has a tie-up for several years. “We will approach those companies that have a significant strength in Calcutta and have a relationship with us for several years,” he said. Several hospitals have extended their jab hours anticipating a far greater turnout from Thursday. At the Rabindranath Tagore Institute of Cardiac Sciences, vaccination will continue till 9pm from Thursday, instead of the usual 5pm. Vaccination starts at 8am. The AMRI Hospitals will administer doses between 10pm and 7pm from Thursday. Till Wednesday, vaccination continued till 5pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-97
01-04-2021||Calcutta||Archdiocese of Calcutta issues guidelines for Holy Week and Easter||The archdiocese of Calcutta has issued a set of guidelines for the Holy Week (March 28 to April 4) and Easter. The guidelines state that the church or the hall where the service is being held should be well ventilated. People should not remain inside to “meet and greet”. Churches and halls must be sanitised after each major service, the guidelines state. The guidelines, which were sent to all 65 Roman Catholic churches under the archdiocese on Wednesday, listed the safety protocols with respect to sanitisation, maintaining physical distance and wearing of masks. It was also mentioned that the guidelines should be read “in conjunction with the latest Covid-19 government advisory”. The guidelines state: “Clergy should generally avoid standing by entrances or exits to meet and greet people as this can create bottlenecks and bunching…. Announcements should be made to inform people not to remain in the church premises for meet and greet, but to exit immediately.” Regarding communion, the guidelines state that the priest and the server must wear “face covering/mask”. “Strictly observe guidance on the administration of Holy Communion (in the hand only),” the guidelines state. For the “Veneration of the Cross”, the guidelines state that “the usual way, i.e kissing, should be completely avoided. A short genuflection or bow with folded hands could be used.” Appropriate measures should be taken to “ensure the lines for veneration are short. Row-by-row proceeding is advised”. Father Dominic Gomes, the vicar general of the archdiocese of Calcutta, said: “Last year people could not come to the churches during the Holy Week. This year they are longing to come but with the rise in infection, we have to be careful about the safety protocols. We have sent this as a reminder to all churches on Wednesday.” As for vaccinated individuals, the guidelines state: “Even where a whole congregation has been vaccinated, there should be no relaxation of risk mitigation measures.” The vicar general has said that during the Seven Churches Visitation on Thursday, one must maintain distance from others, regularly sanitise hands and wear a mask.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-97
01-04-2021||Calcutta||IIEST students seek rethink on onsite test||The IIEST students’ senate has appealed to the director to reconsider the decision to hold supplementary exams on the campus from May 5 at a time Covid cases are on the rise across the country, an official of the institute said. The students’ senate, which represents all students of the institute, wants the test to be held online. It has written to director Parthasarathi Chakrabarti that as many of the students were from worst-affected states such as Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, it would not be advisable to call them back to the Shibpur campus amid a renewed surge in the epidemic. Asked about the prospect of holding the test on the campus amid the recent spurt in cases, the director said: “As of now the decision to hold the test stands, but we will review the situation from time to time. Based on that assessment, we will proceed.” The senate of the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology — the highest academic body of the institute – had decided in mid-March that supplementary exams at the undergraduate level would be held on the campus from May 5 to 10. Supplementary exams for the second-year postgraduate students in the previous semester were held on the campus in November. The Covid situation has sharply worsened and the supplementary exams should be held online, like the regular semester exams, Aman Kumar, the acting general secretary of the senate told The Telegraph. Around 270 students are scheduled to write the supplementary exams. “Recalling students amid the rising number of cases could pose a health risk. We have students from worst-affected states like Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Punjab. How will they travel to the institute in the current situation?” wondered Kumar. “The parents of many students have written to me to take up the matter with the IIEST authorities so that the students are not made to travel to the campus. This prompted the senate to make the appeal. The director has told us that the issue will be discussed at the next meeting of the senate (the academic body).” A member of the highest academic body said they were fearing travel restrictions could be reinforced to contain the spread of the virus and that might stand in the way of the examinees’ return to the campus. Asked about the appeal, IIEST deputy registrar (academic) Nirmalya Bhattacharyya said: “The representatives of the students’ senate were present when the IIEST senate had decided to hold the test on the campus. They should have raised their objections there.” Kumar said: “We had raised our objections at the senate, but the authorities cited the instance of the November exams and approved the decision. The response from the students and the guardians... prompted us to again raise our objections.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-97
01-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal logs 982 new Covid cases, 2 deaths||The number of active Covid-19 cases in Bengal rose by 472 on Wednesday, to 5,775. This was the 20th consecutive day of rise in the total of active Covid-19 cases. The state reported 508 Covid recoveries, but 982 new infections were detected. In Calcutta and North 24-Parganas, 380 and 212 new infections, respectively, were detected. The state's death toll rose to 10,329 as two more patients succumbed to the infection, it said. The two fatalities, caused due to comorbidities, were reported in Kolkata and North 24 Parganas. As many as 5,70,811 people have recovered from the disease to date. The state has so far tested over 91.72 lakh samples for COVID-19, including 23,537 in the last 24 hours, it said. A total of 51.45 lakh have been vaccinated thus far, including 1.35 lakh on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-97
01-04-2021||Calcutta||$8-million connect with city||Former Gilead Sciences boss John C. Martin, who passed away on Tuesday, had a $8 million connection with Calcutta, where his money helped set up a liver hospital that caters to underprivileged people. Martin, who died at the age of 70, was an American billionaire businessman and philanthropist who had served Gilead Sciences, a biopharmaceutical major, as the CEO from 1996 to 2016 and the company’s chairman from 2008 to 2019. He had donated $3 million to set up the Indian Institute of Liver and Digestive Sciences at Sonarpur, on the southern fringes of the city. He had also pledged another $5 million to build a research centre at the institute. Abhijit Chowdhury, the secretary of Liver Foundation, which has built the Sonarpur hospital where people are treated at a subsidised rate, narrated to Metro on Wednesday how Martin had helped them build the facility. “John C. Martin was the first big donor for the project. It was after his donation that other donors came forward to help the $5 million project,” said Chowdhury, also the head of the Institute of Liver Diseases at SSKM Hospital. Chowdhury, who heard the news of Martin’s demise at 4am on Wednesday, said he had first met him at a conference on liver diseases in Barcelona in April 2012. “I had walked up to him and said, Hi John, I want to take five minutes of yours to share a thought. We are planning to develop a healthcare facility for liver diseases which will be built based entirely on philanthropic donations. So, we are looking for people who could be with us and have heard you are a philanthropist. We have the knowhow and the desire but don’t have money, so if you can help us and join our venture by donating money,” Chowdhury recalled. He had heard that Martin had supported HIV and hepatitis programmes in Africa. “Why five minutes? I would love to have dinner with you and let’s discuss the idea,” Martin had told Chowdhury and they had a detailed discussion about the project. Chowdhury met Martin again in November 2012, this time in Washington DC. “By this time he had collected information about us and told me he wanted to have more discussions,” said Chowdhury. The next month Martin had come down to Calcutta and wanted to see Liver Foundation’s outreach programmes. He and his wife Lily had gone to Birbhum. “Lily’s mother was born in Kalimpong, so she has an emotional connect with Bengal,” said Chowdhury. In January 2013, Martin had sent a team to inspect the hospital project and a week later, he called up Chowdhury. “John, by then John Da to me, said he was calling to say he wanted to support our project with USD2 million without any pre-conditions. He said he would prefer we didn’t tell this to many people as he didn’t want publicity,” Chowdhury recounted. “I told him I understood his philosophy but John C. Martin’s name would add credibility to our mission. After much persuasion he agreed.” The institute was inaugurated on February 27, 2016. Martin was present at the programme. The Liver Foundation approached Martin when the project ran into a funds deficit and he gave another $1 million in 2018. Liver Foundation then planned to build John C. Martin Center for Liver Research and Innovations. “He asked me why we were naming it after him. I said he was a great scientist and philanthropist and his name would give credibility to the institute,” said Chowdhury. Martin agreed and the foundation stone was laid in December 2018. The next year he pledged $5 million for the research centre. He loved to visit the Sunderbans and Chowdhury had taken him there twice. “He also loved Bengali cuisine and his favourite was ilish maach. He would request me to take him to a restaurant where he would get authentic Bengali food,” said Chowdhury. Chowdhury last met Martin in February, when the Friends of Liver Foundation was founded in California. Nobel laureate Esther Duflo and Martin inaugurated the US chapter of the Liver Foundation there. Chowdhury said Martin was planning to visit Sonarpur in December. “He would always ask me about the progress of the project. He was happy when I told him we set up a nursing college there,” said Chowdhury.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-97
01-04-2021||Calcutta||LED lights across New Town ||The New Town authorities have decided to install LED lights across all three action areas, an official of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) said on Tuesday. The LED streetlights will be fitted along the sidewalks of all block roads of New Town, the official said. Although nearly all the main roads of New Town, including the 10.5km-long Major Arterial Road (MAR) that connects New Town with Salt Lake on the one end and the airport on the other, are lit up by LED lights, there are places where sodium vapour lamps as well as CFL lights and tube lights are in use. According to a senior NKDA official, the decision to replace all streetlights with LED lights was taken to reduce power consumption and carbon footprint. Some of these lights will be fitted with sensors. The luminance of such a light will increase by up to 40 per cent if the sensor detects an approaching vehicle. These lights turn on automatically when it gets dark and can turn off when there is ample daylight, said an official of NKDA. Streetlights all over Calcutta are, at present, controlled manually from several operating centres. “We will replace all streetlights with LED lights. We had installed quite a few smart streetlights and the results have been quite satisfactory. We intend to replace all the conventional LED lights in phases. There are 6,971 streetlights in New Town,” said Debashis Sen, the NKDA chairman. “Each 180-watt LED streetlight has a main control panel at the top that acts as its ‘brain’,” a Hidco official said. The control unit has infrared sensors and controllers to detect vehicle movement. The lights will operate at 60 to 80 per cent of their capacity when traffic is thin and become brighter when vehicle movement increases. The units are equipped with photosensitive sensors that can measure the ambient light around it. Sen said the smart LED lights would help save electricity by ensuring optimum usage in various conditions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-97
01-04-2021||Calcutta||New Town authorities hold contest to encourage better living||The New Town authorities on Wednesday announced the winners of a contest that was organised to encourage residents of the area to try and make the township a better place to live in in terms of cleanliness and adherence to Covid-19 protocols, among others. An official of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) said the idea of such a contest was to encourage the residents to play an active role in community development and make their housing complexes and residential blocks a better place to live in. “In most places residents blame the urban local body, which provides civic services in the township, if a road is not swept or if someone spits on a road,” said NKDA chairman Debashis Sen. “We have organised this contest to change this concept and to make the residents feel that even their efforts can make a huge difference.” NKDA had announced the contest in October last year and asked residents to list activities, with pictures, they had undertaken since January 2019 to improve the condition of the township as a living space. New Town has 50 gated communities and 30 residential blocks, comprising co-operative societies and standalone buildings, across all three action areas. The gated communities that were felicitated include the Uniworld City, Sunrise Point and Alaktika Housing Complex. The residential blocks that made it to the top are BA, BE, and BD. Anjan Sen, the secretary of the Kolkata Uniworld City Apartments Residents’ Association, said they had taken a host of measures to ensure that waste segregation was done properly. To ensure that residents segregate waste, “Tower Champions” have been appointed from among apartment owners and other residents. “We had adopted strict measures when the Covid-19 pandemic was at its peak. We have also asked people not to bring in plastic bags...,” said Sen. In BA Block, residents took measures like assigning volunteers to perform tasks such as supervising the cleaning of the streets and empty plots and keeping in touch with senior citizens who live alone. “Our volunteers had also helped those who had tested positive for Covid-19 to get food and medicines at their doorsteps. We also carry out regular tree plantation drives,” said Prabir Majumder, the secretary of the BA Block Residents’ Association. The blocks as well as the gated societies were monitored from January 1, 2019, till December 31, 2020 by NKDA officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-98
01-04-2021||Calcutta||International course for VI to VIII at Heritage||A city school will introduce an international curriculum in Classes VI to VIII from the next academic session, starting in April. The Heritage School will offer Cambridge Lower Secondary, a curriculum of the Cambridge Assessment International Education (CAIE), and the middle school students have started opting for it. The school has been offering an international curriculum in Classes IX to XII and is now expanding it to lower classes. “We have NRI children who come to the school seeking admission in lower classes and the school will meet their requirements and demands,” said Seema Sapru, the principal of The Heritage School. The school had started the IBDP (International Baccalaureate Diploma Programme) for Classes XI and XII in 2012 and the IGCSE (for Classes IX and X) in 2013. “We are doing it step by step and next year we will move down another level and offer the international curriculum from Class V. We were looking for a certain number of students before we could start the Cambridge Lower Secondary (in Classes VI, VII and VIII) and once we had that we started. We have also recruited teachers for this curriculum,” said Sapru. The curriculum is “holistic, experiential and it allows students to think and reason and question,” a school official said. The school chose the Cambridge Lower Secondary, instead of the Middle Years Programme (MYP) of the International Baccalaureate, because there is no formal exam in the MYP. “If you have a public exam, you get to know where you stand as a school. Also, parents in India want to know how their children have fared in comparison to others,” said a school official. When the school started offering the IBDP nine years ago, it was because they were losing students to other schools — sometimes in other cities — offering the IB curriculum. There are some schools in the city — such as Calcutta International School, The Cambridge School, Gems Akademia International School and Vidyanjali International School — that offer international curriculums like the CAIE. Some schools offer the Cambridge Lower Secondary in some classes, while others have aligned their syllabi according to the international curriculum. At least two of the schools offer the Cambridge Lower Secondary in Class VIII, instead of in lower classes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-98
01-04-2021||Calcutta||International Dynamic Entrepreneurs Alliance organises Rang Meet||Scores of entrepreneurs met on Saturday to build an alliance to develop their businesses with the support of each other. Rang Meet, in association with The Telegraph, was organised by the Calcutta chapter of the International Dynamic Entrepreneurs Alliance (IDEA). The participants had come from diverse backgrounds. A tour operator networked with a wedding planner and a fashion designer exchanged business ideas with a nutritionist. “The amount of enthusiasm and business opportunities generated by the city-based entrepreneurs is way beyond definition. This is what makes IDEA ever growing,” said Divyang Sikaria, adviser, IDEA Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-98
