02-04-2021||Calcutta||Double nemesis||With elections around the corner, rallies and meetings are being held daily, drawing crowds in shows of strength. Many stepped out on Holi too, to play, pray and attend cultural programmes. An alarming number of these people, however, were seen to move about without wearing masks or maintaining distance. Parallelly, Covid cases are on the rise again. After a declining trend of a few months, Sunday saw 52 new cases from the 41 wards under the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, Monday saw 62 and Tuesday another 57. In comparison, on January 8, the number of cases had dropped to 14. Neighbouring New Town has 94 active cases, as on Wednesday. The Telegraph Salt Lake attended some rallies and Holi programmes — that experts fear may prove to be super spreaders — to see how far participants followed Covid protocol. Birds of same feather The promises made by Trinamul Congress, BJP or even the Left-Congress alliance may be poles apart but binding them was the universal practice of flouting Covid precautions. Most supporters are turning up sans masks or wearing them at the chin and social distancing is thrown out of the window. To file his nomination for the 116 Bidhannagar constituency, Trinamul’s Sujit Bose headed towards the Administrative Building in DJ 4 on March 24 without a mask. Ditto for most in the sea of supporters escorting him. Sujata Barui, a resident of Lake Town who was part of the rally, said she was sure she would not get Covid and so eschewed the mask. “My husband and I have already had Covid once but we’re now cured. We can’t get it again,” she said, ignorant of cases of reinfection. Moulik Chandra had come from Duttabad, a hotbed of Covid during the lockdown. “The virus has been eliminated. Things are back to normal now so why wear masks?” he asked. Bose, who had been hospitalised with Covid last year, said that he wasn’t wearing a mask as he was leading the rally and speaking on the microphone. “It becomes difficult to speak with a mask on,” he said. Later on the same day, BJP’s Sabyasachi Dutta went to file his nomination. Even though the Central Industrial Security Force personnel escorting him had their masks on, the candidate himself, his wife Indrani, his proposers and supporters went maskless. “I am not afraid of the virus!” declared Dutta, when asked about it. “I will ensure my victory. Not even coronavirus can stop me,” he said. Few wore masks among supporters of Tapas Chatterjee, the Trinamul candidate from Rajarhat-New Town and Bhaskar Roy, the BJP candidate for the same constituency, when they came to file their nominations. Officialspeak A senior official of the Election Commission of India, who is in charge of handling nomination papers, said they had widely circulated notices about the necessity of wearing masks and following Covid protocols. “All our officials are wearing masks. We had requested all political parties and candidates to do so too,” A senior officer of the Bidhannagar Commissionerate said they had been posted to keep an eye on the law and order situation. “But that’s about it. It would be pointless asking people to wear masks in such large gatherings. No one would listen,” he said. Bright spot The only exceptions were the supporters of the three candidates of the Left-Congress coalition. They arrived at the head of a single rally and unlike in the case of the Trinamul and BJP congregations, many had masks on, matching in colour with their red flags. “We don’t want to risk our lives and those of others. We have asked everyone to wear masks,” said Subhasree Dasgupta, a civil engineer in the march. “But it’s true that many have taken them off due to the heat,” said Dasgupta. Basab Basak, a resident of FE Block who was part of the rally, said they had used WhatsApp groups to ask people attending the nomination day rally to use masks and sanitisers. Abhishek Banerjee, the CPM candidate from Bidhannagar, said he was wearing a mask on the whole but removing it to speak as his voice was getting muffled otherwise. Kunal Pal, a newspaper vendor from Nagerbazar in the crowd, said the threat of Covid scared him but that this was a greater cause. “Even greater is the threat of a fascist party and a party which has done little for our ilk despite being in power for 10 years. This is why I had to be here even though I know that it is risky to be in a crowd,” said Pal, as others next to him nodded in agreement. Show goes on Rallies aren’t the only reason people are heading out. Several cultural events are being organised too. The Basanta Utsav at FD Park on Sunday began with a minute of silence in memory of Bashuli Sen, a singer with the performing group Khola Hawa, who had succumbed to Covid not so long back. “It’s heart-breaking for us but we are keeping her in our memories,” said Bipasa Mitra, founder of the group and a resident of BD Block. “We know the Covid count is on the rise again but Sujitda (Bose) had requested us personally to do this show. It is on a much smaller scale, of course. We usually have over 30 singers and 150 dancers of various institutes performing simultaneously. This time many performers didn’t get permission from home to participate due.” The event was attended by Bose, who smiled, spoke and clicked pictures with attendees, all without a mask. When asked about it, he simply said his people were following Covid norms. Bose attended another spring festival in AE Block on Sunday where those like Arunima Dey Bhattacharya, a homeopath, had ensured she came to sing only after taking her vaccine. “People are getting depressed due to Covid but music is a great therapy for performers and listeners alike,” said the member of Bidhannagar Baitalik, a music group of residents of AE(Part 1). Supriyo Chakrabortty, one of the organisers, said they had laid out 500 chairs for the function, but in an hour all had got occupied so they spread out 200 more. “The park has a capacity of 1,200 chairs but we won’t go overboard this year. We are also spacing the chairs out,” he said. The star attraction for the night was singer Monomoy Bhattacharya, who was being requested for photographs by fans before he took stage. “While I’ve been craving a live audience, the threat of the second wave is looming over us. We cannot be casual about safety,” said Monomoy. Suchandra Basu, an AE Block resident, was quite the star-struck fan clicking photos with him. “I became a senior citizen in January and am quite scared of Covid. I wouldn’t have ventured out to a crowded place like this if it wasn’t for my favourite singer,” she smiled. At the FD Park event, organiser Pradip Sengupta said they laid out 300 chairs, which, though less than in pre-Covid times, was still a figure to reckon with. Many stood in the aisle watching and shooting videos. The star draw was dancer Kohinoor Sen Borat. “As a performer I love public appearances but we still have to exercise extreme caution,” he said. Excuses galore There have been a few Holika dahan and nera pora events last week too. “We are not letting more than 250 people enter the park at a time,” said Amit Poddar, a member of Salt Lake Sanskrit Sansad, that was hosting Holika dahan at CB Park. “The security guards have also been provided with a supply to hand out masks to those coming without one.” The park was a picture of discipline at 6.30pm but in half an hour all the spare masks were exhausted and still several unmasked devotees were making their way in. Some ignored the zealous guards’ pleas to cover up and a few tried to dodge them. Most let the mask slip down after entering the venue. Social distancing was difficult to maintain as guests started making rounds of the pyre or made their way for snacks. There was music too for the few seated at a distance. “Our masks are in the car. I have had Covid in the past so I am not afraid any more,” said jeweller Rajesh Karel of BC Block as he walked in with his family of five, all sans masks. “I am waiting for many more family members to join me. The celebrations are taking place in open air, so it’s safe.” Nikita Dalmia of AD Block had dropped in with her children, both below two years of age. None of them was wearing a mask. “I may not be wearing masks but to make amends I am standing at a distance,” she said. Homemaker Anju Dhanuka of BC Block said she forgot her mask in a rush. There were many more like her, a large number being women and children. Footfall for the event crossed 2,000. “We have been holding this event for nearly 40 years and wanted the tradition to go on. Some people were careless but by and large, most followed rules,” said secretary Sanjay Agarwal. Balancing act At the Holika dahan at FD Park, Shambhu Choudhary had come wearing two masks. “I’m trying to send a message to others who are not abiding by the norms,” said the senior citizen, pointing at a lady without a mask. “But it’s an uphill task. When the authorities placed restrictions on entering pandals during Durga puja last year, people hit the streets instead! We can’t expect much from such a public.” Tanmoy Sikdar of EE Block watched the show at FD Park but had pulled his chair away to a safe distance. Shelly Mukherjee sat watching the AE Block show with a mask on but stepped away to an empty corner and took it off for a few minutes whenever she felt breathless. “I have been missing my neighbours and wanted very much to meet them today,” Mukherjee said. “Covid is a threat but so is dengue and malaria. We don’t stop going out in fear of mosquitoes, do we?” Those like Samir Kumar Das of AE Block confessed that they had become somewhat casual about the Covid situation. “I’m wearing the mask intermittently now,” he said, at the Monomoy show. Caution to the wind At the AE Park meet, a dozen youths were spotted chatting away to glory, all without masks. “We played Holi in the morning too, despite our parents discouraging us. Half of our friends didn’t turn up though,” said Subrata Mahato, a Class XII student, sporting pink stains on his face. But it’s not young blood alone that is challenging protocol. Pradip Kundu, a 61-year-old CG Block resident, watched the AE Block cultural programme, his face free of mask or a trace of guilt or worry. “If the experts were right about Covid, two-thirds of our population should have got wiped off by now. If the experts were right, why did positive cases increase despite the lockdown and decrease after it? If the experts were right, why are people getting Covid despite wearing masks?” asked Kundu. “The bottom line is that no one knows and I’m not listening to someone who doesn’t know. I’m not wearing a mask and suffocating myself.” Future tense Kusum Adhikary, the civic body’s medical officer, expressed concern at the situation and said that they were anticipating a further spike in Covid cases in the coming few weeks. “With the impending elections, large gatherings are taking place. Most people are not wearing masks and this has become the general trend. People are not bothered about maintaining social distance and following Covid-appropriate behaviour when stepping out in crowded public places. We are apprehensive of a spike in the numbers of fresh cases,” said Adhikary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-96
02-04-2021||Calcutta||Pandemic makes individuals opt for low-key Holi||DL BLock The residents of DL Block savoured the flavours of the season through some low-key celebrations this year. The Basanta Utsav, organised by the block’s resident association, also coincides with their 36th Foundation Day. “We did not want to give up on a tradition of over three decades because of a pandemic. But we reduced what used to be a day-long affair to a two-hour cultural programme in the evening,” said Krishna Prasad Saha, the secretary of the association. The residents would begin their Holi celebrations with a I that saw them singing, dancing and playing colours in their traditional best at the break of dawn. Songs, dance and meet-and-greets were a day-long affair to be wrapped up with dinner. “This time there was none. Our block has a lot of senior citizens. So, we ensured that everybody came for the cultural programme in masks and there was some distance between the chairs,” added Saha. The audience, however, preferred to sit in huddles. Songs of spring, folk moves and poetry was what they were treated too. “Ten of us danced to a mix of popular and lesser-known songs this year. We named our group dance Aaj Fagun-e. It was a blend of creative and folk,” said dancer and advocate Arpita Chatterjee, a resident of the block and the director-choreographer of a part of the evening. “Most dancers are my students. Many of them are still working and studying from home. Otherwise, I could have included many more dancers. We would typically dress in white and yellow and start playing from the morning. This time we met straight for the cultural programme. The rehearsals were also held at my home and not in the community centre like previous years. The performers came from all over Salt Lake. “I stay in the CD Block where no programme is being organised this year. I miss performing on stage. But this is a close-knit affair. So my sister Riya and I are happy to be a part of this celebration,” said teacher Priya Chatterjee, whose husband and 20-month-old son were part of the audience. Chandreyee Ghose CD BLock Residents of New Town CD Block were hoping to smear one another with colours this Holi but then the event at Rabindra Tirtha got called off. “Even last year, our probhat pheri was cancelled due to Covid,” said Sithi Kana Ghatak, cultural secretary of Newtown CD Block Residents Forum. “So we organised the next best option — an online celebration.” Basonto Adda, on the eve of Holi, began with the Rabindrasangeet Laglo dol jole sthole by Ruma Baul. “While Holi is usually about playing with friends, family and neighbours, this year we have to make do with video calls,” she smiled Baul. Patralekha Mukherjee spoke on the festival recounting the legend of Prahlad, Hiranyakashipu and Holika and about how the festival celebrates victory over evil.  “Holi also marks the arrival of spring — the season of love, joy and hope,” she said, before reciting her favourite poem Bhalobasa by Nabaneeta Dev Sen. Mandakranta Sen’s poem Basanta Utsav was recited by Rita Basu who said that though stage performances had a greater impact, she felt more quite comfortable performing in the virtual world. Swati Bairagi sang two popular songs Ami tomare bhalobeshechhi and O Shyam jakhon takhon, originally rendered by Sandhya Mukhopadhyay and Arati Mukherjee respectively. Purba Kar entertained listeners with a humourous travelogue on a trip to the jungles of Palamou in Jharkhand around the time of Holi in a previous year. Gopa Basu recited Subhas Mukhopadhyay’s Phool phutuk na phutuk aaj basanta and Sumi Paul, an IT professional, recited Sreejato’s Bishu pagoler Kobita. Archana Bala and Aparna Sarkar together sang Etodin je boshey chhilem and De tora amay. Ghatak recited Tagore’s Patralekha and the show concluded with Mukherjee’s rendition of the Tagore song Se kon boner horin. Suhridbrindo, AC Block Suhridbrindo, an AC Block-based cultural group hosted a virtual show last week called Basante Tomar Kobire Dao Dak. To welcome the spring season and mark the celebration of Doljatra, an introductory music was played from Basanta, a musical, that included some recitation in the voice of Tagore himself. Theatre personality Arup Ghosh welcomed everyone, sharing the background of Dolpurnima and Dol celebrations, naming Radha-Krishna as the pivotal figures. The show was divided into three phases. The first phase concentrated on  theme-based Tagore pieces, Nazrulgeeti and modern songs by Manna De, Shyamal Mitra, Suman Kalyanpur. This was followed by duet and solo dance recitals on a specific theme by Aniska Das, Shatatara Mitra and Adriti Chowdhury. Theatre personality Bijan Ghosh recited a self-composed poem Bipake Swargo while Debesh Saha and Jolly Brahma recited poems by Joy Goswami and Srijato. The second and third phase focussed on songs by legendary lyricists Sudhin Dasgupta and Mukul Dutta, rendered by the likes of Prabal Bhattacharya, Samit Roy, Pallavi Sarkar and Rama Biswas. Nandita Chatterjee sang a composition by Jatileswar Mukhopadhyay and Sucheta Sen presented a popular number originally sung by Subhamita. The programme concluded with the song Ei kathati mone rekho by Kuntal Das. The show was co-ordinated by Samit Roy, Prabal Bhattacharya  and Arup Ghosh and  was compered by Animesh Mukherjee, although the latter received a nickname for his effort. “You are playing from behind the cloud! So Animesh you are really Indrajit today,” joked Bandana Sarkar. Appreciation poured in not only from Salt Lake but also from viewers in Tokyo, Canada, the US and the UAE. Bharati Kanjilal||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-96
02-04-2021||Calcutta||‘Lockdown hastened tooth decay in special children’||Ever since she was a small child, Aishnika Paul, a nine-year-old from BC Block diagnosed with Down syndrome, would have to be accompanied to different parts of Calcutta and beyond for various therapies — speech, occupational, behavioural, physiotherapy etc. “Often, we felt at a loss with nobody to guide us,” said her father Birojit. Amid the running around, dental care, an area of concern for special kids, often got neglected, he pointed out. He decided to be the change he wanted to see. Thus was born Soulful Steps, a therapy cum activity centre for special children in BD Block. “We set up the centre last year to help out special kids with therapies and treatment as well as help in their integration with mainstream society. Now parents don’t have to run to different places for the various needs of their kids anymore,” said Birojit, the managing trustee of the organisation that already has 68 special children registered from Salt Lake, all over Calcutta, Shillong and even Bangladesh. Birojit’s daughter Aishnika was one of the children attending a dental care camp for special kids organised recently by Soulful Steps. The dental camp had paediatric and preventive dentist Shreya Dasgupta offering advice to parents of special children, many of whom had neglected dental care as they shuttled to avail of different therapies. “Speech and teeth development are often late for kids with disabilities. The teeth are irregularly shaped for many. They are also more prone to fissured tongue and deformed palate. Sometimes food pouching (keeping food in the mouth) can cause them cavities and gum infections,” said the Pune-based doctor. According to her, dental counselling should take place right from pre-natal stage, especially if the ultra-sonography reveals any anomaly in the child. “A mother’s oral health is as important as her mental and physical well-being. Gum infections in pregnant women can affect the weight of babies,” said Dasgupta. Eight-year-old Aratrik Dutta from Kalindi, Lake Town, has got his milk tooth late and now his permanent set is taking time to come out. He was brought to Soulful Steps for his first-ever consultation with a dentist. “He is hyperactive and also suffers from gum irritation at times. This is his first time at a dentist’s. Previously we would only go to his pediatrician and various activity therapists,” said Olympia, mother of the child who suffers from Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) and Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). According to Dasgupta, the lockdown, combined with hyper-activity and greater consumption of sweets and processed food, has led to further increase in gum infection and cavity among kids. “Only those with emergency situations were being brought to us. We were advising regular care at home that included brushing twice, flossing, rinsing after each meal and a balanced diet for all. Children suffering from cerebral palsy, whose movements are often restricted, face more dental issues and gum infections. They should not be neglected,” said the paediatric dentist. According to another visitor, Kalyan Ghosh of FB Block, his son Sourish ’s milk teeth have decayed and are protruding. “The problem with special kids is they cannot communicate properly. So many health issues get overlooked as a result. I was told to consult a dentist after my son crossed six years. I am here for guidance,” said the father whose son suffers from ADHD and ASD. The children and their parents were counselled and told what to do for better dental health. “We plan to conduct regular health and activity camps here. We have a room for occupational therapy. We have been providing early intervention guidance, speech, language therapy, physiotherapy, sensory integration therapy, behavioral therapy, special education guidance and dance movement therapy among other things.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-96
02-04-2021||Calcutta||Neighbours spar over CE Block playground use||A playground has caused a rift between some residents of CE Block and of neighbouring NBCC Vibgyor Tower and raised the question of rights of local people to the community grounds in the township. The ground is the property of New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) where the New Town CE Block Cultural Association has been running cricket and football camps. NKDA had fenced the ground and the association used to keep it under lock and key. Problems started in early March when several teams from across the township wanted to use the ground to practice for an intra-New Town cricket tournament coming up at the NKDA stadium but were refused access by the CE Block association. On March 5, there was a confrontation when NBCC residents wanted to play on the ground. On finding the park empty but locked, they called the New Town police station and got the gate unlocked. “Vibgyor Tower has a CE Block address. So we too belong to CE Block and have a right to play in the block’s playground,” pointed out Annapurna Sinha, secretary of  NBCC VT Owners’ Association, who accompanied the players from her complex to the ground on two days to push their claim. The gate has since stayed unlocked. “Anyone can play on the ground. So we asked the block association not to lock it anymore. We will allow it to be locked only if there is a directive from NKDA,” said a police officer. The opening of the gate has created several problems for the local residents. “In the initial days since then, all the streets along the playground would be lined with cars from 5.30am to 6pm, with players coming from as far as Bangur Avenue. The homely atmosphere of the residential area was ruined,” recalled Alok Das, secretary of the block association. With the conclusion of the tournament, the crowd may have lessened but word of mouth has spread about the ground being available free of cost. “People are playing on the ground almost daily from 5.30am till about 9.30am,” said Das. The association office-bearers are running from pillar to post, seeking permission to lock the gate again, claiming exclusive right to the use of the ground. “We have spent Rs 1.5 lakh from our own pockets in laying the concrete pitch, setting up the practice net and buying a roller to maintain the pitch. Debdasbabu (Chatterjee), who is instrumental in running the coaching camps for children, waters the pitch regularly. Once when the hosepipe got stolen, he bought another. Does all that mean nothing?” said Tarakbaran Mukherjee, the block president. Block residents claim they had a major role in the development of the playground in 2017-18. “This used to be a ditch over which overhead electric lines used to pass. Oxen used to relax in the mud,” said Sasanka Ghosh, one of the early residents. “NKDA needed clay to fill up the ditch. We got 400 truckloads of clay from the construction site of JW Marriott. Their payloader evened out the landfill,” Mukherjee added. More recently, after the lockdown period, there was wild growth in the field. “Even though NKDA people mowed the ground once, it was not enough. We got it done again. NKDA has planted trees along the boundary wall of the ground but it is some of our elderly residents who water them regularly,” Das added. The open gates are letting cattle in as well as allowing objectionable activity. “I have seen small groups of men coming out of the ground at midnight. Liquor bottles have been found inside in the morning,” said Rajatsubhra Roy, who stays opposite the park gate. “Women will feel unsafe to go for evening walks on the streets surrounding the park if such an atmosphere prevails,” he added. The sports camps, with about 70 kids, run in the afternoon. “We train children from other blocks, as well. Even some children from NBCC come here,” said Mukherjee. So far, the block residents admit, there has been no clash in timings between the playing hours of adults from elsewhere and the coaching of the children. “But it is a matter of time before that happens,” they say. The use of the cricket field by people deemed outsiders has triggered another charge — of the practice nets being damaged. “They come to play here but have no responsibility towards the facilities,” Das said, pointing towards their NBCC neighbours. “We are ready to pay a subscription, if there is any,” countered NBCC’s Sinha on hearing of the complaint from The Telegraph Salt Lake. Lack of access for block residents to a temple inside the gated complex on religious occasions has also come up as a point of contention in this debate. The block association met NKDA chairman Debashis Sen to present their case on March 25. “He has promised to look into the matter,” said Das. The administration has taken a dim view of the conflict. “If they cannot maintain amity among neighbours, we might be forced to take back control of the use of the ground. The keys will be with our security guard and people will have to book in advance, like they do at the NKDA stadium,” a senior official told The Telegraph Salt Lake.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-96
02-04-2021||Calcutta||IIM Calcutta draft code seeks to gag dissent||IIM Calcutta has circulated among teachers a draft code of conduct that bars them from making any public criticism of any “current or recent policy or action” of the institute or the state and central governments. The board of governors, the highest decision-making body of the B-school, has drawn up the draft that bars the institute community from making “any communication to the press, in any public utterance, any statement of fact or opinion:- which has the effect of an adverse criticism of any current or recent policy or action of the institute”. The draft says, among other things, “no member of the institute community giving such evidence shall criticise the policy or any action of the Institute or the Central Government or any State Government”. Teachers have written back to the institute about their opposition to the draft, citing examples of universities abroad that encourage freedom of expression. The teachers have pointed out that stakeholders in an organisation must have the right to speak against wrong policies of the authorities. As many as 60 of the 76 teachers of the Joka institute had written to the Union education ministry in December, expressing the fear that the board was contemplating imposing restrictions on their freedom of expression. Teachers at the B-school think the final code won’t deviate much from the draft, given what they describe as efforts to subvert the atmosphere of plurality on the campus over the past few years. The proposed rules dealing with the chapter on criticism of the institute says: “No member of the Institute Community shall in any Radio/TV broadcast, Social Media, Electronic Media, Print media or in any document published anonymously, pseudonymously or in his/her own name or in the name of any other person…. which has the effect of an adverse criticism of any current or recent policy or action of the institute.” It goes on to add: “No member of the Institute Community…. shall criticise the policy or any action of the Institute or the Central Government or any State Government.” An official of the institute said the board would go through the feedback before approving the final code. In their feedback to the board, a section of IIM teachers has written: “Last year, heads of 31 colleges in Cambridge wrote a letter to The Times about the opportunities and obstacles of the University’s decision to move online. MIT faculty recently wrote an open letter to Congress in the USA urging them for a strong coronavirus stimulus package helping economically vulnerable households and small businesses.” The feedback goes on to add: “University of Birmingham, in its conduct policy, states that it tries to ‘ensure that members of Academic Staff have freedom within the law to question and test received wisdom, and to put forward new ideas and controversial or unpopular opinions’.” According to them: “University of California, Berkeley, vividly states that the academic community should have enjoyment of constitutionally protected freedom of expression. In complete contrast to this, again, the proposed Code of Conduct in 4.17.2 suggests that no member of the institute ‘shall criticise the policy….’ This is a departure from conduct policies at best institutes worldwide that stress that stakeholders in an organisation have the right to speak out against any wrong policies, because otherwise the organisation will never get rid of wrong policies!” The teachers’ feedback was sent to Alok Chandra, the secretary to the board. When contacted, Chandra declined comment. The chairman of the board, Srikrishna Kulkarni, and the acting director of the institute, Subir Bhattacharya, also declined comment. Repeated calls to Anju Seth, during whose tenure as director the draft code was prepared, went unanswered. The content of the draft code bears a close resemblance to a notice that IIT Kharagpur had issued in June last year to stop teachers from “making adverse criticism of any current policy and action of the institute in public”. At the IIT, the freedom of expression has been curbed so much that teachers had remained mute in public but fulminated in private when the institute in February renamed Dr BC Roy Institute of Medical Sciences and Research after Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee, the founder of the Jana Sangh, who had nothing to do with either medicine or the premier tech school.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-96
02-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid vaccine spot sign-up hurdle in Salt Lake||Scores of people above 45 who turned up at vaccination centres in Salt Lake, Narayanpur, Rajarhat and nearby areas for their shots, returned home without getting the jabs because they had not pre-booked slots on the CoWin portal. Authorities of the vaccination centres said they had no provision to register them on the spot. From Thursday, anyone aged 45 or above could get a Covid shot. Till Wednesday, senior citizens and people between 45 and 59 with comorbidities were eligible for vaccine doses. Several private hospitals and vaccine sites run by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation said they recorded a recipient’s personal details and administered the shot. A CMC official said they had directed all their vaccination centre personnel to not turn anyone away. This was not the case in neighbouring Bidhannagar. In Salt Lake, many 45-plus people had walked in to take their jabs at the Bidhannagar Sub-divisional Hospital but returned home when the authorities told them they could not register on the spot. A senior official at the hospital said that they were doing spot-registrations for senior citizens but the facility had not been extended to people above 45 because “nearly everybody has a smartphone and doing spot-registrations for them would be time consuming”. “Our entire process of administering vaccines will get delayed if we start spot-registration for those above 45 who walk in without registering on the portal,” said the official. Swapan Bhattacharya, 48, a Salt Lake resident, returned home from the hospital without a jab. “My parents had taken their vaccine doses here and the hospital authorities had registered them on the spot. I thought it would be similar now but I was told I needed to register myself. I tried to do so on my mobile phone but was unsuccessful and left without getting the jab,” he said. Bidhannagar Sub-divisional Hospital superintendent Partha Pratim Guha said it was “not mandatory” to set up spot-registration help desks for people above 45. “There is no directive saying it is mandatory for us to set up help desks. As it is we are administering vaccines to polling personnel, policemen and three categories of the general population and there is tremendous pressure on the hospital employees. Moreover, this age group is quite tech savvy and can get themselves registered on the CoWin portal,” Guha said. The scene was similar at the Duttabad primary health centre run by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation (BMC). Tulika Das, 46, a homemaker, was told spot-registration was open only for senior citizens. “They told me to register on the portal and come later on the allotted date. They said this after I had waited for a couple of hours in the scorching heat. I thought there would be spot-registration facilities,” she said. Prakash Agarwal, 52, a Chinar Park resident, was also turned away from the BMC-run Deshbandhu Nagar vaccine site. “I was asked to come back after registering on the portal,” he said. A BMC official said they had asked all personnel to help recipients register on the spot. “We will start an enquiry to find out why the centres turned away those who had not registered on the portal.” At some centres, recipients were refused doses because the number of people who had registered for Thursday exceeded their capacity, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-96
02-04-2021||Calcutta||Office-goers rush for Covid jab in Calcutta||A number of hospitals in the city saw an unusual rush for Covid vaccine doses on Thursday, the first day of vaccination for all people above 45. At a few hospitals, however, the turnout was much less, which officials said could be because many people were waiting for the initial rush to subside before scheduling their jab slot. Many hospitals are planning to start administering doses in the evening to help working professionals. At the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, 120 people had been vaccinated between 8am and 10am on Thursday. About 100 of them were people between 45 and 59. Over the last few days, the numbers were around 30 during the same two-hour period. The scene was similar at Peerless Hospital, where 150 people had taken the jab by noon. Most of them were between 45 and 59. The hospital was vaccinating about 50 people by noon over the past few days. AMRI Hospitals vaccinated more than 350 people between 45 and 59 at its three units. An official said about 40 per cent of them took the jab between 8am and 11am. Most hospitals had people above 60 taking the jab in the afternoon on Thursday. From Thursday, all people between 45 and 59 became eligible to be vaccinated against Covid. Till Wednesday, only senior citizens and people between 45 and 59 with comorbidities, as well as healthcare personnel and frontline workers, were eligible for the shot. “It is clear that the working population prefers to take the jab at a time that does not coincide with their work schedule. We vaccinated about 120 people between 8am and 10am - 100 of them were between 45 and 59,” said R. Venkatesh, the regional head (east) of Narayana Health, which owns the RN Tagore hospital. At Belle Vue Clinic, 324 people were vaccinated on Thursday, compared with 124 on Wednesday. Nearly 80 per cent of the 324 people were between 45 and 59, an official of the hospital said. Though the bulk of the people in the 45-59 group took the jab in the morning, there were takers in the afternoon, too. Anindya Bhaduri, 46, a sales manager with a private company, took the shot at the RN Tagore hospital around noon. “I told my office that I wanted to take the shot and they instantly agreed. My tours will start in May and I want to get fully vaccinated by then,” Bhaduri said. Officials of several hospitals said they were expecting a higher turnout on Friday, which is a holiday, and Saturday. The Centre has asked vaccination sites to remain open on Sundays, too. A number of people said more hospitals should extend the vaccination hours in the evening to quickly cover the 45-59 age group. “I have to skip the office for a day if I have to take the shot in the morning or afternoon. It is better if I can take the shot after completing my day’s work. More hospitals should extend their vaccination hours, till around 10pm,” said Rajib Pal, who works at a multinational IT company. Officials of some private hospitals said the turnout on Thursday was lower than expected but hoped the numbers would pick up soon. “I think a lot of professionals did not come today thinking there would be a long queue. I am expecting a bigger turnout on Friday, Saturday and Sunday,” said an official of a private hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-96
02-04-2021||Calcutta||Weather Forecast: Calcutta set to sizzle, hint of weekend thunderstorm||Thursday marked the hottest start to April in the city in at least nine years. The maximum temperature was 39.4 degrees, five notches above normal for this time of the year (see chart). The Met office has discarded the possibility of the Celsius breaching the 40-degree mark in the coming days. “The maximum temperature is unlikely to rise further in the next few days. But it is expected to be in the range of over 38 degrees,” said a Met official. Two consecutive days of plus-39 degrees temperature triggered a flurry of posts on social media, many of them featuring ice creams and cold beverages. Also on the Met radar was the “low moisture content” in the air. The minimum relative humidity — an indicator of the moisture content in the atmosphere during the driest part of the day — on Wednesday was 18 per cent. “The normal range is over 40 per cent for the start of April. The humidity is on the lower side because there is hardly any moisture incursion from the Bay,” said the Met official. “People are sweating comparatively less than they did in previous years.” Many Calcuttans did not concur. “I had gone to a store to buy some clothes. The AC was on but I was sweating profusely,” said Ashoka Mukherjee, a Behala resident. The Met office has a word of hope — a “slight possibility” of thunderstorms over the weekend. “A trough of low pressure spread over Uttar Pradesh and Bihar… is expected to weaken over the next 48 hours. The hot and dry westerly winds originating under the influence of the trough are responsible for the hot spell. Once the trough dissipates, the winds will become much weaker,” said the Met official. Moisture flow from the Bay is expected to go up in the coming days. Once the dry winds are gone, the pent-up heat and moisture can combine to form rain-bearing clouds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-97
02-04-2021||Calcutta||New South Point campus to be ready by end-2022||The new 6.65-acre South Point school campus in Mukundapur off EM Bypass is expected to be ready by the end of 2022. Thursday was the foundation day of the Ballygunge school, which started its journey on April 1, 1954. The authorities have felt the need to shift to a bigger campus for a long time. “South Point has survived as an institution of excellence for over 65 years but to survive for the next 40-50 years, we have to move to a bigger campus where we are not constrained for space as we are now,” said Krishna Damani, a trustee of the school. “Parents are discerning and they want better infrastructure. The shift will equip the school with modern facilities and lots of options for sports and extracurricular activities,” he said. A playground for outdoor sports and an indoor sports arena with facilities for gymnastics, badminton, basketball, volleyball and skating will be some of the highlights of the new campus. The school, which now runs in two shifts because of space constraints, will run in one shift on the Mukundapur campus. From nursery to Class XII, the school has 12,000-odd students. The capacity of the new campus will be 13,500, a school official said. The management had expected the campus to be ready by the end of 2021 but the Covid pandemic delayed the project. “We are running behind schedule because of the pandemic. The work had to be stopped completely for four months. The impact became much bigger and it got delayed by eight-nine months,” Damani said. Work on the new campus had started in November 2018. “We expect it to be ready by end-2022 and we can start shifting the school in batches after that,” said Damani. The new campus will be called the Priyamvada Birla Campus of South Point and both junior and senior sections, which function from different buildings in Ballygunge, will move. The G+6 building will have multiple computer, mathematics, language, geography, psychology, fashion and robotics labs, libraries, art studios, three auditoriums and multi-activity halls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-97
02-04-2021||Calcutta||Lighter roster for Jadavpur University non-teaching staff||Jadavpur University has told its non-teaching employees that they can attend office on the campus three days a week, instead of five as told earlier, following a sharp rise in Covid cases. JU registrar Snehamanju Basu issued a notice on Thursday, saying they would continue with the reduced work schedule from April 5 to 30. The schedule for May will be decided later, based on the situation then. The university had asked all its employees to attend office on all working days from February 9 because of the high volume of pending work. The registrar’s notice, issued following a plea from employees, says: “In view of increasing trends of Covid-19 pandemic, all non-teaching staff members of the university are requested to be present at the office at least thrice a week. However, university will remain open on all working days.” The heads of the offices/sections have been asked to prepare the roster according to the new schedule. Basu said employees had appealed for their reduced presence on the campus because of the spike in Covid cases. “Several employees recently tested positive for Covid and were admitted to hospital. This heightened their anxiety. Aurobindo Bhavan, the administrative headquarters of the university, had to shut down last year for a week for sanitisation after a number of employees tested positive,” he said. An official of the university said non-teaching employees had appealed for pick-up and drop-off service so they could avoid public transport. “We have over 1,000 non-teaching employees. It is not possible for the university to provide the service for such a large group. The rising prices of fuel make it even more difficult,” he said. A portion of the non-teaching staff has been assigned election duty. Now that the remaining work force will attend office for fewer days, the administrative functions of the university may hamper. “We have to somehow manage because health concerns cannot be ignored,” he said. The university did not hold the convocation last year as a precaution against Covid-19. The students and teachers have been staying away from the campus because the government has not yet allowed resumption of in-person classes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-97
02-04-2021||Calcutta||Rise in cases prompts Calcutta hospitals to add Covid beds||Several private hospitals in the city have increased their Covid bed count because of a steady rise in the number of cases and an increasing percentage of people testing positive are being hospitalised. All these hospitals had reduced the number of Covid beds in December and January following a significant dip in the number of cases. But over the past week they have been converting non-Covid beds into Covid ones. Several other hospitals are considering doing the same because the existing Covid beds are filling up fast. Between Wednesday night and Thursday afternoon, 13 people who tested positive for Covid-19 got admitted to AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria. An official of the hospital said they had around 90 beds in the middle of 2020, when the epidemic was at its peak. However, as the case count started dipping, the number of beds was reduced. In January, the hospital had 11 beds, including nine ICU ones, said the official. “After we reopened the Annex I building, the number of Covid beds was increased. In February we had 40 beds. We have added 10 more beds over the last two days,” the official said. As of Thursday evening, the hospital was treating 40 Covid patients. Belle Vue Clinic had reduced the number of Covid beds from more than 170 during the peak of the epidemic to 34 in December. The Covid ward used to have eight to 10 patients towards the end of last year, an official said. Over the past week, the hospital has increased the Covid bed count to 45. Only five beds were vacant on Thursday. Charnock Hospital had only 15 Covid beds in January, compared with 100-plus in mid-2020. “We used to have four to five patients in the Covid ward in January. But with a rise in the patient flow, the bed count has been increased to 40. We now have 29 patients,” said Ipsita Kundu, the CEO of Charnock Hospital. Peerless Hospital had converted four wards with 150 beds into Covid treatment facilities last year. It started reducing the number in December and in January, it had one ward with 38 beds. Almost all the beds were occupied on Thursday. Officials of the hospital said they would add beds if the trend persisted. Some hospitals said that though they had not seen a significant jump in the number of patients seeking admission, a larger percentage of people being tested at their facilities were turning out positive. At the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, 1.8 per cent of the people who were tested in February were positive. That has now risen to five per cent. Metro had on March 27 reported that the state health department had asked all private hospitals to set up more Covid beds. Officials of the state health department had told the hospitals at an online meeting that a situation must not arise where Covid patients in need of hospitalisation were not getting a bed. During the peak of the epidemic last year, Metro had reported that many private hospitals were seeking deposit money from Covid patients. Those who were unable to pay were refused beds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-97
