03-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal logs highest single-day spike in 2021 with 1,733 new Covid cases||The number of active Covid-19 cases in Bengal rose by 1,179 on Friday, to 7,692. This was the 22nd consecutive day of rise in the total of active Covid-19 cases. The state reported 550 Covid recoveries taking the total number of recoveries to 5,71,895 but 1,733 new infections were detected, besides four deaths, two of them in the city. The death toll rose to 10,335. The Covid-19 tally in the state mounted to 5,89,922 on Friday. In Calcutta and North 24-Parganas, the two districts on the Centre’s radar for the second wave of the pandemic, 513 and 331 new infections, respectively, were detected. The recovery rate among coronavirus patients currently stands at 96.94 per cent, the bulletin said. Altogether 92,25,351 samples have so far been tested for Covid-19 in the state, including 26,986 on Friday, the bulletin added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-95
03-04-2021||Calcutta||Easter: A feast of love, peace and hope||On Good Friday, we commemorate the suffering and death of Jesus on the Cross to save us from sin and death. But Good Friday is not the end. On Easter Sunday, we celebrate how God raised Jesus from the dead to a new life of love, peace and hope, opening our path to life eternal with Him in heaven. In this greatest of all events of Good Friday-Easter Sunday and likewise in each event of our life, big or small, what is ever certain, is the loving and concerned hand of God being always active in our life. He loves each one of us, is involved in the life of each of us, is working for the happiness of each, whether good or bad. Often we do not realise it. Yet God is telling each of us, “Can a mother forget her baby or the child within her womb? Yet even if she forgets, I will never forget you, my own, because I have written your name on the palm of my hand”. In and through the event of resurrection, our loving and concerned God is pointing at many things in our everyday life. But before that, can we believe in the reality of resurrection? Yes, we can believe, because we have so many reasons before us. Resurrection of Jesus was a sign that Jesus came from God and God raised him up from the dead. Jesus himself testified to it, “Tear down this temple and in three days I will build it again” (John 2: 19). The tomb of Jesus was empty on Easter Sunday. The guards claimed that the disciples of Jesus had stolen the body, but it was impossible for the terrified disciples to do so facing the might of the leaders and soldiers. The angel said to the women at Jesus’ tomb, “Why are you looking among the dead for one who is alive? He is not here: he has been raised (Luke 24:3-6).” The disciples did not believe at first that Jesus is risen. But after Jesus appeared to many and even unbelieving Thomas placing his fingers in the marks of the nails of Jesus and God slowly working in their hearts and transforming them, that the disciples slowly believed in the work of God. The disciples who were so fearful became very confident and bold and, went out to preach the message of Jesus. “Easter” literally means “the feast of fresh flowers”. Fresh flowers signify new life and hope. In other words it is celebrating humankind’s eternal hope in the new and everlasting life beyond. Hope that death is not the final word but the life beyond with God is the final destination. Easter is triumph of life over death, sin, suffering which happens to Jesus in his resurrection. So, Easter gives us encouragement and strength to overcome trials and suffering in this life with a view to happiness in the next life. That is the significance of the resurrection. In this world of pain, sorrow and hopelessness represented by darkness, Easter reminds us that life is worth living because life is lived in the service of God, God who is Light. So, Easter leads us from darkness to light, from death to life immortal. In his resurrection, Jesus has become our hope and guide for the new life beyond. Therefore, our life is to be like his life. Like him we too shall rise from the dead on the last day. “Peace be with you!” is God’s salutation to us in all situations of life. For us, every day must be an Easter Day, lived joyfully in the close company of our God of peace and joy. We need to be aware of the all-pervading, loving presence of God in and around us, and the strong conviction of our own rising to a new life. The message of Easter is that nothing can destroy us — not pain, sin, rejection or death — because God has conquered all these, and we too can conquer these if we put our Faith in our God of Good Friday-Easter Sunday. We are to be bearers of the Good News of the power of Resurrection. Resurrection is about seeing our world in a new way. Early that Easter morning, Mary Magdalene did not find what she was looking for, the dead body of Jesus. But she found something better than she could have imagined: the Risen Jesus. Sometimes, the things we think we want most are not granted to us. What we get instead is an experience of God's new ways of working in our life and in the world. That’s the power of the Resurrection. When those moments come, we must spread the news--just as Mary Magdalene did: We have seen the Lord! We need to be Easter people. We are in truth called to be an “Easter people”, because there are many Easter moments in our lives. It may be in prayer, when for a moment we really experience the love of God, especially having felt his absence, as we often do, like the disciples who experienced the emptiness of the tomb. It may be that moment when we are touched and given hope by a word of God — our hearts uplifted. We are to be messengers of hope. Hope in future keeps us going through our sufferings and trying days. Raising Jesus from the dead, God has given us hope, that there will be difficult times in our life, there will be death like situations but that is not the end, as God is our hope in darkness. We need to be messengers of peace. We think peace means absence of any problem and difficulties. But can we do away with those in modern day life of struggle? Then we have to live in the graveyard where there is perfect peace but no life. But we are in real life and so have to face and overcome adverse situations, trusting in God. Then only we shall experience real deep peace, which comes only from God, which no one else can give or take away. We cannot have our own peace and peace in the world just like that but we all have to make sincere and serious efforts for that. In conclusion, in this season of spring, as we look around, we experience newness in nature. New Life is smiling all around us. New leaves sprouting, new flowers blossoming, new butterflies floating, new birds chirping and children smiling anew! But before these happened, there was death of the leaves, plants, caterpillars.  Jesus too died on the cross but God raised him to a life of newness, new in all ways. So also, touched and transformed by Easter, we must die to our selfishness and shortcomings and be renewed in our body, mind, heart and soul, becoming new creations of God. That is, we are slowly becoming the Easter people of Love, Peace and Hope. That is the gift of Easter for each of us. It is gift yes, but at the same time it is also the task and challenge of Easter, that in our turn we make everything new and bring newness all around us, shedding our selfishness and being inspiration to others to shed their selfishness and shortcomings. As at all moments God is making us new, transforming us into his image and likeness, so also must we work with God to make his creation and people and everything around us ever new. Rev Fr. Dr. Dominic Savio SJ, Principal, St Xavier’s College (Autonomous)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-95
03-04-2021||Calcutta||Fire breaks out in two godowns in the city||Fire broke out in two godowns in central Calcutta between Friday afternoon and evening. The first fire broke out at the ground floor of a multi-storied electronic goods godown on Lenin Sarani around noon. Twelve tenders doused the flames, police said. The second fire broke out at another godown on the top of a two-storied building on Madan Street near E Mall in Chandni Chowk in the evening. Nine fire tenders brought the fire under control. No one was injured, the police said. Both the buildings have been sealed off for forensic tests. Forensic experts will visit the spots on Saturday. The fire on Lenin Sarani was spotted around 12.20pm. Residents noticed thick smoke billowing out of the ground floor of the five-storied building on 157B Lenin Sarani. “After initial assessment, eight fire tenders were sent, they stood inside a narrow lane in a heavily crowded pocket in central Calcutta. Later four more tenders were sent,” a senior police officer said. Fire department officials said they had brought in six fire tenders at one go to ensure there was no problem in water supply. The building doesn’t have a lift. Firefighters didn’t use the stairs, instead two hydraulic ladders were brought in. Firefighters were split into groups and made to encircle the building and spray water. A police team led by Rupesh Kumar, deputy commissioner of police (central division), reached the spot and evacuated the building. The entire area was cordoned off and electric connection to the building was snapped. “We were careful that there was no repeat of any mistake that might have happened during the fire at New Koilaghat building on Strand Road,” said a senior officer of the fire services department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-95
03-04-2021||Calcutta||Power snag disrupts Metro services ||Metro Railway services were disrupted for an hour on Friday morning because of a power snag at a substation near Central station. A substation receives power from CESC before feeding it to Metro stations. “The Central substation has two transformers. Power supply to one of them was snapped after a cable got ruptured on Thursday night. A single transformer had to take the entire load from Friday morning. After a few hours, the power tripped,” said a Metro official. “The snag was reported at 11.25am. Normal services were restored at 12.26am,” Metro spokesperson Indrani Banerjee said. In the intervening period, a truncated service was operational, said officials. Trains ran between Maidan and New Garia stations in the south and between Dakshineswar and Girish Park in the north. The stretch between Central and Maidan was out of bounds for an hour. Both Girish Park and Maidan stations have provisions for trains to change directions. Another official said the third rail’s supply was not affected after the power tripped. “But the station’s lights, fan and panel rooms were not receiving power,” he said. The snag’s impact could have been much more pronounced had it not happened on a holiday (Good Friday).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-95
03-04-2021||Calcutta||Pedestrians killed in accidents||Two pedestrians died in separate accidents in the city between Thursday night and Friday. The first accident happened near Mani Square Mall off the EM Bypass around 10pm on Thursday. One of the housekeeping staff of the mall who had left for home was hit by a motorcycle while she was crossing the road, the police said. Mamoni Ram, 37, a resident of Topsia Road in Tiljala, was taken to a private hospital on the Bypass. She succumbed to injuries around midnight, the police said. The motorcyclist has been arrested. The second accident happened sometime after midnight at the Hyde Road and Circular Garden Reach Road crossing in Ekbalpore, the police said. A security guard of a garage was hit by a truck while he was crossing the road, the police said. Tilak Raj Dubey, 65, a resident of Nitya Ghosh Lane in Watgunge, was taken to a private hospital in Ekbalpore where he was declared dead. The truck driver has been arrested. A senior police officer of the traffic department said in both the cases, the offending vehicles were moving at a high speed. “There is a tendency among motorists to speed when the roads are relatively less congested. But unfortunately, they do not consider pedestrian traffic or slow-moving vehicles that can turn up on the road at any point of time,” said the officer. “If motorists maintain the speed limit, they should be able to negotiate even if a pedestrian or a slow-moving vehicle suddenly turns up on the road,” he said. Pedestrians too should be careful while crossing roads and should attempt to cross over only when the signal is red for vehicles, said another officer. According to the statistics with Lalbazar, out of the 201 people who died in road accidents in 2020, as many as 94 were pedestrians. In 2017, 2018 and 2019, more than half of the people who died on the city roads were pedestrians.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-95
03-04-2021||Calcutta||Alipore Zoo welcomes a new female foal||A zebra gave birth to a baby at Alipore Zoo on March 26. The female foal, weighing around 25kg, was let out in the open in front of visitors on Friday. The latest star in stripes takes the herd strength at the park to seven, five of them females, said a zoo official. The foal displayed on Friday was born around 8.30am on March 26. The mother and her newborn had to be separated from the rest of the herd after the birth. “The other members of the group turned very curious about the baby. As some of the adults tried to come close to the baby, the mother got a little aggressive. The aggression caused problems in lactation. We separated the two from the herd. Now, the baby seems to be fine,” said a zoo vet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-95
03-04-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta's landmark Howrah Bridge illuminates in blue||Howrah Bridge illuminated in blue on Friday evening to mark World Autism Awareness Day. April 2 is designated as World Autism Awareness Day by the United Nations. “Light it up Blue” is a campaign spearheaded by Autism Speaks, an organisation that works to create understanding and acceptance for persons with autism. Supporters are encouraged to wear blue and post on social media with the hashtag #LightItUpBlue to raise awareness about the neurological condition. Landmarks across the world have turned blue in solidarity this year, an official of the Calcutta Port Trust said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-95
03-04-2021||Calcutta||This Holy Week, spending takes a dive||The country could be splitting hairs on whether India’s economic recovery will be Y-shaped, K-shaped or any other alphabet, Ann Caroline Etto is not sure whether she will again sell as many Easter eggs and baskets as she had in 2019. This year, she is satisfied because in 2020 the order was “almost nothing”. Easter festivities are approaching but they are muted as the fear of rising Covid-19 cases looms again, social gatherings have become smaller and many do not have enough resources like before. The orders have diminished because people are “cutting costs” and prioritising other expenses, said Caroline Etto, 54. “It is the beginning of an academic session and parents are telling their children that instead of buying Easter eggs one could do with a small chocolate and buy a pencil box or exercise books or set of colours that they need more,” said Caroline Etto, who has been making Easter goodies from her Picnic Garden residence for 10 years. From those who make goodies at home to the bigger confectioners, many said they have deliberately not hiked prices despite “a steep increase” in cost of raw materials to keep it “affordable”. “The cost of production has gone up because the prices of raw chocolate and LPG cylinders have gone up. But if I increased the price people would not buy,” said a small home confectioner, who operates from Moulali. At least three of them said the price of Easter eggs and hampers have been retained at what it was in 2019. Celebrations this year are expected to be mostly limited to going to the church for service and family dinners instead of social gatherings or going out. Loss of jobs, reduced income and the fear of another surge in Covid cases are making many spend much less than what they would usually do. For Dorothy Kolentine, the cost cutting has affected “buying expensive clothes and dining out”. “Everything is so expensive. But our income is not like before. So, one has to maintain a budget,” said Kolentine. At some homes, the budget for buying of Easter eggs and sending gifts to extended families have also been reduced. “For the Good Friday service, we had not expected so many people. We have a hall where the service was being screened. People have lost jobs or their income has been hit, so spending during festival has reduced this year. It is more about visiting the church for service,” said Father Basil Mandi, parish priest of Church of Christ the King, Park Circus. The arrangements in the church this year were also much simpler. “People used to donate for festivals that has gone down this year,” Father Mandi said. Terence Ireland, the principal of St James’ School, said “People are uncertain of their future”. “Those who are salaried are trying to keep a reserve because with a surge in infection and illness, the expenses would only mount,” he said. A confectioner in the city said it was “still a long way” before the pre-pandemic days are attained. “People are coming to the stores to buy but the bulk orders from offices have disappeared completely,” the confectioner said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-95
03-04-2021||Calcutta||Meeting on April 7 to fix IIEST exam mode||IIEST Shibpur has convened an emergency meeting of the senate on April 7 to take a call on whether the supplementary exams could be conducted online instead of being held on the campus as Covid cases are on the rise. The senate is the highest academic body of the institute. Parthasarathi Chakrabarti, the director of the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology (IIEST) said, of the two issues to be taken up at the meeting, one pertains to fixing the mode of examination under the circumstances. The other is related to the administration of the institute. “We have received an appeal from the students’ senate for holding the test, due to start from May 5, online as cases are on the rise. In the previous senate held last month, we had decided to conduct the test on the campus. But students now want that to be reconsidered. Let the senate decide,’’ said Chakrabarti. Aman Kumar, the acting general secretary of the students’ senate, which represents all students of the institute, last week wrote to the director that as many of the students belonged to worst-affected states such as Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, it would not be advisable to call them back to the Shibpur campus. Around 270 undergraduate students are scheduled to write the supplementary exams from May 5 to May 10. An official of the institute said the senate was likely to accept the plea for holding the test online. “The situation is fast deteriorating across the country. Chances are that travel restrictions could be imposed again. Besides, a journey to the campus could invite health risks,’’ he said. According to him, since the regular semester examinations are going to be held online in April, it would be unfair to recall a section of students to the campus next month for an off-line supplementary test. As the supplementary exams for the second-year postgraduate students in the previous semester were held on the campus in November, IIEST decided that BTech supplementary would be held in-person as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-96
03-04-2021||Calcutta||Increasing Covid beds a challenge for hospitals across state||The state government wants hospitals across Bengal to increase Covid beds as the number of cases have started rising again but officials of several private and government healthcare facilities said that this was easier said than done. Many of the hospitals said it would be difficult to increase the number of beds and take it to what it was during the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic because of the large number of non-Covid patients now. Unlike this time last year, there is no lockdown now and so, all types of patients have filled up non-Covid beds in hospitals. Several hospitals are converting single rooms into twin-sharing ones to accommodate more Covid patients. But officials of these hospitals said even this would not allow them to increase the Covid beds to what it used to be in the middle of last year. Almost all private and government hospitals have reduced their Covid beds from December last year. Also, the state government had converted several private hospitals into Covid treatment units, which have now resumed admitting non-Covid patients. Officials of these hospitals said it would be difficult to convert them into complete Covid hospitals again. Peerless Hospital has 360 beds of which 38 are now designated for Covid patients. All 38 are occupied, said an official of the hospital. “Over 90 per cent of the non-Covid beds are also full. We are planning to convert some of the single rooms into twin-sharing ones to increase the number of Covid beds. However, even then we cannot increase the number to anywhere near 150 Covid beds, which we had till the end of December,” said Sudipta Mitra, chief executive, Peerless Hospital. “Unlike during the lockdown, we have hundreds of non-Covid patients, many of whom had deferred their surgeries for a year because of the pandemic. Also, the number of emergency patients, like those who met with road accidents, has also gone up many times compared to the lockdown period,” said Mitra. He said the hospital has surgeries booked for the next two-and-half months. At AMRI Hospital, Dhakuria, the authorities have increased the number of Covid beds to 55 on Friday. At the peak of the pandemic, the hospital had 90 Covid beds. “We have already converted single cabins into twin-sharing rooms. We are planning to increase the capacity to 70 but it would be very difficult to reach 90,” said Rupak Barua, group CEO, AMRI. The group’s Salt Lake hospital was turned into a Covid hospital last year and now the 230-bed unit has 12 Covid beds. “Among the non-Covid beds, 180 are occupied so it will be difficult to shift all of the patients if we need to convert to a complete Covid treatment unit again,” said Barua. Getting doctors and nurses for increased beds for Covid treatment is also an issue because they are engaged in treating non-Covid patients. At meetings held with health officials from all the districts on Wednesday and Thursday, senior officials from Swasthya Bhavan have directed their counterparts in 23 districts of Bengal to identify healthcare facilities that can immediately be converted into Covid-19 hospitals. The officials have been instructed to submit reports with details of their requirements on how to make these hospitals functional within a week. A section of senior officials from several districts said starting a new Covid hospital within a week was a tall order. While buildings and other infrastructure may be available, meeting the personnel shortage would be a challenge. Infectious Diseases Hospital in Beleghata has sought 40 doctors, 73 nurses and 18 lab technicians to cope with the increasing number of patients that were being admitted to the facility. On Friday, there were 60 Covid patients in the hospital with 12 of them admitted to the critical care unit and seven in the hospital’s high dependency unit. “We have sought specialists from the field of chest, medicine, infectious diseases and public health along with nursing staff to cope with the pressure immediately,” said a senior official of the hospital. Similar demands have started pouring in at Swasthya Bhavan from other hospitals including Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, College of Medicine and Sagore Dutta Hospital in Kamarhati and MR Bangur Hospital. “We want to re-convert the KS Roy TB Hospital in Jadavpur into a Covid hospital. Several nurses who were earlier posted in this hospital  during the pandemic have been withdrawn and deputed to other health facilities,” said a health official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-96
03-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Calcutta Municipal Corporation to begin jabs in 120 wards from mid-April||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation will begin Covid-19 vaccination at 120 ward health clinics from mid-April, up from 80 clinics where jabs are being given now. The civic body has also targeted expanding Covid vaccination to all the 144 ward health clinics by the end of this month. Expanding the vaccination facilities to all localities is required to ensure that everyone has a vaccination centre within a short distance from their homes, said a senior CMC official. After the Covid-19 vaccination for people above 45 started from April 1, the civic authorities feel that there would be an increased rush at the existing clinics. So, there is a need to add more clinics where the vaccination would take place, said an official. From Thursday, anyone aged 45 or above could get a Covid shot. Till Wednesday, senior citizens and people between 45 and 59 with comorbidities were eligible for vaccine doses. A spike in the number of daily infections has also made it necessary to quickly vaccinate as many people as possible. “We will run vaccination from 120 ward health clinics from the middle of April. We are also targeting to start vaccination in all the 144 ward health clinics in Calcutta from the end of April,” said Subrata Roy Chowdhury, the chief municipal health officer of the CMC. “Our health clinics are present in each of the 144 wards of Calcutta and they will play a very crucial role in vaccinating the community. So, we are increasing the number of vaccination centres gradually,” he added. Public health experts have said that wearing masks, washing hands frequently and getting vaccinated are the measures people should take to prevent the spread of Covid. The bulletin published on the state health department’s website on Friday showed that 1,733 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Thursday, 513 of them in the city. The bulletin published on Thursday showed that 1,274 persons tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, 399 of them from Calcutta. A doctor of the CMC said that the number of infected people was rising sharply every day. Calcutta recorded the highest number of Covid cases in Bengal on Thursday as well as Friday. A month ago, the numbers were much lower, though the spike started around then. The bulletin published on March 2 showed that 171 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on March 1, 70 of them in the city. There are many places that do not have a vaccination centre nearby. “Our attempt is to provide a vaccination centre near everyone’s home. Getting a vaccine is everyone’s right. There could be many people who do not have the time and scope to travel some distance and take the vaccine. So, we are expanding the facility so that everyone gets the opportunity to take the vaccine,” said a CMC official. Arnab Ray, a resident of Naktala and an associate professor of English at a city college, took the jab at CMC’s Ward 100 health clinic on Friday. Ray’s mother and wife also took the jab at the clinic. “I had gone to Ward 100 health clinic a couple of weeks ago but the officials there asked me to go to the health clinic in Ward 98 to get vaccinated. When I visited the Ward 100 health clinic again on Friday, the officials said that they are vaccinating now. So, we took the vaccine there,” said Ray. He added that there was no other healthcare facility close to his home that was administering the vaccine. The CMC’s clinic administering the vaccine helped him, he said. The jabs at CMC’s clinics are being administered free of cost. The CMC had vaccinated 8,800 persons at its vaccination centres on Thursday. “Our immediate aim is to vaccinate 10,000 people every day. As the number of vaccination centres increase, we will target a higher number every day,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-96
