04-04-2021||Calcutta||Soumitra Chatterjee’s wife Dipa Chatterjee takes last breath||Actor Soumitra Chatterjee’s wife Dipa Chatterjee passed away during the early hours of Sunday, just four months after her husband took his last breath, sources said. She was 83 at the time of her death. According to family sources quoted by ABP Ananda Digital, Dipa Chatterjee was suffering from diabetes for a long time. She was admitted to a private hospital in Calcutta a few days ago following kidney-related issues on March 31. The octogenarian died of failure of the organ, sources said. According to Anandabazar Patrika Online, she had lost her will to live following the passing of her husband. Soumitra, known for his career-spanning collaborations with celebrated director Satyajit Ray who cast him in 14 of his films, passed away at a city hospital on November 16 after a prolonged illness aggravated by a bout of Covid-19. He was 85.  Dipa, a badminton champion who had also acted in films like 'Durga' and 'Bilombito Loy', married Soumitra in 1960.. They are survived by their daughter Poulami Bose and son Sougata Chatterjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-94
04-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Covid count crosses the 8,000-mark||The number of active Covid-19 cases in Bengal rose by 1,152 on Saturday, to 8,844. This was the 23nd consecutive day of rise in the total of active Covid-19 cases. The total crossed the 8,000-mark for the first time since January 9. The state reported 579 Covid recoveries, but 1,736 new infections were detected, besides five deaths, two of them in the city. In Calcutta and North 24-Parganas, the two districts on the Centre’s radar for the second wave of the pandemic, 528 and 392 new infections, respectively, were detected.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-94
04-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Parties come calling at housing complexes||This election, political parties are trying to make inroads into big housing complexes to reach out to voters who are otherwise difficult to access within gated communities. The relatively new move to approach residents of housing complexes is not just an indication of how desperate political parties are to connect to every possible voter but also appears to be a compulsion of an election that promises to be close. Many housing complexes have thus far resisted political campaigning inside their compound with polite excuses but some have decided to allow candidates so that residents can make an “informed choice.” South City Complex that falls under in the Rashbehari Assembly constituency has been approached by two political parties for a chance to interact with the residents. For the first time in the over a decade of the housing, the residents’ welfare association (RWA) has decided to organise an interactive session inviting both the candidates — TMC’s Debasish Kumar and BJP’s Subrata Saha — on a particular date and time when the South City residents will be able to put forward their problems and expectations before the candidates, an RWA official said. Upohar Housing complex along EM Bypass — that falls under Jadavpur constituency — has refused a political party’s request for a door-to-door campaign inside the housing. “It has been decided that we will not allow any political party representatives to enter the housing for campaigning. To the most, they can leave their leaflets at the main gate security enclosure or with the RWA office. Residents will be informed, if anyone wants, may collect from there,” said an RWA official of Upohar. Hundreds of gated communities across the city and on the outskirts remain untapped for votes as most of them have been inaccessible during formal campaigning. However, this election promises to be different. According to a Trinamul Congress leader of south Calcutta, the advantage about campaigning inside a big housing complex is the opportunity to reach out to hundreds of voters at one go. “Even if we manage to influence a handful of residents in a housing society, the idea percolates easily through word of mouth as all the residents of a housing complex have more or less similar set of problems and share similar aspirations,” he said. Several housings are following the South City model and allowing candidates to step inside and interact with the residents. CPI candidate from Sonarpur (Dakshin) Shubham Banerjee has been going around housing complexes in the Narendrapur and Sonarpur areas for several weeks now. “A large number of my voters live in housing complexes. How can I fulfil my motto of ‘reach to each’ unless I approach all dwellings in both the city and rural areas?” Banerjee told Metro. Banerjee said he has already campaigned in several housing complexes to understand issues that affect people in these pockets. The RWA in Sugam Park — a housing complex of 500-odd flats in Narendrapur — where Banerjee was allowed to campaign last month, has announced among its residents that all political parties that will approach would be allowed to campaign in a particular common area inside the complex without use of microphone or political flags. “No door-to-door campaigning will be allowed as that would be a breach of privacy of our residents. But we cannot disregard the process of democracy as well,” said an RWA official of the housing. Till now, the CPI and the BJP have approached the housing. Both have been given permission. “We are fixing a date and time of visit in a common area and announcing it among residents. Those who are willing may participate,” the official added. Several housing complexes that have so long resisted political campaigning on their premises, are preparing a “back-up plan” in case they are forced to yield to the requests of the political parties. The RWA in Orbit Sky View in north Calcutta’s Paikpara has recently circulated among its residents a message that mentions about the RWA’s successful attempt to “politely” stop a political party from a door-to-door campaign inside their housing. “However, the association might not be this lucky with other political parties,” the message mentions. In case of the latter, the RWA would propose to the party to either leave their pamphlets with them or to set up a kiosk in their community hall on a designated time and date which will be informed to residents in advance. “Residents on their own free will can decide to visit or not to visit,” it mentioned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-94
04-04-2021||Calcutta||On Easter, a tribute to sacrifice of farmers||About 2,075 million Christians all over the world, belonging to all denominations, will celebrate Easter on April 4, which marks the resurrection of Jesus Christ after his death by crucifixion and burial in Jerusalem about 2,020 years ago. Easter is victory over death, a celebration of new life. It symbolises the ultimate victory of good over evil. Easter is preceded by Lent, a 40-day period of fasting, prayer and penance, representing the time Jesus spent in the wilderness, withstanding the temptation of Satan and preparing to begin his public ministry of teaching and preaching. Easter marks the conclusion of the Holy Week; it is the last day of the Easter Triduum of Maundy Thursday (commemorating the Last Supper Jesus had with His apostles), Good Friday (the day of His crucifixion and death) and Easter Sunday (the day of His Resurrection). Why is the day of Jesus’s death called Good Friday? It may seem counterintuitive to many people. His death was, in reality, a passage from life to eternity. His death symbolises His ultimate sacrifice for others and thus represents the cleansing of the Earth from wickedness, the deadness of despair and despondency. This Easter, I remember as many as 248 farmers who have sacrificed their lives and all the other farmers who are protesting against the three Central farm laws. I remember my fellow Jesuit, octogenarian Fr. Stan Swamy, a tribal rights activist from Ranchi, in Jharkhand, who has been refused bail on March 22 by the special court in Mumbai. I remember the people of Myanmar who are protesting against the military coup. The civilian death toll in the security forces’ crackdown on protesters has gone up to 320. Crimes against humanity continue in Myanmar and in other parts of the world daily. I remember Sister Ann Rose Nu Tawng, the brave Catholic nun in the city of Myityina, Myanmar, who knelt down and begged a group of heavily armed police officers to spare “the children” and take her life instead. I remember the 2.8 million people in the world and 162 thousand in India diseased due to Covid-19. The Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) predicts that the ‘crisis is far from over’. Its second wave is here and the third is expected with grave consequences. Easter is the manifestation of the banquet of life, of ordered festivity. The power of Resurrection makes human beings, and the entire universe, new. It makes people strong and transforms them into spiritual beings. With the spiritual power one is able to recognise God’s footsteps as, ‘He comes, comes, ever comes’. Jesus preached, ‘There is no greater love than to lay down one’s life for his friends’ and he lived according to his teachings. Easter promotes the sense of taking brave steps and laying down one life for a humanitarian cause. Are we ready? I wish my fellow Calcuttans a joy-filled Easter. May this season usher in peace, justice and harmony in our lives and relationships. Fr. J. Felix Raj, SJ, is vice-chancellor of St Xavier’s University, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-94
04-04-2021||Calcutta||‘Hushiyar!’ says song to voters||A song by some of the city’s young musicians that was released on Saturday urged voters of Bengal to be “hushiyar (beware)” because the seeds of hatred being sown now, ahead of the elections, could have telling consequences for a long time. The song begins with the call to remain alert. “Dike dike hao hushiyar rakhte matha uchu/Khal kete kumir ghor e ashche pichu pichu (Watch out! Beware! Stay alert, if you want to hold your head up high/The crocodile has crept into your home, he’s caught you in his eye).” It goes on: “Bechu babu dangabaji dhandabaji r bhar/Dhorme jaat e loriye diye desh kore chharkhar (Master conman, champion scamster, rioting and hate is his art/Starting fights on caste and religion he tears the nation apart).” The song does not name any political party but the message is hard to miss. Sample this: “Deshaprem er bhondami raj bhakta dekhay ghughu/Gobalay er batparera marchhe sankhaloghu/ Padma phul er lobh dekhiye desh ke dobay paank e/IT Cell e Sonar Bangla r dhop er noksha anke (Their followers parade their sham nationalism aplenty/These Goebbels’ Bhakts kill minorities, remember Delhi ‘20?/Enticing you with a lotus, they will drown us all in a swamp/ Their IT (Information Technology) Cell draws a false map to Golden Bengal with much pomp).” Swadesh Misra, the songwriter, said that the song is a protest against the communalisation of Bengal’s societal harmony for an election. “I tried to tell listeners what some people who are claiming to make Sonar Bangla did in the rest of the country. Keep that in mind and then vote responsibly,” he said. One para in the song says: “Bangle keo dokhol kore bikote chay bechu/somoy thakte hao hushiyar rakhte matha uchu (Now he wants to capture and sell Bengal, then leave us high and dry/ There’s still time, watch out, beware. Stay alert to hold your head up high).” The song also talks about how people could lose their citizenship and with it their homes, Misra said. There are the lines: “NRC te fondi kore camp e dhore niye/Naam porichoy jomi jiret nichchhe sab chhiniye (With the NRC (National Register of Citizens) trap, they will herd you to a detention camp/ Names, identities, homes, all snatched away with a “foreigner” stamp)”. Journalist, writer and filmmaker Paranjoy Guha Thakurta, who is one of the two producers-directors of the music video, wanted the song to send the message that in India, the rights of the minorities needs to be upheld. “The message of the song is anti-communal. The message is that we should respect the wishes and the rights of the minorities. All of us who worked in this video share the view that India should not become a Hindu Rashtra,” said,” “It may sound especially relevant today because of the Bengal elections but it will be relevant even after the elections,” said Guha Thakurta. Samantak Sinha, the vocalist of the band Fiddler’s Green that sang the song, echoed Guha Thakurta. “The attempt to communalise the society would remain even after the assembly elections are over. This song will not lose relevance after the elections. People will hear this again and again and think about the warnings mentioned in the song,” said Sinha, who also sang a song urging people to not vote for BJP ahead of a rally in the city on March 10 that had the call “No Vote to BJP”. Fiddler’s Green has a following among the youth. They are a regular in cafes and small addas and they render songs of a variety of genres. The band had also composed a song in May last year highlighting the plight of the migrants who got stuck across the country because of a lockdown that was suddenly announced in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. English subtitles accompany the video, perhaps with the aim of catching a wider pan-India audience. One of the comments on You Tube was from a person named Narender Bhardwaj who wrote: “Incredible. Bengal never disappointed me so far Literature, Cinema & music considered…Love you all the team from Haryana”. But did the band’s members ever feel wary of facing repercussions for taking such a strong stand, did they ever fear losing invitations to perform as a consequence? “No. We have the skills. People have listened to us and loved us. There will not be any problem getting work. We were never bothered about that. Rather, it is true that during our growing up we never thought who is a Hindu, who is a Muslim or who is a Christian. But many people are asking about these identities now,” said Shamik Chatterjee, the bass guitarist and manager of Fiddler’s Green.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-94
04-04-2021||Calcutta||She nurtures life, instils values & makes a mark||Akshar School The most common attribute that has been associated with women is that they have to cook for their male counterparts. But, the male teachers of Akshar School thought of a role reversal as a way of celebrating International Women’s Day recently. Some of them donned the chef’s hat and cooked for the female teachers on the occasion. “Women are the best in multitasking. No man can take her place. Many of us are very fortunate that we are pursuing our dreams. However, we have to evolve as a society where we respect each other’s abilities,” said principal Kavneet Khullar. HM Education Centre celebrated International Women’s Day with the patients of the female ward of Uttarpara State General Hospital. The female teachers from the school visited the hospital to spend time with the patients and distributed food packets, sanitisers and masks among them. The motive was to spread the message of women empowerment, create a sense of belonging and urge all to abide by the protocols of the pandemic. “Oppression and inequality compelled women to be more vocal and active. Hence today, our school’s women faculty members went to the female ward of a government hospital to show solidarity with the patients and make them feel special. Since the students could not be involved because of the pandemic situation, they sent greetings through their teachers,” said principal Ratna Kundu. Both junior and senior sections of Shri Shikshayatan School recently celebrated International Women’s Day with online and offline events. Th senior school students recited poetry. Leadership, gender equality, inclusivity, women as symbols of shakti and motherhood were the major themes of the events. Shikshayatan Foundation’s secretary-general Bratati Bhattacharyya delivered a speech on Women in Leadership Role and said: “There has to be sustainable livelihood, and we must work towards reducing economic disparity.” Principal Sangeeta Tandon emphasised on the role of a mother. She said: “We want our teachers to feel empowered. Society needs to stop judging today’s woman. She is capable of multitasking and can strike the right balance between her home and work.” The junior section took part in a talk show on the concept of women empowerment. Other online programmes were organised to make the kids aware of the event’s importance. Headmistress Poushali Mukherjee said: “I feel that Women’s Day is also a celebration of gender equality. Our founders had built a girls’ school a century ago, and my head bows down with deep regards to those visionaries. I feel proud as a woman to be a part of their journey in nurturing young minds towards emancipation.” Students of Birla High School, Mukundapur, celebrated the Women’s Day by showing their gratitude towards the teachers of the school. The male members of the administrative department, too, marked the occasion by presenting cakes and flowers to their women colleagues. A presentation was uploaded on the social media page of the school through which the students’ mothers were paid homage. “I feel behind every successful woman is the woman herself. She nurtures life, instils values, teaches life skills and empowers herself to sail smoothly across turbulent waters,” said headmistress Hira Prasad. Principal Minnie Sengupta said: “It is always a pleasure to be made to feel special. We tried to do just that through a special presentation for the mothers of our students. We were humbled by the way the male colleagues of the school greeted us.” The male teachers of Apex Academy surprised their female colleagues by organising a Women’s Day celebration recently on the school premises. The celebrations began by greeting the school’s female teachers with flowers and gifts. There were speeches that stressed on the importance of equal opportunities being given to women, considering that they were no less than men in any respect. “We felt honoured after being greeted in this way by the male teachers of the school. We, women, are capable of doing everything. Every woman needs to be respected,” said principal Nayantara Roy. CR Gasper Memorial Institute for Girls, an evening school run by St Augustine Education Society for the less privileged girls, recently celebrated Women’s Day with a theme, My voice. An English extempore, as part of the programme, was conducted online to encourage the students to communicate for the first time to a large audience. A series of events followed and the girls played games, won prizes and received report cards. “It was surprising to know that most households had a smartphone. So, we called the girls and their parents to school in batches and taught them how to access video classes and assignments on a digital platform. This Women’s Day celebration was a happy moment for them as they had not come to school all the year,” said St Augustine Education Society president Janet Gasper Chowdhury. Krishnagar Public School recognised the achievements of women by celebrating International Women’s Day recently. The male members among teachers, staff members and the management gathered on the school premises to organise a programme on the day. Nabanita Guha, one of the trustees of the school, said: “These small gestures bring so much positivity in our lives and also give us the confidence to keep going despite all odds.”
The programme began with the recital of a poem, followed by song and dance performances. There were interactive games which involved both male and female teachers and other staff members to show that no work was specific to any particular gender. “We always keep acknowledging the role of a woman behind the success of a man, but it is time to start acknowledging women for their own successes. It is this change in the outlook that would lead to the formation of a utopian world that would be inclusive and equal in terms of opportunities and rights,” said principal Sankar Prasad Dutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-94
04-04-2021||Calcutta||Cop found unconscious at SSKM in a pool of blood||A Calcutta police sub-inspector, who was deployed at SSKM Hospital for law and order duty, was found unconscious in a pool of blood on Saturday morning. His service revolver was lying next to him. The 55-year-old sub-inspector has been admitted to a hospital with critical injuries. An officer of Bhowanipore police station said around 9.15am, there was a report of a gunshot coming from behind the Woodburn ward inside the hospital. Police personnel and hospital staff found the on-duty sub-inspector at an under-construction building behind the ward. Senior officers said it appeared to be a suicide attempt but the exact sequence of events would be clearer once the injured person would regain his senses. The injured sub-inspector is a resident of BT Lines police quarters. On Saturday, he was attached with a heavy radio flying squad posted inside the hospital. His family was contacted after the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-94
04-04-2021||Calcutta||Plan to hold classes on campus shelved||Several schools that had decided to start the new academic session on-campus have cancelled in-person classes as of now because of the rise in Covid-19 cases. A few of them will take a decision by next week, heads of schools said. Modern High School for Girls, St James’ School and Julien Day School, Ganganagar have taken a decision not to hold any on-campus classes currently. Schools like Calcutta Girls’ High School, The Heritage School and South Point will take a decision next week after weighing the situation. Both The Heritage School and Calcutta Girls’ are unlikely to start in-person classes. Modern High School for Girls, which had scheduled to call the students of Classes X and XII from April 6, will not do so. Instead it will conduct online classes till the end of April. The school will review the situation towards the end of the month. “We had been observing the situation for the past few days and took the decision on Friday. We have to think about the safety of our children and teachers,” said Damayanti Mukherjee, the principal of Modern High School for Girls. Mukherjee said the students, whose parents had given consent, were to attend the classes in the school while the rest would have continued with the online classes through “live streaming”. The government had given a go-ahead to schools to call students of classes IX to XII on campus from February 12. The schools were closed from March last year as a precaution against Covid-19. At least heads of two schools said they would have wanted to call students to school in the new academic session. But with the surge in Covid cases they are not sure whether it would be prudent to call children on campus. In several schools the Class XII practicals will be conducted in April and it would not be wise to increase the gathering of students under the changed situation, a head said. Schools are also worried about jeopardising the board exams that are scheduled to start on May 4 for ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) theory and CBSE (Classes X and XII). “We had thought of calling the students initially but decided otherwise. Even if one student gets infected the school will have to shut down which can affect the board exams because we are also an exam centre,” said Terence Ireland, the principal of St James’ School. At least three city schools had to shut down for about a week after two students — one in each of the two schools — and a teacher in a third school tested positive for Covid-19. The schools which are yet to decide will consider the risk factors before taking any decision. “We are waiting a little before taking any decision but seeing the situation and the rise in infection chances are that we would continue with online classes, " said Basanti Biswas, principal of Calcutta Girls'.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-94
04-04-2021||Calcutta||Summer water supply woes hit Salt Lake||Hundreds of taps in Salt Lake homes went dry on Saturday morning because water supply has dipped with the rise in temperature. Residents of sectors I, II and III alleged that supply had been erratic since the onset of summer and there wasn’t enough water for basic use. Sanjib Ghosh, 48, a resident of ED Block, said his family had been doing with “very little water for the past few days”. “On Saturday, there was no water supply. Our water supply is erratic at best for the past several days. Our water tank, like many of my neighbours, has remained completely dry on Saturday,” he said. Water crisis in summer is not new to the township. A water supply department engineer blamed the residents’ usage of filtered water to wash multiple vehicles and the use of pipes to wash driveways for the scarcity. Salt Lake needs around 15 million gallons of water every day. Earlier, the Tallah-Palta network used to supply around eight million gallons (MGD). Now, the township gets 10 MGD from the New Town water treatment plant, while the rest is augmented by using groundwater supply. An official of the public health engineering department (PHED), which looks after water supply in Salt Lake and adjoining areas, said that the groundwater table had gone down by several feet. “Ten years ago, we would hit the groundwater at 30ft. Now, we have to sink pipes more than 50ft to reach the table,” the PHED engineer said. Ten years ago, the township’s requirement was seven MGD a day, he said. The township’s water supply lines are old and some pipes have blocks of 1.5-inch diameter. “The pipes haven’t been cleaned this year. Since the pipelines in most blocks are as old as the township, they often get clogged with iron deposits,” a civic official said. To add to the problem, a joint in the main water supply line near the Amul Island, adjacent to the Salt Lake stadium, has been leaking for the past few days. It had been repaired by engineers of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation but has started leaking again. Water tankers can be seen criss-crossing the township throughout the day. The Salt Lake Sanskritik Sansad operates several such water tankers. This summer has been particularly busy, one of their office-bearers, Sanjay Poddar, said. “We have been flooded with calls to deliver water all over the township. Our trucks make at least 15 trips on average every day,” he said. Each of the organisation’s tankers can carry 6,000 litres of water. Residents have to shell out Rs 900 a tanker. The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation has 15 water tankers and the charges vary from Rs 300 to Rs 1,000, depending on the capacity. Tapan Choudhury, a resident of FD Block in Sector III, said the water supply had “dipped drastically”. “The situation is so bad that we have been storing water in containers,” he said. Soham Chakraborty, another ED Block resident, said he had to hire water tankers at least twice. “They charged me Rs 400 each time,” he said. Residents of Karunamoyee Housing Estate said their tanks had been dry for at least a couple of days at a stretch. “We asked our pump operator and he said supply was scant,” another resident said. An engineer of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation’s water supply department who is in charge of the water supply in the township said that the civic body could do little. “What can we do if supply dips?” The engineer also blamed the township residents for the water problem, saying they use potable water to wash cars and utensils.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-94
04-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid vaccine rush on weekend||Several private hospitals were filled with vaccine recipients in the 45 years to 59 years category on Saturday, most of them using the holiday to get themselves vaccinated. Hospitals expect a rush on Sunday too. Officials in the hospitals said they witnessed a sharp spike in the total vaccination numbers compared to the last few days, primarily because of a large number of office-goers taking the jab on Saturday. Peerless Hospital vaccinated 391 people on Saturday, with 223 of them in the 45 to 59 group. Belle Vue Clinic vaccinated 380 people, 190 of who were below 60. AMRI Hospitals vaccinated 900 people, with nearly 630 of them in the below 60 group. Rabindranath Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences vaccinated 300 people, with 210 of them in the below 60 category. All the hospitals said they were expecting a good turnout on Sunday. “A lot of offices remain open on Saturdays, but most offices are closed on Sundays. There could be a rush of recipients on Sunday,” said the official of a private hospital. The Centre had opened the vaccination for anyone above 45 years from April 1. Officials of hospitals said the number of recipients in the 45 years to 59 years category was picking up and they expect it to rise in the coming days. Since the people in this age group have to step out frequent for work, it is necessary to vaccinate them fast. The Centre has asked all vaccination centres to remain open on Sundays from this week. A 50-year-old man who is yet to take the jab said vaccination centres should have more vaccinators on weekends and other holidays as many office-goers would prefer to take jabs on these days. “The vaccination centres should also extend the hours of vaccination on weekdays to continue giving the jabs till late in the evening,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-95
04-04-2021||Calcutta||Rubber slipper factory gutted||A factory that manufactured rubber slippers in Topsia was gutted in a fire that broke out around 4.30am on Saturday. No one was injured, police said. A firefighter who had fallen sick from inhaling fumes during the firefighting exercise was admitted to a hospital nearby. It took 10 fire tenders over three hours to bring the fire under control. The factory is located in a narrow lane in one of the most populated pockets of eastern Calcutta. “Around 4.30am, some of us noticed thick fumes coming out of the tinned factory roof,” said a resident of Topsia Road. “There were deafening sounds of some items bursting inside the factory.” With adhesives and other chemicals stored inside, the fire in the rubber slippers factory started spewing out toxic fumes. Youths ran out of their homes to help those living close to the factory leave their homes. Some of them went to a nearby pond to fetch water. “Initially, it was quite difficult because the approach to the factory was a small lane and there wasn’t enough space to park all the fire tenders,” said a senior officer of the fire services department. “The fire continued to grow rapidly since most of the items that were kept inside were highly inflammable,” the officer said. Eyewitnesses said a portion of the factory’s wall collapsed because of the heat that had built up. A police team cordoned off the area and pipes were connected to pumps to fetch water from the pond nearby.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-95
