05-04-2021||Calcutta||Squall brings temporary relief ||A cloud mass drifted from the western districts of Bengal and triggered a squall that brought sporadic rain in Calcutta and some other districts for the first time this summer on Sunday evening, dragging the temperature down and bringing some relief. Some of the western districts got hailstorms. In and around Calcutta the wind speed was around 40 km per hour, said Met officials. The first half of Sunday was scorching in Calcutta. But the evening gave way to occasional lightning and gusts of winds. The mercury had been hovering close to 40 degrees over the past few days. But on Sunday evening, the temperature was dragged down because of the rain. The temperature at 7.30pm was around 27 degrees Celsius, a staggering nine degrees below the day’s maximum — 36.9. Over the past few days, the temperature was around 30 degrees at 7.30am. On Sunday, the rain bearing clouds had formed over parts of Bihar. They reached Bengal via West Midnapore and Birbhum, said a Met official. “Rain-bearing clouds from Birbhum drifted towards Calcutta. They grew stronger by feeding off the moisture flowing from the Bay of Bengal,” said a Met official. “There is very little chance of rain over the next couple of days.” The city had been reeling under a hot spell. The weather became pleasant once Sunday’s thundershowers started at sundown. Most districts of south Bengal got showers on Sunday. But districts like Birbhum, West and East Midnapore, and North and South 24-Parganas were wetter than the rest of south Bengal. Conditions in late March and early April are at times ripe for squalls and Nor’westers in south Bengal, but the city this year has seen none so far. The better part of March was marked by unusually low humidity. The humidity level is expected to go up in the coming days, said the Met official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-93
05-04-2021||Calcutta||Deepa Chatterjee passes away||Deepa Chatterjee, wife of actor Soumitra Chatterjee, died in a Salt Lake hospital early on Sunday. She was 83. Deepa was a diabetic for 45 years and she succumbed to renal failure after being hospitalised for deteriorating health on March 31, sources said. She is survived by daughter Paulami Bose, who runs the theatre group Mukhomukhi, and son Sougata Chatterjee. Soumitra had expired last November after a 40-day battle with Covid-related complications. Their grandson Ronodeep is recovering from a brain injury after an accident. A badminton player of national eminence in her youth, Deepa also featured in a handful of films, the most prominent being the 1970 movie Bilambita Lay, starring Uttam Kumar and Supriya Choudhury, and the 2001 production Durga, alongside Soumitra. She also appeared in Catherine Berge’s 1998 documentary on Soumitra Chatterjee, titled Gaach (The Tree). She married Soumitra in 1960.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-93
05-04-2021||Calcutta||Low turnout for vaccine on Sunday||Most hospitals and civic clinics in Calcutta and Salt Lake recorded a low turnout on the first Sunday of Covid-19 vaccination, officials said. Some hospitals and health officials cited lack of awareness as the reason, while others were of the opinion that many people between 45 and 59 preferred to avoid taking the shot on a Sunday fearing that adverse effects like fever and body ache might force them to skip office on the first working day of the week. An official of a government hospital in Bidhannagar said that since most people in the 45-59 age group are working or have businesses to run, they were hesitant to take the shots on a Sunday. “Many people are apprehensive about side-effects of getting a shot and many are also scared that they will not be able to attend office on Monday. We had quite a few men and women taking the shot on Saturday. They said they preferred Saturday because they would take rest the next day and recover from any side-effect,” the official said. A resident of Gariahat who had taken the jab on Saturday with his wife said both had fever, which subsided the next day. Another reason cited for the poor turnout on Sunday was lack of awareness. “It seems that most people still do not know that vaccination centres are open on Sundays. It will need some campaigning before the numbers pick up on Sundays,” said an official of a private hospital. This was the first time that all Covid vaccination centres remained open on a Sunday. The Centre has said that Covid jabs will have to be administered to eligible people on all days of April. Everyone who is 45 or above has been eligible for Covid vaccination since April 1. Only 72 people took the shot at Peerless Hospital on Sunday, compared with 391 on Saturday. Of the 72, 55 were below 60. Three units of AMRI Hospitals vaccinated 247 people on Sunday, compared with 899 on Saturday. At the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS), 80 people were vaccinated on Sunday. An official of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) said the civic body’s health clinics, too, recorded a low turnout on Sunday. The CMC is running Covid vaccination at 80 ward health clinics. The footfall was also low at nearly all Covid-19 vaccination centres run by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation and Salt Lake Sub-divisional Hospital. At the hospital, not a single person above 45 took the jab on Sunday, an official said. The vaccine centre at the hospital administered the shot to a handful of polling personnel and some people above 60. The vaccine clinics run by the Bidhannagar civic body in Salt Lake, Duttabad, Ashwininagar, Narayanpur and Rajarhat, among other places, recorded a low turnout, too. Covid count The number of active Covid-19 cases in Bengal rose by 1,309 on Sunday to 10,153. The state on Sunday recorded 1,957 new infections (highest since December 20) and 644 recoveries. Four patients died, two of them in the city. The number of active cases is back to almost where it was on January 3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-93
05-04-2021||Calcutta||Rally with over 1,100 participants to mark Easter||Pastors, priests, heads of schools and parishioners from different parts of the city participated in an Easter Rally that was organised on Sunday evening. The rally with 1,100-odd participants started from Bishop’s College and culminated with a thanksgiving worship service on the grounds of St James’ School. The rally included participants from Roman Catholic churches, Church of North India, Assembly of God Church and Baptist Church, among others. “A year ago we faced the challenges of the Covid-19 pandemic and the churches were closed but our faith sustained us and this year the churches have opened. For Easter, the message is of hope and peace,” said the archbishop of Calcutta, Reverend Thomas D’Souza. “Love brings unity and peace destroys hatred and even in hopelessness we should not be in despair… and not give up. We must live as good Christians and good citizens.” Also present on the occasion was Reverend Paritosh Canning, the bishop of the Calcutta diocese of the Church of North India, and Reverend Ivan Satyavrata, senior pastor, The Assembly of God Church. “The rally brings different Christian organisations together and at a time when there is so much turmoil in society, we have to be united,” said John Ghosh, the secretary of the Calcutta diocese of the Church of North India. The Easter Rally has been organised for about 10 years. It could not be held last year because of the pandemic. “We have been doing this procession as something to unite Christians from different denominations. The message is that we need to be positive and hopeful,” said Father Dominic Gomes, the vicar general of the archdiocese of Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-93
05-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid axe on South City interaction||The South City residents’ association called off Sunday’s interaction between its members and the local candidates of the Trinamul Congress and the BJP at the housing complex following a spurt in Covid-19 cases. “The first-of-its-kind event at our complex has been called off because around 20 residents have recently tested positive for Covid-19,” said an office-bearer of the South City Apartment Owners Association. “There has been a spurt in the number of cases over the last two weeks. So we thought it was better not to take a chance.” The housing complex, which falls in the Rashbehari Assembly constituency, has 1,650 flats. More than 1,200 of the apartments are occupied, said a member of the association. One resident said they wanted to discuss with candidates for the ongoing Assembly elections issues such as water supply and cleaning and restoration of the Bikramgarh Lake, which the Prince Anwar Shah Road complex overlooks. The event was planned to be held in an open-air space inside the 31-acre compound of South City Residency, for which the place got a fresh coat of paint. The organisers said hand sanitisers and masks were arranged. The decision to invite Debasish Kumar (Trinamul Congress candidate) and Subrata Saha (contesting on the BJP ticket) was prompted by requests from political parties to enter the complex for campaigning. Instead of allowing them one by one, the association decided to set up a common platform where both candidates could interact with the residents. “Instead of making it a political programme, we had turned the format into a resident-friendly event where we could be able to discuss our problems as residents of South City. Our biggest problem is lack of water supply from the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. We are spending lakhs only on the annual maintenance contract of the water treatment plant as the arsenic level of the underground water is beyond permissible limit,” said Sunil Saraogi, a resident of the housing complex who was to coordinate the event. A long-standing demand of the residents has been construction of a footbridge outside South City Residency as the traffic volume outside the housing complex and the shopping mall is quite high, said Saraogi. “Also, it is difficult for pedestrians to cross the road with median dividers blocking it.” Another resident said had the interaction been held, they would have taken up the issue of cleaning up the cluttered footpath between South City and the Lords Bakery crossing. A  number of elderly residents walk the stretch every morning to buy groceries. “It really does not matter to me which party wins. We want our complex and its surroundings clean. Someone should take care of the condition of the Bikramgarh Lake as well. Day by day it is shrin-king and getting dirtier,” said an elderly resident of South City. Residents said that on at least on two earlier occasions, senior politicians had visited South City as guests and made promises that were never fulfilled. This election, political parties are leaving no stone unturned to reach out to voters, including those who live in highrise buildings and housing complexes, which are usually inaccessible. The Telegraph reported on Sunday how political parties are making inroads inside housing complexes in an attempt to maximise their outreach. Several housing complexes in the city, including South City, had agreed to allow candidates to campaign inside the compounds so residents could make an informed choice about who to vote. A resident of South City said there would always be people who would not like the entry of politicians inside the complex. “But we have to understand that we can only solve our long-standing problems with the help of the administration. Interacting with prospective elected representatives and making them understand the local issues are in our best interests,” the resident said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-93
05-04-2021||Calcutta||Forest officials recover over 100 Greater short-toed larks from poacher||More than 100 small brown birds, roughly the size of an adult sparrow, were found on a man arrested by forest officials in Murshidabad on Wednesday. Forest department officials said the Greater short-toed larks were netted from a nearby field when they were on their way back to central Asia, from where they had migrated before winter. The birds are trapped and killed in large numbers for their meat, said animal rights activists. “Woab Sheikh, who was arrested near Bazarsau station on Wednesday, had captured the birds from a field. Altogether, 120 live and 12 dead birds were found on him,” said Pradip Bauri, divisional forest officer of Murshidabad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-93
05-04-2021||Calcutta||Library to tackle learning loss in kids||An NGO that works with girls from underprivileged homes is integrating a library with the curriculum to encourage an interest in reading and books. Most of the girls are first-generation learners and the idea is to use the library as an interactive space rather than for them to “sit quietly and read by themselves”. The NGO Ek Tara has come up with a new learning centre and space has been dedicated for the library where lessons in several languages are being held to make “coming back to school” an engaging and vibrant experience. “We are using the library as an extension of the classroom and not as one reading space where children would have to browse unconnected reading material. Not all books will be academically loaded but there will be a co-relation between their text and the books in the library,” said Manjusmita Bagchi, associate director, Ek Tara. The NGO has partnered with Delhi-based NGO Katha, who are providing the books as well as online training to teachers on how to use the books as part of everyday classroom teaching. “It is important that we make the reading material relatable and contextual so that our children take to it more. Also, it has to be simple reading for them to be able to grasp,” said Bagchi. Ten Ek Tara teachers have been trained and are using different ways to stoke the childrens’ interest amid a “learning loss” created by the pandemic. “For many of them, whatever reading they are doing is in the centre and we have to encourage them. We use simple games like they clap when they identify a noun or draw out the characters of the book,” said Mitali Bose, the head of the learning centre. The Ek Tara Learning Centre, a new space that was inaugurated at the end of last month, will enable these children to access modern learning resources. The centre has over 20 classrooms, provisions for STEM and social studies labs and play zones. “Due to the pandemic, families under our care and others in the communities suffered financial and social setbacks that will take years to reverse. There have been rising incidents of early marriage, domestic violence and child labour, underscoring for us the need to work more deeply with all stakeholders,” said Bagchi. The NGO is using its space, activities and curriculum to help them come back to school, express themselves and build their confidence that has suffered a setback in the past one year. “They have been cooped up within the confines of their homes and they need to come out, look forward and be willing to learn,” said a teacher. The library and reading space will also be used for playing games, for debates and discussions and public speaking that will encourage them to think and question, a member of the NGO said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-93
05-04-2021||Calcutta||BJP and TMC clash in Maniktala, 3 police injured||Three policemen were injured and a police vehicle was damaged in a clash that broke out allegedly between supporters of the Trinamul Congress and the BJP over control of a club in Maniktala, in north Calcutta, late on Saturday. Police said the incident happened in the Natun Pally area when members of two political parties got engaged in a dispute. Officers of Maniktala police station reached the spot to bring the situation under control. “The problem had started in the morning with political leaders visiting the spot. But the matter aggravated at night. A club whose members had changed parties had to be closed down because of an unrest. Now both parties are trying to establish control on the club,” said an officer of Maniktala police station. Policemen were attacked with bricks and stones, leaving three of them injured. The windscreen of an officer’s vehicle was damaged. Nine persons, including members of both political parties, were arrested from the spot and booked for charges of rioting, causing grievous hurt by use of dangerous weapons and deterring public servants from performing their duty. A police picket has been set up in the area to prevent recurrence of violence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-93
05-04-2021||Calcutta||Ramakrishna Mission and St Xavier’s College to continue with reduced fee structure||Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira in Belur and St Xavier’s College are continuing with the reduced fee structure in the even semester, which started in March, taking into account the Covid-induced financial problems faced by students’ families. At Vidyamandira, the reduction, which was introduced in November, varies from 30 to 40 per cent on an average for undergraduate and postgraduate students. “The reduced fee structure continued till March and will continue in the new semester that started in March,” said Swami Ekachittananda, the principal of Vidyamandira. “We will soon issue a notice, announcing the continuance of the waiver.” A notice earlier issued by the college had said: “The session charges for 2020-2021 has been reduced in view of post-Covid economic hardship faced by the whole country. UG and PG students can pay these charges in either online or in offline mode by 31 March 2021”. Since the hardship is continuing, the college authorities have decided to continue with the fee structure in the new semester as well. “The relaxation will continue till the resumption of in-person classes,” the principal said. The principal of St Xavier’s College, Dominic Savio, said they had informed the students that the reduced fee structure would continue for now. The semester fee was brought down by 35 per cent following the onset of the Covid pandemic last year. “The same fee structure is being continued with. We do not want to inconvenience the students amid the crisis,” the principal said. A comparison with the fee structure in effect till October at Vidyamandira suggests that the monthly college fee for the third-year English (honours) students has been reduced from Rs 700 to Rs 500. The fee for the second-year students has been brought down from Rs 900 to Rs 600. An official of the college said a large number of their students are from economically weaker sections. “They have been hit hard by the pandemic. Even those from middle-class families have encountered the impact. So, we have reduced the fees. We are periodically assessing the situation,” he said. At St Xavier’s College, library and e-resources fees have been brought down from Rs 1,500 to Rs 500. Laboratory fees and computer lab fees have been entirely waived. “The number of students availing themselves of the concessions has gone up. The usual increase of fees by 10 to 15 per cent has not been followed. We will continue with this structure till the resumption of in-person classes,” said Father Dominic Savio. The financial distress is impacting students across the institutes. In January a section of research scholars at IIT Kharagpur had written to the dean of students’ affairs appealing for an extension of the deadline for paying the fee for the spring semester by at least a month because of the pandemic-induced economic distress. The scholars had stated in the letter that ’’economic depression unleashed by the pandemic has intensified the hardship. Many parents have lost their business, jobs or have (had) to bear salary cuts’’.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-93
05-04-2021||Calcutta||A new world of music from the past||The framed logo, designed elegantly by Ramananda Bandyopadhyay, is a human head in the traditional Bengali style of bold and curved outlines. Looked at closely, the features of the face are revealed as the letters “a” and “t”, fused together. The logo, hanging next to a door, announces a rather unusual enterprise: an archive of Bengali theatre. It is called the Academy Theatre Archive and has been set up on the first floor of a residential building at Netaji Shubhas Road, Howrah, by Devajit Bandyopadhyay, 66, a well-known performer of Bengali theatre songs. The archive is one large room and Bandyopadhyay conducts a tour around it, which turns out to be a mini, but grand journey into Bengali theatre. Through the years Bandyopadhyay has collected about 30,000 books, many from the nineteenth century or even earlier, and 30,000 gramophone records, a substantial part of them of theatre songs. The collection lies spread between his Howrah archive and his south Calcutta home, where his study looks like a tiny museum crammed with bookshelves that move on wheels, so that humans can move about. Bandyopadhyay has a huge, impressive list of first-edition books and first or early records of Bengali songs, among other things. And every object around him has a story, and you almost hear it buzzing, and then Bandyopadhyay tells it. He is a natural storyteller, and one story leads to another, and you land softly and pleasurably into depths of the world of old Bengali theatre and performance. It is a remarkable, fascinating and strange world, more so because unlike writing or the visual arts, which are there in front of us, often in their original form, live performance gets lost. In some way, even if it recorded. In addition popular entertainment changes its medium much more than the other arts and especially from the point-of-view of our social media-saturated times, the age of early Bengali theatre, though barely 200 years old and centred in Calcutta, looks unfamiliar. But it is, if we quote a leading playwright of all times anachronistically, “a brave new world”: of a performing art rendered in the language of the land, taking shape during colonial rule but being formed by influences from all over. Bandyopadhyay starts at the beginning, at 1795, with Gerasim Lebedev, the Russian scholar-adventurer who ended up starting modern theatre in Bengal. Through a series of extraordinary events, and with some help, he translated two European plays into Bengali, one of them as ‘Kalpanik Sangbadal’. These were the first Bengali plays performed on a proscenium stage, which was also introduced by Lebedev here, and the plays were staged at the “Bengally Theatre” in Domtala, later named Ezra Street. Lebedev used songs from Bharatchandra’s Vidyasundar, the long poem on a love story, written between 1752 and 1758,  says Bandyopadhyay. He has a copy of the early editions of Lebedev’s plays, and also a scanned version of Bharatchandra’s poem, which he obtained from the original punthi (manuscript) at Bibliotheque Nationale in Paris. He also has an 1817 edition of Vidyasundar. The collection contains the first edition of Dinabandhu Mitra’s play Nil Darpan, about the savagery of the indigo trade in Bengal controlled by Europeans. This was the first play to be commercially staged by Bengali theatre pioneer Girish Chandra Ghosh in 1872. Bandyopadhyay has a first edition copy of Amar Katha, the autobiography of Nati Binodini, the actress who was mentored by Ghosh and made his plays memorable. Music notations form a bulk of Bandyopadhyay’s collection, much of them of theatre songs. He has the earliest notation prints of Kshetramohan Goswami and Krishnadhan Bandyopadhyay, who worked with the production of  Michael Madhusudan Dutt’s plays. “As well as those of Shishir Kumar Ghosh, Sourindramohan Tagore, Dakshinamohan Sen, Manmathanath De, and of course of Jyotirindranath Tagore, to Rabindranath Tagore to Upendrakishore Roychowdhury.” His collection of gramophone records go back to the first decades of the 20th century. He proudly refers to a record of the songs of Banabiharini, who had acted as Nitai with Binodini as Chaitanya in Chaitanya Leela (1884). Other records include those of Danibabu (Surendranath Ghosh, Girish Chandra’s son), Shashimukhi and Ardhendu Sekhar Mustafi, Shishir Bhaduri, singers Gauharjan, Krishnachandra Dey, Angurbala and Kanandevi, most of them singer-actors. “One of the records has Bertolt Brecht speaking,” he says. The first edition of nineteenth century jatra palas, such as Akrur Sambad, and several palas of Krishnakamal Goswami and Motilal Roy are a part of the archive. A piece of music notation, in fact, had inspired Bandyopadhyay into archiving. He was in Europe in 1986, and on stage he felt encouraged to perform songs from Bengali theatre. The same year in London he was invited to perform by the BBC, where they meticulously checked the notation of the song he was about to sing by consulting Sourindramohan’s version. Bandyopadhyay was tantalised by the BBC library. “That is how the idea of an archive began,” he says. How he collects his materials is another story. But music has ruled his life, for which he had to make difficult choices. His father, a well-established chartered accountant and a resident of Howrah, wanted Bandyopadhyay to follow in his footsteps. Bandyopadhyay grew up in Howrah and studied B.Com. (Honours) at Shibpur Dinabandhu College in Howrah and took up accountancy and auditing work. But by that time he had already fallen for music. He had trained under stalwarts of Rabindrasangeet (which he called Rabindranather gaan, a less reverent description of Rabindranath Tagore’s music) from the early 70s. From 1975, he was training under Ustad Sagiruddin Khan, internationally acclaimed sarangi player, who changed his relationship with music. “I realised commerce and music do not go together,” says Bandyopadhyay. He began to move away from his father, though he always remained close to his mother, who encouraged him. The archive, however, is housed in a flat that he received as his share of family property. In 1990, he left home. He was already focusing on the music of Bengali theatre. In 1995, he began his Ph.D. on Bengali theatre music at Jadavpur University and completed it within a year. The archive includes musical instruments — a 300-year-old veena, sitars, sarods and sarangis, including Ustad Sagiruddin Khan’s, gramophones, cameras and about 4,000 posters, starting with the posters of Naramedh (1932, record play). “Theatre cannot, of course, be studied in isolation,” says Bandyopadhyay. No arts, no discipline can be. But he talks about the special relationship between theatre and Indian cinema. “We must remember that theatre here was the popular entertainment form for a long time. Common people paid money to watch plays. And theatre songs were the popular tunes. They were also sung by prostitutes as entertainment for their guests,” he says. Songs in Indian cinema is a feature borrowed from theatre. And cinema, theatre and fiction have traditionally shared a basic structure, of the narrative. “Cinema in Bengali was called ‘boi’, a book,” says Bandyopadhyay. A film was being compared to the novel. “Indian films have never been able to discard the narrative.” The books are mostly in Bandyopadhyay’s study and the bigger items at the Howrah archive, which is obviously work in progress. The posters need to be hung better and the other objects — imposing gramophone players, an old sitar with intricate carvings — need better display. The lockdown stalled the work, says Bandyopadhyay. He feels that the state should encourage such projects more, also financially. “It’s my life’s work,” he says, looking around.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-94
