06-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: State mulls taking jab to doorstep||The state government is considering taking the Covid-19 vaccination drive to big housing complexes and corporate houses so that more people can be inoculated against the disease that is spreading much faster than it did at the peak of the epidemic last year. The state health department on Monday met representatives of several private hospitals to discuss how off-site vaccination could be done in Calcutta. Till now in Bengal, Covid-19 vaccines are given only at designated hospitals and clinics, including those run by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation and other civic bodies. Private hospitals as well as the health department are flooded with requests from big residential complexes and corporate houses to conduct vaccination on their premises. Representatives of some hospitals also proposed that vaccination centres be set up at sites like Netaji Indoor Stadium and Geetanjali Stadium in Kasba. The state has around 2 crore 20 lakh people eligible for Covid vaccine doses. Till Monday evening, nearly 60 lakh have received at least one dose of a vaccine, a health department official said. “Private hospitals and the health department are getting requests to take vaccination to people’s doorsteps. Also, since the number of Covid cases is rising sharply, there is a need to speed up vaccination, especially in urban areas. A protocol has to be developed, after which the guidelines for off-site vaccination can be issued," the official said. Monday’s meeting discussed how to set up temporary vaccination centres at housing complexes and offices, those who attended the meeting said. Health officials have said off-site vaccination should be done at those places where at least 150 people, residents of a housing complex or employees of an office, are ready to take the shot. For Covid-19 vaccination, a waiting area, a vaccination room and an observation room are required to be set up. The vaccination room and the observation room have to be air-conditioned, the official said. Also, arrangements have to be made to store the vaccine vials in a refrigerator and ensure prompt medical attention to anyone who develops an adverse reaction. “Many big housing complexes and offices have such facilities. Housing complexes have community centres that can be used for vaccination,” said another official of the health department. “Some states have started off-site vaccination and this is the need of the hour to contain the new wave. Covid vaccination only at healthcare facilities will not help, as many young and working people may not have the time to visit such a facility for vaccination,” said public health expert Abhijit Chowdhury. “However, the Centre should ensure adequate supply of vaccine doses. Otherwise, such exercises will have no effect.” Demands for off-site vaccination were being raised even before everyone above 45 became eligible for the Covid shot on April 1. AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria has received such requests from at least eight big housing complexes and six corporate houses, said Rupak Barua, the group CEO of the hospital chain. “Setting up vaccination camps at these housing complexes and offices is the only way to get more people vaccinated. We have been able to vaccinate only around 2,500 people between 45 and 59 since April 1. The target was to vaccinate 4,000 people. Since cases of adverse reactions after vaccination are rare, we can start the drive taking adequate precautions,” said Barua. He said ambulances with ICU facilities will be kept at the vaccination site to transport anyone falling sick after getting the shot to hospital. The Rabindranath Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences has been approached by three to four corporate bodies and a few housing complexes for doorstep vaccination. “We are keen to start such a drive but are waiting for the state government's guidelines,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, of which the RN Tagore hospital is a part. Several hospitals said despite keeping vaccination centres operational on Sunday, the response was poor. At Belle Vue Clinic, only 20 people took the shot on Sunday, compared with the daily average of 450 to 500. At Peerless Hospital, only 80 people were administered the jab on Sunday, compared with 200 on other days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-92
06-04-2021||Calcutta||Light, light every 20m but not a lamp that shines||Several roads and lanes in Salt Lake plunge into darkness as soon as the sun sets because the street lights installed there do not work. The 4km road that connects EM Bypass to Salt Lake has street lights at 20m intervals but none of them is functional. This road — from the Chingrighata crossing to EE Block, running parallel to the Eastern Drainage Canal — connects several blocks as well as housing complexes of the township, including the Jal Vayu Vihar and Mahavir Vikas complexes, and KB, KC and IC Blocks in Sector III and FF and EE Blocks in Sector II. To add to the worries of the motorists and pedestrians, construction materials like concrete blocks, sand and iron rods remain scattered on the sides of the road for the ongoing construction of the Airport-New Garia Metro Railway viaduct. It has become tricky for drivers and two-wheeler riders to navigate the road as there are several potholes. A resident of IC Block, Piyush Agarwal, said at night the entire stretch becomes so dark that spotting the construction items as well as potholes becomes quite difficult. “The other day one of my neighbours got a flat tire because he drove over an iron rod that was jutting out from the side of the road. We have lodged several complaints with the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation but they have not paid any heed to our pleas,” said Agarwal. The situation is similar on several lanes of FE Block where many street lights don’t work. In Sector I, large stretches of the road along the Kestopur canal are completely dark. “We have sent several letters to the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation but no action has been taken,” said Bhaskar Ganguly, a resident of AE Block. In HA Block, too, a resident said half of the street lights had become defunct and the others were too dim to be of any use. A section of residents said they had asked candidates from political parties, including Sujit Bose from the Trinamul Congress and BJP’s Sabyasachi Dutta, to do something about the lights. “They told us that they will ensure that the lights will get fixed but nothing has happened till now,” said one of the residents, who did not wish to be named. An official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation pointed out several reasons, including shortage of men and the Assembly elections, for the delay in carrying out repairs. “Many of our men are on election duty.” Another official of the civic body said they would start repairing the lights soon. “Engineers have been directed to carry out a survey where the lights need to be repaired or replaced,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-92
06-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal govt asks private hospitals to add beds or open satellite units||The Bengal government on Monday asked private hospitals to increase the Covid bed count or reopen satellite centres they had been running last year for Covid patients, the request triggered by an alarming rise in the number of people testing positive for the coronavirus. Several private hospitals said they had closed the satellite units following a sharp drop in the number of Covid patients towards the end of last year, a trend that persisted for several more weeks before cases started rising again early March. “Private hospitals have been told to increase the number of beds. At the same time they should explore the possibility of reopening satellite facilities as the number of cases is rising sharply in and around Calcutta,” an official of the state health department said after a meeting between the department and private hospitals on Monday. The satellite facilities, which were taken on rent by hospitals, were for patients with mild symptoms or those who were asymptomatic. In most cases, hotel rooms were used for such facilities. However, by the end of last year, almost all these centres were closed down because there were not many takers. Most patients who were asymptomatic or had mild symptoms opted for home isolation. When health department officials asked the private hospitals to increase the Covid bed count, representatives of several healthcare units expressed helplessness, saying they could not do what they had done during the height of the pandemic last year. They told health officials that the pressure of non-Covid patients was very high, unlike this time last year. Also, hundreds of surgeries and procedures are lined up over the next few months, and so it would be difficult to allot beds for Covid patients beyond a point. The Telegraph has reported how private hospitals are struggling to increase Covid beds. Many hospitals are converting single rooms into twin-sharing facilities to increase capacity. “So, we asked the hospitals to also explore the possibility of creating facilities outside their premises which could be used as satellite centres,” the health department official said. Belle Vue Clinic had started a 100-bed satellite unit in August last year but shut it down in December. “There were 52 patients at the most, so running the facility was no longer viable,” said Pradip Tondon, the CEO of Belle Vue. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences had started a satellite centre in July with a capacity to treat 52 persons. “It never had more than 30 patients at a time and eventually the number came down to zero. We had to close down the unit in December,” said an official of the hospital. “We now have 40 beds in the Covid wards, where 22 patients are admitted. If the number increases, we’ll first try to add Covid beds within the existing capacity, If that is not possible, we will think of resuming the satellite centre,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, of which the Mukundapur hospital is a flagship unit. ILS Hospital had around 48 beds in its satellite centre, which it had started after tying up with a hotel in mid-April last year. The facility was closed in October. However, some hospitals said they would not go for satellite centres. “Oxygen supply is one of the most crucial parts of Covid treatment. It’s difficult to have steady flow of oxygen supply at such satellite centres,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. “We now have around 50 Covid beds and almost all are occupied. We are trying to increase the capacity, but beyond a point we’ll again have to contact hotels to set up a satellite centre,” said Debashis Dhar, the group vice-president of ILS Hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-92
06-04-2021||Calcutta||State health department directs districts to ramp up Covid tests||The state health department has asked officials in all 23 districts of Bengal, especially the ones close to Calcutta, to ramp up Covid tests after a review revealed several of them were not even close to meeting the halfway mark of the daily target. Officials in the districts have been asked to ensure that health workers reach out to as many people as possible and convince them to get tested for Covid if there are any symptoms. Senior officials at Swasthya Bhavan said that in several districts a large number of people were either reluctant to turn up for tests or were ignoring their illness believing they just had a bout of common cold. They are going for tests, and are testing positive, weeks later, by when the symptoms have worsened. At a meeting on Monday, senior health officials from Swasthya Bhavan told their colleagues in the districts that health workers would have to intensify their outreach so that more and more people with mild symptoms got tested early. “The officials have been told that any delay in identifying a Covid patient will, in turn, delay the process of tracing those who have come in contact with him or her. This should not happen,” said an official at Swasthya Bhavan. A few weeks back, the health department had drawn up daily targets of Covid-19 tests for each district so that 20,000 tests could be performed every day. North 24-Parganas has to conduct 1,400 tests daily, Bankura 700 tests, and Purulia and West Midnapore 800 each. “Several districts including Purulia, Bankura and West Midnapore are not even touching the 50 per cent mark,” said the health department official. “South 24-Parganas and Murshidabad are among the better performers with a daily score of more than 80 per cent.” Officials of some districts said it was difficult to meet the daily target because a section of the staff was engaged in poll duty. Some said they were unable to launch awareness drives because of rallies. Case count The number of active Covid cases in Bengal rose by 1,293, to 11,446, on Monday. The state recorded 1,961 new infections and 664 recoveries during the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-92
06-04-2021||Calcutta||No CU practicals for even semester||Calcutta University will not reopen its campuses for in-person practical classes at the postgraduate level this semester, making a U-turn from its decision in the previous semester that ended in March, following a sharp rise in Covid cases. Online theory classes at the undergraduate and postgraduate levels for the ongoing semester started on Monday. In the previous semester (odd semester), CU was the only university in Bengal that reopened its campuses for practical classes. Asked about the prospect of reopening labs in the even semester, vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee said: "We are not going to allow this now. (Covid) Cases are rising all over. It would not be advisable to recall students to the campus now. We cannot compromise with the health of students. As pro-vice-chancellor (academic) Asish Chatterjee had told the heads of all departments last week, only theory classes in the online mode will be held till the situation improves.” The VC stressed that there had been a “drastic change in the ground situation” between the odd semester and the ongoing even semester. CU had in January allowed practicals at Ballygunge Science College, Rajabazar Science College and other campuses and students were asked to attend the classes in small batches. A month after the CU campuses reopened, education minister Partha Chatterjee had on February 3 sought to know from the pro-VC (academic) why the university had resumed lab classes in the absence of any directive from the education department. Days later, VC Chakravarti Banerjee justified the reopening, saying many teachers and students had appealed to the university to resume practicals. But the situation has drastically changed since. "Cases are rising sharply. Bringing students to the campus amid this could pose a health risk…. Under the circumstances we don’t want the campuses to reopen,” said Parthiba Basu, the president of the Calcutta University Teachers’ Association. The same association had on January 1 urged the VC to allow resumption of practicals by following all Covid-19 safety protocols. CU departments had last month held their practical exams online in the form of viva voce or by asking students to solve a problem on digital platforms. A renewed surge in Covid cases is forcing institutes across the country to rethink their decision to recall students to the campuses. IIEST Shibpur has called a meeting of the senate on April 7 to decide whether the supplementary exams could be conducted online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-92
06-04-2021||Calcutta||Auto runs over elderly pedestrian near JU||An elderly woman who was trying to cross the road in front of gate number three of Jadavpur University died after being hit by an autorickshaw on Monday morning. The accident occurred on the first working day of the week on a busy Raja SC Mullick Road in the heart of Jadavpur, which usually remains crowded with vehicles and pedestrians during office hours. The woman, around 80 years old, was declared dead at Baghajatin State General Hospital. The driver has been booked under IPC sections related to causing death due to negligence, rash and negligent driving and mischief. Police officers who were the first to reach the spot said the autorickshaw was moving at a high speed and the driver could not control the vehicle when the woman suddenly came in front. “Autorickshaws are light vehicles that can be stopped immediately if the brake is pressed at the right time. But in this case it appeared that the three-wheeler was moving at such pace that the driver failed to negotiate the speed even after pressing the brake,” said an officer of Jadavpur police station. The incident brought back the scare of rogue autos that blatantly violate traffic rules, jump signals, carry extra passengers and often flaunt political connections when caught by the law agencies. People in the neighbourhood said the woman, whose name could not be ascertained till Monday evening, was often spotted begging on Jadavpur footpaths. The driver of the killer auto was arrested and the vehicle seized from the spot. There were two passengers in the autorickshaw when the incident happened. The police said the number of accidents involving autos in the city had reduced in the past year following the imposition of lockdown. Most auto drivers had been a little more careful in maintaining the Covid-19 protocol and the road rules as they took out their vehicles after a gap of a few months, the period when the city was under lockdown. “But now it seems that as life is returning to normal and more and more people are stepping out, autos, too, are going back to their normal ways of rash driving,” said an officer of the traffic department. Officers said pedestrians, too, should be careful while crossing roads. “It is very important for pedestrians to cross the road only when the traffic signal is red for vehicles and they cross over through zebra-crossings,” said the officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-92
06-04-2021||Calcutta||Rain brings temperature down||Parts of Calcutta received a sharp spell of rain in the afternoon on Monday. In some areas, the showers were accompanied by hailstorms. The rain came from localised clouds, formed because of the pent-up heat and moisture in the atmosphere, said a Met official. The conditions were not as windy as during the squall on Sunday. But two bouts of showers in two consecutive days brought temporary relief from the scorching conditions the city had been subjected to over the past few days. The rain was sporadic on Monday. The Met office recorded 32mm of rain in Alipore between 4pm and 5.30pm. At the same time, Behala hardly got any showers. Areas like Kasba and Patuli got some rain, accompanied by a hailstorm. The maximum temperature on Monday was 35.1 degrees Celsius and the minimum was 22.6 degrees, two notches below normal. “There is very little chance of thundershowers over the next couple of days...,” said the Met official. The city is yet to get its first Nor’wester this season.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-93
