07-04-2021||Calcutta||Life stories shared at Xavier’s TEDx||Men find it difficult to evolve and accept women as equals because emotionally they are “programmed” to believe they are superior, actor Adil Hussain said at an online event. He was the guest speaker at the TEDxStXavier’sCollegeKolkata partnered by The Telegraph on March 27. “It is probably a painful process for men to evolve and accept women as equal because emotionally they are designed or programmed or conditioned to believe that they are superior and that they can order women around, suppress and oppress women,” said Hussain. He said that it is difficult to find a man who actually believes that women are equal, and not just intellectually. “…how many men do you know who actually treat women equally in every respect... their decision-making process, their ideas, their ways of expressing themselves?” “It would need a revolutionary, radical education process in India in order to educate men, even women, that they are equal. There are a lot of women who believe they are not equal. It’s a patriarchal mindset that has been injected… In a civilised country like India, it is high time that we believe, not only believe but treat women equally with dignity and respect,” he said. Hussain suggested that education is a tool for this change, not just in schools but in households and through government programmes as well. The online event, which was open to students of the college and others, had six speakers who shared their journeys and life experiences. “The pandemic has impacted people in different ways — emotionally and economically. Many students have been affected mentally and to hear speakers (from different walks of life) share their life experiences encourages them. The speakers shared their experiences and how life has helped them experience new things and how they have been able to succeed,” said Reverend Dominic Savio, principal, St Xavier’s College (Autonomous) Calcutta. The fact that students have been unable to come out of their homes is depressing but an event like this benefits them, helps them to interact, listen and feel motivated, he said. The chief guest for the evening, British deputy high commissioner Nick Low, spoke about the long-standing relationship between India and the UK. Low said that a global pandemic requires a global solution. Increasing cross-border communication and global unity will help combat the situation better, he said. Cardiac surgeon Kunal Sarkar spoke about the importance of getting vaccinated and the need to avoid social gatherings. “A vaccinated person has 70 per cent protection from getting the infection and almost 90 per cent protection from getting a severe form of the disease,” said Sarkar. “Getting vaccinated does not mean you stop wearing a mask. It is important to wear a mask and avoid social gatherings because this is not the time for parties,” he said. The other speakers at the event were Sayonsom Chanda, founder of Sync Energy AI; Sailesh Singhal, founder of Youth of India, a United Nations conference-accredited organisation; Niren Chaudhary, CEO of Panera Bread, on whom Farhan Akhtar’s character in the film Sky is Pink was based; and Siddhant More, an alumnus of St Xavier’s College, Calcutta, who is the founder of the website Mad Over Marketing (M.O.M).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-91
07-04-2021||Calcutta||Foundation work of two Tallah pillars will be completed by April||The foundation work of the two remaining pillars that are coming up on railway land for the proposed Tallah bridge would be completed by April, the state government has decided. Engineers said completing the foundation work on the eight pillars, including these two, by April would mean inching closer towards the target of finishing the construction of the bridge by 2022. The railway has agreed to block traffic from midnight till 5am for the entire month of April so that the foundation work of the two pillars can be completed. Machinery and men have also moved in so that the work can be wrapped up by April. Engineers said these eight pillars on the railway land stand at the centre of the two flanks of the Tallah bridge — one towards Shyambazar-end and the other towards the Dunlop-end — and remain the most crucial part of the construction process. Each of these pillars would stand at least 50 metre underground. Senior officials from the public works department, the agency that is implementing the Rs 340-crore project, said completing the foundation work of these two pillars would mean crossing one of the biggest hurdles before moving on the second stage of construction. The proposed Tallah bridge, which will connect large parts of north Calcutta, including Dunlop, Sinthee, Chiria More with Shyambazar, will have two spans on either side of the flat deck in the middle. These two spans, each measuring about 280 metre, would stand on 12 pillars. The deck in the middle will be about 230 metre long. “Once the foundation work of these eight pillars is completed, we would reach a landmark of sorts because of the complexities involved. The pillars would come up between railway tracks and will hold the main plank of the bridge,” said a senior PWD official. “The railway has extended full cooperation to us.” Engineers said meeting the April deadline would be the most vital step towards meeting the next target of completing work by August 2021. “By August we have set a target of completing almost 40 per cent of the construction work,” said a PWD official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-91
07-04-2021||Calcutta||Plea to Election Commission: Ensure adherence to Covid protocol||A number of Calcuttans have petitioned the Election Commission of India to take steps to ensure that Covid-appropriate behaviour is observed during election campaigns, where safety protocols are now routinely violated. Environmental activist Subhas Datta wrote to the commission on Tuesday, saying one “cannot afford to be negligent” and stop taking protective measures against Covid, which is spreading at an alarming rate across the country, just because elections are on. He warned that violation of the mask mandate at election rallies might result in a disaster. Referring to “total lack of compliance” of safety measures, Datta wrote: “During the current course of the state Assembly elections, the political parties and their leaders are not at all following the prescribed practices of social distancing, wearing of masks and sanitisation process during the election campaign.” Several doctors’ organisations, including the West Bengal Doctors Forum and the Protect the Warriors, have also written to the poll panel with the appeal that adherence to Covid protocols be made mandatory at election rallies and roadshows. S.Y. Quraishi, a former chief election commissioner of India, told Metro on Tuesday: “Article 324 of the Constitution gives the commission the power to conduct free and fair polls. The commission can bar a candidate from campaigning for a day or more if it feels that his/her action has endangered the safety of voters, because it is also the commission’s responsibility to safeguard the safety of voters.” The number of Covid-19 cases in the state has witnessed a sharp spike and the numbers are rising every day. On March 1, Bengal had recorded 171 new infections. Calcutta had accounted for 70 cases. The number of active cases – people who are yet to recover or complete their quarantine period after testing positive -  in the state was 3,253 on March 1. Calcutta had 1,201 cases. The numbers have increased by nearly four times in little over a month, with the state recording 2,058 new cases (582 of them in Calcutta) on Monday. The number of active cases stood at 12,775 on Monday, with the city accounting for 4,338 of them. Public health specialist K. Srinath Reddy conceded that maintaining a gap of 6 feet between two persons might not be possible everywhere but he stressed the need to wear masks in public places at all times. “If everyone wears a mask, the risks of transmission of Covid-19 gets substantially reduced, even in a crowded place. Several studies have proved this,” said Reddy, the president of the Public Health Foundation of India. “Even at a place where people are shouting slogans, masks can protect people. But everyone needs to wear masks. Masks also protect people travelling in crowded public transport.” Datta and other petitioners want the election commission to bar a candidate from campaigning or impose other stringent punishments on a candidate if it is found that safety norms are flouted at a rally addressed by him or her. A doctor said he was surprised that no leader had ever urged supporters to wear masks during rallies. “When leaders are not behaving responsibly, the commission must step in and ensure that norms are followed,” the doctor said. The Covid-19 guidelines published by the ministry of home affairs mention that “wearing of face cover is mandatory in public places” and “individuals must maintain a minimum distance of 6 feet in public places”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-91
07-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: State govt raises poll vehicle rate by 20 per cent||The state government has revised the rates of hiring buses, minibuses, cars, lorries and other vehicles for the Assembly elections in Bengal, adhering to the demand of transport operators. The operators had threatened to withdraw their services unless the rates were revised. The government on Tuesday raised the rates by 20 per cent compared to the rates during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections in the state. “The revised rates will be applicable when payments are made for all vehicles that have been hired so far and those that will be engaged for the remaining phases of the polls in the state,” a senior transport department officer said. According to the revised rates, buses — without fuel — will be hired for Rs 2,300 per day, up from Rs 1,910. Minibuses, minus fuel, will be hired for Rs 1,900 per day, up from Rs 1,580. Late on Tuesday afternoon, the transport department issued a letter to Bengal’s chief electoral officer (CEO) with details of the revised rates after the Election Commission of India cleared the state government’s proposal. Metro had reported about the bus, minibus and lorry owners’ demand for a revision in rates, without which they had said it would be difficult to let out their vehicles for the polls. In a letter to the CEO in March, the transport operators had also demanded that their dues from the 2019 Lok Sabha elections be cleared ahead of the Assembly polls. According to the Union ministry of law and justice guidelines, the amount spent on transporting election material, including ballot boxes and EVMs, is treated as expenditure incurred for conducting elections. “Close to 45,000 buses and two lakh lorries across the state are involved in the poll process,” said Pradip Narayan Bose of the West Bengal Bus and Minibus Owners Association. “This (the hike in rates) has been a legitimate demand of ours and we are thankful to the state government for accepting our demand.” Several bus and minibus operators said they had expected a revision in the tiffin charge of the staff on duty as well. “The per day tiffin charge has remained unchanged at Rs 170. Is this amount enough for a bus staff? The state government could have revised this rate too,” said Tapan Bandyopadhyay of the Joint Council of Bus Syndicate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-91
07-04-2021||Calcutta||BJP ‘more dangerous’ than others, says activist||Parties in power have often resorted to culture policing in Bengal but the BJP could be far more dangerous given the evidence they have presented when they are still in the opposition, an activist said at a demonstration in the College Street area on Tuesday. A play about the “dangers of fascism” was stopped midway, allegedly by BJP supporters, at Basanti in South 24-Parganas on March 27. The members of the group staging the play, who were allegedly attacked, had organised a protest meet in the College Street area on Tuesday. “In the past, both CPM and Trinamul as ruling parties have resorted to culture censorship,” said Kushal Debnath, the convener of the “No Vote to BJP” campaign, one of the guest speakers at the meeting. “The BJP trying such strongarm tactics before coming to power is a sign of naked fascist aggression.” A ruling party trying to muzzle free voice and a party in the opposition, with three MLAs in the 294-member Assembly, daring to do it are different, said several speakers on Tuesday. “These people want to compartmentalise everything. They think ‘we are politicians, we will run the country’. You are the culture clan. Your job is to sing and dance. Don’t get involved in matters of the country,” said Soumitra Basu, a former professor of philosophy at Jadavpur University. The same mentality was behind the saffron ecosystem’s attack on Nobel laureate Amartya Sen for his unfavourable comments on the Narendra Modi regime, said Basu. Subhankar Das Sharma of Janaganamana, the cultural organisation which was allegedly attacked at Basanti, said the group had staged over 80 shows of the play across south Bengal since August last year. Written against the backdrop of the Modi government’s citizenship matrix, the play is titled Idurkol (Mouse Trap). The play begins with the following lines that translate to: “They are fooling people, training us to live alone, stoking riots between communities, jailing the protesters.” Many young people have come up with songs protesting the BJP regime’s majoritarian politics in general and the citizenship matrix in particular. Many of them have been brutally trolled and threatened, at times by prominent leaders of the BJP. Bengal is not unfamiliar with culture censorship. During the Left regime, plays like Poshu Khamar (based on George Orwell’s Animal Farm) and Winkle Twinkle had allegedly been stopped from being staged. Multiple speakers said on Tuesday that Trinamul hoodlums had also stopped musical performances that were part of political campaigns in districts as recently as 2018. To resist the attack on free speech is to take the message to the interiors of Bengal, said Debasish Majumdar, who runs a theatre group. “We have to take the plays beyond the Academy (of Fine Arts), to villages,” said Majumdar. Tuesday’s stage was set up near the Paramount sherbet shop. Lines of bookstores dot the busy road. Young participants sat on the pavement and seniors on chairs in front of the dais. A group of musicians recited poetry and sang songs of protest between speeches. “We have come to speak of hunger. Your rifle is pointed at us. You have unleashed armed goons on us. But we are not cowered. We are unfazed by your batons, bullets and tear gas. We have come to speak of hunger and homelessness,” said a poem. Tikri talking point The talking point at the farmers’ demonstrations on Delhi borders is the Bengal polls, a protester from Tikri, a protest site on the border of the national capital, said on Tuesday. “The people at Tikri and Singhu are watching news channels. Whenever a pro-BJP channel speaks in favour of the BJP, they switch off the TV,” said Anup Singh of the Kisan Social Army, which handles the social media operations of the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha. A six-member delegation, including Singh, is in Calcutta to lend support to the “No Vote to BJP” campaign. “The land of Bhagat Singh is pinning hopes on the land of Bose. A BJP defeat will be a big shot in the arm for us,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-91
07-04-2021||Calcutta||Environment activist molested while stalling hawker at Rabindra Sarobar||An environment activist hailed by many because of her efforts to protect Rabindra Sarobar was allegedly heckled and molested when she tried to stop a hawker from encroaching on a footpath outside the lake compound on Tuesday morning. Eight youths were arrested following a complaint by the woman but the activist was arrested, too, as the accused lodged a complaint of assault against her. She was booked under the bailable charge of causing grievous hurt and was granted bail at the police station. The eight youths, booked under non-bailable sections, will be produced in court on Wednesday. “This is so strange. I am the victim, I was molested. But the police arrested me. This is the state of women’s safety and security in the city,” she told Metro later. The environment activist said one of the youths who allegedly heckled and molested her had an injury mark on his face. He is a “goon” and must have suffered the injury in a clash, she said. “I have been asking a hawker who sells tea to not encroach on the footpath by placing so many stools. Today, when I was telling him not to block the gate of the lake, some youths came towards me and took his side,” the activist said after stepping out of Rabindra Sarobar police station on Tuesday afternoon. “One of the youths had a big fresh cut mark on his chin. He was very loud and said he was just back from some ‘action’ and warned me not to mess with him.” The woman said as she kept insisting that the hawker remove the stools, the youths pushed her and then molested her. She said the accused snatched her phone and walking stick and threw them on the road when she tried to click their photographs. A woman tea seller, who was accompanied by her daughter, gave the activist a phone, with which she called up Rabindra Sarobar police station. Police officers reached the spot and detained eight youths, who were taken to the police station. The woman accompanied them to the police station and lodged a complaint, following which the eight were arrested. The accused then lodged a complaint of assault against the woman and she was arrested, too. “I did not lose my calm and went through the formalities. My lawyer told me that I would get bail from the police station. This is not the first time I have been targeted because of my activities to save the environment,” she said. A senior police officer said they were probing the complaints lodged by the woman as well as the youths. “We will investigate both complaints and proceed accordingly,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-91
07-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Virulence blamed for fast spread||A group of 12 friends from Calcutta had gone on a leisure trip in end-March. A few of them developed symptoms of Covid-19 and about three days back, all 12 tested positive. A group of five from a family — the members are of ages four to 55 and they live in different houses — had gone to a star hotel for lunch last week. One of them developed symptoms of Covid and subsequently all tested positive. The virulence of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid, is way more than what the country had witnessed last year, doctors said following reports that members of a group or a family are getting infected at the same time in increasing numbers. Also, younger people are being infected in larger numbers than in the first phase of the epidemic last year, the doctors said. Public health experts and doctors also blamed a general sense of false safety and carelessness among a large section of the population, active social life in the absence of a lockdown and tendency to travel for the rapid spread of the disease. “I am getting at least three to four Covid patients every day. All are family members. Last year, too, at the height of the epidemic, multiple members of a family were being infected but rarely did we find every member testing positive,” said physician Amitabha Saha. Doctors said one reason why so many people in close groups were getting affected could be that new strains of the coronavirus were more virulent than the previous ones. However, violation of safety protocols by a large section of the population is also to be blamed. “Earlier, there was panic among people, which is now mostly missing. There is a perception that Covid is gone. Also, many people are having a false sense of security and are not following safety protocols after taking the first dose of a vaccine. That is the reason why so many people are testing positive after taking the first dose,” said Sauren Panja, the head of critical care and internal medicine at the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences. “The perception that Covid is gone is also the reason why people with symptoms are going for the test late. Earlier, many people did not want to be tested because of the fear of being stigmatised.” Panja cited another reason for the fast spread of the virus - increase in travelling within the city and outside and lack of restrictions on socialising in the absence of a lockdown. Hospitals providing home healthcare facilities said they were seeing people in groups getting infected. An agency that provides home healthcare said six students of a management institute in Calcutta had tested positive for Covid in the last week of March. All of them stayed at the institute’s hostel. “Within a couple of days, nine more students in the same hostel tested positive. All 15 are being monitored through video conferencing by our doctors,” said an official of the agency. Apollo Home Healthcare has around 100 Covid patients in Calcutta who are undergoing treatment at home. “We have seen this time that in many cases more than three members of a family are getting affected at the same time. Last year, even during the peak of the epidemic, we had seen mostly two to three people in a family getting infected,” said Souvik Bhattacharya, the unit head of Apollo Home Healthcare. “Also, around 50 per cent of those undergoing treatment at the moment under our supervision, are between 25 and 40. Last year, we had barely 10 per cent of this age group as patients.” Case count The number of active Covid cases in Bengal rose by 1,329, to 12,775, on Tuesday. The state recorded 2,058 new infections and 772 recoveries during the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-92
07-04-2021||Calcutta||Three IIEST dept is closed till Sunday after some teachers tested Covid positive||IIEST, Shibpur, has decided to keep three departments close till April 11 after some teachers attached to them tested positive for Covid-19, an official of the institute said. The acting registrar of the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology (IIEST) said arrangements could be made for the sanitisation of the civil engineering, physics and architecture, town and regional planning departments, which will remain closed till Sunday. Classes at the Shibpur institute are being held online but the teachers are visiting the campus to oversee research. Scholars pursuing research have returned to the campus in phases. The Centre in its Unlock-V directive issued last year had said higher education institutions could reopen from October 15 for research scholars and postgraduate students in technology and science streams requiring laboratory/experimental work. “At least three teachers tested positive, leading to the closure of the departments. We will assess the situation post-sanitisation and decide on reopening. The affected teachers are in home isolation,” said an official of the institute. “We will ask the research scholars who came in contact with the three teachers to undergo the confirmatory test for Covid.” The detection of cases is set to disrupt the institute’s decision to bring back to the campus final semester postgraduate students from mid-April, another official of the institute said. The IIEST senate, the highest academic body of the institute, had decided last month to call back the 370-odd outgoing postgraduate students to the campus in a phased manner so they could have some hands-on training. Practical classes have not been held at the institute since the campus shut down in March last year as a precaution against Covid. When asked whether it would be proper to ask students to return to the campus at a time Covid cases are surging across the country, IIEST director Parthasarathi Chakrabarti said: “We have called an emergency meeting of the senate on Wednesday to decide on this. It seems bringing back the postgraduate students now would not be safe. Let the members of the senate share their opinions.” The senate will also take a call on whether the supplementary exams will be held online. The institute had earlier decided to conduct the exams, scheduled from May 5, on the campus. Metro reported on Tuesday that Calcutta University would not reopen its campuses for practical classes at the postgraduate level this semester.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-92
07-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid surge: People neither wearing masks, nor maintaining social distancing||A woman who recently undertook a 12-hour train journey said she was among the handful of passengers in the packed AC 3-tier compartment who were wearing masks. A septuagenarian was told that Covid had disappeared when he asked a youth standing next to him at a shop and talking loudly to wear a mask. Calcuttans who are still wearing masks in public places, trying to maintain the physical distancing protocol and washing or sanitising hands frequently have become a minority, despite a renewed surge in Covid numbers. In markets, public transport or social gatherings, they are subjected to ridicule if they tell others to wear masks. Dipanjana Datta, a medical geneticist, boarded the Kanchankanya Express on Saturday from Sealdah. The journey to Siliguri lasted around 12 hours. Datta said almost everyone in the coach was without a mask. “People from other coaches were coming over to chat with friends or relatives. They were without masks and talking loudly. When I asked a man standing close to me to wear a mask, he looked very irritated,” Datta recounted. She said that people looked at her in a way as if she was doing something funny and foolish. “I did not take off my mask for once because others were behaving very irresponsibly. I even slept wearing a mask. Everyone looked at me in a way as if I was doing something very strange,” she said. Datta was not the only one to feel stigmatised in a gathering. A septuagenarian resident of Kasba had a similar experience when he asked a youth standing next to him and speaking loudly with the owner of a grocery to wear a mask. “When I asked the youth to put on a mask, he laughed and said Covid had gone. He did not put on the mask. Most of the others who were standing there, too, did not have a mask on. No one else told the youth to mask up,” the elderly man said. Datta said all through her journey she kept thinking about her three young daughters and her 75-year-old mother. “If I get infected, I may pass on the virus to them. I cannot understand why people fail to realise that they may make their loved ones suffer because of their callousness,” she said. A few other Calcuttans who are still following the safety protocols said most people take out a mask from the pocket when asked to wear one. But the masks look unclean and many of them wear a surgical mask for several days, against the advice of doctors. “A surgical mask should not be worn for more than six to eight hours,” a doctor said. “A lot of people do not wear masks because they do not have any symptoms of Covid-19. But what they fail to understand is that they could be asymptomatic carriers of the virus and may end up transmitting the virus to others,” the doctor said. “A large number of infected people may not have any external manifestation of the disease. Such people may unknowingly spread the virus to another person, who may develop serious symptoms and need hospitalisation. It is necessary for everyone to wear a mask, for his or her safety and for the safety of others,” said a doctor at a government hospital. Pramit Ghosh, an associate professor of community medicine at the Purulia Government Medical College and Hospital, said: “More people were wearing masks in the initial days of the pandemic because they perceived Covid-19 to be a dangerous disease. But with time the perception has changed. Many people no longer think the disease is very dangerous. The change is perception is not based on science.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-92
07-04-2021||Calcutta||The debt of gratitude we owe to the melting-pot culture of Calcutta||Down the centuries, Calcutta has gradually moulded itself into a beacon of cosmopolitanism because it has been open to influences from around the world. From biryani to Borodin (Christmas), the best of Calcutta has been imbibed and then customised in a way that they became inseparable from the city. That melting-pot culture is now facing a threat like never before against the backdrop of the state elections that the Right-wing ecosystem is desperate to trump, Calcuttans from different spheres told The Telegraph. At stake, they said, was the soul of a culture that has always dared to be different in embracing various ways of life as its own. Some snapshots of what makes Calcutta different: Meat sellers across the city would vouch for Navami of Durga Puja as the busiest day every year. Navami is the final day of Navratri, a period when non-vegetarian food is forbidden in swathes of India. The mai n elements of the ubiquitous Sunday mutton curry — potato, onion, garlic and chilli — trace their origins to the outside world. Potato and chilli came to Calcutta from America via Europe and onion and garlic were Muslim ingredients. Some of Calcutta’s iconic structures like The Oberoi Grand, Stephen House, Park Mansions and Queen’s Mansions were built by a clan of mostly wealthy Armenian merchants who preceded the East India Company. There is similarity in the attire of three foremost icons of Bengal, Raja Ram Mohan Roy, Rabindranath Tagore and Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay — a distinct Persian influence. Biryani from Awadh, Chelo kebab from Persia and Fish Mueniere from France — Calcutta’s palate is one of the biggest examples of Calcutta’s cosmopolitanism. Foodlore has it that biryani came to Calcutta with Wajid Ali Shah, the last nawab of Awadh, who arrived in the city in 1856. Today, a celebration or a festival in Calcutta is synonymous with biryani. “On any given day, the number of Hindus eating biryani is much, much more than Muslims. Similarly, many Calcuttans look forward to Ramzan because of haleem (a thick and nutritious stew of meat and different lentils), which traces its roots to the Arabic Harees,” said Shahanshah Mirza, the great-great-grandson of Wajid Ali Shah, born and brought up in the city. Nitin Kothari, the owner of iconic Park Street restaurants Mocambo and Peter Cat, was on a two-day stopover at Tehran on his way to India from Germany many years ago when he had his first Chelo kebab. He introduced the dish at Peter Cat, with a dollop of butter and a fried egg, instead of the raw egg yolk served in Tehran. The dish became a runaway hit and has remained a top draw in the city’s culinary list, a reflection of how Calcutta imbibes something from another world and then makes it her own. “I have lived in other places too but the way Calcutta has imbibed, and then owned, aspects of other cultures is unique. This cosmopolitanism would not have worked had it been unidimensional, related to only food, for example. The same cosmopolitanism is visible in all spheres of life in Calcutta, be it architecture or music,” said Kothari, 74. A snippet about Nahoum’s bakery in New Market that had gone viral on social media a couple of years ago had summed up the city’s culinary character. Its central message — a Jewish bakery with Muslim chefs sees a long queue of mostly Hindus in a Christian festival (Christmas). The willingness to experiment and embrace the unknown has been an inherent part of Bengali culture, with Calcutta as its epicentre, said scholars and historians. The city’s status as a thriving trade hub also attracted many communities like the Armenians, Parsis and the Chinese. Jawhar Sircar, who retired in 2016 after having spent over four decades in the Indian Administrative Service, said “unorthodoxy and non-conformity” were the two fundamental characters of the “composite Bengali culture since its formative years in the fourteenth century”. “In keeping with that tradition, the Bengali culture led by Calcutta was the first to embrace western and Persian influences. The Persian influence is visible in the iconographic dressing style of Ram Mohan Roy, Rabindranath Tagore and Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay,” he said. Kite flying and pigeon petting in Calcutta also trace their roots to Persian influence. Wajid Ali Shah, who was deeply inspired by Persian culture, is said to have introduced kite flying to Calcutta. The sport has since evolved into being synonymous with Vishwakarma (the god of architecture) Puja in Calcutta, another example of how the city has made a borrowed sport its own. This readiness to adapt to foreign influences was also at the root of Calcutta’s emergence as the cradle of rational thinking in India, something that had prompted luminaries like C.V. Raman and D.R. Bhadarkar to shift base to the city for academic pursuits, said historians. Abanindranath Tagore, considered the father of the Bengal School of Art, is another case in point. One of his most famous paintings, The Passing of Shah Jahan, shows the fifth Mughal emperor on his deathbed, staring at the Taj Mahal. “His art is a tribute to the rich Indo-Islamic past of our country,” said Jayanta Sengupta, secretary and curator of the Victoria Memorial in Calcutta. “His Arabian Night Series is a rich tapestry of medieval Arabia and colonial Calcutta. Interspersed with characters from the Arabian fairy tales are characters from Jorasanko and Chitpore, around Nakhoda mosque — people Abanindranath grew up around,” he said. Anthony Khatchaturian, writer and amateur historian of Armenian origin, said the Armenians today numbered less than a hundred in the city but they once played a key role in shaping the history of Bengal and Calcutta. “We are a dwindling community now because of our internal politics but Calcutta has always given us love. Armenians have always lived peacefully with other communities like Parsis, Jews and Chinese in Calcutta,” said the Calcutta-born Khatchaturian who went to London for higher studies and worked in the headquarters of the Metropolitan Police Service, better known as Scotland Yard, for a decade. The Armenian College in Calcutta will turn 200 this year. The Central Bank of Armenia is to issue a special coin to celebrate the occasion, he said. Calcutta’s politics is but a reflection of her social psychology, said historians and social scientists. At the root of that politics is the right to dissent, to not conform to a majoritarian view. The emergence of a Right-wing ecosystem poses an unprecedented threat to that political character, they pointed out. “The battle is between openness and orthodoxy, between an inherent heterogeneity and an inevitable homogeneity. It is non-conformity versus an imposed conformity,” said Sircar. “Till the emergence of the Right-wing ecosystem, no mainstream political party in Bengal openly indulged in communal politics. The Muslim League and the Hindu Mahasabha did but they were fringe players,” he added. Khatchaturian said “Muslims and Christians would be the first in the line of fire” if Bengal came under a Right-wing regime. “But I doubt if the BJP’s interpretation of orthodox Hinduism would sit well with the Bengali version of liberal Hinduism,” he said. Historian Sugata Bose, grand-nephew of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, said not differentiating between religions was the biggest tenet of Calcutta’s cosmopolitan character. “As a kid growing up in this city, Id meant a visit to the house of one of my closest friends. I used to savour the delicacies made by his grandmother. I had always known this was normal, that we never saw ourselves as Hindus or Muslims. I never thought I would have to highlight this to make a point,” said Bose. “A bigotry in a section of the educated Hindu middle class contributed to the Partition but we managed to recover our cosmopolitan character reasonably quickly. The huge number of Hindu refugees who entered India during the Partition were extremely vulnerable. But they did not veer towards the Right wing led by the Hindu Mahasabha,” Bose said. The “spectre of 1946-47”, Bose felt, was looming once again on Calcutta. “We have to bring out our cosmopolitan best to resist that,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-92
