08-04-2021||Calcutta||BJP drives chartered flight traffic ||This election, the city airport has handled the highest number of chartered planes and helicopters compared with any other elections in Bengal and nine out of 10 of those were hired by the BJP, officials at the airport said. In March, the airport had handled 140 chartered planes and helicopters, said officials. Around 30 per cent of them were helicopters and the rest were aircraft with five to 15 seats. The choppers used were mostly five-seater. “Most of the chartered planes and helicopters were hired by political parties. Only a few were used for non-poll purposes like air ambulances,” said an official. At least two officials working for more than 25 years at the airport said they had never seen so many chartered planes and helicopters ferrying political leaders to and from Calcutta during any election. The state BJP has formed a six-member team to coordinate the operation of these planes and helicopters. Leaders of the party said this was the first time such a team has been formed because so many leaders from outside were coming to campaign in Bengal. “This March we handled 140 chartered planes and helicopters and 90 per cent of those were used by BJP leaders. The chartered planes were mostly used to fly leaders from Delhi to Calcutta and the helicopters were used to ferry them to districts,” said an official at the airport. Airport sources said the leaders who used chartered planes and choppers included Union home minister Amit Shah, BJP Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya, BJP president J.P. Nadda, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Smriti Irani. Some local leaders, too, flew to districts on helicopters to campaign. Among leaders of other parties, Bengal Pradesh Congress president and leader of the Opposition in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Chowdhury, has flown on a chartered plane once to campaign for the ongoing elections, said airport sources. Among Trinamul Congress leaders, the sources said, only chief minister Mamata Banerjee has flown on hired helicopters to campaign. The BJP has set up a team of five people to coordinate with the hordes of leaders flying in and out of the state daily. This team, dubbed as the protocol department, is headed by Tushar Kanti Ghosh, a state unit secretary of the party. Though no one from the group wanted to speak to The Telegraph officially, a party source said this was the first time such a practice had been initiated. “Planes and helicopters are usually arranged from Delhi. Here the team coordinates with airport officials,” the source said. The BJP is not denying that it has been contributing the most to the rapid growth of air traffic in Bengal over the last month or so. “We are a national party and it is only natural that our leaders will come from other parts of the country to campaign for us,” said Samik Bhattacharya, the BJP’s chief spokesperson. “As far as expenditure is concerned, we are an organised party and for the benefit of the party such expenses are necessary. At least the individual assets of our leaders don’t multiply like leaders of other parties.” The chief minister and her party has labelled the BJP leaders coming from other states to campaign as outsiders. An agency in Delhi that gives small planes and helicopters on hire said a eight-seater plane flying from Delhi to Calcutta and back would cost around Rs 10 lakh, plus an 18 per cent tax. The cost of hiring a five-seater helicopter ranges between Rs 95,000 and Rs 1,10,000 per hour, plus an 18 per cent tax. In Calcutta, airport officials said, there is not much movement of chartered flights and helicopters. After the lockdown, the airport would handle a maximum of 60 such aircraft in a month. Before the lockdown, the number was much less, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-90
08-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Bengal govt appeals to Centre for more vaccines ||The state government has appealed to the Union health ministry to send more Covid-19 vaccine doses to Bengal so a larger number of eligible people can be given the jab. Senior officials at Swasthya Bhavan said state health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam has appealed to the Union ministry of health and family welfare to ramp up supply so that the ongoing vaccination drive can be intensified across urban centres where the population density and the risk of the infection are higher. “We have requested the Centre to send us more vaccine doses. We can vaccinate even more people if additional doses of vaccine reach us,” Ajay Chakraborty, the state’s director of health services, told The Telegraph. Senior health department officials said a little over two lakh people on an average were receiving the jab daily now. Given the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, the state wants to double this number, provided an adequate supply of vaccine doses are made available. “We have the resources to increase the number from the current two lakh to close to five lakh recipients daily,” a senior health department official said. Bengal received a consignment of around 12 lakh doses of Covishield about 10 days back. “Since booster doses have to be of the same vaccine as that of the first jab, we have to store half of whatever consignment arrives for future use. Unless there is a steady supply, the vaccination process can't be intensified,” the official said. “The number of cases is increasing and we need to offer vaccines to more and more people.” While pressing for additional supplies of vaccines, the state has said that Bengal has been witnessing a spike in Covid cases, officials said. The number could rise more sharply because of the ongoing Assembly elections as people continue to flock to political rallies and meetings in large numbers. Unless the vaccination drive is stepped up, things could get difficult in the months ahead, the state health department has told the Union health ministry. On Wednesday, Bengal registered 2,390 new Covid-19 cases. Exactly a month back, this figure was 188. In Calcutta and North 24-Parganas, 722 and 550 new infections, respectively, were detected. A month back, the two districts had registered 62 and 39 new cases. According to primary estimates, the state health department has observed that in the third phase of vaccination, nearly three crore people will have to be given the jab. This means around six crore doses, including the booster shot, would be needed. According to primary estimates, the state health department has observed that in the third phase of vaccination, nearly three crore people in Bengal will have to be given the jab. This means around six crore doses, including the booster shot, would be needed. Public health experts have called for stepping up the vaccination drive immediately with hospitals and health facilities arranging for off-site facilities so that young and working professionals can be covered. Abhijit Chowdhury, one of the experts, recently told The Telegraph that vaccination only at healthcare facilities would not be of much help as many young and working people may not have the time to visit such a facility. “The Centre should ensure adequate supply of vaccine doses. Otherwise, such exercises will have no effect,” he had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-90
08-04-2021||Calcutta||Rs 12.5 lakh in currency seized near airport ||A man in his 30s was arrested on Jessore Road, near the airport, for allegedly carrying Rs 12.5 lakh without proper documents, police said. An officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said Kanti Ghosh was arrested at a check-post, in front of the Srijan Midland housing complex, which has been set up to keep tabs on vehicles entering and leaving the Madhyamgram and airport areas. An official of the Election Commission of India said they were keeping an eye on the flow of large sums of cash to political parties to ensure free and fair elections. The official said they had cautioned people on their website to carry valid documents if they carry more than Rs 50,000. “Unexplained cash above Rs 50,000 will be seized. It will be released only after it is established that the money has nothing to do with the elections. If the seized amount from any individual is above Rs 10 lakh, the case will be forwarded to the income tax department. A person needs to prove that he has withdrawn the money from his legitimate bank account through passbook entries,” the official said. An officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said they had stopped the vehicle that Ghosh, a resident of Naugatak in North 24-Parganas, was travelling in. Policemen and central forces personnel searched the vehicle and came across a large black bag under a seat. “We opened the bag and found it stuffed with Rs 2,000 and Rs 500 notes,” said the officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate. Ghosh allegedly failed to give any satisfactory reply when cops and poll panel officials asked him why he was carrying so much money. He also allegedly failed to provide documents to prove that he had withdrawn the money from the bank. Another officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said as the seized amount was more than Rs 10 lakh, they immediately alerted the office of the deputy director of income tax (investigation), Unit 1. A team of IT officials reached the spot and questioned Ghosh. An officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said Ghosh had been frequently changing his statements.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-90
08-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Isolation unit nudge to Calcutta Municipal Corporation||The civic authorities in Calcutta should be ready with facilities where Covid-19 patients and their contacts who cannot isolate themselves at home can stay, officials quoted chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay as saying at a meeting with government officials on Wednesday. The need to once again build such facilities has become unavoidable following an alarming rise in the number of Covid cases over the past few weeks. The city on Tuesday recorded 722 new Covid-19 cases, up from 582 on Monday. On March 1, the city had recorded only 70 new cases. Calcutta had the highest number of active Covid cases — 4,793 — in the state on Wednesday. Active cases are people who are yet to recover from Covid or are yet to complete their mandatory isolation period. “The chief secretary told us to be ready with quarantine and isolation facilities so that people who do not have additional rooms in their homes can be shifted there. His message was that we should build all necessary infrastructure in these facilities so they can be opened any time soon,” said an official of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC). The CMC official said the chief secretary chairing the meeting in the middle of the election season shows how serious the Covid situation had become. A CMC doctor said Covid patients with mild or no symptoms and advised home isolation must keep themselves confined in a room and cease all contacts with other family members. Those who have come in close contact with the infected person must also isolate themselves and get themselves tested if they develop any symptoms of Covid. There are a lot of people, such as those living in slums, who do not have enough rooms at home where they can isolate themselves. If they get infected and are allowed to stay at home, they could end up passing on the virus to other family members. “We have identified a building, owned by a media company near Science City, to set up an isolation centre. We will also open a facility at Kishore Bharati Stadium in Jadavpur, but the stadium is being currently used for election work. It will be handed over to us on April 12,” said a CMC official. Another CMC official said 722 new cases were reported in a single day at the peak of the first wave of infections last year. “I shudder to think what the case count will be when the second wave reaches its peak,” the official said. “Most people are moving around without masks. They are attending election meetings and roadshows without wearing masks and following the distancing protocol. The numbers will only keep rising if the situation is not controlled immediately,” the official said. The CMC official said the chief secretary had also asked them to step up awareness campaigns on Covid-appropriate behaviour. The civic body is also trying to expand its vaccination net. The CMC vaccinated nearly 11,500 people from its 80 clinics on Tuesday. It has planned to start vaccination from 20 more clinics from the middle of April.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-90
08-04-2021||Calcutta||State government asks private hospitals to add ICU beds for positive patients||The state government has asked private hospitals to increase the number of critical care beds for Covid patients. Several hospitals said they were willing to increase the ICU bed count in Covid wards but it would be difficult to do so if the number of non-Covid patients remained the same. On Tuesday, a senior state health department official posted a message on a WhatsApp group of private hospitals asking them to add ICU beds. “We have asked the private hospitals to increase the number of Covid ICU beds so we are prepared for any situation. They have been asked to ramp up general beds but ICU beds should be increased in more numbers,” Ajay Chakraborty, Bengal's director of health services, said on Wednesday. According to him, there are around 8,500 general beds and 2,000 ICU beds in government and private hospitals in Calcutta for Covid patients. Some of the hospitals said they were ready to increase the number of Covid beds. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences has 40 Covid beds, of which 16 are critical care ones. “We had planned non-Covid beds on the same floor so we can easily convert them to Covid beds. As an immediate measure, we will ramp up our Covid beds to 60, including 29 critical care beds,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, of which the RN Tagore hospital is the flagship unit. The hospital, he said, will buy more non-invasive ventilators and high-flow nasal oxygen equipment. Belle Vue Clinic has 20 ICU beds for Covid patients and all were occupied on Wednesday evening, officials said. “At the peak of the Covid pandemic last year, we had 34 ICU beds for Covid patients. We are planning to increase the number of ICU beds to that level soon. Non-Covid patients in need of critical care will be kept in another ICU where we have eight beds,” said Pradip Tondon, the CEO of Belle Vue. An official of a private hospital said the challenge was to strike a balance between Covid and non-Covid ICU beds. Officials of some hospitals said they are expecting the number of non-Covid patients to go down as Covid cases surge again. At three units of AMRI Hospitals, relatives of seven patients cancelled planned surgeries on Wednesday. “We are expecting the non-Covid patient footfall to reduce as Covid patients get admitted in large numbers. But even then we cannot drastically reduce non-Covid beds and convert them into Covid beds. We have to do it gradually," said Rupak Barua, group CEO, AMRI. Three units of the hospital have around 250 ICU beds, of which 50 are reserved for Covid patients. At Peerless Hospital, officials said five out of seven Covid ICU beds were occupied. “We will increase the count if we cannot accommodate patients,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of the hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-90
08-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Vaccination drive at office premises to begin from Sunday||A workplace with at least 100 employees willing to get vaccinated and three rooms to spare will be able to organise a Covid vaccination camp on its premises from Sunday, a guideline issued by the Centre on Wednesday said. Taking the vaccination drive to offices was being discussed since everyone above 45 was made eligible for the Covid shot on April 1. Vaccination on office premises will help cover a large number of people between 45 and 59. A letter from the Union health ministry to the state government on Wednesday mentioned that “Workplace vaccination centres may be launched across states/UTs (Union Territories) from 11th April 2021”. “Covid-19 vaccination sessions may be organised at workplaces which are having about 100 eligible and willing beneficiaries…. Organising vaccination at workplace will not only be convenient to the staff at workplaces but also help to avoid travel and hence reducing the risk of exposure to Covid-19 virus,” the guideline says. An office willing to organise a vaccination camp on its premises must have three rooms to spare. “In the first room recipients will wait for their turn and their papers will be verified. The next room is the vaccination room. In the third room — observation room — all recipients have to wait for 30 minutes post-vaccination,” said an official managing vaccination programmes in Calcutta. The guidelines mention that the “rooms should be part of the permanent structure of the workplace or proper and stable structures like hangars should be erected. Temporary shamiyana/tent like structures should not be used.” A “basic life-support ambulance” should be present on the office premises when vaccination will be under way. If a workplace has a clinic or hospital of its own, the doctors, nurses and other staff there can be trained to form the vaccination team, which will comprise five members. One of the members of the vaccination team should be a doctor. The official in charge of the Covid vaccination centre will be responsible to train the doctor, nurses and other staff from the company’s hospital or clinic in vaccination. The guidelines issued on Wednesday, and available on the ministry of health and family welfare’s website, also mention that the workplace should assign “one of their senior staff” to work as nodal officer, who will coordinate with the Covid vaccination centre that will vaccinate the company’s employees. The person will also be responsible for “registration of beneficiaries”, and “availability of physical and IT infrastructure”. According to the guideline, a private Covid vaccination centre (CVC) will hold vaccination sessions at a private company. For government offices, government CVCs will be responsible for the task. “District health authorities will normally deploy the vaccination team at government workplaces. Private CVC will deploy vaccination team at private workplaces,” the guideline adds. A session can be organised only when there are at least 50 people registered to take doses in that session, the guideline states. Following the Centre’s nod to hold vaccination on office premises, some private hospitals started discussions with private corporations. “We are having discussions with various corporate bodies and are expecting to get some confirmation in the next few days. We will begin with organising sessions at one or two offices in a day. Planning vaccination sessions in workplaces will be easier because we would know beforehand how many beneficiaries are listed in a workplace on any day,” said R. Venkatesh, the regional head (east), Narayana Health, the owners of the Rabindranath Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences. Rupak Barua, the group chief executive officer of AMRI Hospitals, said they have had discussions with 12 private companies about vaccinating their staff on their premises. “We will send our officials to see if the premises have the adequate infrastructure to set up a vaccination centre there. We are having discussions with about 12 companies,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-90
08-04-2021||Calcutta||New app-based e-bikes launched in New Town||App-based e-bikes were launched in New Town on Wednesday to improve the last mile connectivity in a place where finding public transportation options in the afternoons and at night becomes a challenge. New Town already has an app-based cycle sharing system that has gained popularity in all the action areas. The new battery-powered bikes, of which 100 have landed in New Town, can be picked up by commuters from 20 docking stations, an official of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) said. These are the same docking stations from where pedal-powered bikes are booked. The e-bikes are powered by a small electric motor and can run for up to 60km on a single charge. Spare batteries along with technicians will be stationed at each docking station. These technicians will change the batteries once a bike shows a   “low battery” sign on its display unit. Apart from being fitted with alloy wheels for extra stability and control and solid tyres that will require the least amount of maintenance in terms of filling up air, each bike has a small LED headlight to help riders negotiate the roads and lanes of New Town at night. The bikes also have a rear brake light and a basket in front where riders carry their bags and other things. On Wednesday, a docking station near the New Town Smart Street, a two-minute walk from the Kolkata Gate, was made operational for e-bikes by senior officials of Hidco that builds infrastructure in the township and representatives from the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA). Some of the other docking stations from where commuters can hire these bikes are in front of the New Town bus stand, near the Reliance Fresh outlet, outside Axis Mall, near Novotel and off the Kolkata Gate. The NKDA has partnered with Chartered Bike, an Ahmedabad-based company, to launch the e-bike service, which also operates the app-based cycle-sharing system in the township. The business model behind the bicycle-sharing app and the e-bike renting scheme, is based on the app-based bicycle sharing services operational in pedal-friendly cities like Paris, Copenhagen and Amsterdam. A user in New Town has to download the “Chartered Bike” mobile app on a smartphone. A one-time registration fee of Rs 100 is charged and it is redeemable, said a spokesperson for the company. To unlock an e-bike one needs to scan the QR code on the fender. In case someone wants to make a stop somewhere — for example to buy groceries, he or she has to click on the “parking” option on the app. At the end of the ride, the rider needs to choose the “end ride” option, after which the payment can be made through mobile wallets as well as the debit or credit cards. The bike has to be returned to any of the docking stations after the ride. As an introductory offer, the first half-an-hour of the ride will cost Rs 5. From there on a rider will be charged Rs 0.50 per minute. NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said 300 more battery-powered cycles were on their way. “We want to have as many non-polluting modes of last mile connectivity transport options in New Town. These bikes will be available round-the-clock.They will help residents as well as office goers to reach their offices, markets or even homes if they live close to a docking station,” said Sen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-91
08-04-2021||Calcutta||IIEST decides to hold online exams due to rise in Covid-19 cases||IIEST, Shibpur, will not call its students back to the campus for supplementary tests and hold the exams online because of the rise in Covid-19 cases across the country and on the campus, an official of the institute said. Last month, the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology (IIEST)’s senate, the highest academic body, had decided that BTech supplementary exams would be held on campus in May and the 370-odd outgoing postgraduate students would be called to the campus from mid-April for hands-on laboratory training. The students’ senate, which represents all students of the institute, in late March had sought a review of the decision to hold on-campus exams following a spike in Covid cases. The IIEST authorities felt the need to review their decision to call the students back and an emergency meeting of the institute’s senate was held on Wednesday. “We have put on hold the decision to recall the postgraduate students. The situation will be assessed in the first week of May and then we will take a call. The supplementary exams that were scheduled to be held from May 5 to May 10 on the campus will now be held online during the same schedule. Since the pandemic is raging, it would not be advisable to recall students now,” said IIEST deputy registrar (academic) Nirmalya Bhattacharyya. On Tuesday, IIEST decided to close three departments till April 11 after some teachers attached to them tested positive for Covid-19. At Wednesday’s meeting, IIEST director Parthasarathi Chakrabarti briefed the members of the senate about the situation on the campus and the stand of the students’ senate. “All of us agreed that it would not be proper to recall the students now. There has been a drastic change in the situation on the ground between March 17 — when the senate had met last — and now,” he said. Repeated calls to director Chakrabarti went unanswered. He did not respond to text messages either. Many of the students are from worst-affected states, like Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Punjab, and were worried about travelling in the current situation, said Aman Kumar, the acting general secretary of the students’ senate. “We are happy to know that the supplementary exams will be held online. The decision only goes to show the extent of the crisis,” Kumar, who attended Wednesday’s meeting, told The Telegraph. Half the seats at IIEST are reserved for students from outside Bengal. A member of the highest academic body said they apprehended travel restrictions being reinforced to contain the spread of the virus, which could disrupt the examinees’ return to the campus. Why had the authorities decided to hold on-campus BTech supplementary exams? “Supplementary exams for the second-year postgraduate students in the previous semester were held on the campus in November,” an IIEST official said. “We had decided to recall the outgoing masters’ students as the Centre in its Unlock-V directive last year had said higher education institutions could reopen from October 15 for research scholars and postgraduate students in technology and science streams requiring lab work.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-91
08-04-2021||Calcutta||Call for train ‘cultural names’ by TMC||Trinamul Congress Bolpur has raised a demand for express trains that originate from the region to be returned to their “cultural” names in place of the “ordinary” location-based names most have received following resumption of services after the lockdown. Trinamul leaders and workers led a protest in front of Bolpur railway station in Birbhum district on Wednesday, claiming the BJP-ruled Centre had resumed services on an emergency basis but robbed the trains of their “cultural” names. “Why has something as iconic as the Santiniketan Express been renamed as the Bolpur-Howrah Special? This needs to be changed,” said a protester, claiming that the residents of Santiniketan were taking this personally ahead of the Assembly elections owing to their longstanding association with Bengal’s cultural development. “We are used to seeing the names of books, towns and eminent persons linked to our trains — not just the destinations. The railways are a part of Santiniketan’s culture and vice-versa,” said a protester. Party sources said Trinamul’s town president Shyam Sundar Konar wrote to the divisional railway manager of the Eastern Railway this week requesting him to run Santiniketan Express with its “actual name”. Trinamul leaders said they failed to understand the motive of the railways to change the names even though it plied at the same time and on the same route. A railway official, however, said the name was not an issue as it had been done everywhere. The trains will run in their original names once the pandemic is over, the official added. “Even Rajdhani Express is running as a special train and the decision is not only for Bengal, but for all express trains in the country,” said Ekalabya Chakraborty, the chief public relations officer of Eastern Railways. Railway officials failed to explain the reason to change the names of trains when they are running on the same route following the old pre-pandemic timetable.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-91
08-04-2021||Calcutta||Jeweller shot dead in Cooch Behar||A jeweller was shot by unidentified men in Cooch Behar on Wednesday morning. Sources said Prashanta Saha, 28, a resident of Kalabagan in Ward 4 of the town, was busy in his shop when four men turned up and opened fire. The men had their faces covered. Police said a probe was on. “The bullets entered the jeweller’s head and chest. He collapsed at the spot. Residents rushed him to hospital where he was declared dead,” said a police officer. “We are trying to find the motive behind the murder. A search is on to arrest the assailants.” Some residents alleged that the police had acted in a lackadaisical manner. “The shop is very close to the police station. Yet, the police reached the spot after one-and-a-half hours. The elections are ahead and cops are patrolling the town. How can such an incident happen in broad daylight?” wondered a resident. In another incident, a Trinamul worker suffered a bullet injury in his shoulder as supporters of the ruling party and the BJP clashed in Jiranpur, a locality under Natabari Assembly seat of the district, on Tuesday night. Rabindranath Ghosh, north Bengal development minister who is contesting from the seat, said three party workers were injured in the attack. “One of them has suffered a bullet injury and is being treated at hospital. Before the polls, the  BJP is trying to unleash violence in the area,” Ghosh added. As the news spread, Trinamul workers held a demonstration in Jiranpur. Shops and other commercial establishments remained closed throughout the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-91
