09-04-2021||Calcutta||Feast with a twist||Sorshe Posto Mangsho (mutton) A perfect afternoon dish which retains the richness of the sorshe-posto bata. Those who like their food hot and spicy may enjoy the burst of flavours of this mutton that may even cause the eyes to water. Ingredients ⦿ Mutton- 1kg ⦿ Black mustard seeds– 100g ⦿ Poppy seeds- 25g ⦿ Green chillies -16 ⦿ Hung curd– 100g ⦿ Onions– three big ones, freshly sliced ⦿ Garlic– 10 cloves, finely sliced ⦿ Salt– to taste ⦿ Bay leaves– 3 ⦿ Dry red chillies– 2 ⦿ Turmeric powder– 2tsp ⦿ Red chilli powder– 2tsp or as required ⦿ Garam masala– 1 tsp ⦿ lSugar– 1tsp ⦿ Mustard oil– as required ⦿ Coriander leaves– for garnishing Method ⦿ Boil mutton in a pressure cooker with adequate water, salt, turmeric powder, ginger and garlic. ⦿ Soak mustard and poppy seeds in hot water for 10 minutes and make a smooth paste with green chillies and salt. ⦿ Heat oil in a pan. ⦿Temper the oil with bay leaves and dry red chillies. ⦿ Add the onions and fry till they turn reddish-brown. Add ginger and garlic till their raw aroma goes. ⦿ Add the hung curd and mix nicely for a few minutes. ⦿ Add the sorshe-posto paste with a little water and mix well again. ⦿ Finally, add the boiled mutton. ⦿ Add salt, sugar, turmeric powder and red chilli powder (optional) to taste. ⦿ Since the mutton is already boiled it will not take much time to get cooked. After it soaks up all the oil add lemon juice, switch off the flame. ⦿ Garnish with coriander leaves. ⦿ Enjoy the steaming dish with rice for lunch. A sweet and spicy snack that can serve as an ideal starter at parties. Ingredients ⦿ Grated paneer- 250g ⦿ Chopped dates- 50g ⦿ Raisins- 50g ⦿ Potatoes (mashed)- 100g ⦿ Ginger (chopped)- 20g ⦿ Green chillies (chopped)- 15g ⦿ Cardamom powder- 2tsp ⦿Khoya (mawa) (grated)- 50g ⦿ Corn powder- as required to taste ⦿ Coriander leaves (chopped)- 2tsp for deep frying ⦿ Oil Method ⦿ Mix all the ingredients except the dates and raisins to make individual balls of koftas. ⦿ Stuff the koftas with the chopped dates and raisins. ⦿ Deep fry the koftas and serve with sauce. See them disappear fast from the plate. Delicious and moist, this cake is bound to fill your mouth with lots of flavours. And it’s simple to make. Ingredients ⦿ Semolina (suji) coarse– 2 cups ⦿ Coconut shredded– 1 cup ⦿ Butter (melted)– ½ cup ⦿ Sugar– ½ cup ⦿ Baking soda-1 tsp ⦿ Yogurt (plain)– 1 cup ⦿ Almond (roasted)– ½ cup For syrup ⦿ Water– 1 cup ⦿ Sugar– 2 cups ⦿ Lemon juice– 1 tsp ⦿ Rosewater (optional)– 1tsp Method ⦿ Mix the suji, coconut, sugar, baking soda and butter in a large bowl. ⦿ Add the yogurt and continue mixing till fully blended. ⦿ Cut diamond or square pieces and add an almond on top of each. ⦿ Grease the baking dish with oil or butter and add the mixture into it. ⦿ Pre-heat the oven to 180° C (or 350°F) and bake for 40 minutes or until the skewer comes out clean. ⦿ While the cake is baking, mix all the ingredients for the syrup and heat on a saucepan in high flame till it boils. ⦿ After the cake is properly baked take it out from the oven and pour the hot syrup over it. ⦿ Let it rest for some time until the syrup is absorbed by the cake. ⦿ Cut the pieces and savour the dessert. Give the traditional sandesh an attractive twist by adding a caramel coat to it. Guests will lap this one up for sure. Ingredients ⦿ Full cream milk- 1l ⦿ Calcium lactate– 2tsp ⦿ Sugar– 6 to 7tsp ⦿ Green cardamom– 4 ⦿ Pistachio (chopped)- 2tsp ⦿ Rose water– 1tsp For the caramel ⦿ Sugar– 1/2cup ⦿ Water– 1/3 cup Method ⦿ To make the chhana, boil milk. Mix calcium lactate in water and add it to the boiling milk and stir. The milk will turn into curd. ⦿ Strain the chhana in a muslin cloth and let it rest for some time. ⦿ Grind the sugar and cardamom into a fine powder. ⦿ Add sugar and rose water into the chhana and mash it till it is smooth and free of lumps. ⦿ Keep the chhana aside and prepare the caramel. ⦿ Put the sugar and water in a pan on high flames. The sugar will start melting and changing its colour. Be careful not to burn the sugar. When it turns golden-brown remove it from the flame. ⦿ Pour the caramel in the pan or baking dish. Add the chhana mixture to it and press lightly. Cover and bake for 25-30 minutes or until the skewer comes out clean. You can also pressure cook it without the vent for five minutes on high flame and then 10 minutes on low flame. When it cools down, de-mould and refrigerate. ⦿ Cut it into desired shape and serve. This is a light summer drink that can serve best as an appetiser. Ingredients ⦿ Gur (jaggery)- 150g ⦿ Lemon- 1 ⦿ Ginger (crushed)- ½ inch ⦿ Fennel seeds (crushed)-1/2 tsp ⦿ Black salt– ½ tsp ⦿ Salt– as per taste ⦿ Black pepper powder– 1 tsp ⦿ Cumin powder (roasted)– 1 tsp ⦿ Mint leaves (chopped)– 2 tsp ⦿ Water (two glasses)- 500ml Method ⦿ Take a bowl, mix the jaggery and water, stir and let it all mix well. ⦿ When the jaggery totally dissolves in water, add lemon juice and grated ginger. ⦿ Then add the remaining spices and the mint leaves and wait for 10 minutes. ⦿ Blend the crude mixture in a blender and strain it. ⦿ Serve the strained sherbet in juice glasses with ice chunks and a lemon slice. Serve chilled. Athrayee Das, a resident of CE Block, New Town, whips up delicacies dipped in Bengali tradition but laced with a trendy touch ahead of Poila Baisakh for you to enjoy at home||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-88
09-04-2021||Calcutta||Baisakh on Plate||Sonar Bangla Rangla Punjab Where: Kava-All Day Dining at Fairfield by Marriott When: April 10 to 15 Pocket pinch: Variable from meal to meal and from day to day. The cheapest rate is Rs 1,180 for lunch on Saturday as also from Monday to Wednesday, while the costliest is on Thursday, with both lunch and dinner costing Rs 1,416, all inclusive. Poila Baisakh and Baisakhi will be ushered in together with a special menu curated by guest chef Priyanka M, that draws on the culinary traditions of both states. So right from the appetiser, there are parallel servings of both on the buffet table. If Aam Poda Sharbat comes hand in hand with Masala Lassi as option, Golbari Style Kassa Mangsho in the main course has a variant in Ludhiana Special Cream Chicken. For dinner, it could be Patiala Style Handi Mutton giving company to Dhania Kanchalanka Murgi. There would be rich options for fish lovers and vegetarians too. If for lunch there is Calcutta Style Chicken Biryani, complete with potato, for dinner there would be Wagah Border Chicken Biryani. The desserts too have half a dozen dishes that are combinations like Baked Mihidana with Rabdi and Kesar Pista Phirni. Restospeak: “As Bengal welcomes Baisakh, Punjab is also buzzing with the festive flavours of Baisakhi. So we are bringing a unique food festival with mouth-watering delicacies from both states,” said Priyanka M. “We are not merging the two cuisines in any dish. We are staying true to the flavours of both traditions,” said hotel manager Abhishek Sachdev, pointing out that residents here had an adventurous palette that constantly looked for something new. “That is why we are not serving only Bengali dishes on Poila Baisakh.” Poila Baisakh Culinary Extravaganza Where: X-Spicy, Indismart Hotel, Sector V When: April 15, lunch from noon to 4pm and dinner from 7 to 11pm Pocket pinch: Rs 999, including two pegs of IMFL drinks or two premium beers. The Bengali buffet revisits time-tested favourites like Chingri Malai Curry and Pabda Machher Jhal as well as offers fusion dishes likes Loitya Shutki Salad. “Foodies are always on the lookout for new, experimental dishes but during festivals, they long for a familiar taste. We try to provide both,” says Kaushik Kumar Saha, associate director, food production, Indismart Hotel. So diners will be welcomed with Gandharaj Lebu Mishri Sharbat and Aam Pora Sharbat and starters like Fish Kabiraji with Tomato Kasundi and Chicken Cutlet, cooked in the Anglo Indian style. The Loitya Shutki Salad cooks the de-boned fish with ginger, garlic onions and coriander. The Duck Kosha is also a newbie on the menu, inspired by Santhali cuisine. “This dish takes at least an hour to cook and this is besides the dressing and paraphernalia,” says Saha. Also try the Stuffed Karela. Bitter as it may sound, the gourd is first deseeded and boiled in salt and turmeric. “This removes the strong bitter taste and retains only a mild and flavourful one. The gourd is then cooked in a gravy that will leave diners asking for more,” he says. If there’s one dish every Poila Baisakh at Indismart must have, it is their signature Kosha Mangso with Luchi. “To perfect this dish we have tasted Kosha Mangsho across the state, learnt from them and added our own zing. It has become very popular among customers,” Saha says. For dessert, there is Rajbhog, Baked Mishti Doi and Jungle Rice Payesh, cooked with unpolished rice that lends a taste quite different from the one city folk are used to. Restospeak: “In the pre-Covid days, Poila Baisakh used to be a busy time for us and we are expecting good response this year too,” says Biswarup Biswas, group general manager, Indismart Hotel. This he anticipates as their recent pork festival and New Year’s eve bash were both lapped up by foodies. “Still, to maintain Covid safety, we are providing home delivery of the dishes in Salt Lake, New Town and Rajarhat free of cost.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-88
09-04-2021||Calcutta||Getting the shot in groups||In a bid to get more people vaccinated faster, various bodies have started arranging for large groups of people to be inoculated, now that the 45-plus age group can avail of the facility. One such was Purbachal’s St Francis Xavier School, that ferried almost 30 of its staff members, by school bus, to Apollo Clinic at City Centre on Tuesday. “Our teaches have been working so hard through the pandemic, teaching online despite network issues and checking papers on tiny phone screens without a complaint. This was the least we could do for them,” says the school’s secretary and administrator, Ajay Chopra. Out of the eligible candidates, a few backed out as they had already taken their shot, had previous health issues or decided to skip as they had invigilation duty for ISC practical exams the next day. In case they got fever after the jab, these teachers would not have been able to come to invigilate. The charges for the jab, as well as the second one a month later, are being borne by the school. It’s not just education or corporate sector employees that are being offered jabs in bulk. An NGO is ferrying some 100 slum-dwellers of Duttabad for the purpose too. “The idea came from my daughter (actress) Ritabhari (Chakraborty) and her friend Rahul Dasgupta,” says Satarupa Sanyal, film director and president of the NGO Scud Society for Social Communication. “I had my doubts, since government hospitals were already providing the jab free of cost but then I learnt that many in the urban poor community were refusing jabs. But they are highly vulnerable to Covid as they are going to work and could spread the virus too,” says Sanyal, a resident of BC Block. ILS Hospitals agreed to host the initiative and the legwork was done by Sharmistha Mukherjee, a resident of DB Block and a friend of Sanyal’s. “Our target was to inoculate the oldest and physically challenged residents first but they were suspicious of the vaccine and of government hospitals. It was only when we ferried them by car and made them rest at an air-conditioned waiting room at the hospital that they gained some trust,” says Mukherjee. And of course, the mood lightened when Ritabhari dropped by and interacted with everyone. When some women were refusing to take the jab in the last minute, Mukherjee herself took a shot to motivate them. “I have had a brain tumour and my doctors had asked me not to take the Covid vaccine just yet. But these slum dwellers’ need was greater than mine so I took the plunge,” she said. The first leg of the initiative took place last week — with 30 residents getting the jab — and the rest will follow in the days to come.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-88
09-04-2021||Calcutta||Supply woe for jab sites||Hospitals have been so swamped with registrations since the Covid vaccine became available to those aged 45 years and above, that at least two in our vicinity had to suspend the drive for a day as they ran out of vials. “Initially we couldn’t start giving vaccination in full strength to the 45-plus age group. In fact, we had to suspend vaccination for an entire day as we could not acquire vaccines,” said Ranjika Chattopadhyay, Covid Vaccine Centre Officer at Daffodil Hospital. They received the vaccines only at night and resumed the drive the next morning. “In the initial days, we vaccinated 160-180 people. Now we are vaccinating almost 250-300 people per day but supply is a recurring problem.” ILS Hospitals Salt Lake is suffering from the same problem. “We have been facing supply shortage even before the 45-plus age group announcement was made,” said an official in charge of vaccination. “Despite making advance payments for the vaccines, supply from Bidhannagar Subdivisional Hospital has been delayed right from the second week of March. Vaccinations have had to be kept on hold for several hours at a stretch on such days.” The hospital then started sourcing vaccines from the Barasat District Hospital. The Bidhannagar Subdivisional Hospital and the Reckjoani Health Centre in Rajarhat allot supply units to most vaccination centres in Salt Lake and Rajarhat. In times of crisis, hospitals can also try other nearby centres like Barasat District Hospital. Usually most vaccination centres pick up 10-12 vials per day from a government supply centre and each vial accounts for 10 jabs or a maximum of 11 jabs. However, the ground rule is that once a vial is opened it has to be finished within an hour, from the time it is opened. As of now, Ohio Hospital in New Town is vaccinating 120 people per day while Bhagirathi Neotia Woman and Child Care Centre, New Town, is vaccinating 80-85 people per day. The Apollo Clinic at City Centre is vaccinating 320 people daily while ILS Hospitals Salt Lake is vaccinating 250-280 people a day. Gopal Mukhopadhyay of Apollo Clinic at City Centre said: “There is growing concern about the supply of vaccines. It is quite erratic at Salt Lake Subdivisional Hospital. Sometimes we have smooth supply for a few weeks followed by alternate days of limited supply. At such times, we have to request customers to return the next day.” A lot of people, he said, had been visiting their clinic in an attempt to avoid queues at hospitals. “Also, we have a loyal set of customers who keep coming here for doctor consultations and so ours is a familiar setting for them,” said Mukhopadhyay. Eager for jab Predictably, there is a surge during the weekend for vaccines while weekdays usually record low footfall. Most people are booking slots through the Aarogya Setu app or the Co-Win portal, and spot registrations are also being conducted in large numbers, provided people are carrying their Aadhaar cards along. “Initially I was apprehensive about the jab. I wanted to wait and watch,” said Anjali Mukherjee, a resident of AC Block. “But now that many are getting infected during the second wave, I didn’t want to risk it. My parents got vaccinated last month, while my husband and I got our first dose over the weekend at Ohio Hospital.” Residents have also benefited from the government notification announcing that vaccinations should not be suspended over holidays and weekends. “It was impossible for me to get vaccinated during the 9am-4pm slot on weekdays. But now I can get vaccinated on a Sunday. It would also help if the timings were extended till 9pm on weekdays so people could get their jabs on their way back from work,” said Smritika Michaels, a resident of BD Block in New Town. Shortage at source Superintendant of Bidhannagar Subdivisional Hospital Partha Pratim Guha admits to shortage. “Our hospital is not short of vaccine but we act as the cold chain point for several other hospitals — ILS, Calcutta Heart Clinic & Hospital Society, Parkview Super Speciality Hospital, Techno India Dama, Amri, Matri Sadan etc. If we receive less vials, we are unable to pass on adequate supply to the hospitals which depend on us,” he told The Telegraph Salt Lake. Up to 300 people are being turned away a day at some hospitals due to a shortage in vaccine, he says. This acute shortage, he adds, began after the 45-plus age group got allowed to avail the facility. The Centre has also allowed vaccination sessions at workplaces but the authorities have no idea where the extra supply will come from. “There was another confusion recently when they asked us to stop giving first doses of Covaxin due to shortage. So we reduced the days on which Covaxin would be given from three to two. But another notice some days later said that there was no shortage but that less Covaxin were being supplied due to less demand. They asked us to resume first doses of Covaxin but how can we when supply is so erratic?” asks Guha. Supply of Covishield is unreliable too. The Co-Win portal too acts up now and then. If a hospital is unable to access it, patients have to be sent home without jabs. Additional reporting by Sudeshna Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-88
09-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Congress’ Abhisek banks on IT background||The name Abhisek Banerjee featuring in the poll fray draws a smile because of the heavyweight namesake in Trinamul Congress. But the Left Front-supported Congress candidate in Bidhannagar refuses to accept that the recall value is an advantage. “He (Trinamul’s Abhishek) has no identity of his own. I am an information technologist and a self-made man,” he declares, dismissing parallels with the chief minister’s nephew. An election debutant, Banerjee has quit his IT job to try his luck at the hustings. “It was one of my father’s last wishes. He passed away in January. He used to say: ‘You cannot play cricket from the commentary box.’” He believes he has the credentials to get another job if things do not work according to plan. Banerjee is aware that the BJP’s rise has had to do with the failure of Left Front to retain their vote share. But he refuses to call them Left Front supporters. “Only the five to seven per cent party card-holders can be called committed supporters. The rest are floating voters who switch their loyalty according to the election context.” He refuses to believe that the Bidhannagar seat will be a two-way fight between the TMC and the BJP. “If the educated electorate is lamenting about the uneducated running the administration, voters will not be honest to their feelings if despite having an educated candidate in the fray, they base their choice on their assumption of who will win rather than who is deserving.” As his party’s local IT cell head, he is adept at coining catchy slogans — Sikshitora pele pawd, jochchoreder hobe bipod or Chit fund-o shilpo hetha, shilpo telebhaja/ Didi Modi-r nokol swarge manush pachchhe saja. Even his party’s theme song for the election is composed by him. His biggest connect with the voters of Bidhannagar, he feels, would be his academic background, value system and culture. “Amake tolabaji kore khete hoy na,” he says acidly. The Congress candiate challenges the BJP to prepare a mock cabinet of ministers from the candidates they have fielded. “They simply do not have efficient people to run the state even if they win.” Even the ruling party, he points out, has mostly fielded pure politicians or people from the show business. As an IT professional, he wonders why a good start-up like Byju’s has not come out of Bengal. “Before every election, we are shown Wipro and Infosys like the proverbial crocodile hatchlings. I know how to nurture offshore development of foreign banks or incubation centres or start-ups.” Banerjee also has some ideas about starting a bike ambulance service, introducing cantilever parking in every block where space can be booked through an app and hawker rehabilitation. “Rome wasn’t built in a day but at least I have a building plan,” he signs off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-89
09-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: ‘This vote is a walkover for me’||Sabyasachi Dutta, the former mayor of Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation and MLA of Rajarhat New Town, switched loyalities from Trinamul Congress in 2019 and is now contesting for the first time from the Bidhannagar Assembly constituency on a BJP ticket. The flamboyant politician faces The Telegraph Salt Lake at his party’s imposing office in CF Block. Here are snatches from the conversation: ⦿ This vote is a walkover (for me). In the Lok Sabha election (in 2019), there was a five to seven per cent vote swing because of (Narendra) Modiji’s personal image. There was no alternative to him. People wanted a stable government. This time, the issues are local. He (Sujit Bose) is vice-chairman (of South Dum Dum Municipality), has done work, legal or illegal, and has pulled off stunts like “sonar thakur” (referring to the gold ornaments on the idol at Sreebhumi Sporting Club Durga puja). He is a minister of two departments and a three-time MLA. But there is no fight. It will be a mock fight. ⦿ He might have spent from his local area development fund as MLA. I too was an MLA for 10 years. I spent on ambulance and hearse. He built AC bus stands. Hoy toh ogulo manusher jonyei baniyechhilen. Kintu Lake Town-er more ey dekhlam ekjon pagli okhane ghor baniye shuye achhe (laughs derisively). There is no plan. Yes, he did plan out his hoarding campaign. Round the year, birth to death, morning to night, everything is highlighted in photographs. ⦿ After he (Bose) lost twice, when the 2009 byelections came following the death of Subhasbabu (Chakraborty, the Left Front minister and local MLA), the current chief minister, who was then the Opposition leader, called both of us. “Ekhon Sujit dnarak, 2011-y tui dnarabi”, she told me. But in 2011, no one wanted to contest in New Town. People were scared of the Left Front candidate. She told me: “Jodi jeettey hoy, okhane unnayan korte hoy, tui ekmatro jeetbi, ar keu parbe na.” She had that faith in me and I could prove myself worthy of that faith. BJP too has faith in me for this seat. I am happy to represent the locality where I reside. Ghorer chhele ghore phirlo. ⦿ Duare Sarkar er hoarding lagiyechhe ar BJP-r duare ‘niye nao’ bole bhikkhe korechhe. At 5am, he went to the airport, at 11pm he went to JW Marriott (to meet the BJP leadership). It is a national party. It is not easy to enter. He has lost confidence. How will he compete? The commander-in-chief has surrendered. How will his soldiers fight? ⦿ Mriganka Bhattacharya (a  councillor from Kalindi) has joined us (from Trinamul). Devasish Jana has joined. Bhalo chhele. Swati Banerjee (TMC’s Ward 5 councillor who had joined BJP but quit within days) eleni ba kyano, geleni ba kyano uni janen. BJP did not request anyone to come. She had applied to join the party unconditionally, in writing. Three days later, she went back to TMC. Many of my old party colleagues are contacting me in the dead of night on WhatsApp or Facebook (smiles). Even my secretary is getting messages saying that they are with me or being handed dhagas or prasad. But BJP does not accommodate everyone. The party will see what they want to come for. Ayaram, gayaram. I am having fun watching this. ⦿ Drinking water is a problem in Ward 19 and 32 of South Dum Dum Municipality. There are no councillors in five wards for almost four years. There has been no election! ⦿ I decorated Salt Lake during the Fifa Under-17 World Cup. I removed encroachers from Central Park. He (Bose) resettled them beside Okakura Bhavan. They are Bangladeshis. People of Salt Lake had wanted the pavements to be for pedestrians. I had achieved that then. A hawking zone near Karunamoyee would take care of the encroachment problem. ⦿ By June 2, 2021, a month of the election result, I will ensure running water (in south Dum Dum). I will improve drainage under the bridge in Jessore Road, where water stagnates after a shower. I also want to create a masterplan for the people of Duttabad, the original settlers of Salt Lake. Duttabad was under Ward 25 of South Dum Dum Municipality along with Dakshindari, from where Sujit became a councillor for the first time in the mid 80s. Many of them have ownership documents for the land. These are freehold land, not leasehold. Salt Lake is shining, but Duttabad remains the darkness under the lamp. Residents there remain the supply point for political rallies for regime after regime. ⦿ I was not aware that there are so many thieves in the 10 wards on the other side (under South Dum Dum Municipality)! They are so prompt about removing my flags and hoardings that they vanish within two-three hours of being put up. I staged a sit-in on the street to protest against this. ⦿ It is not possible to supply masks. We start a rally with 200-300 people, end with 2,000. How many people will I give masks to? The rallies of Modiji or Amit (Shah)ji draw 10-12 lakh people. There will be a stampede if masks are to be distributed there. ⦿ I watch south Indian films on TV dubbed in Hindi over dinner when I return home after midnight. That’s my relaxation. (Actor) Ravi Kishenji had come to campaign for me. It was a smash hit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-89
09-04-2021||Calcutta||West Bengal Polls 2021: ‘My trump card is the work I have done’||It may be election time but Sujit Bose’s office on the ground floor of his Sreebhumi residence is full of ordinary citizens who have very day-to-day issues to be sorted. The sitting MLA and Trinamul Congress candidate seeking re-election has just returned from the day’s first leg of campaigning at lunchtime but lunch is far away, what with the steady flow of visitors. Someone wants help with admission to Bidhannagar Government High School, someone complains about payment being stuck in red tape while another needs help with hospital admission. Bose deals with each case, issuing relevant instructions to his office assistants when needed, and finally turns to take questions from The Telegraph Salt Lake. Your competitor Sabyasachi Dutta thinks it is a walkover. He needs to know what walkover means. Being a former cricketer and footballer, I do. You get a walkover when your opponent does not turn up for the match. Here I am very much present! Would you say it is the toughest contest you have faced? I have fought against Subhas Chakraborty too. I do not think about who I am contesting against. Will this be a Narendra Modi versus Mamata Banerjee fight? Assembly election is about the candidate, whether he has delivered in his last term. I have devoted 18 of 24 hours in a day to serving people. You are seeing what I stay busy with. In his four years as mayor, he (Dutta) could not prepare a single DPR (detailed project report). All that he has done is build a separate lift in Poura Bhavan for the mayor. We prefer to be with people. Obviously he does not. Residents could not get a trade licence or a mutation certificate. Even residents of his constituency come to me to get documents signed as their MLA is beyond access. What is your trump card? My work. (He produces a 62-page booklet that lists out the work done in his tenure and the amount allotted by him from his fund for each project over 10 years). The water treatment plant project got stuck when he (Dutta) left. I managed to fast track the project. It got inaugurated in Salt Lake before the Pujas. For long, the roads were crying for repair. He escaped without doing anything. I had to get involved in Corporation matters. Now repairs are being done across Salt Lake. He was bent on giving the contract to install LED lights to a private firm of his choice. There were regular debates on this in the mayor-in-council meetings. The matter reached Nabanna and the tender was found to be faulty and scrapped. Now the same job is being done across Salt Lake through the government’s own Webel at a fraction of the cost his chosen firm had quoted. In South Dum Dum, we are doing a big water supply project. A Rs 285 crore water treatment plant is coming up in Bangur Avenue. It will produce 15MGD (million gallons per day) water. An intake jetty is being built in Kamarhati from where water from the Hooghly will be pumped in over a 13km pipeline to be filtered and distributed in south Dum Dum. This will take care of the area’s water requirement for the next 20-25 years. It got delayed by the lockdown. I expect it to be ready by the year-end. That created a lot of controversy. Yes, they did their best to derail the project, went to court and what not. What was filled up were ditches of dirty water. We increased greenery and ensured proper drainage. Both sides of the Kestopur canal — Lake Town and Salt Lake — were renovated for 2km. A Bailey bridge now connects the two sides. Your rival is talking of a banquet hall being developed … What do (building materials) Syndicate leaders know of development work? Bhojai (Samir) Sardar and Sabyasachi Dutta are Syndicate leaders. Both are contesting this election. Ora eent-bali-chun-surkir jonno thik achhey. I have worked to develop hospital, school, college, playgrounds… This booklet will tell you at a glance what all I have done. Ask him to fill up a single page with his work. He will fail. I have built the clock tower, rehabilitated people from Duttabad displaced by (East West) Metro… Apparently they have still not got possession papers… It is under process. They have been given the keys to the apartments. They have all got possession. Railways delayed the paperwork. I spoke to KMDA yesterday. The department secretary said it is ready. They will get it after the election. We are giving patta to people in slums. We have done so in Dakshindari, Patipukur and Lalkuthi. It is a great decision by the chief minister to give possession to people who are occupying government land for many years. We will give it in Duttabad also. As far as I know, all the land there belongs to the urban development department. If anyone can prove individual ownership, we are not going to snatch away his land. Even he will get possession and get a house built under our Banglar Bari scheme. He (Dutta) did not even give water to Duttabad while he was mayor. In fact, he had opposed water connection. I arranged for the supply. Jedin Duttabad ey mic dhorbo, sedin shob bujhie debo. He had removed hawkers from Salt Lake. Our government has a policy. If we evict hawkers, we will rehabilitate them. Mamata Banerjee does not snatch livelihood of poor people. Sabyasachi Dutta does not evict hawkers in BF-CF Block but does so elsewhere. Does he know how many poor people from Mahisbathan, Polenite or Nayapatty earn a living from hawking in Sector V? I am their committee chairman. Stalls are being built for them. These poor people provide cheap food to the 50-60,000 people who come to work in Sector V. Jibone ekta eent gnatheni. He has not done a single thing in his mayorship. Dutta is blaming you for resettling people evicted from Central Park next to Okakura Bhavan. He is saying they are Bangladeshis. When they were evicted to make  space for the Book Fair, they were resettled on land owned by the urban development department. The police checked their voter ID card. Only those who had documents were resettled. O bolbe, or matha cholchhe na. Hotasha theke eshob bolchhe. Are you worried about the BJP support base among the Hindi-speaking voters? To me, all voters are same. I do not distinguish. I talk only of my work. Bidhannagar Subdivisional Hospital has developed in front of your eyes. Just as the health department has sanctioned funds for it, so has the MLA. I gave almost Rs 30 lakh there. I had written to the government for fair price medicine shop, ICCU and blood bank there. All three have opened. Dialysis unit is coming up. Are you worried about the lead BJP got from this Assembly segment in 2019? The Lok Sabha elections are a different ball game. In the Assembly election, people want the Mamata Banerjee government to continue in office. They will see how much work Sujit Bose has done. Many of your party colleagues shifted allegiance to BJP recently. Doler shob Bibhishon chhilo. Dosh bochhor sorkar er shob sujog niyechhe, tarpor paliyechhe. Du ekjon dol-ey thekeo kshoti korechhe. They harmed us even in the 2016 election from inside. I know how they did so. I want peaceful, free and fair election. Bhojai Sardar is also contesting. People know what his background is. He stands as independent candidate every time Sabyasachi contests. I do not want an election conducted by Bhojai Sardar. Dutta is claiming you tried to join BJP and met the leadership twice. Who is he that I have to counter him? Not everyone has sold their spine like he has. I have some ideology. Have mad dogs bitten me? I am a minister in the government. I am trusted by the chief minister. Politically I am senior to him. Top people in the world of sports and culture nationally know me. Diego Maradona came to inaugurate his own statue here. Let him say what he wants. The answer will come in the ballot box.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-89
09-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Ground floor must for all polling stations||This year, all polling stations will have to be on the ground floor. While there were no polling stations on higher floors in Rajarhat New Town, there were 31 first floor stations in Bidhannagar. “We are trying to relocate them to the ground floor of the same structure, failing which, we are booking the nearest government premise. But if no such option is available, temporary structures are having to be built,” said Arnab Saha, the officer-in-charge of election for the Bidhannagar constituency and the returning officer for the Rajarhat Gopalpur constituency. The booths in Gyan Mancha, on the first floor of Purbachal market, for instance, will be shifted to temporary structures that have come up at the ground level and on the playground. A booth in St Francis Xavier School too will be shifted to the Purbachal Cluster VIII community hall.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-89
09-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal elections 2021: 80-plus to cast poll at home from Saturday||Voters aged above 80 will for the first time get the chance to vote at home. Between April 10 and 14, a polling team will visit those who have applied for the facility to get them to cast their vote on postal ballot. The same privilege will be accorded to those who have submitted the relevant form with a medical certificate, proving them to have more than 40 per cent disability. “A team will visit the voter at home. It will have two polling personnel, a videographer, a police official and a member of the Central Armed Police Force. Since the list will be made available to the candidates, they have the right to send their agents as well,” said Arnab Saha, the officer-in-charge of election for the Bidhannagar constituency and the returning officer for the Rajarhat Gopalpur constituency. In Covid situation, if a voter does not want so many people to enter the room, the polling may happen in the verandah or courtyard of the house. “The voter will put a tick mark against the candidate of his choice on the postal ballot, fold it and put it in the ballot box. The whole process, except the choice of the candidate will be videographed to maintain transparency, as postal ballots are a sensitive matter,” he said. The Bidhannagar constituency has about 9,000 candidates eligible  for this facility, including 354 persons with disabilities. Of them, a total of 1,128 voters, including 13 with disabilities, have opted to cast their votes at home. In Rajarhat New Town, the figure voting at home is 569. “Of voters who are eligible for this new facility, most are preferring to come to the polling stations. We did a super-checking of a 10 per cent sample to cross-check whether the booth level officials had indeed approached them with the offer. They said they take this as an occasion to meet neighbours and socialise. Barely 10 to 12 per cent took up the offer,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-89
09-04-2021||Calcutta||Safe house to reopen||The Covid safe house in New Town’s Action Area 2, near Tank 12, that had been shut due to lack of inmates and turned into a Covid vaccination centre, will be converted back to a safe house, said NKDA chief Debashis Sen on Wednesday. “We are taking this measure as Covid cases are rising again and we have to prepare for emergencies,” he said. The vaccination centre  above CB Market will continue and a second one will start near Pride Hotel. “A banquet hall is being built in the Pride Hotel campus at the ground floor level, next to the bus terminus. We will temporarily turn that into an immunisation centre,” he said. “While the Covid safety protocol remains the same, we are once again emphasising on them at popular spots like Eco Park, Eco Urban Village and Cafe Ekante. In the same spirit, people are encouraged to avoid public transport when possible and walk or use cycles and e-cycles to commute,” he said. The offices of Hidco and NKDA will operate with 50 per cent staff attendance from Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-89
09-04-2021||Calcutta||NKDA-crowned New Town blocks & complexes pad up for Covid war||Another wave of Covid is spreading and cases are on the rise. The Telegraph Salt Lake spoke to three model blocks and housing complexes each from New Town to learn how they plan to tackle the situation. The chosen associations are toppers in a contest organised by New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA), that ranked them on the basis of criteria such as Covid awareness, cleanliness and eco-friendly steps. The contest begun in October last year and the results were announced on March 31. “Our intention is to build a friendly, healthy and sustainable township but for that we need the support of the residents,” said Debashis Sen, chairman of NKDA. The second edition of the contest has begun — from April 1, 2021 to March 31, 2022. Here is what the winners of the maiden edition had to say — Gated communities Rank: First Complex: Uniworld City Prize money: Rs 25,000 Their effort: “We are an 18-month-old association so there was a lot to do from scratch. Besides greenery and cleanliness, we took multiple steps to segregate our waste,” said vice-president Bimal Kumar Sarkar. Covid precautions then: Even before the lockdown they had stopped their senior citizens from going out. A team of volunteers delivered essential items to them. They arranged vegetable, fruit and meat vendors to come and sell inside the complex so residents would not have to step out. Active Covid cases: Two families Covid precautions now: “We are taking steps as per the demand of the situation,” said Sarkar. “We have installed hand-washing facilities and kept sanitisers under every tower.” Rank: Second Complex: Sunrise Point Prize money: Rs15, 000 Their effort: “We have a lot of greenery. We also reduced the use of plastic bags and installed solar panels. We plan to implement solid waste segregation this year,” said secretary Gobinda Biswas. Covid precautions then: They had built a team to reach supplies to the doorsteps of senior citizens. They also provided their security guards with six months’ worth of kitchen supplies so they could stay in the complex. Active Covid cases: Two Covid precautions now: “We have kept aside a lift exclusively for domestic helps as they come from outside and could spread the virus,” said Biswas. Rank: Third Complex: Alaktika Prize money: Rs 10,000 Their effort: “We are planning to install solar panels and will invest more in rain water harvesting,” said joint secretary Arabindo Adhikary. Covid precautions then: They were particular about sanitisation and temperature check at their gates and replaced stage events during the Pujas with online ones. Active Covid cases: Nil Covid precautions now: “We are tightening rules again, especially about compulsory sanitisation and mask-wearing at the gates,” said Adhikary. “We have also kept an oxygen cylinder on standby for emergency.” Blocks Rank: First Block: BA Prize money: Rs 25, 000 Their effort: “We push residents to give up plastic, plant trees annually and keep our locality clean,” said secretary Prabir Mazumder. Covid precautions then: They helped the needy in the block with food and sanitary kit and followed up with Covid positive cases in their area. Active Covid cases: Nil Covid precautions now: Though awareness has increased, they are still trying to take appropriate steps, asking residents to strictly maintain the social distancing norms and wear masks. Rank: Second Block: BE Prize money: Rs 15,000 Their effort: Senior citizens of the block water the plants themselves in their green verge, said secretary Pulok Dey. “We are now turning the focus to our areas of weakness so we can do even better next time.” Covid precautions then: They started sanitising the block twice a week from May 17, 2020 and have still kept up the practice. They also organised a blood donation camp. Active Covid cases: Nil Covid precautions now: A month back they were thinking of  stopping the sanitisation but since cases are rising again, they have decided to continue. The block committee is urging both residents and domestic helps to take the vaccine. Rank: Third Block: BD Prize money: Rs 10, 000 Their effort: “We stressed on cleanliness, greenery, plastic control and dengue awareness. We went around asking nearby shops to stop using plastic bags and gave out eco-friendly bags instead,” said Partha Sarathi Adak of the committee. Covid precautions then: The association distributed food and health kit to the needy and was on call whenever residents needed anything. Covid precautions now: They have cancelled Poila Baisakh and Rabindrajayanti programmes this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-89
09-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Elections 2021: What you need to know before stepping out on poll day||Parts of Calcutta will vote in the fourth phase of the Assembly elections on Saturday. A ready reckoner of things one needs to know before stepping out of home on the polling day. ⚫ Some of the constituencies going to the polls: Kasba, Jadavpur, Tollygunge, Behala East, Behala West and  Metiabruz ⚫ Voting starts at: 7am ⚫ Voting ends at: Officially 6.30pm. Voters who queue up outside their polling booth before 6.30pm will be allowed to cast their vote, however long it takes to complete the process. ⚫ Will there be any restrictions in areas going to the polls? Yes. Usually, Section 144 of the CrPC is imposed on the area that falls within 100 metres of a polling booth. In case of a sensitive booth, the radius is extended to 200 metres. Police are supposed to prevent assemblies in areas close to polling booths. ⚫ Will there be any restrictions in areas adjoining the constituencies that are going to the polls? No, except restrictions on sale of liquor. ⚫ Dry day restrictions: Liquor shops in Assembly constituencies going to the polls and the ones in the adjoining constituencies will remain closed from 6.30pm on Thursday till the end of voting on Saturday. According to orders issued by the state excise department, all categories of retail excise licensed premises shall remain closed in the Kasba, Behala Paschim, Metiabruz, Rashbehari, Calcutta Port and Ballygunge Assembly constituencies from 6.30pm on Thursday till the end of elections on April 10. Restaurants that are licensed to serve liquor may remain open but will not be able to serve liquor during this period. ⚫ How much cash can I carry if I have to travel through or near a constituency going to the polls? Carrying up to Rs 50,000 is permissible. Any amount more than that will need to be explained with documents, citing the source and destination of the money. If the person fails to explain the source and destination of the cash, the police will seize the money and may refer the case to the income tax department. If someone is caught by the police carrying more than Rs 10 lakh, it is mandatory to inform the IT department. The department will initiate a probe into the ownership of the cash. ⚫ Is there any restriction on carrying jewellery? No. But if the police spot anyone carrying more than 1kg jewellery, they have to refer the matter to the income tax department. ⚫ Will public transport be available in and around the areas going to the polls? Sources in the transport department said fewer vehicles would be available because many had been requisitioned for the elections. ⚫ Do I need to carry any identity document while travelling through a constituency where elections will be held or adjoining areas? As outsiders are not allowed in areas where elections are held, one should ideally carry an identity proof when traveling through such areas. ⚫ What documents do I need to carry while going to the polling station? The voter will have to present the electoral photo identity card (EPIC) or any of the following identity documents: ⚫ Aadhaar card ⚫ Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA) Job Card ⚫ Passbooks with photograph issued by banks/post office ⚫ Health Insurance Smart Card issued under the scheme of ministry of labour ⚫Driving licence ⚫ PAN card ⚫ Smart card issued by registrar general of India (RGI) under National Population Register (NPR) ⚫ Indian passport ⚫ Pension document with photograph ⚫ Service Identity Cards with photograph issued to employees by central/state government/PSUs/public limited companies ⚫ Official identity cards issued to MPs/MLAs/MLCs ⚫ Is there any restriction on going to vote in groups? People going to vote in large groups may be questioned as large gatherings are not allowed in a zone where Section 144 of the CrPC is in force. It is better not to go in large groups unless they are members of the same family. ⚫ Will there be any restriction in parking outside the polling booth? No vehicle will be allowed within a radius of 200 metre of any polling station. ⚫ Can an umbrella and a water bottle be carried to the polling booth? Yes ⚫ Where to report if I feel intimidated by someone while going to vote? One can call up the Election Commission of India (ECI) or the police helpline numbers to report issues related to the elections. ⚫ ECI helpline:1950 In the Calcutta police area: Lalbazar control room — 033-22143230 /033-22141310||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-89
09-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Call to EC to focus on Covid protocols||Several health experts on Thursday expressed concern that the Covid protocols had not been made part of the election code of conduct despite a steep rise in the number of people testing positive for the disease in Bengal. The authorities need to keep in mind that the Assembly elections are being held under unusual circumstances, the experts said. “It’s a tightrope walk which has to be handled carefully. But what we are seeing is that everyone is expressing concern about gatherings and lack of Covid hygiene but no one is doing anything in practice. This applies to the election commission, political parties and all others concerned,” said public health expert Abhijit Chowdhury. “We fear that the lack of health discipline will create a severe healthcare and livelihood crisis in the next 15 days. There will be a crisis of hospital beds as many people will get infected.” Chowdhury said the situation could have been avoided. “We maintained discipline and still enjoyed the festival of Durga Puja. But now it seems we have forgotten all rationality. It’s the responsibility of the election commission to prevent violence and troubles before, during and after the polls. But it is also the EC's responsibility to ensure Covid protocols are followed,” said Chowdhury. The poll panel issues notices to parties and candidates for violating the code of conduct. “Why can’t it issue similar notices for violation of the Covid-appropriate behaviour? With the help of police and other agencies, the EC is trying to maintain law and order. Why isn’t it using the same forces to ensure the Covid protocols are followed?” asked Chowdhury. Intensive care expert Sauren Panja said the poll panel should have ordered more restrictions on gatherings at election rallies. “The EC, along with focusing on law and order, must see to it that everyone wears a mask and follows the distancing protocol, and also proper sanitisation is carried out,” Panja said. “Many elderly people with comorbidities, who are vulnerable despite being vaccinated, are not going out much. But they will go to vote and their safety should not be compromised. If required, separate queues should be formed based on age groups.” The pattern of the spread of the virus during the ongoing second wave of infection shows that the SARS-CoV 2 in circulation is more virulent than the one prevalent during the first wave last year, Panja said. Case count The number of active Covid cases in Bengal rose by 1,819 to 16,109 on Thursday. The state recorded 2,783 new infections and 957 recoveries during the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-89
09-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Elections 2021: 44 constituencies will go to polls on Saturday||Kasba and Jadavpur are among the 44 constituencies that will go to the polls in the fourth phase of the Assembly elections on Saturday (April 10), the campaigning for which ended at 6.30pm on Thursday. The key contenders in Jadavpur are Debabrata Majumdar of Trinamul, Sujan Chakraborty of the Sanyukta Morcha and Rinku Naskar of the BJP. In Kasba, the contest is among Javed Khan of Trinamul, Shatarup Ghosh of the Sanyukta Morcha and Indranil Khan of the BJP. Metro asked voters of the two constituencies about the issues uppermost on their minds. Communal harmony Eighteen-year-old Tania Das, a resident of Jadavapur’s Chittaranjan Colony, is in the first year of college. She feels her career is bound to be affected if there is communal strife. “For me the most important issue in this election is whether we will have communal harmony in our society. If there is a fight between communities, development and jobs will become secondary. A society can progress only if people live in harmony,” Tania said, her mother Shefali nodding in approval. Schoolteacher Surya Subha Banerjee, a resident of Garia (a part of which falls in the Jadavpur constituency), echoed Tania’s concern. “Never before was there a competition between leaders to prove who is a better Hindu. The BJP is polarising society with the aim to garner Hindu votes. To counter that, Mamata Banerjee is chanting puja mantras at every rally. Where are we heading?” he asked. Price rise Guria Balmiki, 27, and her neighbour Maya Debi, 42, are worried over how to run their households amid rising prices of essential food items and LPG cylinders. Guria’s husband pulls a rickshaw-van for a living, while Maya’s husband runs a tea stall. “We are poor. We find it very difficult when prices of vegetables and other essential food items rise sharply. The rise in the cooking gas price is particularly difficult for us to deal with,” said Guria, a resident of Jadavpur’s Kamarpara. Mousumi Bhatta, 43, a resident of Kasba’s Yogendra Gardens, too, said the rise in the LPG price is a major problem they are dealing with. “We use LPG frugally so a cylinder lasts a month,” said Mousumi, who runs a medicine store with her husband. Beyond freebies Schoolteacher Banerjee said he was surprised that none of the parties was talking about the infrastructure they would create and the investments they would bring. “One party is saying they will give Rs 500 to every person every month if they come to power. Another is saying they will give Rs 3,000 every month to a few communities. But do such payments help anyone?” asked Banerjee. Needed: jobs Babu Das, a resident of Baghajatin (part of Jadavpur) who has five mouths to feed, said: “I work in a garment store. There are very few job options, so I have to accept whatever I am paid. I could have earned more if there were enough jobs around,” he said. Prabal Ray, a doctor, echoed him: “My daughter works in Mumbai. Beyond a level, there are no jobs in the city.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-89
09-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Elections 2021: Poll caravan rolls into city||Union minister and the BJP candidate for Tollygunge, Babul Supriyo, wrapped up his campaign on Thursday in a road show where he trained all his guns on the outgoing Trinamul MLA from the constituency, Aroop Biswas. Trinamul’s Biswas barely spent a minute on Supriyo in his last street corner meeting. He spent most of his time appealing to CPM supporters to vote for Mamata Banerjee if they wanted an inclusive and peaceful Bengal. The results of the 2016 Assembly polls and the 2019 general elections show the CPM still commands a sizable support base in Tollygunge, which goes to the polls on April 10. “There are many Left supporters who are still dedicated, who have not sold their souls to the BJP. I have a lot of respect for them. They write slogans against me every day. I don’t mind. I appeal to honest CPM voters that if you really want a free and peaceful Bengal, an inclusive Bengal without discrimination, please vote for Mamata Banerjee,” Biswas said at a street corner meeting beside the Azadgarh market. Azadgarh and neighbouring areas like Tilak Nagar and Bjioygarh used to be known as refugee colonies and were CPM bastions till a decade ago. Biswas acknowledged that many traditional Left supporters still lived in the area, saying he felt “sad that the CPM cannot find a local candidate against me”. Actor Debdut Ghosh, a Dum Dum resident, is the CPM candidate from the Sanyukta Morcha in Tollygunge. In 2016, it was Madhuja Sen Roy, a resident of Jhargram. “The people of the state are in trouble because of the TMC and the BJP. They will vote for our alliance,” said Ghosh. “Can any Trinamul worker say with certainty that their leaders will not join the BJP.” At the heart of Biswas’s appeal to Left voters is poll arithmetic. In 2016, Biswas had polled around 90,500 votes, which translated to a vote share of nearly 47 per cent. He was trailed by Madhuja Sen Roy, who polled some 81,000 votes or a 42 per cent vote share. The BJP candidate, Mohan Rao, had secured a little less than 15,000 votes or an 8 per cent of the vote share. In the 2019 general election, Trinamul’s Mimi Chakraborty led in the Tollygunge Assembly segment — which is a part of the Jadavpur Lok Sabha seat — with around 78,000 votes. The CPM’s Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya trailed her with around 59,000 votes. The BJP’s Anupam Hazra got around 46,000 votes. “There was a pro-Modi wave before the Lok Sabha polls because of the Pulwama incident. That was behind the rise in the BJP’s vote share. There seems to be no such wave this time. So, even if a section of the dedicated CPM supporters votes for us, Aroop-da’s margin will go up many times from 2016,” said a local Trinamul leader. On Thursday, Biswas and several speakers before him spoke on the “perils” of the Modi regime’s citizenship thrust. Earlier in the day, Supriyo took part in a road show in an open vehicle, accompanied by another star campaigner for the BJP, Mithun Chakraborty. The convoy started from the statue of Kishore Kumar near the ITC Sangeet Research Academy and passed through the interiors of Kudghat and Bansdroni. Speaking to reporters at multiple stops, Supriyo targeted Aroop and his brother Swaroop for treating Tollygunge — especially the entertainment industry — as their “fiefdom”. “I am going to win from Tollygunge not just against Aroop Biswas. I am going to win against his tyranny. I am going to win against the right hand of Mamata Banerjee,” he said. “Aroop and Swaroop Biswas run a fiefdom in Tollygunge…. They intimidate artistes into supporting Trinamul. People who do not support them do not get roles in soaps and films. They had threatened people, hardworking technicians, for not turning up at a rally on April 4,” Supriyo said. The roadshow had a dozen bikes and a couple of SUVs trailing the open vehicle. The number of people walking along was reasonably low. But many people flocked to their balconies, waving at the stars. Asked if he had been pitchforked from Delhi into the Bengal battle, Supriyo, also an MP from Asansol, said: “I told the party very willingly that I wanted to fight (in the Bengal polls). As a Bengali, my conscience would have been hurt had I been sitting in Delhi, not helping the people against the tyranny of Mamata Banerjee.” Biswas, a three-term MLA from Tollygunge, briefly mentioned Supriyo at the beginning of his speech in Azadgarh. “He (Supriyo) has been travelling only in a jeep and on bikes. He has not set his foot on the land of Tollygunge,” said the outgoing PWD minister. A political analyst said the BJP seemed to have missed a trick by limiting its Tollygunge poll campaign to the film industry. “The choice of Supriyo suggests that…. He is speaking a lot about the Biswas brothers’ control over the entertainment industry. But Tollygunge is more than that. There are many places like Azadgarh and Bijoygarh which used to be known as refugee colonies. The impact of the CAA-NRC-NPR narrative will be crucial in the vote,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-90
09-04-2021||Calcutta||Women’s rights group working with men to challenge patriarchy||⚫ A 35-year-old man would expect his wife to behave in a way that suited him. He wouldn’t let her go out of the house without his approval. But in the last few years, he has realised that his wife is a “human being” who has her own choices, a partner with whom he can make family decisions and share his anxieties. ⚫ A man, now in his 30s, had hit his partner 10 years back but was too “manly” to admit it and seek forgiveness. Much later, he confessed what he had done at a public event but was not branded a “woman beater”. The experience helped him change his attitude and realise how he should be, which is different from what a patriarchal society expects him to be. A women’s rights organisation launched a campaign inviting men and boys to think and work for equality. On Thursday evening, Swayam, which has been working to end discrimination and violence against women for 25 years, launched “Soch Badlein, Baat Badlegi”. The campaign urges men to “challenge patriarchal thinking and change the way they think, behave and act”. “This campaign tries to make men look inwards, to break free from patriarchal thinking and to be who they are. To not be scared and not subscribe to the narrow point of view of masculinity that is prescribed by patriarchy,” said Anuradha Kapoor, the director of Swayam. The organisation launched two 35-second films that show a change in the attitude of men. One of the films shows a schoolgirl on a bicycle trying to navigate her way on an uneven road as three men look on. If these roads are built properly, these kids wouldn’t face difficulties going to school, the men say. In the other film, a woman during net practice throws a yorker and the batsman is stumped out. “She’ll get picked for the Indian team,” say two players watching her play cricket. The films then say: “In a world where men talk like this… Women will always feel safe and equal.” Swayam has partnered with advertising agency Ogilvy and a production company Lucifer’s Circus to make the films. Swayam has been working with boys and men for the last four years and has noticed a change in them and a positive impact on their lives.Kapoor said that changed thinking changes one’s actions and behaviour and this will initiate a change in society. “Stop thinking of women as inferior, stop thinking of women as objects and start looking at them as equals. The moment you do that, there will be a shift in the way you treat them. You will treat them equally and the result will be a happier society, a happier you and a safe and equal world for women as well,” she said. The films, available on the social media pages of Swayam, want to take the message to the ground and start a discussion to provide men the space to share their stories. A 30-year-old man who works with Swayam said that when a woman is subjected to violence, it not only has an impact on her but her family, including men, too. “My sister was subjected to violence at her in-laws’ for dowry. Being the sole earning member, I had to run from pillar to post to make arrangements for it. I was also subjected to torture,” he said. Another man said that treating his wife as an equal has helped him reduce the aggression in him. “I treat her as equal and can discuss my problems with her and resolve family matters together. It has led to mutual respect and a stronger bond between us,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-90
09-04-2021||Calcutta||Decapitated body found on fringes of Salt Lake||A decapitated and partially decomposed body of a man was recovered from near a water body in Mahisbathan, on the fringes of Salt Lake, on Thursday, police said. The identity of the man, in his late 30s or 40s, is yet to be ascertained, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. The body with no clothes on it and wrapped in a piece of cloth, lying in the bushes near the water body. Construction workers and fishermen who had first spotted the body alerted the police. “Our teams searched the nearby water bodies and fields but the man’s head could not be found till late in the evening,” an officer said. Apart from the missing head, the body had no injury marks. The area where the body was found has a number of water bodies where fish farming is practised. There are a number of residential buildings, too. Of late, there has been a rise in construction of multi-storied building complexes because of Mahisbathan’s proximity to Sector V. “Based on preliminary findings, it seems the man was killed somewhere else and the body was dumped in the water body,” said an officer. “Whoever killed the man dumped the head elsewhere to ensure that he could not be identified easily. We have not found any identity card or cellphone near the body.” The body has been sent to Bidhannagar Sub-Divisional Hospital for post-mortem. A forensic team visited the spot to collect samples. A blue beret cap was found in a bush not far from where the body was found. “We have alerted all neighbouring police stations and asked them to provide information about any missing male,” said a senior officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate. According to the preliminary post mortem, the man had died at least 48 hours before the body was removed. The body had swollen up as it had been submerged in water.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-90
09-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Schools shift to online classes as cases rise||At least two schools have suspended in-person instructions for Classes IX to XII and several others are being flooded with requests from parents to do so because of an alarming rise in the number of Covid cases. While Sanskrit Collegiate School, a government-run institution in central Calcutta, started holding classes on digital platforms on Thursday, Jadavpur Vidyapith, a government-aided school, has been holding online classes from April 5. Sanskrit Collegiate School will continue online classes till April 16 and Jadavpur Vidyapith till April 10. Debabrata Mukhopadhyay, the headmaster of Sanskrit Collegiate School, said they stopped in-person classes following an appeal from the guardians, who are scared to send their wards to the school amid rising Covid cases. “They are worried about using public transport. Physical distancing can be hardly maintained on buses and trains. So, we have decided to suspend in-person classes and will soon review the situation,” said Mukhopadhyay. Several other schools have stopped short of taking such decisions in absence of any government directive. The headmistress of a girls’ school said parents are appealing to switch to online classes entirely. “In fact, we are looking forward to a government directive on closure,” she said. Schools in Bengal had reopened on February 12 for students of Classes IX to XII after being shut from March last year as a precaution against Covid-19. The rising number of Covid cases from the middle of March this year has led to a sharp dip in attendance, said an official of the education department. He said the heads of the institutions are repeatedly requesting through the district inspectors (DI) of schools to suspend scrap in-person classes as the situation is getting worse. “Although we have not issued any centralised order till date about doing away with physical classes, the schools have been empowered to take steps they deem fit,” he said. An official of Sanskrit Collegiate School said at least three teachers of the school had tested positive and were in home isolation. According to him, when the classes had resumed on February 12, on average 100 students were attending classes. “Over the past few days the number came down to five,” he said. Jadavpur Vidyapith recorded the presence of over 400 students on an average when the classes resumed. “Over the past few days the figure has come down to 50,” said an official of the school. Headmaster Parimal Bhattacharya said: “Chances are that classes will be held online for the students of Classes IX and X. We intend to bring students of only Class XI in smaller groups as their practical classes are due.” The practical classes and exams of those in Class XII are already over, he added. An official of the school education department said, concerns over using public transport and lack of consistent sanitisation drive at schools are making the parents jittery. “Many were sending their kids to the schools as the Madhyamik and Higher Secondary examinations will be held in June. But considering the sharp rise in cases, they are now doubting whether the board exams can be held at all on time and have stopped sending their wards,” said the headmaster of a school in south Calcutta. Suvrajit Dutta, the headmaster of Hindu School, said they have convened a meeting of the academic council on April 12 to decide on how the classes would be held from April 19. “Guardians want that physical classes be reduced to thrice a week...,” said Dutta. JU roster Jadavpur University has told its officers that they can attend office on the campus three days a week, instead of five as informed earlier, following a sharp rise in Covid cases. The relaxation was given to non-teaching employees from last week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-90
