10-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid bed crisis looms over Calcutta hospitals||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission has appealed to people to alert them if a private hospital refuses to admit a Covid patent citing lack of beds. Healthcare institutes said they were facing a crisis of beds because of the huge number of Covid and non-Covid patients turning up for admission. Officials of several private hospitals said the situation was likely to worsen because, given the number of non-Covid patients, they could not increase the number of Covid beds beyond a point. “All are requested to bring to our notice if there is any refusal of admission due to non vacancy in any CE (clinical establishment) so that the matter may be taken to resolve and redirect where admission can take place,” the commission said in an appeal to people on Friday. An official of the commission said they had received complaints of refusal against a private hospital. Officials of some private hospitals in the city admitted that the Covid beds, especially the ones in the critical care unit, were mostly occupied. Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals had no vacant Covid bed on Friday. “We have 38 Covid beds, out of which 18 are ICU beds. All beds are occupied. We are working on adding 18 ICU beds soon,” said an official of the hospital. At Belle Vue Clinic, all 116 Covid beds were occupied on Friday. “A few Covid patients were refused admission because all our Covid beds are occupied. We will not be able to increase the number of Covid beds again immediately as the demand of non-Covid patients is also very high,” said Pradip Tondon, the chief executive officer of Belle Vue Clinic. “We have 40 Covid beds and seven of them are ICU beds. Only one ICU bed and five non-ICU beds are vacant,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. “We have thought about converting one more ward into a Covid ward. But there are 42 non-Covid patients in that ward now. We have to wait till they are discharged…. It will take some time.” Most private hospitals have noticed that the demand is more for critical care beds. Rupak Barua, the group chief executive officer of AMRI Hospitals, said all the 55 critical care beds for Covid patients at its units in Mukundapur, Salt Lake and Dhakuria were occupied. “We have planned to add 20 ICU beds from Monday. All the 55 ICU beds are occupied now. It has remained so for the last two-three days,” he said. Several complaints of hospitals demanding a hefty deposit before admitting patients had emerged when the pandemic was at its peak last year. The commission had imposed a penalty on a few such hospitals and asked all hospitals to not seek any advance deposit as a condition to admit a Covid patient. The number of active Covid cases in Bengal rose by 2,494 to 18,603 on Friday. The state recorded 3,648 new infections and 1,146 recoveries during the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-87
10-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: Covid protocol for voting in Calcutta||A large number of Calcuttans will cast their vote on Saturday amid the Covid-19 scare. Here is a list of things voters should know and follow while exercising their franchise during the time of pandemic. Voters will be asked to stand 6ft-apart in the queue. There may or may not be markings. In the absence of markings, voters will be expected to maintain the gap themselves. Block level officers and volunteers will monitor the queue. It is mandatory to wear a mask. If a voter does not carry one, polling officials may provide him or her with a fresh mask. During the process of identification. the voter will be asked to lower the mask. People suffering from Covid-19 and those under quarantine can vote in the last hour of polling under the supervision of health authorities. Covid-related measures will have to be strictly followed when such patients and people under quarantine vote. Every voter will undergo thermal screening for body temperature before entering the booth. If the temperature exceeds 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit, the person will be subjected to a second round of thermal screening. If the temperature persists, he or she will be asked to collect a token from a counter on the polling premises and go home. Such persons will be asked to cast their vote in the last hour of polling. They will have to show their tokens and follow all Covid-related protocols while casting their vote. Voters will have to sanitise their hands or wash their hands with soap and water at the entrance to the polling stations. Every voter will be handed over a disposable glove for one hand, with which he or she will sign the voting register and press the EVM button. The glove will have to be thrown into a designated drum/bucket. At the end of the day’s polling, the used gloves will be disposed of in the nearest government hospital. Election officials will have to ensure that no more than 1,000 voters are allowed on the premises of a polling station at any given point of time. The earlier limit was 1,500. Fewer people are being allowed this time as a precaution against Covid. As part of the Covid-19 protocol, all polling booths have been set up on the ground floor to prevent serpentine queues and facilitate voting of those who are unwell.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-87
10-04-2021||Calcutta||GD Birla reschedules practical exam ||GD Birla Centre for Education has had to reschedule the ISC (Class XII) practical paper that was to be held on Monday after a Class X student tested positive for Covid-19. The school will remain closed till April 15. “Since a student has tested positive (for Covid-19), the school is taking abundant precaution to ensure protection to other students,” a spokesperson for the school said. This year the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations has said that the ISC Class XII practical exams will have to be scheduled between April 1 and May 31.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-88
10-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Only two days’ stock of doses in Bengal||Bengal has barely two days’ stock of Covid-19 vaccine doses and several centres in Calcutta had to suspend vaccination on Friday and a few others said they could not administer the jabs on Saturday because of the shortage. An official in the state health department said on Friday evening Bengal had about eight lakh vials of Covid vaccines left. On an average, three to four lakh vials are required across the state every day. “We were supposed to receive a consignment of vaccines from the Centre on Friday but it didn’t come. Officials in Delhi were unable to tell us when the next consignment would be sent. If we don’t get fresh supply by Monday or Tuesday, vaccination will come to a stop. We asked the Centre on Friday to supply vaccines on an emergency basis,” the official said. The health department, he said, has been restricting supply of vials to hospitals and other vaccination centres. Several states have complained of shortage of supply of vaccines. Maharashtra has said it had to close many vaccination centres for want of doses. “There is a lack of transparency on the part of Union government officials. They must clearly tell us what is the situation and when we can expect the next consignment,” said the official of Bengal’s health department. Several hospitals in Calcutta had to temporarily stop vaccination on Friday because of the shortage. Belle Vue Clinic had to suspend vaccination for an hour from 4.30pm. “We had sought 35 vials from the health department on Friday but received only 20. We had 11 more from Thursday’s supply but all 31 were exhausted by 4.30pm,” said Pradip Tondon, the CEO of Belle Vue. There were at least 50 people waiting for doses at that time. The hospital sought more vials and got five. Vaccination resumed at 5.30pm, Tondon said. Other hospitals, too, said they got much less than what they had asked for. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences had sought 35 vials on Friday but got only 25. “We had a few vials left from yesterday, which we used today. There’ll be no vaccination on Saturday at our hospital because there is no stock and also because of the elections,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, of which the RN Tagore hospital is a part. “The health department has promised to send a few vials of Covaxin on Sunday. If we get those, some people will be vaccinated on Sunday but many have to be asked to come on a later date.” AMRI Hospitals Salt Lake, too, will not run vaccination on Saturday. “We have not received any vials. We'll be forced to put up posters stating ‘No Vaccine Available’ at the AMRI Salt Lake vaccination centre till we receive further supplies,” said an official of the hospital. An official of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) said the civic body would barely manage to vaccinate on Saturday. There will be fewer recipients on Saturday because of elections in Kasba, Jadavpur, Tollygunge and Behala. “There will not be adequate stock for Sunday,” the official said. The CMC has been vaccinating more than 11,000 people from its 80 health clinics every day. “It could be we will be vaccinating whoever comes till stocks last,” said an official.. If a steady supply of vaccine doses does not resume, the civic body’s plan to scale up vaccination could be hampered. The CMC has planned to start vaccination in 40 more clinics — taking the total number of clinics running vaccination to 120 — from the middle of April. But uncertainty about vaccine supply could derail the plan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-88
10-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP against women’s dignity, says panel||The BJP represents a force that challenges a woman’s right to live with dignity and tries to normalise this through a sustained campaign, said speakers on a panel discussing “Raging power of women against BJP-RSS”. The speakers referred to the Uttar Pradesh chief minister recently telling an election rally in Bengal that “anti-Romeo squads” would be raised in the state if the BJP came to power. “Anti-Romeo squads” may prima facie pass off as a tool to protect a woman but delved deeper, it emerges as a tool to subjugate a woman, Sharmishtha Roy, a doctor who was associated with the “No NRC” movement, told Metro. “There is a debate whether even parents can have any say on who an adult woman would choose as her partner. Here the state through a squad would decide who a woman could have as her partner. This is an assault on a woman’s right to live with dignity,” Roy said. Fellow speaker Kasturi Basu, a documentary filmmaker, activist, writer and editor based in the city, said there was a ploy behind this carefully strategised narrative. “Through this (‘anti-Romeo squads’) narrative, they are trying to incite the patriarchal elements. They are instigating these rogue elements through this. By injecting patriarchal ideas constantly, they want to make it a part of mainstream discourse and normalise this assault on women,” she said. “That is why women should vote against the BJP in the elections now underway,” Basu said. The discussion, moderated by Maroona Murmu, professor of history at Jadavpur University, was held in a hall in Bhowanipore, part of the Bhowanipore Assembly constituency where Union minister Amit Shah held a roadshow on Friday afternoon. Women’s rights activist and human rights scholar Navsharan Singh in her speech referred to the spirited fight put up by women from Punjab and Haryana in the protest against the Centre’s farm laws. She appealed to the women in the audience to resolve not to vote for a force that “believes in pulverising the dignity of a woman”. “The women on the borders of Delhi are not only fighting against the farm laws thrust on the farmers by the BJP government. They are now fighting for the release of women journalists who have been jailed by the BJP government. I refer to this so that the audience can make up their mind on who they should be voting for,” Singh said. Social and peace activist and theatre personality Saira Shah Halim said the BJP refers to issues like “love jihad” because they believe in assaulting a woman’s agency. “Don’t women have the agency to decide who they want as their partner? It took women a lot of effort to earn this right. No force can be allowed to challenge it,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-88
10-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Kisan Social Army’s message for voters||A group of young representatives of the farmers’ movement on Delhi’s borders visited a village in Murshidabad on Friday to urge voters to defeat the BJP in the state polls. The Narendra Modi regime’s “apathy” towards the long-standing protest is an insult to the entire farming community, the group told villagers at Mahalandi, around 20km from Kandi town. Murshidabad votes in the last two phases of elections on April 26 and 29. The six-member team reached Calcutta on March 31 to take part in the “No Vote to BJP” campaign and mobilise support for the protests against the farm laws. The team has campaigned in Hooghly and Nadia. They have also visited places like Dunlop, Bhowanipore and Belghoria that have a sizeable Sikh community, which has been at the forefront of the campaign in Bengal in support of farmers. Two days ago, they were addressing a rally near Dunlop Gurdwara, after which they met with residents of the area to chalk out the strategy for a sustained campaign against the farm laws in Bengal. “The two issues (“No Vote to BJP” and campaign against the farm laws) are not separate. The BJP government is the common adversary for farmers everywhere. Our fight is not for farmers of Punjab and Haryana but in Bengal, Assam and everywhere in India,” said Anup Singh of the Kisan Social Army, the social media publicity arm of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which is spearheading the farmers’ protest on the borders of the national capital. Singh hails from Haryana and has been camping at Tikri, on Delhi’s borders. In Murshidabad, Ankur Sangwan, another team member, stressed the “importance of a legally-guaranteed minimum support price”. “A legally-guaranteed MSP, along with a strong state procurement system, is much more viable for farmers than contract farming, where corporates will decide everything,” Sangwan told the gathering. Bengal has a minimum support price for farmers. But unlike some north Indian states, the government procurement process in Bengal is inefficient because of which there is a degree of reluctance among a section of farmers to sell their produce to the administration. At a rally on College Street on Tuesday, Singh spoke of farmers’ unity. “Punjab and Haryana had a long-standing rivalry over water sharing and the common capital, Chandigarh. But in the course of the movement, we have bonded like brothers, facing police batons and water canons together,” Singh told the rally. “It shows we are for unity, Modi is for division,” he said. The Kisan Social Army set up a Bengal “core committee” on Thursday. The 21-member committee, which includes several local persons, will organise meetings with small groups of people in the coming days. “Once the BJP is defeated in Bengal, we will take farmers from the state to Delhi. It will be a huge boost to our morale,” said Sangwan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-88
10-04-2021||Calcutta||Caught with Rs 50 lakh in Calcutta on poll-eve||A man was caught with Rs 50 lakh on him in central Calcutta on the eve of the fourth phase of the Assembly elections, in which parts of Calcutta will vote. The man, who was identified as Ravi Shankar Gupta, 43, from BK Pal Avenue, allegedly failed to explain the source or the destination of the money, police said. Police officers conducting checks intercepted him on Ganesh Chandra Avenue, near Chandni Chowk, on Friday afternoon. He was then handed over to Bowbazar police station. The model code of conduct of the Election Commission of India does not set any limit to the amount of money one can carry before or during polls, but any amount more than Rs 50,000 requires documents specifying the source and the destination of the money. If the police find someone carrying more than Rs 10 lakh, they have to inform the income tax department. Officers in Lalbazar said Gupta could not give any explanation as to from where he had got the money and where he was going to deliver it. He was stopped on Ganesh Chandra Avenue based on a specific tip-off and his bag was searched. “Bundles of currency notes were found inside the bag. The findings of a preliminary investigation suggests that he (Gupta) is a trader and may have been involved in hawala operations,” said a senior police officer. The matter has been referred to the income tax department. The department will formally seize the cash and initiate a probe into its origin. However, the police said, it was still not clear if the money was linked to any political party. Various wings of Calcutta police along with the adjoining commissionerates intensify vehicle checking and often use technological and human inputs to stop illegal transportation of money and arms. A few weeks ago, the special task force of Calcutta police had seized Rs 61 lakh from alleged drug racketeers in central Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-88
10-04-2021||Calcutta||Teen accused of killing brother in Ekbalpore||An 18-year-old boy, who worked as a mason at a building in Ekbalpore, was arrested on Friday for allegedly killing his brother, who was four years junior to him. Mujahid Ansari, 14, was found lying in a pool of blood on Thursday night in a building under construction where he and his father and brother worked as masons. Police said his father was the first to spot Mujahid, who had been missing since Thursday evening, on the fifth floor of the building. He had puncture marks all over his face.  “It appeared that someone had hit his face repeatedly with a sharp weapon,” said an officer of the homicide wing of the detective department. During questioning, Mujahid’s elder brother Mubarak allegedly kept changing his statement. And that caught the cops attention. “Mubarak confessed to his crime. Further probe revealed that a wooden plank with nails jutting out was used to hit Mujahid,” said a senior officer of the port division. “We have learned that the brothers had a strained relationship. But the exact trigger of yesterday’s incident is still unclear.” The police said the family, from Jharkhand, had come to Calcutta to work as labourers. Mubarak has been charged with murder of his minor brother, a section, if proved before the court, could lead to a maximum punishment of death penalty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-88
