11-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: Covid protocol goes for a toss||Systems were in place across all polling stations on Saturday but the Covid protocols were not adhered to in almost all of them. Voters stood shoulder to shoulder in queues and merrily discarded their gloves on the premises of the polling stations or on the road outside though yellow bins had been kept to dispose of the gloves after voting. All voters were given hand sanitisers and a glove for one hand with which they would press the EVM button to cast their vote. There were personnel deployed to give these to every voter before they entered the polling booth. The personnel also checked the body temperature of voters with a thermal gun. “No one told me that I have to drop my gloves in a bin inside the polling station,” said a man who had come out wearing the gloves from the Bapujinagar Madhyamik Balika Vidyalaya in Jadavpur. There were piles of gloves lying on the roadside outside the centre. It was a similar picture in many places. Almost everywhere, some voters came out with the glove in one hand and then took it off. They did not pause before dropping the glove on the road. Outside Kasba’s Ram Narayan Singh Memorial High School, there were piles of gloves on the floor and on the road outside. The entire school premises were littered with gloves. People also stood at barely 1ft distance from each other in the queue. “There are nine booths in this school. It is very difficult to make people following social distancing rules,” said a paramilitary jawan, who was managing queues. At the Sammilani Teachers Training College in Mukundapur or Santoshpur Vidyamandir for Girls High School too many voters had discarded their gloves on the road outside. But most voters wore masks while entering the polling station. A few youths were seen standing in the queue at Sammilani Teachers Training College in Mukundapur with masks on their chins. At this centre, too, there was no social distancing and neither the policemen nor the central forces asked the voters to stand 6ft apart from each other. The Covid protocol says that people should sanitise or wash their hands frequently, wear masks and maintain at least 6ft distance from each other in a public place. The Election Commission had made it mandatory for voters to wear gloves while casting their votes. A doctor said that this was done to ensure that the buttons were not infected. “If someone who is unknowingly carrying the virus on their fingers touched the buttons on the EVM, another person could pick up the virus from there. If the second person touched their nose or eyes with that finger, he/she could get infected with Covid-19,” said a doctor. While the personnel at some centres were telling voters to drop their gloves in the yellow bins, such instructions were not given in other places. There was no large signage or banner to inform the voters that they should drop their gloves in the yellow bins before they leave the polling station. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) has hired an agency to clear the bio-medical waste from the yellow bins. “We started cleaning the bins around 6.30pm. There are 725 polling stations in six constituencies: Jadavpur, Kasba, Metiabruz, Tollygunge, Behala East and Behala West,” said an official of GreenTech Environ, a waste management company tasked with cleaning the bins. But an official of the agency said they were not told to pick up the gloves dropped on the floor of the polling stations or on the road outside. These have to be cleared by road cleaners of the CMC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-87
11-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: Young voters’ concern— the lack of jobs||Across the constituencies that went to polls on Saturday, many young voters who stepped out said one issue determined their voting preference — the lack of jobs. Some of them were engineers “forced” to move out of Bengal for work. Some of them were students who were worried about their future prospects in the state. Aspiring teachers and young bank employees also told this newspaper that the lack of enough employment opportunities was hurting them and many of them thought a change of guard was welcome if it could ensure more jobs in the state. Sohom Banerjee, 23, and Sourajit Chakraborty, 31, had come together to a polling booth in the Bansdroni area, under Tollygunge Assembly constituency, on Saturday. “Jobs, or the lack of jobs, is the most important issue for me while voting. I will vote for a party that brings enough jobs to Bengal,” said Sohom, a BTech from a private institute, who has been working with an IT services multinational. “I had to crack an all-India entrance test to get this job. Our institute’s campus placement was dismal. Hardly any company visited the campus,” said Sohom. Sourajit, who came to the city over a week ago to cast his vote, works with a French consulting and technology services company in Hyderabad. “Recruiters don’t look beyond certain top level engineering colleges in Bengal,” he said. He studied engineering from an institute in Nagpur and got campus placement. “For jobs, you need industry. I hope the next government pays enough attention to bringing industries to Bengal,” he added. Paromita Pandey, with her two-year old child cradled in her arm, came to cast her vote in a booth set up at the Future Foundation School at Netajinagar, also under Tollygunge Assembly constituency. Asked what were the issues uppermost in her mind as she cast her vote, Paromita said: “I have done my masters’ in education and completed BEd and therefore looking forward to teachers’ recruitment tests like TET being held regularly so that we could be gainfully employed. We don’t want to sit idle after completing studies. There is not enough job opportunity for meritorious students.” Kalyani Roy, 26, who works with a private bank, also demanded more jobs. Kalyani said there were very few jobs beyond a certain level in Calcutta. “Most jobs here are very low-paying. Only more job opportunities can change that,” the Jadavpur voter said. BJP leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah, have been relentless in targeting the weakest links in the Trinamul’s armour, the lack of industry and employment opportunities in Bengal. But the Modi government’s own track record in creating jobs is nothing great. Independent agencies have painted a dismal picture of job losses across the country. Back in May 2018, the ministry of statistics and programme implementation had released the report of the National Sample Survey Office, which showed that the unemployment rate in India had touched 6.1 per cent —– a 45-year high. The report was ready for release in December 2018 but the Modi government refused to make it public, afraid that it could wreck its chances in the April-May 2019 general election. This point was highlighted by Sirsha Sengupta Roy, a fresh economics graduate from Dinabandhu Andrews College in Garia, and a voter in Naktala. “It is difficult to choose between parties when it comes to bringing jobs to Bengal. The BJP is promising to usher in real change but the country’s economy tells a different story,” he said. Anushka Mishra, 21, who is doing her BTech from a college in Bhubaneswar, rued that most youths from Calcutta had to leave their home after they graduated. “Job scarcity is the biggest problem in our state and in our city. I want that to change. I want that the new government creates enough jobs for people that are worth their education,” said Anu-shka, a first-time voter in Kasba.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-87
11-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: Choice overlooks grievances||In Kathalberia village, about 35km from the heart of Calcutta, a family has grievances galore against the Mamata Banerjee government. Rahiman Bibi can even rattle off a list of promises that have remained unfulfilled. But when it came to choosing the candidate on Saturday, the 67-year-old said she “voted for Didi”. Rahiman said she feared any other party in power would disrupt the peace that she has been enjoying for decades in the small hamlet off Hatishala, hemmed by farmlands, ponds and sprawling green fields under Bhangar Assembly constituency. She spoke of the “joy of living fearlessly with Hindu families”, of sharing Durga Puja’s prasad and shimui er payesh during Id or cooking vegetarian dishes with drumsticks gifted by neighbours. “Amra ekhane sabai ek thalaye boshe khaai (Out here we share food from the same plate),” Rahiman said sitting on the steps of her modest house, pulling the pallu lower on her face. “The mornings begin with neighbours gathering in our courtyard for a round of tea. That is how we have been living for decades now. Eta paalte jete debo na  (Won’t allow this to change).” Rahiman and her family are among six who are surrounded by Hindu families in the interiors of Kathalberia in Bhangar. Her son Taslim Molla, a Class VIII dropout, is a labourer with a contractor in adjoining Rajarhat. Taslim’s wife Minara Bibi is the mother of two sons and the eldest is a Class XI student at Hatishala Junior High Madrasha. The Trinamul Congress has fielded Rezaul Karim and sidelined Arabul Islam, the local party strongman, amid allegations of corruption against him. Pitted against Karim is Naushad Siddiqui, the candidate from the Indian Secular Front, which many believe aims to effect a split in Muslim votes in Bhangar. BJP’s Soumi Hati has primarily campaigned in the Hindu pockets across the Assembly. Trinamul’s Abdur Rezzak Mollah had won the seat in 2016 by a margin of around 18,000. On Saturday, as the conversation rolls on, Swapan Sardar, Taslim’s mate from his school days, joins the family. Early in the afternoon, all of them cast their votes in a booth nearby. “I learnt to read and write Arabic with Swapan during our days in the high madrasa. People now talk of all sorts of things on religious lines but we never felt any difference since our growing up days,” Taslim said setting besides his mother. “Pujor chanda ditey toh kokhono kichhu mone hoy ni. Ora-o toh Holi te rang niye aashey (We have never felt anything while paying for puja subscription. Even they visit us during Holi with colours)”, Taslim said. “I am not that well read but we have decided to stay with this government. We don’t want things to change suddenly.” Minara, Taslim’s wife leaves the conversation to join a few workers who have been busy building a makeshift hutment adjoining the house with bamboos and tiles. A few days back she has received the Swasthya Sathi card, she said. Other benefits have not reached the family, she said. “The shimuyi er payesh during the Id has a different taste altogether,” Swapan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-87
11-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: Devout does not mean diabolic||An old woman stopped by a temple on Diamond Harbour Road, opposite Behala police station, on her way to the polling booth on Saturday. She bowed her head and uttered a brief prayer, her palm touching her chest and forehead multiple times, before resuming her walk towards the booth. “I am a devout Hindu and pray three times a day. But I am against seeking votes in the name of a temple,” Aparajita Chatterjee, 76, told this newspaper after coming out of the booth around 10.20am. The temple, dedicated to Shiva, is one of the oldest in Behala. Chatterjee has been a regular visitor to the temple since 1960, when she came to the Behala neighbourhood after marriage. Chatterjee is now a widow and lives alone. Her two daughters are married. At home, Chatterjee watches news channels regularly. She is aware of the emergence of a new brand of Hinduism in Bengal, she said. “Bhishon chinta hoy (I am extremely worried),” she said. “There is an aggressiveness in this so-called Hindutva —  whether in slogans or in political speeches. Baying for blood is not there in my religion. My religion does not tell its followers to kill people for food they eat or clothes they wear,” she said. Chatterjee voted in Behala West where Trinamul heavyweight Partha Chatterjee is pitted against the BJP’s Srabanti Chatterjee and CPM’s Nihar Bhakta. Metro met her around 10.15pm, when there were not more than a dozen voters in the queue. Behala, once a Left bastion, is now considered a Trinamul stronghold. The party had a lead from the Assembly segment — which falls under the south Calcutta Lok Sabha seat — even during the BJP surge in the 2019 general elections. But local residents are also familiar with the Jai Shri Ram cry as the BJP has been organising rallies and street corner meetings in Behala neighbourhoods. Three days ago, Union home minister Amit Shah took part in a road show in Behala. Despite her age, Chatterjee walks straight. On Saturday, she politely refused an offer by a jawan posted at the gates to lead her inside. Most people at the booth greeted her. A middle-aged man, who came up to enquire about her health outside the temple, was “admonished” by the septuagenarian for not wearing a mask. Chatterjee also had two sons — one of them died in an accident and the other “left home one day many years ago, never to return again”. “I know what losing her children means for a mother. Not a single woman should suffer that fate. I pray so that no more lives are lost in the name of religion,” said Chatterjee. Chatterjee’s maternal home used to be in Bowbazar. She never went to school but was taught by a tutor at home. “My father was very conservative. But my in-laws were very progressive and encouraged me to read, write and listen to the radio,” said Chatterjee. “I don’t have degrees. But I understand that keeping the communal pot boiling deflects attention from real issues like lack of employment and price rise,” she said before heading home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-87
11-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: Voters voice||As voting reached Calcutta and some of its suburbs on Saturday, The Telegraph spoke to voters on issues that concerned them. Here’s what some of them had to say Uma Dutta Chowdhury, 62, was sitting with a group of senior citizens at Surjya Sen Nagar, a Tollygunge pocket after casting her vote on Saturday. A pensioner who lives alone, Dutta Chowdhury said she was struggling to make ends meet because of the sliding interest rates at banks and rising prices of essential commodities.She gets the family pension of her late father. “This central government wants to change everything. A day is not far when one has to pay the bank for keeping money with it,” said Dutta Chowdhury.Other members of the group nodded their heads in agreement as she spoke.“I just pray that I don’t have to financially depend on others at this stage of my life,” said Dutta Chowdhury. Purbasha Roy, an actor, had come to cast her vote at the Future Foundation School in the Tollygunge seat. The 25-year-old said she was “aghast” at the “unsavoury comments" made recently at a TV debate by a political leader addressing a “woman colleague”. “A society should be judged by the way it treats women. Their abuse shows the mentality of such political leaders. They have a problem with any woman who speaks her mind,” said Purbasha. Days later, she heard the same leader threatening artistes with “rogre debo”. “Oder vote diye rogre dewa uchit (They should be taught a lesson with ballots),” she said. Sreshtha Banerjee, another first-time voter at the same booth, said the derogatory language used by vote seekers has made politics “an object of aversion” for many young people. “This problems cuts across political parties. The discourse has stooped to such a level that it devalues humanity,” she said. Patralekha and Kakali Mukherjee, daughter and mother, came out of a booth in Behala West around 10am on Saturday. Patralekha, who studies nutrition in Vidyasagar College, voted for the first time in her life. “Women's safety and education are the two most important issues for me,” said the 19-year-old.Kakali, who teaches history at a city school, said she was disturbed by the “attempts by some elements to distort the secular history of India”. “The politics of Bengal has also become communal. It is starkly visible in the poll campaigns. All parties are to blame for this,” she said. “The rise in fuel prices should be the discourse, not Hindu-Muslim rivalry,” she said. Anwesha Dasgupta, 21, had applied for a voting card much before the 2019 general elections. The card was delayed and she missed voting. This time, she was determined not to let the chance go because she wanted to be “counted in the fight against communal polarisation and politics of hatred”. On Saturday, Anwesha and her mother were one of the early voters at a booth on Biren Roy Road west in Behala West Assembly seat. “After waiting for around 10 minutes, I entered the voting compartment. I paused for a few seconds and the pressed the button. It felt as if I had asserted my stake in the affairs of my land," said Anwesha, a student of multimedia and animation at St Xavier's College. “My vote was my way of saying no to division and hatred,” she said. Dasgupta had to do several rounds of Bhavani Bhavan to get her voting card to sort out some documentation problems. “I am happy my labour was fruitful,” she said. Ghennamoni Naskar had not voted the last time. This time, the mother of three did. “Every vote matters,” said the woman who finds it difficult to stand because of arthritis. At Naskarpara in Bhangar, she said: “If you stop to hear leaders of some prominent political parties there is no word on development. It’s all about religion.” The woman was thankful to voters in the queue who made way for her so that she could leave early. "It is wrong to divide people,” she said while waiting for a van rickshaw that would drop her home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-87
11-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: Concern over citizenship a talking point among the elderly||The fear of implementation of the citizenship matrix, one of the poll planks of BJP, weighed heavily on the minds of voters in different assembly constituencies spread across parts of Calcutta as they went to cast their votes on Saturday. Be it in Suryanagar, a colony that consists of 1200-odd residents under Tollyunge assembly seat, Patuli in the southern fringes that is part of Jadavpur assembly constituency or Behala that consists of pockets of settlers whose forefathers had come during the partition, several voters said issues like CAA, NRC and NPR were important. The fact that  the BJP on March 21 while unveiling its manifesto for the Bengal elections, promised to clear the implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act in the first cabinet meeting of the new government, has further stoked fear among residents who had settled from places like Khulna, Barishal from the then East Pakistan. A resident of Suryanagar, Abhash Majumder whose forefathers came from Khulna, wondered how could they prove that they were religiously persecuted to be able to come under the ambit of CAA and reclaim citizenship. The “Statement of Objects and Reasons’’ for introducing the CAA, 2019 says that the constitutions of Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh provide for a specific state religion. As a result, many persons belonging to Hindu, Sikh, Buddhist, Jain, Parsi and Christian communities have faced persecution on grounds of religion in those countries. So, under the proposed act migrants from these communities entering India from Afghanistan, Pakistan or Bangladesh without valid documents would now have the eligibility for Indian Citizenship. “Who would testify as to whether we were persecuted or not? Our forefathers are not alive to offer their versions. What if we are asked to reclaim our citizenship through the route of CAA,” asked Abhash, who is a businessman by profession. Abhash along with a group of residents of the colony were sharing their concerns after casting their votes. They were forming a huddle in the lane whose walls on either side were replete with posters of Trinamul candidate from Tollygunge, Aroop Biswas, that read: “Jibon thakte CAA, NRC and NPR kichutey hote debo na (As long we are alive, under no circumstance we will allow implementation of CAA ,NRC and NPR)”. Locals said that TMC may not have been vocal about the issue, but has carried out a subdued campaign in Suryanagar that was developed in 1950. Another resident of the colony, Sankar Bhattacharya, 71, said his forefathers came from Dhaka to Suryanagar during the partion in 1947. He wondered how could a government that has been elected by its citizens ask them to prove whether they are citizens. “Even if I vote against the incumbent government, I am a citizen. How can you ask for more proof? We have seen what happened in Assam? Incase of NRC, we have to come up with legacy documents? How could we do that? Incase of CAA we have to prove we had been religiously persecuted? Again how could we do that? What has happened in Assam has been a lesson for all of us,” he said. As many as 14 lakhs Hindus lost their citizenship while NRC was carried out in Assam. Subir Dey, 53, said some of them were born at government hospitals. “But those from the previous generations were delivered by midwives. How can we get certificates for them? The BJP has no organisation in these colony areas. They did not dare to campaign here but we know their agenda,” said Dey even as he headed to one of the two booths to cast his vote. After CAA was passed in December 2019, a protest was launched at the Park Circus ground and it went for months. Kasturi Basu, a Patuli resident thatv falls under Jadavpur assembly seat, said: “The  issue of CAA, NRC and NPR has been weighing heavily on my mind over the past two years. This has caused anxiety among scores of people, who I believe will not vote for BJP.” She cast her vote in the morning. “Issues like CAA, NRA are a ploy to deny the countrymen their citizenship. These are ploy to shift the focus from real issues and divide the country on religious lines,” said Bhasar Gupta, a professor of Jadavpur University and a resident of Jadavpur said. “The instance of Assam has taught us how bad it could be. We can not support the proponents of such acts,” said a resident of Sarsuna that falls under Behala West Assembly constituency. He did not want to be identified.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-87
