12-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Metro commuters flout mask mandate||A woman who boarded a Metro train at Sovabazar on Friday saw two teenagers put on their masks after being prodded by a Railway Protection Force jawan on the platform but removed them as soon as the train started moving. A senior citizen who boarded a train at Tollygunge on Sunday afternoon saw a fellow passenger with his mask on the chin. When the elderly man asked him to wear the mask properly, he said it felt “suffocating”. Many passengers in the city’s transport lifeline are travelling unmasked despite regular awareness campaigns by the carrier, said officials and RPF personnel. “The number of unmasked passengers was much more last month. The renewed surge in Covid numbers has triggered some caution but many are still without masks. Most offenders have been found to carry a mask but not wearing it properly,” said an RPF officer. The Metro authorities had announced a few days ago that passengers without masks would be fined Rs 200. But the penalisation drive is yet to pick up speed. “Less than 10 passengers have been fined on the entire north-south corridor for not wearing masks in the past week,” said an RPF officer. On the Rabindra Sadan-Rabindra Sarobar stretch, only two passengers have been fined in the past two days, said another RPF officer. Similarly, on the Dum Dum-MG Road stretch, the number has been “less than five in the past week”. “Many offenders are young passengers, including teenagers,” he said. The average daily Metro passenger count has been over 2.5 lakh per day for some time now. Saradiya Sengupta Bhattacharya, who commutes regularly between Dum Dum and Rabindra Sadan, said: “Almost every day, I see passengers masked while entering the station. But they remove the masks when the train starts moving.” Metro officials said the stress was on creating awareness. “We are building awareness through the ‘No Mask, No Metro’ campaign. Audio-visual campaigns are going on regularly across stations. Traffic inspectors are visiting stations to ensure implementation of the Covid-19 protocols,” said Indrani Banerjee, the Metro spokesperson.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-86
12-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Two-tier security for EVMs||The mandate of the seven Assembly constituencies in and around Calcutta that voted on Saturday is lying sealed in 2,000-odd electronic voting machines (EVMs) that are in safe custody in strongrooms across the city. The EVMs will be opened three weeks later, on May 2. Till then, the seven strongrooms will remain under 24X7 CCTV coverage and guarded by state and the central forces. More than 2,300 EVMs were in use in Kasba, Jadavpur, Behala, Metiabruz, Tollygunge and Bhangar on Saturday. They are kept in strongrooms located inside Geetanjali Stadium on Rajdanga Main Road, Bratachari Bidyashram Higher Secondary School in Joka, Vivekananda College on Diamond Harbour Road, Dinabandhu Andrews College in Garia, State Institute of Physical Education for Women in Hastings House complex on Judges Court Road, Sister Nivedita Government General Degree College for Girls in Hastings House complex and Sonarpur Mahabidyalaya in Rajpur, officers of the city police said. Officers said security at the strongrooms had been stepped up this year because the elections in the city are being held in phases, making it possible to deploy more cops for safe keeping of the voting machines. “No one other than polling officials, and candidates and their agents are being allowed anywhere close to the strong rooms. The buildings are clearly demarcated so that people can stay away from them,” said a senior officer in Calcutta police. According to the Election Commission of India’s guidelines, the area just outside a strongroom has to be guarded by 24 armed men of central forces and the “outer perimeter” has to be manned by 16 cops from the state force. The state police squad includes members of the armed police, a sergeant and two assistant sub-inspectors. It is led by an inspector-rank officer. A log book is maintained at the entrance of the building housing a strongroom to record details of every person visiting the place. Polling officials are allowed inside the building to check whether the locks on the strongrooms are in place, Candidates and their chief election agents are allowed till outside the strongroom so they could check the security. “The arrangement has been made so that no candidate later alleges that EVMs and strongrooms were not well protected,” said a police officer. The number of strongrooms will increase many times after the seventh phase of elections on April 27. The locks on the strongrooms will be broken on May 2, in the presence of polling officials and observers, and the EVMs will be taken to the counting centres. “The entire procedure is video-recorded,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-86
12-04-2021||Calcutta||Sector V authorities plan to upgrade eight-storey car parking lot||The Sector V authorities will soon set up car service centres, auto-spare shops and tyre outlets on at least two levels of the eight-storey parking lot in Sector V, an official of the Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA) said. The parking lot — located in AQ Block, near the Technopolis building — has space for at least 600 cars. The official said such shops would make the parking lot more popular as motorists will be able to get their cars serviced or washed, or get a tyre replaced while they go about their regular business in Sector V. “We will soon set up these shops. People can park their vehicles here and also get them serviced and washed. We will also have eateries there,” said Debashis Sen, the chairman of NDITA, which looks after the civic amenities of the tech hub. Many people who have offices in Sector V now commute in personal vehicles to ensure physical distancing, a key precautionary measure against Covid-19. The parking lot is yet to get traction and operate at its optimum capacity. The Sector V authorities want to popularise it so that streets and roads of the IT hub remain free of parked cars.Parking on roads is rampant in Sector V. The multi-storey car park became operational last week. The top floor has a solar-top banquet hall. The building has two elevators. Vehicles can be driven through ramps to the 8th floor. The NDITA is also going to set up dedicated spaces for two-wheelers and a bicycle stand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-86
12-04-2021||Calcutta||Reverend Paritosh Canning unveils Brian Grey’s 'My Forty Pieces of Silver'||My Forty Pieces of Silver, a motivational book, by Brian Grey was launched by Reverend Paritosh Canning, the bishop of the Calcutta diocese of the Church of North India, at St Stephen’s Church, Kidderpore, on Sunday evening. The book is dedicated to the author’s mother whom he lost when he was 15. The book contains 40 stories that talk about moral values. “The book contains what a mother should teach her child. The book will also teach children the importance of spending time with parents,” said Grey. “This book is enriched with human values, love and respect for everybody’s mother. Unfortunately, at present these values are eroding from our society. This book will help the new generation revive those values. King Wajid Ali Shah during his time paid much emphasis to uplift these values in society,” said Sahebzada Shaheryaar Ali Mirza, the great great grandson of Nawab Wajid Ali Shah, the king of Awadh. Shaheryaar had helped with the printing of the book.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-86
12-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Jaya Bachchan takes part in a roadshow for TMC’s Jorasanko candidate Vivek Gupta||Samajwadi Party MP Jaya Bachchan, who has been campaigning for the Trinamul Congress in the state polls, on Sunday took part in a road show for the party’s Jorasanko candidate, Vivek Gupta. Jorasanko votes on April 29. Gupta is up against the BJP’s Meena Devi Purohit and Ajmal Khan of the Sanyukta Morcha. The 500-strong procession, led by Gupta and Bachchan, started from College Square around 4.30pm and passed through Vivekananda Road and Amherst Street. Hundreds of people flocked to their balconies to see Bachchan, who waved at them. “I want to say do not hijack my religion from me. Do not. Never. Do not hijack my democracy and my democratic right from me. And when I say, me, I represent all the people. And that is why I’m here because Mamata Banerjee is fighting, struggling, a single lady, to preserve democratic rights of every individual of Bengal,” Bachchan had said at a news meet at the Trinamul headquarters on April 5.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-86
12-04-2021||Calcutta||Amphan-hit student gets help||A school teacher who lost her brother three years back has started a scholarship for students from financially deprived homes in his name. The scholarship, Joydeep Roy Memorial Award, was handed over to 14-year-old Sudipa Kar, a student of Naoda Nayan Chandra Vidyapith in Howrah, on Sunday evening. The Class IX student’s father, a farmer involved in betel leaf cultivation, suffered huge losses during Cyclone Amphan, which had struck south Bengal in May last year. The family had to survive on doles from organisations for months. Sudipa will appear for Madhyamik next year and the scholarship will help her buy books and stationery. Joydeep Roy passed away in April 2018 in Chamba in Uttarakhand, where he had shifted for work. He would have turned 33 on Sunday. Roy’s mother Mitra Roy handed over the scholarship on his birthday. “He completed MTech but was not getting a permanent job in Calcutta, so he had to move to Uttarakhand where he was teaching computer science in senior classes. He was a good student and the idea of giving scholarship is that students should not steer away from education because of lack of funds. I have the resources to help one student every year in my small way,” said sister Joeeta Basu, a teacher at St Xavier’s Collegiate School. Basu started the scholarship in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-86
12-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Bed information under wraps||A crisis of Covid beds is already being felt in hospitals in the city and adding to the problem is the alleged failure of the state health department to post on its website updated information on availability of such beds. The absence of latest data on Covid beds has triggered fears of a rerun of last year when families of patients had to run from one hospital to another in search of a bed. The state health department had last year started posting on its website daily updated information on availability of Covid beds for the benefit of patients and their families. But a look at the website on Sunday showed the data had not been updated for a while. The number of Covid beds at several private hospitals, as told by their officials, did not match the data on the health department’s website. A hospital in south-east Calcutta had 40 Covid beds on Sunday. Only two were vacant. But the health department’s website stated the hospital had 129 Covid beds, of which 95 were vacant. An official of the hospital said the numbers were from last year. The number of Covid beds in a central Calcutta hospital was more than what was mentioned on the website on Sunday. The website stated that the figures were current as of April 9, a claim denied by hospital officials. Officials of several private hospitals in the city said the department had not been collecting data on Covid bed availability from them for a long time. Ajay Chakraborty, the state’s director of health services, told Metro on Sunday that the department would start updating the status daily from next week. “We are working on it. We are expecting to update the data daily from next week,” Chakraborty said. But the crisis of Covid beds has started to be felt, following a steep rise since last month in the number of people testing positive for the disease. A teacher at a north Calcutta school said a friend’s brother was taken to several hospitals but was denied admission because of unavailability of Covid beds. He was finally admitted to a south Calcutta hospital. An official of Belle Vue Clinic said the hospital was receiving calls from multiple people seeking admission for their known ones but all their Covid beds were occupied. “We have 116 beds and all are occupied. Twenty of the beds are in the critical care unit. We will add 20 more critical care beds in a week,” said Pradip Tondon, the chief executive officer of Belle Vue Clinic. At the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, 74 of the 82 Covid beds were occupied on Sunday. The hospital has 25 critical care beds, four of which were vacant on Sunday. “We had 21 patients last Sunday and today we have 74 patients,” said R. Venkatesh, regional head, east, Narayana Health, which owns the hospital. AMRI Hospitals had only one Covid bed vacant at its three units. “One general bed in the Dhakuria unit was vacant on Sunday afternoon,” said an official of the group. The Dhakuria hospital has 86 Covid beds, 24 of which are critical care beds. The Mukundapur unit of the group has 33 Covid beds, 17 of which are critical care beds, while all 24 Covid beds in the Salt Lake unit are critical care beds. Even when the health department’s website was updating the vacant bed status daily last year, there were allegations that the numbers were not accurate. Many hospitals had then said the numbers were not being updated real time. Which means if a hospital had some vacant beds in the morning – when the status was uploaded in the website – these were filled by afternoon or evening on many days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-86
12-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Fresh doses on way but too few, says state health dept||The Centre has promised four lakh doses of Covid vaccines to Bengal but state health department officials said that would be too few to continue the inoculation drive uninterrupted. A number of Covid vaccination centres in the city did not administer jabs or gave them to fewer people on Sunday because of lack of or shortage of doses.Several centres had suspended vaccination on Saturday, too, because they had exhausted their stock and fresh supply did not arrive. Health department officials said the Centre had promised to send four lakh doses on Monday evening. “That will be just enough for a day or two. It’s not clear what will happen once the doses are exhausted,” an official said. Officials of the department were also uncertain whether vaccination could be done from all centres in the state on Monday. Supply constraints have forced the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) to stop vaccination in about 30 clinics on Sunday, a senior CMC official said. The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, too, had to shut down 10 vaccination centres on Sunday because of lack of supply. Ajay Chakraborty, the state’s director of health services, told Metro that the department had 3 lakh doses in stock on Sunday afternoon. “We may not have problems today but we would not be able to vaccinate from all centres on Monday. The Centre has promised 4 lakh doses on Monday evening as an emergency supply,” he said. “We are supposed to get 20 lakh doses but it is difficult to say when those will come.” Among the private hospitals that had to stop Covid vaccination on Sunday was Belle Vue Clinic. The hospital, which has been vaccinating between 350 and 450 people on an average every day, could give the shot to only 100 people on Saturday. “We suspended Covid vaccination on Sunday as we did not get vaccine supply. I do not know whether we can resume vaccination on Monday,” said Pradip Tondon, the chief executive officer of Belle Vue Clinic. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences in Mukundapur, too, had to suspend vaccination on Saturday. Many people who had arrived for the jab were told that the hospital did not have enough doses and they would have to come back later for the shot. “We kept the vaccination centre at our hospital closed on Saturday because we were told we would get fewer vials. We expected a low turnout on Saturday because of polls in the part of the city where our hospital is located,” said an official. The hospital got 20 vials on Sunday and vaccinated about 200 people. AMRI Hospitals Salt Lake could not vaccinate anyone on Saturday and Sunday. The hospital had put up a notice announcing that it had run out of doses. “We are not sure when the Salt Lake hospital will get fresh supply,” said an official. The Dhakuria and Mukundapur units of the group together vaccinated 543 people on Sunday. The civic bodies in Calcutta and Bidhannagar were also forced to curtail its vaccination programme on Sunday. “We were vaccinating from 80 clinics. Ten of them were taken over for the polls. On Sunday, we had to suspend vaccination at 30 clinics. We could vaccinate from 40 clinics on Sunday. At some clinics, which vaccinated 250 to 300 people every day, only 100 got the shot on Sunday,” a CMC official said. The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation shut down 10 Covid-19 vaccination centres on Sunday, an official of the civic body said. The couple of BMC centres that administered the shot during the day are at Deshbandhunagar Hospital in Narayanpur and Vidyasagar Matri Sadan. The ones where the vaccination was suspended include Aswininagar Health Centre in Baguiati, Saradapalli Primary Health Care Centre (PHC), Kestopur PHC, Jyotinagar PHC and Duttabad PHC. Bidhannagar Sub-Divisional Hospital in Salt Lake on Sunday administered jabs to polling personnel, senior citizens and those above 45. The number of active Covid cases in Bengal rose by 2,615 to 23,981 on Sunday. The state recorded 4,398 new infections and 1,773 recoveries during the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-87
12-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: 55 IIM Calcutta students test positive||As many as 55 students of IIM Calcutta have tested positive and are being quarantined at a special facility on the campus, an official of the B-school said on Sunday. Most of the students are from the two-year MBA programme and the rest are from the one-year executive course. “They have been lodged in Tata Hall and are under observation. No one has yet been hospitalised,” said the official, who is part of the Joka institute’s Covid response team. Although classes are being held online because of the pandemic, students have been brought back to the campus in phases so they could use the institute’s internet connectivity to attend academic proceedings. The students had to be brought back because many of them complained that they could not attend online classes from home because of poor Net connectivity. While the students were returning to the campus, the institute authorities had said that they would be put up in hostels in strict adherence to the physical distancing norms and other Covid protocols. “We suspect some students had dropped guard during Holi and contracted Covid,” the official said. The infected students on the campus totalled 15 on April 2. By April 11, the number rose to 55. “These students will leave the campus after serving the quarantine period. The institute had drawn up a standard operating procedure to be followed amid the pandemic in June last year following the guidelines of the Centre,” the official said. Once the infected students leave, the official said, the hostels will be sanitised. “The classes for the next academic session, too, are likely to be held online but students will stay on the campus to use the institute Net facilities,” the teacher said. “Particularly, those living in tier-II and tier-III cities will have to stay on the campus.” The teacher, however, said bringing students back to the campus would depend on how the Covid-situation was unfolding. “If the travel restrictions are imposed again to contain the renewed surge of cases, then bringing students to the campus would become uncertain,” he said. The B-school has already decided to hold the convocation on May 15 on online mode to avoid any assembly of students and guardians. As many as 61 teachers had in September last year written to the institute’s board of governors wondering whether it was prudent to call students to the campus amid the Covid pandemic. The 61 teachers — the Joka B-school’s current faculty strength is 82 — had expressed the fear that the students’ journey to and presence on the campus could trigger grave health consequences. “Contrary to the apprehension, the situation was well under control till late March. The festival of colours seems to have undone everything,” said an IIM official. Detection of Covid cases on the campus and the nationwide surge have forced IIEST Shibpur last week to announce the scrapping of the decision to bring students to the campus to write the supplementary tests and attend practicals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-87
