13-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: IIT Kharagpur defers plan to bring back students||IIT Kharagpur has put on hold its decision to call back 300 final-year undergraduate students and around 3,000 research scholars following detection of fresh Covid cases on the campus. The 300 final-year students, who need to attend in-person lab classes, were set to return to the campus from April 16. The research scholars have been coming back in batches since December. Registrar Tamal Nath said: “We are deferring the recall of BTech students for some time considering the circumstances. We will review the situation in early May and then take a call on the way forward. The return of the research scholars is also being deferred for some time. We will review the situation later and proceed.” The director had on March 17 announced that the fourth-year students would be brought back from April 16 and the recall of PhD students that was already underway would be expedited. An official of the institute said the situation had drastically changed after mid March. After a pause of several months, cases are being detected afresh on the campus. “Cases are rising sharply across the country, too. In this situation it would not be advisable to recall students. What if they catch the virus during transit?” the official said. Another reason that prompted the authorities to defer the plan to bring students back to the campus was insufficient medical facilities in the town. “BC Roy Technology Hospital on the campus will not be able to deal with a rise in cases. The hospitals and safe houses outside the campus are all occupied,” the official said. NIT roster NIT Durgapur has announced that office attendance of the teachers and other staff members have been made optional till further notice, following “resurgence of Covid-19 incidents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-85
13-04-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta Municipal Corporation and private hospitals open safe home and satellite unit for Covid patients||The state government and private hospitals have started opening safe homes and satellite facilities for Covid patients as an alarming rise in the case count since March has resulted in a bed crisis in hospitals. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) on Monday opened a safe home at a building on the EM Bypass-Park Circus connector, opposite Science City, to accommodate Covid-19 patients who lack space at home to stay isolated. The CMC is also preparing to open similar facilities in other parts of Calcutta. Some of the private hospitals have started opening satellite facilities, which they had closed early this year following a sharp drop in the number of cases. The CMC facility, the first in the city since the beginning of the second wave of Covid in March, can accommodate 100 patients, officials said. “Elderly patients who can't afford a caregiver at home will be given priority while allotting beds at the safe home,” said a CMC official. “Those who will stay at the safe home will undergo regular monitoring.” The decision to reopen some of the safe homes in the city was taken at a recent meeting between officials of the CMC and the Bengal health department. “People have been gathering in large numbers to join political processions and meetings. The number of Covid positive patients could go up in the next few weeks and there is an immediate need to stay prepared,” a health department official said. “Apart from the CMC, we will request other civic bodies near Calcutta to make similar arrangements.” In the next few weeks, the CMC will acquire a few floors of a building at Anandapur, off EM Bypass, to accommodate close to 400 patients. A floor will be reserved for doctors and other health staff. “We also plan to accommodate patients at Kishore Bharati Stadium in Santoshpur and Gitanjali Stadium in Kasba. Preliminary surveys have been completed and last minute arrangements are being finalised,” said a senior official of the CMC's health department. "A building in New Town will soon be acquired to set up a safe home." A few private hospitals have started exploring the possibility of opening satellite facilities for Covid-19 patients. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences reopened a 16-bed satellite facility last week. “The opening of the unit has enabled us to keep a few general beds for Covid patients free,” an official of the hospital said. “We had closed down the satellite facility in January. Off late we have been receiving calls from people who wanted to get admitted in the hospital. Initially we kept them in the wards but as numbers rose we opened the satellite facility,” said R. Venkatesh, the regional head (east), of Narayana Health, the owners of RN Tagore hospital. “If the mild patients are shifted there, the beds can be kept free for moderate and severe patients.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-85
13-04-2021||Calcutta||Medical insurance policy for Covid-19 sees few renewals so far||A medical insurance policy for Covid-19 had many takers when it was launched in July last year but very few have renewed it till date, said officials of insurance companies. They said one of the main reasons for not renewing the Corona Kavach policy could be that people were no longer scared of Covid at least till February, when the number of fresh cases was very low. Financial problems caused by the pandemic was another reason for the lack of interest in renewing the policy, the officials said. Corona Kavach was launched on July 10 by the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority. National Insurance Company Ltd sold 75,000 policies across India, of which around 40 per cent were sold in Calcutta, said officials. Around 10 per cent of the policies bought by subscribers had renewals due in the first three-and-a-half to six-and-a-half months. Officials said the bulk of the policies were bought between July 10 and October. “Out of the 7,500-odd Corona Kavach policies which were to be renewed during this period, only around 400 were actually renewed. Thousands of renewals are due in April,” said Saurav Kariwala, assistant manager (medical), National Insurance Company Ltd, Calcutta. “One of the main reasons could be that the fear of Covid was diminishing in people's minds because the number of cases had started reducing. Since there is a surge again, there could be renewals by subscribers who had taken out the policy for nine-and-a-half months,” said Kariwala. Public health experts said there was complacency among most people about Covid. “Most people now are not concerned about Covid and the fear is gone. They are dropping guard. Many of those who have been vaccinated feel they are fully immune to the disease. That is one reason why people are not bothered to buy or renew the policy,” said public health expert Abhijit Chowdhury. In the middle of November, Bengal used to record around 3,500 new Covid cases every day. That came down to around 2,000 in the middle of December. By the middle of January, barely 600 new cases were reported daily and in February, the average daily count dropped below 150. However, the number of cases has started rising again since March. Many people had opted for the Corona Kavach policy because there were no cappings on expenses. In other health insurance policies, there were cappings on expenses in various categories such as bed charges and doctor’s consultation. So, many people bought Corona Kavach despite having a health insurance policy, officials of insurance companies said. Medical insurance agents said they had been calling up subscribers over the past few years for renewal but many had refused. “Today, I called up two clients who have their renewals due this month. Both said they are not interested in renewing the policy. The reasons are they are not so scared about the disease and also financial problems,” said Sandip Chakraborty, a health insurance agent. He said one of the clients had purchased the policy of sum assured of Rs 3 lakh in July. He is supposed to pay Rs 6,500 for renewal. “The man said he is undergoing financial constraints,” said Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-85
13-04-2021||Calcutta||Rs 13-lakh cash haul in central Calcutta ||A man was caught with Rs 13 lakh at a busy crossing in central Calcutta on Monday evening. Police said he could not provide any information on the source or destination of the money. Nemai Bera, a resident of Haridevpur, was intercepted at the Sashi Bhushan Dey Street and BB Ganguli Street crossing by a police team that was conducting pre-election checking in the area, the police said. The area falls under the Chowringhee Assembly constituency that will vote in the final phase of the polls on April 29. Bera, along with the cash, was handed over to Muchipara police station from where the matter was conveyed to the income tax department. According to the Election Commission of India guidelines, although there is no upper limit in carrying cash or gold jewellery when the model code of conduct is on, any amount above Rs 50,000 has to be justified with documents stating the source and destination. Cash and gold changes hands before elections that are often ferried from one point to another through carriers who are either clueless about the origin of the money or have no ownership on the money. Several incidents where unaccounted cash is being caught while being transported through the city are being reported. Last week, a hawala operator was caught carrying cash Rs 50 lakh on Ganesh Chandra Avenue on the eve of the fourth phase of Assembly elections, in which parts of the city had voted. “In majority of the cases, the political affiliation never comes out as the person carrying the cash is never attached or aware of the origin of the money. The cash is handed over to the income tax department, which starts a probe that takes a year or so to wrap up,” said an officer of Calcutta police. According to the rule, if someone comes forward to claim the money, proportionate tax has to be deposited to regularise the money and claim it back.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-85
13-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: IIM Calcutta tells students to vacate hostels||IIM Calcutta has asked students of its two-year MBA programme and one-year MBA executive programme to vacate hostels “due to developing Covid-19 situation in the country and Calcutta”. The arrival of the second batch of students of PGPEx-VLM programme that entails a four-month stay on the campus starting from April, has been deferred till further orders. Students of the one-year MBA executive programme and the second-year students of the two-year MBA programme have left the hostels on April 10 and 11 respectively after completing their exams. The students usually stay at the hostels for a period of 10 to15 days after the exams. A notice issued by the institute’s chief administrative officer, Alok Chandra, says that the first-year students of the two-year MBA programme must vacate the hostels by April 18 — a day after their exam gets over. As many as 70 students of IIM Calcutta have tested positive till Monday, said an official of the institute. “The students, who are quarantined (at a special facility on the campus), would return home once they recover after serving the isolation period. They are stable. We have decided to get the hotels vacated so that the others don’t come in contact with the affected ones.” Another official said the sanitisation drive was a must before the fresh batch of students returned to the campus from June after summer recess. “So, we have to sanitise the facilities,’’ said a member of the campus’s Covid task force committee. Although classes are being held online because of the pandemic, students had been brought back last year in phases so they could use the institute’s Internet to attend academic proceedings. The one-year postgraduate programme for executives for visionary leadership in manufacturing (PGPEx-VLM) full time residential program is conducted jointly by IIM-Calcutta, IIT Kanpur and IIT Madras.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-85
13-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: North Calcutta TMC candidate releases election manifesto for his constituency||The Trinamul Congress candidate from Cossipore-Belgachhia, in north Calcutta, released an election manifesto for his constituency on Monday and said it was a “promise in writing” of the things he would deliver if elected. The candidate, Atin Ghosh, who was deputy mayor of Calcutta, said his experience as councillor for 35 years helped him identify the problems that still plagued the area. All political parties release manifestos containing a list of things they will do if voted to power. Individual candidates releasing manifestos ahead of an election is not common. Ghosh’s 13-page manifesto mentions that he will build an underground drainage system on either side of BT Road, between the Tallah bridge and Sinthee More. The 2.5km stretch of the road has open drains on both sides. Ghosh has also mentioned in his manifesto that he will convert other open drains in the constituency into underground ones. The manifesto mentions that he will build three footbridges at Chiria More, Sinthee More and at the intersection of Dum Dum Road and Raja Manindra Road. “I am giving in writing to the people what I will do for them if elected. This will be on record and with people for days to come,” said Ghosh. “I have been a councillor for 35 years and worked on civic issues. My background as councillor naturally drives me towards finding deficiencies in the development of a place. I have been going around in the Cossipore-Belgachhia constituency since March 4, immediately after my party nominated me as candidate,” Ghosh said while releasing the manifesto at his election office on Raja Manindra Road. While visiting various areas of the constituency, Ghosh said, he spotted pockets lagging behind in development. While speaking to residents of the areas, he found that they, too, thought on similar lines. He has also included in the manifesto demands raised by the people he called on after being nominated as candidate. Residents of the Belgachhia slum, for instance, have demanded a community hall. “People of the Belgachhia bustee told me that they face a lot of difficulty in organising wedding receptions and other family programmes. Despite being one Calcutta’s largest slums, there is no community hall in the area. I will build a community hall for them,” said Ghosh. “We will be accountable to the people of this constituency. They can question the candidate later if he fails to deliver on the promises made in the manifesto,” said Priyadarshini Ghosh, Atin’s daughter, who is his campaign manager. The Cossipore-Belgachhia seat has about 2.40 lakh voters, with a mix of Bengali, Hindi and Urdu-speaking population. Trinamul’s Mala Saha had won the seat in the 2016 Assembly polls. She had defeated the Left Front’s Kaninika Bose by 25, 810 votes. Cossipore-Belgachhia is part of the Calcutta North Lok Sabha seat. In the 2019 parliamentary elections, Trinamul’s Sudip Bandyopadhyay, who had won from Calcutta North, was ahead of the BJP’s Rahul Sinha in the Cossipore-Belgachhia segment by 13,592 votes. Ghosh admitted that there could be an anti-incumbency factor against him because his promises in the manifesto would give rise to allegations that the outgoing MLA - from his party –had failed to deliver. “She did a lot of development work, but these are some of things that are still left to be done,” he said. The BJP has fielded Shivaji Singha Roy, a former president of the party’s North Calcutta district, from the constituency. The Sanjukta Morcha candidate is Pratip Dasgupta from the CPM. Cossipore-Belgachhia will vote on April 29, in the last phase of the eight-phase Assembly elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-86
13-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Rally against Sitalkuchi killings||Hundreds of people from Calcutta and neighbouring districts joined a rally in the heart of the city to condemn the lives lost in the CISF firing in Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar on Saturday. The “attempt to legitimise the killings” by BJP leaders was as heinous as the killings, said participants in the rally that started at College Street and culminated at Shyambazar. “This (Sitalkuchi) is a trailer of the asol paribartan (real change) that the BJP wants to herald in Bengal. As if the killings were not enough, now there is an attempt to justify the firing by using words like ‘polarisation’ and ‘self-defence’,” Malay Tewari, one of the organisers, said at the start of the rally. The rally drew students, teachers, doctors, activists and senior citizens. Hundreds of flags with pictures of Rabindranath Tagore, B.R. Ambedkar, Bhagat Singh and Pritilata Waddedar fluttered under the canopy of trees as the rally went along Bidhan Sarani. Debashis Dutta, 65, a retired bank employee, was walking at the centre of the rally. “Khomotaye modomotto hoye esob korchhe (Drunk on power, they are doing these things),” he said of the Narendra Modi regime. “They have influenced every level of the administration, including central institutions. These are obvious traits of fascism,” said Dutta, a resident of Taltala. Dutta is not part of the “No Vote to BJP” campaign, which organised the rally. But he is a regular at Indian Coffee House on College Street, where a group of BJP supporters had allegedly torn and defiled posters of the “No Vote to BJP” campaign. Taltala falls under the Chowringhee Assembly constituency, which votes on April 29. Like Dutta, many participants in Monday’s rally were not part of any political party or campaign. But they took to the streets because the Sitalkuchi killings had instilled “fear and rage” in them. Many of them said the BJP’s desperate bid to use the killings to polarise society showed that the party was growing “increasingly desperate” in Bengal. Sharannyo Banerjee, who has just completed his MPhil in sociology from the Institute of Development Studies in Salt Lake, had learnt about the rally from social media. “No BJP leader is questioning the role of the CISF. They are trying to normalise the brutality. Some of them are exploiting the killings to polarise society. This is not a stray incident but a sign of things to come if the BJP is voted to power in Bengal,” said Banerjee, who lives in Beleghata, which votes on April 29. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah have tried to shift the blame for the Sitalkuchi deaths on chief minister Mamata Banerjee, claiming that her allegedly inflammatory speech against central forces had triggered the incident. On Sunday, BJP Bengal president Dilip Ghosh threatened a “repeat of Sitalkuchi everywhere” if “naughty boys” did not mend their ways. Banners that minced no words were the highlight of the rally. “We don’t want the festival of bulletocracy (gulitantra),” said one banner. The word “utsav (festival)” was spelt as “utshav”. In Bengali, shav means corpse. Many people from Howrah and Hooghly joined Monday’s march. Baidyanath Singh, a zari worker from Uluberia in Howrah, was one of them. Singh used to work in Rajasthan but lost his job after the Covid pandemic broke out. He has since been doing odd jobs to run his family. “Livelihood is a problem. On top of that, voters are being killed by men in uniform,” he rued. The rally went along Bidhan Sarani and Bhupen Bose Avenue, which are lined with hundreds of shops on both sides. The traders were spotted listening intently to speakers near the Shyambazar five-point intersection, where the rally culminated. Filmmaker Aniket Chattopadhyay, who is part of the “No Vote to BJP” campaign, said the BJP leaders’ justification of the “Sitalkuchi killings reminded people of General Dyer (the British officer responsible for the Jallianwala Bagh massacre of 1919)”. Kasturi Basu, a convener of the campaign, reminded the audience that the central forces “got salaries from taxes” paid by citizens. “How dare they train their guns on voters? The BJP is scared. The BJP has sensed a big defeat in Bengal and that is why the party is resorting to fear mongering,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-86
13-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Jab drive trips on supply shortfall||Covid vaccination could not be done at several centres in the city on Monday and many more had to briefly suspend inoculation or stop administering jabs before the scheduled time because of shortage of doses. The vaccination drive against Covid-19 has been severely disrupted since Saturday because of lack of enough doses. The urban primary health centre at Dattabad, run by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, had no vaccines on Monday. All those who turned up for the shot were asked to come back later. The vaccination staff at the centre said they had come to know around 10am that no doses would arrive during the day. AMRI Hospitals Salt Lake could not vaccinate people for the third day in a row on Monday. The Mukundapur hospital of the group could only vaccinate 12 people from one vial it had in stock. Belle Vue Clinic exhausted its stock by 2pm. Those who arrived after 2pm had to return without getting the shot. Late on Monday afternoon, the state received four lakh doses of vaccines, which could be just enough for a couple of days. “We received four lakh doses on Monday. Now, we have a stock of over 7 lakh doses. Hopefully this will suffice for two days. The Centre has promised to send another 3 lakh doses on Wednesday,” state health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam said. Senior officials of the state health department could not say what would happen when the 3 lakh doses expected on Wednesday were administered. A senior official said the state was supposed to get 20 lakh doses but the Centre has not been able to give a deadline by when the doses would arrive. At vaccination centres, the shortage meant many prospective recipients had to go away without taking the jab. Vaccination at Peerless Hospital was halted between 11am and 12.30pm as vaccines were not available. The hospital resumed vaccination after fresh stocks arrived. “If we are not assured of stable supply, then we cannot tell the recipients to come at a specific time. This becomes problematic because many of them (prospective recipients) think this is happening because of the inefficiency of the hospital. The reality is we are not getting enough doses,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. Belle Vue Clinic received 200 doses on Monday and they were administered by 2pm. The hospital has been inoculating between 350 and 450 people daily. “Since we did not have doses, we had to turn away people who came after 2pm,” said Pradip Tondon, the chief executive officer of Belle Vue. “We had to stop vaccination at two of our three hospitals because doses were not available. This is a matter of great concern,” said Rupak Barua, the group chief executive officer of AMRI Hospitals. Doctors have been saying rapid vaccination was needed to bring the epidemic under control. But shortage of doses has cast doubt on plans to speed up inoculation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-86
