14-04-2021||Calcutta||Arsalan scion asked to surrender by April 20||Arsalan scion Raghib Parwez — the prime accused in the Jaguar crash that killed two Bangladeshis on Shakespeare Sarani in August 2019 — has been asked to surrender before a court by April 20 by the Calcutta High Court on Tuesday. Police will be free to arrest Raghib if he does not surrender by April 20. Raghib was arrested a few days after the accident and granted conditional bail in April 2020 on health grounds. “The interim bail that was granted on the premise that he was unfit to participate in the trial got negated by the report from a medical institute which stated that he is fit to face the trial. Hence the court considering the gravity of the case did not extend his interim bail and directed him to surrender before a court by April 20, failing which the police will be free to act as per legal procedure,” public prosecutor Saswata Gopal Mukherjee said. Raghib, now 27, the scion of the family that runs the biryani chain Arsalan, was granted bail last year with the court instructing him to remain under treatment till declared fit as an “outdoor patient” by the hospital. He was allowed to return home on the condition that he would not leave home without the consent of the officer-in-charge of the local police station. On the night of August 16, 2019, a Jaguar F-PACE had crashed into a Mercedes E-Class 220d at the Theatre Road-Loudon Street crossing, which in turn had hit two Bangladeshis, killing them on the spot. Initially, Raghib’s younger brother Arsalan Parwez, now 23, an MBA from Edinburgh, had initially courted arrest claiming he was at the wheel. The family had claimed that Arsalan’s elder brother Raghib was in Australia for higher studies. However, after analysing the event data recorder of the Jaguar, police had got the phone number of the person who was last at the wheel. From the phone number’s WhatsApp account, the cops had found Raghib’s photograph. Investigators said they had zeroed in on him by scanning more than 45 CCTV cameras starting from the place of occurrence to the front of Arsalan’s residence where it was purportedly found that Raghib and not Arsalan had stepped out of the home and driven the Jaguar on the night of the accident. Raghib who had fled to Dubai after the incident, had returned to Calcutta after cops had found the truth and he was arrested from outside a nursing home where he had got admitted after his return to the city. Raghib is facing charges of causing culpable homicide not amounting to murder, rash and negligent driving, mischief, jumping traffic lights and destruction of public property. The charges, if proved, could lead to a maximum punishment of 10 years in jail. His younger brother has been charged with causing disappearance of evidence and providing false information for shielding the offender that could lead to a punishment of seven years in jail. Their uncle, Mohammad Hamza, who gave shelter to Raghib has been charged with harbouring criminals that could have a punishment of three years of imprisonment. Police have filed the chargesheet in this case in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-84
14-04-2021||Calcutta||India in Celebration, a collection by Sajal Ghosh released in Calcutta||A senior executive of a petrochemical giant travelled across the length and breadth of the country for five years and took photographs to “present India as a colourful, respectful, tolerant country”. India in Celebration, a collection of more than 200 photographs captured by Sajal Ghosh from over 27 festivals and fairs, was released on Sunday evening. “My intention was to present India as a colourful, respectful, tolerant country,” Ghosh, executive vice-president (CS) and head, legal, Haldia Petrochemicals, said at the book launch at Bengal Club. He has captured the Hornbill Festival at Kisama (Nagaland), Latmar Holi in Nandgaon near Mathura (Uttar Pradesh), Id prayers on Red Road in Calcutta among others and shared experiences of his travel. “My perception of India is totally different and if you go through the book you will be able to understand what I am saying. My perception is that everybody should extend their hands to each other. That is the perception I have of India that we all belong as a nation. It’s a colourful, vibrant country, like that. But unfortunately we are going through all sorts of aberrations at present,” he said. Each photograph is accompanied by a text by writer and activist Jael Silliman to “orient the reader". “This book brings together India’s diversity, its pluralism, its dynamism. It’s got secular festivals, it’s got deeply religious festivals,” Silliman told The Telegraph. “I got to enjoy the journey across India, to see parts of India in festivals. I thought I was very well read but I had not heard of some of these festivals...The pages throb with passion, intensity, beauty, spirituality, muscular power and great, great devotion,” Silliman said at the launch. Ghosh, too, spoke of the thrilling diversity that he experienced across the country. “I thought why not present these differences in a collective manner, maybe in the form of a book,” he said. He could not travel last year because of the pandemic. The Khajuraho Dance Festival in February 2020 was the one that he attended just before the lockdown. Ghosh had to juggle his work and his hobby for this book. At times, he took a flight in the morning, attended a festival and returned the same day or headed straight for a meeting from the airport. Ghosh shared his experience of the Theyyam Festival, held for more than 1,500 years in Kasargod and through out the Kannur region of northern Kerala. The dancers in the festival are Dalits, who are considered representatives of God, and villagers come to touch their feet. He also spoke of how he survived on fruits when he spent three nights with a Naga family to photograph the Hornbill Festival. The book has a foreword by Shashi Tharoor who writes: “There are many reasons to be proud of being Indian. We have a long-standing and resilient democratic culture. We have a long history of peaceful relations between our immense number of religious and ethnic groups… Much of this glorious heritage can be described by the catch-all term, ‘diversity’, a word that feels almost inadequate to describe India’s unparalleled breadth of linguistic, geographical and cultural variation. Tharoor adds: “Many of these festivals are purely secular, harvest celebrations — Onam for example, or Dusshera, or even Holi— despite their origins in Hindu mythology…. The ability of festivals to act as a unifier, to put things in perspective and remind us that we are Indians and human beings before anything else, is awe-inspiring…. This book, compiling Jael Silliman’s text with Sajal Ghosh’s stunning images of these wonderful festivals, is more than a collection of photos: it is a volume of what makes India, and Indians, wonderful.” During the programme on Sunday writer Shankarlal Bhattacharjee said: “The book is a celebration and at the heart of it is a Bengali mind”. Tridib Chatterjee, president of the Publishers and Booksellers Guild, said he saw “a slice of India” in the book. The book will be available on Amazon and Boighar.in. Ghosh announced that a substantial portion of the proceeds would go to charity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-84
14-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: High court on Covid protocol at poll rallies||The election officer and police superintendent of each poll-bound district should ensure that the number of attendees at meetings and rallies does not exceed the limit set for public gatherings by the state disaster management authority, a bench led by the chief justice of the high court said on Tuesday. A senior Bengal government official said the state did not have such a cap on the number of people who can attend an outdoor programme. The court issued the order on two writ petitions clubbed together. The petitions expressed concern that election campaigns are not adhering to the Covid-19 protocols. The district magistrates and the chief electoral officer of Bengal “shall be personally responsible for ensuring that the Covid guidelines are scrupulously followed by all and sundry,” said the bench of Chief Justice Thottathil B. Radhakrishnan and Justice Arijit Banerjee. The bench noted that the guidelines laid down by the election commission are in place.  “What needs to be done is that the said guidelines need to be implemented in the strictest possible manner. This the administration must do,” said the court. “Anybody violating Covid-19 norms laid down by the election commission will be liable to be proceeded against as per the provisions of… the Disaster Management Act, 2005, besides legal action under Section 188 of the IPC (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), and other legal provisions as applicable,” said the bench. Campaign rallies are drawing huge crowds that are rampantly violating social distancing norms. Tweets of “huge turnouts” at rallies are being posted by political parties regularly. The court expects the leaders on the dais to wear masks. The order says: “The Commission has taken a serious view of the laxity in maintaining the norms, particularly not wearing masks and not keeping social distance by political leaders on dais / stage…. Political parties, leaders, campaigners, candidates, existing or aspiring policy makers are expected to… not only set an example by maintaining social distancing, wearing masks and following prescribed protocols but also by exhorting all the local formations who attend programmes to follow COVID protocols.” Tuesday’s court order iterated the norms. Some of them are: ⚫A group of five persons including candidates, excluding guards, is allowed in door-to-door campaigns ⚫Public gatherings/rallies may be conducted subject to adherence to extant Covid-19 guidelines. The district election officer and district superintendent of police should ensure that the number of attendees does not exceed the limit prescribed by the state disaster management authority for public gatherings, the court said. “If the norms continue to be violated, we will consider moving a contempt of court petition,” said Srijib Chakraborty, counsel for the petitioners.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-84
14-04-2021||Calcutta||Plea for more paediatric Covid beds||A group of doctors has written to the state health department with an appeal to set up more paediatric Covid beds as more children are testing positive for the disease in the second wave of infection compared with the first. The letter from Protect the Warriors, an association of doctors, has also urged the department to publish a paediatric Covid management protocol, which will include an advisory on managing a child at home when adults in the family test positive. The letter has also stressed the need to have paediatric intensive care unit (PICU) beds at both government and private hospitals. Symptoms in child patients have mostly been mild or moderate, doctors said, advising parents not to panic. “It is true that we are witnessing more children testing positive for Covid-19 now than what we did last year. However, most of the children have mild or moderate symptoms. That does not mean that a child will not have severe symptoms. There should not be a bed crisis if a child develops severe symptoms of Covid,” said Apurba Ghosh, the director of the Institute of Child Health. Ghosh is not among the signatories of the letter. Doctors who signed the letter said setting up paediatric Covid beds, especially ICU beds, was necessary as it was not possible to treat a child in an intensive care unit for adults. “Ventilators meant for children are different from that for adults. The doses of medicines for children are also different from those for adults,” said Rohit Kapoor, a pediatrician with the Institute of Child Health and one of the signatories of the letter. The Calcutta Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) has a dedicated paediatric and neonatal Covid ward. The hospital admitted 25 children suffering from Covid over the past 10 days. On Tuesday, 10 children were admitted in the paediatric Covid ward. “The number of children testing positive for Covid-19 is about three times more than what we witnessed last time. The symptoms are mostly fever, cough and cold, and mild shortness of breath,” said Mihir Sarkar, an associate professor of paediatrics at CMCH. The hospital had 90 beds for paediatric Covid patients but the number was reduced as cases started to decline late last year. Of the 25 Covid beds at present, eight are paediatric intensive care beds. Sarkar said the other beds were occupied by children suffering from other ailments and it may not be immediately possible to convert them into Covid beds. The signatories have also requested that the health department publish a set of guidelines on how parents who have tested positive for Covid deal with children. “Often both parents test positive for Covid and they are clueless about how to deal with children at home. We advise against sending the children to grandparents because they may get infected through the young ones,” Kapoor said. The letter has also requested the department to ensure uninterrupted supply of IVIg, a drug administered to children who develop inflammation in the coronary artery after recovering from Covid-19. The health department on Tuesday asked private hospitals to increase Covid beds, including critical care beds. An official of Belle Vue Clinic said they had 150 Covid beds till Tuesday morning and added 17 critical care beds by the evening. An official of AMRI Hospitals said their Mukundapur unit added nine Covid beds on Tuesday and the Dhakuria unit 22 beds on Monday. The department also assured the hospitals that there would be no shortage of remdesivir, a drug used to treat Covid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-85
14-04-2021||Calcutta||Schools flooded with board exam queries||Schools are flooded with queries from parents and students on whether CBSE and ICSE board exams will be held on schedule as Covid-19 cases are rising across the country. The CBSE Classes X and XII, ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) theory papers are scheduled to start on May 4. Several school heads said the preparation for the exams was on across schools but there was an “increasing uneasiness” among the students and teachers. For both ICSE and ISC exams, admit cards have been distributed, answer sheets have reached schools and invigilation rosters across schools are ready. Question papers usually come 10 days before the start of the exam, at least two principals said. For CBSE Classes X and XII, schools are yet to receive a communication from the board regarding exam centres. “We are receiving queries from mostly Class X examinees. We have sent a message to parents that students should continue with their preparation...,” said Meena Kak, the director of Lakshmipat Singhania Academy. Class XII practical exams for both boards are under way in many schools. A few schools had to reschedule the exams  for students who were in quarantine. “There is an increasing sense of uneasiness as the days of exams are drawing near,” said Amita Prasad, the director of Indus Valley World School. Sujoy Biswas, the principal of Rammohan Mission High School, said teachers have been asked to tell students and parents to concentrate on the exams and preparations. “In the run up to the boards, our teachers are asking parents to let the students focus on exams and follow the SOPs so that they remain healthy before the exams,” he said. In some schools the seating arrangements have also been decided. “We are ready with all the preparations for the boards — from answer sheets to invigilation roster. But simultaneously we are having to talk to parents also who have various questions about the exams,” said Bobby Baxter, the principal of Julien Day School Ganganagar. The CBSE is yet to communicate about exam centres but it has informed about the number of students who will appear from a school, a head said. Rita Chatterjee, the director of North Point Senior Secondary School, said: “We will have 12 students in one room and have readied our invigilation roster likewise.”. In meetings of schools, teachers have raised queries on the conduct of the examinations when cases are rising. “There is uncertainty because of the rise in the number of infections...,” said Suvina Shunglu, the principal of Sri Sri Academy||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-85
14-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: People aged 80 and above can vote from home||Calcuttans who are 80 years or older have the option to cast their vote at home with polling officials coming over for the exercise. Thousands of voters have availed themselves of the service during the fourth phase, while many more have applied for the same in the remaining four phases. Here is how the process of voting from home, introduced this year in Bengal, works. Anyone who is 80 or above and has his or her name on the electoral list is eligible to vote from home. Booth-level polling officers have to provide such persons with “Form 12D”, where they have to state that they want to vote from home.The officers have to take back the filled-in form within five days of the notification of election in that constituency. Polling officials called on people ages 80 or more, asking whether they were willing to cast their vote from home to avoid standing in queues and exposure to unknown people during the pandemic. Krishna Sarkar, 80, a resident of BD Block in Salt Lake, was “pleasantly surprised” when polling officials came knocking on her door last week asking whether she was willing to vote from home. “My mother was elated,” said son Sujoy. The officials left a copy of Form 12D and returned two days later to collect the filled-in form. On Sunday, five polling officials reached their home to get Sarkar’s vote. Salt Lake votes on April 17 but Sarkar was allowed to vote in advance. “In some housing societies, we faced problems as many people did not know about this and thought we were from a political party trying to influence them. Some shut their doors on us,” said a polling official in Sonarpur. Officials carry ballot papers, envelopes, gum, wax, empty forms, hand sanitiser and a cardboard partition that is folded into an enclosure with one side open. First, the voter is asked to fill in Form 12D (if it was not filled in and submitted before) and then the rules are explained to him or her. “It usually takes seven to 10 minutes to explain the rules of signing on the ballot paper that has the name and symbols of all contesting candidates. After putting a tick against the chosen candidate, the voter is supposed to fold the paper in four halves before handing it over to the polling officials,” said an official. The folded ballot is put into an envelope and sealed. The sealed envelope is kept in another envelope and sealed. The process is repeated with a third envelope. The procedure is videographed in the presence of the voter. “We have got a good response. Twenty-one teams worked to ensure that the 691 elderly voters who had shown interest to vote from home could do so. The process was completed in three days by March 31,” said Sachchidananda Bandyopadhyay, the returning officer of the Kasba Assembly constituency, which went to the polls on April 10. The sealed envelopes are taken to a strongroom. They will be opened on May 2. “So much secrecy was maintained that I was asked to look the other way when I was helping my grandmother fold the ballot paper. No one was allowed to even peep when she was casting her vote behind the cardboard partition,” said the granddaughter of Sumitra Dey, 81, who is a voter in the Sonarpur South constituency, which voted on April 10. Parts of Calcutta and surrounding areas will vote on April 17, 22, 26 and 29. However, the enrolment process of elderly voters who want to vote from home has stopped for this year. “The Election Commission of India rules say that the enrolment process has to be wrapped up within five days of the date of notification of the elections in that phase,” said district election officer, north, Piyali Sengupta, who is in charge of seven Assembly constituencies that will vote on April 29.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-85
14-04-2021||Calcutta||JU VC appeals for digital divide funds||Jadavpur University vice-chancellor Suranjan Das has appealed to “the members of the university family” to “donate generously” to “enable the university to address the issue of digital divide affecting a large section of students”. A corpus of Rs 21 lakh was raised last year, which was utilised to buy students smartphones and data packs. Since classes of the even semester have started on digital platforms, as a precaution against the raging Covid pandemic, VC Das on Monday posted a fresh appeal on the university’s website, “soliciting contribution from members of the extended university community” to initiate the third phase of data recharging drive. The appeal says: “All concerned are requested to take care of this appeal and donate generously for a greater cause”. Campuses across the state have remained shut since March last year because of Covid. Ahead of the start of classes on digital platforms in September last year, the VC had on August 19 appealed to teachers and other employees to donate a day’s salary and requested alumni, guardians and others to contribute to raise funds to provide smartphones and high-speed data packs to students so they could overcome the digital divide and attend classes. An official of the university said the corpus had been exhausted. “Although the higher education department wants the classes to be held on digital platforms in the coming days following a renewed surge in Covid-19 cases, it has not released any money to any state-funded university to address the issue of digital divide. So we have to again arrange funds on our own,” said the official. Cases are being reported on the campus on such a scale that the university has been forced to reduce the office attendance of non-teaching employees and officers to “at least” three days a week from early April. “In a situation like this, continuance of classes on digital platforms is the only way forward. We have to help the students who encounter financial constraints as long as possible so that they can attend classes on these platforms overcoming the digital divide,” the VC told Metro. At JU, a large section of students come from remote places of districts like Bankura, Purulia, West Midnapore and South 24-Parganas. “Many of them are children of peasants, fishermen and daily wage earners, whose financial conditions have worsened during the pandemic. We cannot stop helping them after buying them smartphones. They have to be provided resources to be able to keep using the phones,” said a JU official. The VC has said in his appeal that the university was able to provide 250 smartphones to needy students and data recharging to 750 students. “The university is now required to initiate the third phase of the data recharging drive for our students. In this connection I once again….,” Das has written in his appeal. Das had asked teachers in April last year to be “cautious” about conducting online classes or sharing digital content as “many students may not be able to afford a desktop computer or laptop at home, or may be staying in a remote village, with limited or no Internet connectivity”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-85
14-04-2021||Calcutta||Elderly miss second jab as units run out of Covishield doses||Several private hospitals in the city on Tuesday deferred administering the second dose of Covishield because of shortage of doses, officials of the healthcare units said. The Centre has promised Bengal three lakh doses of Covishield in a couple of days and state health department officials said the booster - or second - dose would be administered after the arrival of the consignment. Hundreds of elderly people and those with comorbidities, whose second dose of Covishield is due from Tuesday, are calling up or turning up at hospitals but are being told that doses are not available. The state government has told private healthcare units that for the time being only Covaxin should be administered to those who are turning up for their first dose, while Covishield should be reserved for those who took it in their first dose and are turning up for the second. Most people who took the shot at private facilities were administered Covishield. Covid vaccination for senior citizens and people above 45 with comorbidities started on March 1. The first booster dose for those who had taken Covishield on March 1 is due from Tuesday. The booster dose of Covishield should be given at least 42 days after the first dose. However, because of a shortage of Covishield doses, a number of hospitals in Calcutta could not administer the second jab on Tuesday. At AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria, around 60 people who arrived for their second dose of Covishield were turned back because of non-availability of doses, said officials. “We could administer the second dose of Covishield to only 21 recipients on Tuesday,” said an official of the hospital. “Around 550 people are scheduled to take the second jab of Covishield between April 13 and 15 and many of them called up the hospital asking whether they would get it. We told them the hospital would inform them when to come.” Vaccination at the hospital chain’s Salt Lake and Mukundapur units is suspended for several days because of lack of doses. “At the three units together, more than 850 recipients are waiting for the second dose,” said an AMRI official. Belle Vue Clinic sent messages to those who were supposed to get the second dose of Covishield on Tuesday, asking them to visit the hospital on a later date. “We sent messages to around 250 people who were supposed to get the second dose of Covishield today. We have been assured by the state government that we would get Covishield on Wednesday and then we can administer the booster dose,” said Pradip Tondon, the CEO of Belle Vue. At Narayan Memorial Hospital in Behala, no booster dose could be administered on Tuesday, said an official. “We sent back four people who had come for their second dose and there were many who we informed over the phone not to come on Tuesday. We have been promised fresh doses on  Wednesday,” said the official. Several other hospitals said they did not start administering the second dose of Covishield because they had run out of stock. “We have got calls from nearly 300 vaccine recipients who are scheduled to take the second dose. But due to lack of stock, we can’t vaccinate them before April 16,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. The hospital will call the recipients as and when doses are available, said Mitra. An official in the state health department said the Centre had promised three lakh doses of Covishield and two lakh doses of Covaxin in the next two days. Bengal's chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay had written to the Centre and also called a senior official in Delhi, asking for vaccine doses on an emergency basis. “Once we get the fresh doses, we are expecting that the crisis of Covishield will be resolved,” said an official. The number of active Covid cases in Bengal rose by 2,519 to 29,050 on Tuesday. The state recorded 4,817 new infections and 2,278 recoveries during the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-85
