15-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Salt Lake mega rallies on Super Tuesday||FD Block may be best known for the Durga puja it hosts and BF Park, behind the swimming pool, for its star-studded Kali puja. But in the run-up to the elections the two venues hosted two powerhouse politicians within hours of each other on Tuesday. Home minister Amit Shah took stage at a BJP meeting at FD Park at 6.15pm and chief minister Mamata Banerjee addressed Trinamul supporters at BF Park at 9.20pm. Thousands had gathered for both the meets and together, they ensured an action- packed Tuesday for the township. The arrangements at both venues were elaborate. Massive stages were built, two-storey tall cut-outs of the leaders were put up, flags and sashes handed out to supporters and bio toilets fitted along the border of the parks. The Trinamul venue had even been covered with a hangar-like shelter. It would have protected the audience from the heat, since the meeting was originally scheduled for the day time. It had to be pushed to late evening following an Election Commission order banning Banerjee from campaigning for 24 hours. Before the speeches began, music drowned all other sounds. There was Rabindrasangeet as well as propaganda music played to the galleries. Both venues had the crowds cordoned off into different sections. Hundreds sat but many more stood watching from the back. The BJP rally saw supporters in orange caps reading “Modi para” while the TMC folks wore blue and white caps saying “Didir doot”. Both rallies had a slew of speakers before the big act. The BJP show had the likes of candidates Swapan Dasgupta and Bhaskar Roy. Amit Shah entered FD Park when Sabyasachi Dutta, the candidate from Bidhannagar, was delivering his speech. “Amit Shah swagatam!” he said and the crowd was up on its feet. Cellphone cameras came out, people waved and tried to climb over the barricades to get a closer look but security personnel forced them back. At BF Park too, the Trinamul crowd roared when Mamata Banerjee was wheeled onto the stage. Most people stood up to see her better and click pictures but this had people at the back protesting. Police had to intervene and ask them to get off their chairs and bamboo barricades and take their seats. Banerjee was flanked by candidates Sujit Bose and Tapash Chatterjee and a host of councillors. The crowds may have been divided between the two venues but making hay were hawkers, many of whom had planned to attend both meetings. “It’s lucky for us that Didi’s meeting got rescheduled. How would we have attended two events if the timings clashed,” asked Pradip Adhikari, who arrived at the Amit Shah event early in the day selling sashes, caps and brooches in saffron and bearing the party logo. “There’s huge demand for BJP masks too but my Burrabazar supplier is out of stock.” Before the pandemic, bread and butter for this hawker from Habra used to be selling cola at stadiums but now he lands up at political rallies. “I don’t discriminate between parties and have been travelling across the state. This business is keeping me afloat now,” Adhikari says. Biswajit Choudhury had left home with as many kulfis as he could in his basket. “If I’m left with any kulfis after the BJP rally I’m heading to Didi’s show,” he said, adding that his ilk had to be apolitical at work. But not all was hunky dory. The swimming pool area wore a strange look that evening. “There are no shoppers or diners today, only policemen,” said a confused Pratima Som, who had come from Kestopur to drop her daughter at tuition in CF Block. “I’m feeling uneasy about walking about, as I usually do, and am worried about getting an auto home later.” The eat street was bereft of customers. “The swimming pool area is used to gala events but Mamata Banerjee’s presence has drawn tremendous crowds. In fact it is so crowded that regular diners aren’t showing up,” said Satish Shaw of The Scoop restaurant in CF Block. Abhijit Dutta of the Banchharam outlet there concurred. “The approach road has been blocked to cars and so our regular customers are unable to come. The crowd that has turned up for the rally is unlikely to buy from us,” he said, wrapping up for the day. Both rallies had die-hard followers who sang, danced and swore by their leaders. Adhikari, the hawker selling party merchandise, said A4-sized pictures of Prime Minister Narendra Modi were his highest selling item across BJP meetings. Nitai Mondal and his chums were dancing outside FD Park to propaganda tunes playing on his phone, through a speaker that hung from his neck. “We have switched loyalties to BJP as we want better job opportunities,” said the delivery boy. Pinky Jana said she comes to FD Park every year during the Pujas. “I had especially loved their dinosaur-themed puja a few years ago. It was very crowded back then but it is even more crowded today,” she said, looking around. Bikas Upadhyay and his friends would have arrived even earlier to watch Amit Shah, “but we heard that BJP’s star campaigner Mithun Chakraborty was coming to Kestopur. I’m a huge fan and went to see him first,” he quipped. Sunny Bag of Duttabad stood on a chair, arms outstretched and showing the victory sign at Mamata Banerjee as she spoke on stage. He wore a striking parrot green kurta. “I’ve bought this kurta especially for Didi,” beamed the man who runs a food joint. “I shall wear it for Poila Baisakh and again on April 17 when I go to vote.” Sixty-nine-year-old Rajkumari Banerjee had come to the venue with a walking stick. “I have to use this stick since I broke my femur bone,” said the Karunamoyee resident, who had come escorted by her family members. “Mamata Banerjee too has broken her leg but she has to fight it out. And she can!” Those like Ashima Sarkar of Polenite were somewhat relieved that the meeting took place in the evening as they were spared the heat. But those like Bijoy Shaw set the record straight. “The heat is incidental. For Didi we can assemble at 1pm or 1am,” said the Lake Town resident. “For Didi, we can sacrifice our lives. Hindus and Muslims live peacefully in my neighbourhood thanks to Didi. I don’t want this to change,” said Babu Sahu. Many, if not most, across political rallies are going without masks. “I have a mask but I won’t wear it. Corona can’t touch us if Sujitda is by our side,” Bakul Hussain had proclaimed at a Sujit Bose rally at City Centre on Sunday. “Mask hatao! I don’t wear masks,” another member of the audience, Jyotsna Bibi had said, holding her four-month-old baby on her lap. Ashraful Khan, who lives in the tin-shelter slum near City Centre, had decided that the pandemic was but a ploy by the central government to render the common man jobless. “Have you seen this coronavirus? Then why do you believe in it?” he asked. Khan, however, was carrying a mask in his pocket despite his beliefs. “Some months back, the cops caught me for not wearing one and tried to fine me Rs 300. When I apologised they made me do sit-ups instead. From then on, I carry a mask and wear it only when necessary.” At the Amit Shah rally, some youths, when asked why they weren’t wearing masks, answered: “Jai shree Ram!” “Modi is our mask; he will protect us,” smiled Piyush Rana, before putting on a paper mask bearing the picture of Modi. Deba Sahu said he didn’t have time to wear his mask before coming. Next to him was his toddler neighbour, also without a mask. “We won’t get Covid. If anyone asks, I have a mask in my pocket but I’m not worried,” said Dilip Sardar, a cycle mechanic from Duttabad.  Traffic management A senior officer of the Bidhannagar Commissionerate said that the last minute change in timing of the Trinamul rally came as a breather for them. “We thought traffic would get thrown out of gear due the to the clash of the two rallies but even the few hours of difference came as a blessing. We were able to handle traffic much better,” said the officer. When trucks and lorries headed to the BJP rally took over the Broadway, police diverted most of them through the lanes of GC and FD blocks. But those like Ashis Bagchi, a resident of DB Block who was headed home after visiting a doctor at a hospital off the Broadway, were still stuck behind BJP supporters headed to the venue. “My driver had to drive at snail’s pace behind the supporters. We requested the constable to let us pass using the opposite flank of the road but he refused. I rolled up the windows when I saw that most of the people there did not have masks on,” said Bagchi. By the evening, cars and buses carrying Trinamul supporters were parked along the lanes leading to the BF Block venue. “But traffic outside the block was largely unaffected as this park was inside a residential block,” said the officer. He added that a helipad had been built at BF Park to receive the chief minister. “But it finally went unused as she came by car from Barasat,” he said. Voters will be given a glove to press the button which will be disposed as biomedical waste through designated agencies after polling. They will have their temperatures scanned at the polling booth. If someone’s temperature is high, it will be checked one more time. If it is still high, according to the Election Commission of India guidelines, he will be asked to come back in the last hour of polling, between 5.30 and 6.30pm. “We have supplied polling personnel with PPE and face shield. One polling official in PPE kit will help him cast his vote,” returning officer of the Bidhannagar Assembly constituency Biswajit Panda told The Telegraph Salt Lake. The provision applies to Covid suspects and Covid positive people in home quarantine as well. They will have to wait till polling is complete for the general queue. There was a provision for Covid positive voters to vote at home through postal ballot but for that the application needed to be made within five days of the last date of filing nomination of candidates, which is long over. Neither Bidhannagar nor Rajarhat New Town received any such application. First-time voters can download their Electoral Photo Identity Card (EPIC) from the Voter Portal https://voterportal.eci.gov.in/. “They need to register with their mobile number and choose the ‘Download E-Epic’ option. Over 800 first-time voters have already downloaded their EPIC in the Rajarhat New Town constituency,” said an official. The e-EPIC is a non-editable secure PDF version. New voters will also get hard copies of their voter ID cards. “The digitisation is meant to provide faster delivery and easy accessibility to the voter ID card,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-83
15-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Elections 2021: Central forces battle heat, water shortage in Salt Lake||The Central forces have arrived in the twin townships ahead of the elections and chances are you have seen them marching in your neighbourhood dressed in combat fatigues and wielding assault rifles. As of Wednesday, men from three companies of Central forces were camping at different schools of Salt Lake and preparing for election duty. More companies were on their way and were expected to reach Salt Lake and New Town soon, an official of the Election Commission said. The first to arrive were companies from the Border Security Force (BSF). Each company comprises between 80 and 100 men who will be guarding the polling booths in Salt Lake and New Town tomorrow. They would also be posted around the booths and others would be patrolling on foot and on vehicles. Many will also be part of Quick Reaction Team (QRT) columns that will move around to curb any incidents of violence or trouble during the poll day. “Our mandate is clear. We have been asked to intervene at the first sign of trouble any where,” said an officer. They have also been handed out CDs of past elections held in Salt Lake, New Town and Rajarhat and have received a list of booths that are likely to be considered sensitive. “We know exactly how elections have been taking place here and intend to curb any sort of violence instigated by lumped elements both inside and outside the polling stations,” the senior BSF officer said. Before coming to Salt Lake, the forces were stationed along the India Bangladesh border at Seemanagar near Krishnanagar. They have also been to Bankura and adjoining areas during the polls. “While on border duty we have to keep an eye out for trouble-makers and can recognise them instinctively,” said a BSF inspector. “We have to watch out for people trying to cross over illegally as well as smugglers trying to move cattle, drugs, bootleg liquor and banned cough syrup.” This lookout for people trying to sneak things through the border makes it easy for them to keep an eye out for trouble-makers during the polls. “We automatically scan crowds. It’s part of our training and has now become a habit,” said the inspector. The men are up from 5am and by 7am they’re out patrolling across Salt Lake, New Town and Rajarhat. Officers of the local police stations are guiding them. “Several residents have been coming forward to interact with us. They greet us and say that they have faith in us,” said the inspector. The forces, however, declined comment about the Sitalkuchi shooting incident. At a school in Salt Lake’s Sector I, an inspector said their personnel was intentionally keeping a distance from civilians during area domination activities. “We have been surveying the neighbourhood for area domination but even if residents want to interact with us we do not engage with them,” he said. The men seem impressed with the townships. “We quite liked the wide streets of Salt Lake and New Town. It has a good tree cover that is helping us cope with the heat,” said a constable. The heat has not affected their patrols. “The summer is oppressive but our personnel are trained for all kinds of weather. Not one of us has complained or fallen sick. We are also following Covid-19 protocol,” said the officer. The men are tucking water-soaked cloths under their collars for some relief and are wearing caps as shields from the sun. The only complain is about drinking water scarcity in their camps. “We are carrying our ration of food and our quartermasters are rustling up great dishes like rajma-rice, daal and spicy chicken curries. But we have a shortage of water in this building. On some days, we are having to buy water from the local markets,” the officer said. Many a jawan said that they work on rotation basis and would want to visit Eco Park, Victoria Memorial and Nicco Park on their off days. Inputs from Brinda Sarkar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-84
15-04-2021||Calcutta||Health secretary asks private hospitals to increase Covid bed count||Private hospitals must further increase the Covid bed count as the number of people getting infected is increasing rapidly, senior state government officials told private healthcare units at a meeting on Wednesday. The hospitals said they would ramp up their Covid bed strength but added that increasing the count beyond a point could be difficult. The demand for non-Covid beds was equally high, officials of the hospitals said. “We have asked the hospitals to increase the number of Covid beds. We also asked them to open satellite facilities,” health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam said. Officials of the health department pointed out at the meeting that the number of Covid beds in private hospitals across Bengal had come down from 5,000 during the epidemic’s peak last year to 4,000 now. “We were told to bridge this gap and add 1,000 beds as soon as possible,” said Pradip Tondon, the CEO of Belle Vue Clinic. The meeting, chaired by home secretary H.K. Dwivedi, was held at the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s headquarters on SN Banerjee Road. Several private hospitals in the city have increased the number of Covid beds over the past few weeks but the bed crisis is still there. Officials at AMRI Hospitals, Belle Vue, Medica Superspecialty Hospital, RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences and Peerless Hospital said all their Covid beds were occupied on Wednesday evening. Belle Vue has 167 Covid beds, 37 of which are in the critical care unit. Medica Superspecialty Hospital has 160 Covid beds, 90 of which are critical care ones. “We had 30 Covid beds a fortnight back. We added 130 beds within 15 days, but even that is not sufficient, it seems,” said Alok Roy, the chairman of Medica. The hospital had 230 beds at the peak of the epidemic last year. “It is difficult for us to further increase Covid beds immediately because the pressure of non-Covid patients is also very high. They have waited for long to undergo surgeries and procedures. We cannot suddenly deny them the opportunity to undergo the procedures,” Roy said. “We have 111 beds now. We will increase it to 121 by the end of this week. We can further increase it to 128, if required. But increasing the count beyond that will be a challenge because the demand for non-Covid beds is very high,” said R. Venkatesh, regional head (east), Narayana Health, which owns the RN Tagore hospital. The state government officials also asked the private hospitals to open satellite units where Covid patients with mild to moderate symptoms can stay, While a few hospitals like AMRI and RN Tagore have already opened satellite units, some others like Belle Vue are having discussions with hotels for opening such facilities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-84
15-04-2021||Calcutta||Heritage plaque installed at Sarod maestro Ali Akbar Khan’s house||The saying goes that his father would thrash him if he missed his riyaz. The training under his father, Allauddin Khan, often stretched from early morning till late at night. Along with him trained sister Annapurna Devi and Ravi Shankar. Sarod maestro Ali Akbar Khan was born at Shibpur in Brahmanbaria, now in Bangladesh, and moved to Calcutta in the late 40s. He founded his first music school, Ali Akbar College of Music, in the city in 1956. On his 99th birth anniversary on April 14, Intach, Calcutta chapter, along with Rotary International District 3291, celebrated his life and music by installing a heritage plaque at his Ranikuthi house. Ali Akbar’s grandson Siraz Ali Khan, and musicians Anindya Banerjee, Tejendra Narayan Majumdar and Bickram Ghosh were among those who attended the programme. Ali Akbar moved to the US in 1968, where he lived for the rest of his life. The Ali Akbar College of Music, too, moved with him to Rafael, California, with a branch in Basel, Switzerland. He passed away in 2009. “In Calcutta, he first lived in a flat on Broad Street and then on Kabir Road. But a lot of time he spent at 159/1 Rashbehari Avenue, where renowned musicians visited him. I still remember the soul-stirring concerts on the roof of the house. In 1995, he bought a house in Ranikuthi,” said musician Anindya Banerjee. “The installation of the plaque is for the benefit of future generations who will learn about Ustadji and his contribution to Hindustani classical music,” said Sudip Mukherjee, district governor, Rotary International District. “We are happy that we could install the plaque on the auspicious occasion of Ustadji’s 99th birth anniversary,” said Intach’s Calcutta convenor G.M. Kapur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-84
15-04-2021||Calcutta||Bishop Philip S. Masih of Methodist Church dies ||Bishop Philip S. Masih of the Methodist Church, who was the chairman of Calcutta Boys’ School and Calcutta Girls’ High School, died in Lucknow on Tuesday. Masih had tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted to a hospital in Lucknow. He was 65. He is survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter-in -law. The bishop was assigned to the Lucknow Episcopal area that comprises Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and the northeastern states. He was the chairman of more than 100 schools in these states and two degree colleges in Lucknow. In Bengal, he was the chairman of around 18 schools, including Methodist School,  Dankuni, and Mount Hermon School, Darjeeling. He became a bishop in 2012. “The bishop was the president of the council of bishops for Methodist Churches. He was an excellent administrator and under his leadership our schools have made great progress. It is a colossal loss,” said Raja McGee, the principal of Calcutta Boys’ School. Basanti Biswas, the principal of Calcutta Girls’ High School, said it was under his leadership that the school had branched out. “We (Calcutta Girls’) started schools at Pakur in Jharkhand and in Asansol under his leadership and encouragement...,” said Biswas. There will be a memorial prayer service on April 16 in a Lucknow church.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-84
15-04-2021||Calcutta||ICSE, state board to decide on exams soon||The ICSE council will take a decision on the ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) board exams and “inform all concerned at the earliest,” Gerry Arathoon, the chief executive and secretary of the council told The Telegraph on Wednesday. Bengal education minister Partha Chatterjee said the government would take a decision “in the interests of the students at the appropriate time considering the prevalent Covid-19 situation”. The state board exams (Madhyamik and Higher Secondary) are scheduled for June. “But nothing can be more urgent and important than the health of our children and those involved in the examination process. The government will certainly take a decision in the interests of the students at the appropriate time considering the prevalent Covid-19 situation,” Chatterjee said on Wednesday. The ICSE and ISC (theory papers) are scheduled to start on May 4. “We will take a decision regarding the ICSE Class X and ISC Class XII board examinations and inform all concerned at the earliest...,” said Arathoon. On Wednesday, the CBSE cancelled the Class X board exams and postponed the Class XII exams. The exams were to begin on May 4. The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations put a message on its website on Wednesday that read: “Due to Covid situation, CISCE will take a decision regarding ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) Year 2021 Examinations and will inform all concerned at the earliest.” The Telegraph had reported how the board was ready with all exam preparations and schools in the city had distributed admit cards and even the answer sheets had reached the schools. The state government had allowed schools to reopen from February 12 for Classes IX to XII. Heads of institutions affiliated to the state board have sought suspension of in-person classes because of the surge in Covid-19 cases across the country. The school education department has not taken any decision on this yet. “We are keeping a watch on the situation. Many schools are holding classes on digital platforms following a spike in cases. Any decision on shutting down the institutions again will be taken after consulting the chief minister's office,” an official of the school education department said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-84
15-04-2021||Calcutta||City school observes Ambedkar Jayanti to ‘glorify peace’||A school in the city observed the birth anniversary of B.R. Ambedkar, the father of the Constitution of India, because it felt it was important to “glorify peace, love and unity” in the midst of “violence and the barriers of caste, colour or religion”. The programme at Scottish Church Collegiate School in Kestopur on Wednesday was preceded by a message sent to all children the previous day about being “same” despite speaking different languages, wearing different clothes and eating different food. “Whether we are Hindu, Muslim, Sikh, Buddhist, Christian, Parsi... we are all Indians. So he (B.R. Ambedkar) made a big book with rules to tell us how to live like good Indians and love one another always…. This book is called the Constitution,” the message read. The school, which came up in November 2019, has students from Classes Lower Nursery to III and is under the Scottish Church Collegiate School on Bidhan Sarani. “It is important to glorify love, peace and unity, which are the essence of our democracy. We need to stand united, which is not happening now. When our children switch on the television they see so much of violence and hatred…. We talk about social skills but how do you develop those in the midst of barriers of caste, colour and religion,” said Angela Ghose, acting principal, Scottish Church Collegiate School (Kestopur). The school has included the Preamble to the Constitution in the school diary. Ghose said it was not enough to have it in the diary; children should be made aware of it and explained why it is there in the diary. “As educators we have to make children aware not just of their rights but also duties and if we let the matter rest, we are letting children believe nothing wrong is happening,” said Ghose. “Our children need to know that above academics, knowledge and marks is the understanding of human values, and as schools we can instil values in them.” Some of the parents attended the programme. The school authorities feel it is important for parents to understand that the institution stands for equality. The programme was attended by the headmaster of the Scottish Church Collegiate School in north Calcutta, Bivash Saniel, who said it was important to highlight the ideals of people like Ambedkar. “Our school stands for equality… .Ambedkar is the architect of what we as a country represent and today there is so much division on caste lines, culture lines and religion lines,” said Saniel, also a member of the managing committee of the Kestopur school. Children did not attend the programme because of the pandemic. The idea was to get across the message through parents. The parents who turned up on the campus were shown the Preamble to the Constitution. “Children need to know the Constitution and know about Ambedkar. Parents took home the message to their children,” said Ghose. “It was encouraging to see parents reading about B.R. Ambedkar. Many of them sent content they found on the internet about him.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-84
15-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Prioritise second dose of vaccine, says government||The state government on Wednesday asked private hospitals to give priority to Covid vaccine recipients turning up for the second jab and administer the first dose only if enough doses are available. Many private hospitals said they would stop giving the first dose from Thursday because of shortage. Bengal received three lakh doses of Covishield and two lakh doses of Covaxin on Wednesday, but state health department officials said the stock would only last for about three days. The government on Wednesday held a meeting with private healthcare institutes and told them that their priority should be the second dose. “We have told the private hospitals to focus on the second dose and administer the first according to availability. The private hospitals have also been asked to send messages and call recipients of the second dose and give them slots on days when they could administer the dose,” said Joly Chaudhuri, the joint secretary of the state urban development department who chaired the meeting. “We are asking recipients of the second dose to call our helpline if they are facing problems getting an appointment.” Sources said the state government had also given the option to hospitals and other healthcare units to not conduct vaccination on Sundays and holidays because of shortage. Several hospitals said they would not administer the first dose of a Covid vaccine on Thursday. Some others said they would not conduct vaccination on Thursday as it coincides with Poila Baisakh and also because of shortage of supply. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences administered 218 first doses with Covaxin and only 72 second doses with Covishield. On Thursday, the hospital will only administer the second dose. A limited number of first doses will be administered again on Friday subject to availability, officials of the hospital said. “We have been advised to rationalise the use of vaccines because of a supply shortfall. The primary focus should be on the second dose and only a limited number of first doses will be administered,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, Narayana Health, of which the RN Tagore hospital is a part. Peerless Hospital will not conduct vaccination on Thursday because of a lack of supply. The hospital has around 4,000 people lined up for the second dose, most of whom had taken Covishield as the first dose. “It’s our responsibility to ensure that those who have taken the first dose get the second dose, too. So, first doses will be administered again if we have enough supply,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. “Every day we are requesting the state government to give us enough doses. But we are getting inadequate doses because of shortage.” AMRI Hospital’s Mukundapur unit administered the second dose to only 28 people on Wednesday and no one was given the first dose. The group’s Salt Lake unit could not conduct vaccination for the fifth consecutive day. The Telegraph reported on Wednesday that hundreds of people who were scheduled to get the second dose were turned away by hospitals or asked not to visit the healthcare units because of shortage of vaccines. The Covid vaccination for all senior citizens and people above 45 with comorbidities had started on March 1 and many of them are now eligible for the second dose. At most private healthcare units, Covishield was given as the first dose. Only about 12 lakh of the targeted population of 3 crore in Bengal have got both doses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-84
