16-04-2021||Calcutta||Jadavpur University to remain closed on April 16 for sanitisation ||Jadavpur University has decided to keep the campus close on April 16 to undertake sanitisation following reports of Covid-19 cases at the institution. Registrar Snehamanju Basu issued a notice announcing the closure after a number of officials, non-teaching employees and research scholars tested positive. “After the sanitisation drive, the situation will be assessed over the weekend and a decision will be taken on whether the closure needs to be extended,” Basu said. The university had earlier shut down various offices for a few days for sanitisation. “But a surge in cases has prompted the university to sanitise the entire campus,” said a JU official. Among the employees who have tested positive is pro-vice-chancellor Chiranjeeb Bhattacharya, who is in home isolation. A notice issued by the secretary of the faculty of engineering and technology and the faculty of interdisciplinary studies, law and management, says: “This is for information of all concerned that in view of the increasing trend of the COVID19 pandemic, the physical verification of documents for undergraduate and postgraduate students (Day and Evening): session 2020-21 under FET & FISLM scheduled to be held on 19th and 20th of April, 2021 is hereby postponed till further notice.” The campus has been shut for in-person classes as a precaution against Covid since March last year. The university since early March this year has allowed undergraduate and postgraduate students to access the central library. An official of the university said the use of public transport by employees to commute to office and back home could be the reason for the spread of infection among the staff. According to him, non-teaching employees had appealed for pick-up and drop-off service so they could avoid public transport. “But it is not possible to provide the service to the 1,000-odd non-teaching employees,” the official said. The university had told its non-teaching employees early April that they could attend office on the campus three days a week, instead of five as told earlier, following the surge in Covid cases in the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-82
16-04-2021||Calcutta||Medicines for Covid-19 patients in short supply||A crisis of drugs that are needed to treat Covid patients is being felt across hospitals in Calcutta and doctors said the problem, if not resolved soon, could hit patient management. Shortage of remdesivir, a drug widely used to treat patients with severe symptoms, is worrying hospitals the most. Some other drugs like tocilizumab and doxycycline, too, are in short supply. Some doctors said Covid has multiple lines of treatment but remdesivir, tocilizumab and doxycycline are widely used to treat the disease. “We have 20 patients in our hospital now who are requiring remdesivir. Each patient has to be administered six doses of remdesivir, which means we will need 120 doses. But we have only 35 doses,” said Sudipta Mitra, a doctor who is treating Covid patients at Peerless Hospital. “If the number of patients who need remdesivir sees a sharp spike in a couple of days, how will we manage? In such a situation, we may have to even stop administering the drug before the six-dose course is completed,” said Mitra, also the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. The hospital, he said, is also facing a shortage of tocilizumab and doxycycline. Alok Roy, a doctor and chairman of Medica Superspecialty Hospital, echoed Mitra. “Remdesivir is a crucial drug for treatment of Covid but there are issues about its supply. There is also a shortage of tocilizumab. We have communicated it to the state health department and they have promised that there will not be any problem in getting medicines required for treating Covid patients,” Roy said. “We are increasing the number of Covid beds but if the supply of essential medicines is hit, it will become difficult to treat patients,” said a senior official of a private hospital. A doctor who has been treating Covid-19 patients since the beginning of the pandemic said tocilizumab was mentioned in the treatment protocol issued by the state health department. “The drug reduces inflammation. It is administered to patients with high levels of inflammation, which can disrupt the functioning of organs,” said Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, a doctor at the Beleghata ID Hospital. “Doxycycline has anti-inflammatory, antibacterial and possibly antiviral effects, and so is considered as a potential treatment for Covid-19.” At an online meeting with the state health department on Thursday, private hospitals raised the issue of non-availability of remdesivir. Officials of several pharmaceutical companies attended the meeting. An official of a private hospital said representatives of drug companies said the supply of remdesivir could improve from next week. Ajay Chakraborty, the state’s director of health services, said: “I am not aware of the shortage of doxycycline. Also, there are antibiotics that can be used in place of doxycycline. Tocilizumab is a drug that is very rarely used.” Hospitals also said there had been a sharp rise in the price of pulse oximeters, used to measure blood oxygen saturation. A pulse oximeter cost about Rs 1,500 last year. The price has since doubled, said an official of a hospital. The number of active Covid cases in Bengal rose by 4,360, to 36,981, on Thursday. The state recorded 6,769 new infections and 2,387 recoveries during the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-82
16-04-2021||Calcutta||Suman Mukhopadhyay presents new version of Mephisto to underline election situation ||Ace director Suman Mukhopadhyay has done it again. Recalling the phenomenal response to his first staging of Mephisto during the Gujarat riots of 2002, he has presented a completely new version of the play last Wednesday to underline the do or die election in Bengal. The political message of the play is straight and simple — support the inclusive and secular, not the divisive and sectarian. Fascists and semi-fascists are mortally afraid of thinkers, intellectuals, creative writers and artists. They try their best to bludgeon them into abject submission; or, they simply try to eliminate them. How can we, even after so many years, forget the irrefutable fact that the great poet, Federico Garcia Lorca, was eliminated by General Franco, the military-fascist ruler of Spain? While Lorca was gunned down, pivotal German writers like Thomas Mann, Bertolt Brecht and many others had to leave their country to save themselves and their creativity. Indeed, this despicable tradition of Fascism found yet another malignant voice in Calcutta last week when the abrasive BJP leader, Dilip Ghosh, threatened: “Let them be busy with acting and singing. That we shall tolerate. But if they try to engage in politics, we shall rub them severely, and we know how to rub.” Still, stubborn poets, singers, artists and intellectuals simply refuse to be cowed down. Rejecting Dilip Ghosh’s horrendous threat, they staged the memorable and evergreen anti-fascist play Mephisto at Rabindra Sadan on Wednesday evening. This play has a glorious history. Not only was it performed in Berlin and other German cities in the turbulent 40s of the last century, but also in this very city when the scandalous pogrom in Gujarat was advancing in the first decade of the present century. The hall was packed that afternoon at the Academy of Fine Arts and everyone greeted the director and the artistes after they had put up a splendid performance. I pointedly requested the illustrious director of the drama staged last Wednesday, Suman Mukhopadhyay, to comment on the searing relevance of the play here and now. Suman replied: “We were overwhelmed by the fervent response when it was staged when Gujarat was burning in 2002. Now, in the present-day reality, the relevance of Mephisto is again being felt acutely. That is why we have staged it again to forewarn people of the impending catastrophe, if it genuinely occurs.” When I asked him to comment on Dilip Ghosh’s diatribe and outspoken threat, his firm answer was: “We refuse to be disturbed by what he spouts. Let him try to rub us in the wrong way severely, but we shall persist with our creative protest. We and the fully packed auditorium are not bothered in the slightest by his threat.” The play itself, based on a novel bearing the same title and written by Klaus Mann (son of Thomas Mann), depicts how a superb and ambitious actor gradually succumbs to the Nazi power-machine. His downward slide marked by growing servility is brilliantly dramatised. Moreover, Anirban Bhattacharya gave a stellar performance in the role of Mephisto, the submissive and purchased protagonist. As we watched the dramatic performance, one scene unfolding onto the other — we could not but compare our own situation with the one graphically etched in the play. The message also was clear and distinct: “Resist now or never. Eliminate the evil power which wants to stifle us into submission, without any further delay.” The Calcutta audience, when it first saw the play, during the Gujarat massacre was thoroughly charged. So also on Wednesday – the huge auditorium of Rabindra Sadan was full to the capacity and each and every face reflected a stern promise, which said, “No more, that’s enough”. The thunderous ovation which followed the end of the play clearly showed on which side the audience stood. The half-educated purveyors of Fascist culture in our state and country have clearly forgotten (or perhaps they are unaware of) the basic premise that the unsullied aesthetic dimension is always layered with the flow of redemptive politics. In point of fact, creativity and intellect cannot thrive without the indispensable political accent. And, precisely, this accent was heard and felt on Wednesday at Rabindra Sadan. The play will be repeated on 17th this month at Girish Mancha and on 23rd at Madhusudan Mancha. This month is crucial for us in Bengal. We have the golden opportunity and chance to reject Golwalkar, Godse et al. Shall we do it? The play, on its part, reminds us of our own responsibility and simply urges us to do the needful in the polling booths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-82
16-04-2021||Calcutta||International Baccalaureate cancels May exams, moots alternative||The International Baccalaureate (IB) has cancelled exams across the country because of rising Covid-19 cases. The exams had been scheduled for next month. The decision was taken on Wednesday and heads of schools were informed over email late in the evening. “Following continued conversations with our schools, associations and education boards, the IB can confirm that all IB schools in India will follow the non examination route for the Diploma Programme...,” said an email sent to the heads of IB schools. Three schools — Calcutta International School, The Heritage School and Modern High School for Girls — offer the IB diploma programme (for Classes XI and XII) in the city. “The IB has informed schools of our decision not to hold exams in India due to the rising cases of Covid-19 and following ongoing conversations with our schools, associations and education boards. We intend that the results of students in India should be awarded using coursework marks and predicted grades for the May 2021 session, as described in the awarding model outlined in February,” said a statement from an IB spokesperson. School heads in the city had been in touch with the IB office in Singapore in the wake of rising cases of infections in the country. “We had meetings about the Covid situation in India,” said Seema Sapru, principal, The Heritage School. Students’ results will be based on the non-exam route. “The non-examination route considers predicted grades, internal assessments and IB core components. Students’ results will be on the basis of that,” said Damayanti Mukherjee, principal, Modern High School for Girls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-82
16-04-2021||Calcutta||Calcuttans rally to harp on Bengal’s culture on Bengali New Year||In Bengal, the word Ram first brings to one’s mind Rammohan and not Lord Ram. The “Ishwar” people of Bengal are familiar with is Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar. The Sonar Bangla that people in Bengal dream of is the Sonar Bangla that Rabindranath Tagore wrote about in the song that is now the national anthem of Bangladesh. On the first day of Bengali New Year, scores of Calcuttans assembled outside Jorasanko Thakurbari, the birthplace of Rabindranath Tagore, to walk in a rally till College Street, known for its culture of debate, dissent and learning. The choice of the start and end points was intentional, said organisers. It was meant to harp on what is at the core of Bengal’s society — a tradition of liberalism, acceptance of diversity and standing up against hatred. Students, elders, working professionals, activists, academics and people from various other fields joined the rally. Poushali Chakraborty, who finished her MSc in biotechnology from Jadavpur University this year, was among the participants. “I thought it was more important to join this rally than spend a holiday at home because the basic values of Bengal are under threat,” she said. Poushali was also angry at the attempt to give the impression by a set of people that they were going to rescue Bengal. “Some people are saying they will create a Sonar Bangla, as if there is nothing in Bengal and they will do everything for us. They sound like they are going to be the protectors of Bengali culture,” she said. “One of their leaders said they will form anti-Romeo squads to protect women. This statement itself is an insult to the women’s struggle for years, an insult to all those women who fought hard and earned their own rights. Who are they to protect the women of Bengal?” Anshumita Sengupta, an HR professional, had come from Nagerbazar in Dum Dum. “The day I heard about this rally, I decided to attend it. We the people of this state have to preserve our culture and fight to protect it. If we sit idly, we will lose our traditions and culture,” she said. Images of icons of Bengal — Rammohan Roy, Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar, Rabindranath Tagore, Rokeya Sakhawat Hossain, Kadambini Ganguly, Pritilata Waddedar, Subhas Chandra Bose, Sukumar Ray, Sishir Bhaduri, Satyajit Ray, Satyen Bose, Prafulla Chandra Ray and Uday Sankar, among others — were carried by the participants. “The British had tried to cage Bengalis into a mould of clerks, but they failed. Just see the icons whose images we are carrying with us today. It is not possible to have everyone’s picture. But among the few we are carrying are scientists, writers, thinkers, feminists, social reformers, entrepreneurs and so many,” said an organiser. “The new invaders are thinking that they will be able to build the narrative of Hindi-Hindu-Hindustan in Bengal. But Bengal is diverse. It has never accepted any domination. It will not accept this time, too.” The rally went past a few places that have become iconic because of their association with people who represent the true spirit of Bengal. It crossed Swami Vivenkananda’s birth place and Vidyasagar College, which was founded by Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar. The participants were mostly in traditional Bengali attire. Organisers said Bengal’s culture did not mean Bengali culture. Bengal has always welcomed foreign cultures and traditions, and even imbibed some of them in Bengali traditions. But the same people have always resisted anything imposed on them by force, or any domination from outside, they said. “Look at our favourite foods, the most popular dresses. So many of these are taken from other cultures but have become a part of Bengal’s culture. Bengal as a place has always accepted people speaking various languages, belonging to different religions. That is Bengal and there is now an attempt to tamper with that tradition,” said Amlan Hazra, one of the organisers. “By Ram, we mean Rammohan. Our Iswar is Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar.” Participants sang Ore Halla Rajar Sena, Banglar Mati Banglar Jol and Amar Sonar Bangla Ami Tomay Bhalobashi, Tagore’s song that is now the national anthem of Bangladesh. “Who knows if the BJP is elected to power they will say that singing Amar Sonar Bangla is anti-national, because it is the national anthem of a country that has a majority Muslim population. They will ban any performance of the song. This is a real threat. To stop that from happening we have to be united,” said a participant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-82
16-04-2021||Calcutta||West Bengal Elections 2021: Social media ‘star’ against Kamarhati’s ‘local boy’||The Kamarhati Assembly constituency, which had been a Left stronghold for several decades, saw a growing support for the BJP in eight years, from about 1,700 votes in 2011 to more than 45,000 in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The Trinamul Congress, which had in 2019 regained the lead it had lost in the 2016 Assembly polls against the CPM, is trying hard to maintain its winning streak in the seat, which goes to the polls on Saturday. Madan Mitra, who had wrested the seat from the CPM’s Manas Mukherjee in the 2011 Assembly elections, is pitted against the BJP’s Raju Banerjee and the CPM’s young face, Sayandeep Mitra. The constituency, on the northern fringes of Calcutta, has a mixed population. The Kamarhati Assembly constituency lies on both sides of BT Road. On the west is Dakshineswar, an old neighbourhood along the Hooghly. On the east, there are colonies where residents are mostly settlers from the erstwhile East Pakistan or their descendants.They formed a strong vote bank for the CPM for several decades. The tables had turned in 2011 when Mamata Banerjee came to power. Madan Mitra had defeated the CPM’s sitting MLA Manas Mukherjee by more than 24,000 votes. Mitra became transport minister in Mamata’s cabinet. The BJP’s Shikha Sarkar had secured 1,699 votes in 2011. In the 2016 Assembly elections, Mitra, who was fighting the polls from behind bars, lost to the CPM’s Mukherjee by 4,198 votes. The BJP had started making its presence felt as the party’s candidate Krishanu Mitra bagged 10,797 votes. He, however, finished a distant third. Mukherjee got 62,194 votes and Mitra bagged 57,996 votes. But the CPM’s vote bank started waning and the BJP gained a foothold in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The TMC secured a lead of 17,000 votes against the BJP’s Samik Bhattacharya in the Kamarhati Assembly segment, which is part of the Dum Dum Lok Sabha constituency. The BJP had polled 45, 631 votes against the TMC’s 62,356. TMC: Madan Mitra BJP: Raju Banerjee CPM: Sayandeep Mitra Madan Mitra is contesting for the third consecutive time from the seat. Originally a resident of Bhowanipore, Mitra had shifted to Dakshineswar before the 2011 elections. Apart from the campaigning door to door and addressing street-corner meetings and large rallies, Mitra has taken to social media to further expand his outreach. “I wanted to connect with the young and first-time voters and the best way to do so is through social media,” said Mitra. Mitra’s recently released music album “Oh Lovely” has gone viral. It is a song about how politicians are switching from the TMC to the BJP allegedly for personal gains. “Since February, when I had posted it on YouTube, it has garnered over one lakh views,” Mitra said, smiling. “When I am going out for a campaign, people are asking me to sing and I readily oblige.” He is also doing Facebook Lives to reach out to voters. Mitra said he was confident of retaining the lead his party had in the Lok Sabha elections. “In 2016, I was part of a conspiracy and I was put behind bars. The jerseys were the same and so were the players. But the captain was missing. This time, the captain will play again,” said Mitra, claiming that his personal popularity in the area and Mamata’s charisma would see them through. But Raju Banerjee differs. “People are fed up with syndicates and cut-money culture in the land of Dakshineswar Kali temple and Adyapith Kali temple. Once a thriving industrial belt, there are hardly any industrial units here,” said Banerjee, the BJP’s vice-president in Bengal. “Basic amenities like potable water, drainage and good roads are missing,” said Banerjee, who said he grew up in the locality playing football in Belghoria. The CPM has pitched a new face after a bad show in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls — Sayandeep Mitra is fighting his first poll battle. “There was a shift towards the BJP during the Lok Sabha elections because some of our supporters and workers felt the saffron brigade was the only alternative to the Trinamul,” said Sayandeep. “The same supporters have now seen the Trinamul candidate of this constituency celebrate Holi with three actor-turned-BJP nominees on board a vessel on the river Hooghly. People have realised that the Left is the only alternative in Kamarhati.” Once an industrial belt, with factories and jute mills, Kamarhati has a sizeable population of Muslims and Hindi-speaking voters who will play a crucial role this time, said all the three parties. Communal politics, jobs, corruption among councillors, lack of civic amenities and the personal charisma of Madan Mitra, residents say these issues will determine the winner. “Hindus, Muslims, Bengalis and Hindi-speaking people have been living together for years without any major problem. But this time, the BJP is trying to drive a wedge and we are scared,” said a 65-year-old resident of Kamarhati who did not want to be named. Civic issues are equally important. “If you talk to people here, you will learn about scarcity of drinking water across parts of Vivekananda Nagar, BL Ghosh Road and May Dibas Pally,” said Arun Chakrabarty, a resident of Culture More in Belghoria, the Assembly’s border in the east.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-82
16-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Elections 2021: Poll battle between one-time colleagues||Bidhannagar MLA and fire services minister Sujit Bose’s biggest challenge is to win over the 19,000-odd votes the BJP had got in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and defeat Sabyasachi Dutta, who was once his colleague in Trinamul but now fighting the Assembly elections as a BJP candidate. Trinamul’s Bose had won the Bidhannagar Assembly seat in 2016 by 6,988 votes, defeating Arunava Ghosh of the Left-Congress alliance. The BJP’s Sushanta Ranjan Pal had come third, polling 21,735 votes. The BJP had turned the tables in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls — its candidate from the Barasat Lok Sabha seat, Mrinal Kanti Debnath, was ahead of Trinamul’s Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar by 18,916 votes in the Bidhannagar assembly segment. The Left finished a distant third. A swing of more than 19,000 votes is needed for Bose to retain his seat, which goes to the polls on Saturday. A third candidate in the fray is Abhisek Banerjee of the Congress. Bose, in his bid for a third successive win from Bidhannagar, has been trying to woo residents of planned areas like Salt Lake as well as those living on fringe areas like Duttabad, Dakshindari and added areas behind Bangur and Dum Dum. At multiple rallies he has assured residents of Duttabad, Dakshindari and the areas behind Lake Town and Bangur that they are not “outsiders or encroachers”. The Trinamul has been promising these people benefits like patta — or land rights  — and highlighting state government schemes such as Swasthya Sathi, Kanyasree and Sabuj Sathi. The BJP’s Dutta, a former mayor of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, has said he would carry out eviction and demolition drives to free pavements of encroachments. “I will give land pattas to those who are living in Duttabad for years without any security. I will also provide all civic services to the area…. On the other hand, the BJP candidate, who used to be the mayor of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, had tried to evict these people and even tried to snap their water supply and electricity lines,” Bose told Metro on Thursday. Duttabad has more than 10,200 houses, most of which are single-storeyed. Though more than 50,000 men and women live there, the voters total 8,500. Most of them used to vote for the CPM during the Left Front regime for security and to ensure that no eviction drive was launched. A Trinamul member who used to be a CPM councillor said that during the Left regime, they would bank on these votes to counter those cast by residents of planned areas like Salt Lake. The BJP, on the other hand, has run a campaign to negate the image of being an outsider, often questioning their nationality and terming them as “Bangladeshis with forged documents”. On Thursday, Dutta, the outgoing Rajarhat New Town MLA, who switched sides from Trinamul to the BJP in 2019, said: “This vote is a walkover match for me. In the 2019 general elections, there was a 5-7 per cent vote swing because of Narendra Modiji’s image. There was no alternative to him as people sought a stable government. This time the issues are local and Bose is also chairman of South Dum Dum Municipality, where very little actual development has taken place. He has only focussed on organising pujas.” Drinking water is a major issue in several wards in South Dum Dum Municipality, Dutta said. Drainage is a problem in areas behind the Haldirams bus stop on VIP Road. The entire stretch gets waterlogged after showers. Several huts behind Central Park were demolished in 2017 for the Calcutta Book Fair. Dutta alleged that Bose had helped the evicted settlers settle on a plot near City Centre. “This is a prime piece of land in one of the poshest areas of Salt Lake and Bose helped encroachers, who are Bangladeshis, settle there. I had decorated Salt Lake in the run-up to the FIFA Under-17 World Cup,” said Dutta. “We were also selected to be a Smart City under a central scheme but that was scrapped. If I win, I will focus on providing world class facilities and developing the entire area from scratch. I will also set up hawking zones in places where people will be able to sell things. At the end of the day’s sales, they will have to take away their wares.” Many residents of Salt Lake, however, are opposed to the “outsider” plank because people from multiple places have settled in the township. “Salt Lake per se has no original residents. When people started pouring in, a new community was formed. Nearly everyone who stays here was once an outsider,” said Kumar Shankar Sadhu, a member of the Salt Lake Residents’ Association who stays in GD block.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-83
16-04-2021||Calcutta||You are to blame: How people are flouting rules||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-83
16-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: I have served here for 38 years, says Tapash Chatterjee||Tapash Chatterjee is fighting the Assembly battle on familiar turf. As former deputy mayor of the now defunct Board of Councillors at Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation and earlier, as the then chairman of Rajarhat Gopalpur Municipality, and also a resident of Rajarhat, he knows the area like the back of his hand. He faces a two-way fight with an energised BJP and a youthful CPM. ⚫ The race has reached the last mile. How confident are you? I am quite confident. Everyone is expecting the battle to be easy for me. I am a son of this soil. I have served this area for 38 years. My party has a strong organisation here. I find no difference in the situation between the first mile and the last mile of the race. ⚫ How do you rate your main opponents? The profile of the BJP candidate (Bhaskar Roy) is being perceived as a misfit for the electorate in this constituency. He is an unknown face. As for Gautam Deb’s son (Saptarshi, the Left Front candidate), he is known by his father’s name, not his own. Neither of the two was visible last year, during the lockdown or the Covid crisis. ⚫ Had the outgoing MLA, your former party colleague, Sabyasachi Dutta contested from here, would it have been a different ball game? He knew he had done little work here over 10 years. He knew I might contest from here. So he got scared and ran away from this seat (to Bidhannagar). ⚫ As Bidhannagar mayor, Duttahad left you without any portfolio for months though you were the deputy mayor. How would you rate him as mayor and MLA? He would fail to get any marks. He neither approved a single trade licence as mayor nor took any pro-poor measures. Corporation ke dubiechhen. Uni kajer manush-i na. Name a single job he has done in Rajarhat as MLA! He left the party (in 2019) but clung on to the post. Had he resigned, we could have done some work here in the last year and half. ⚫ Will his alleged non-performance be a liability for you? He was elected on your party’s ticket, after all. People were upset with his inaction as was the party. O lokta okejo lok. People have understood that. Next door, Sujit Bose did so much for Lake Town. But he (Sabyasachi) did nothing here. He was a liability. He is past now. It would have worked in my favour if he contested from here against me. That’s why he fled (to Bidhannagar). ⚫ What about New Town’s infamous Syndicate? The chief minister has managed to rein in the Syndicate. It was at its worst in his (Sabyasachi’s) time. We have been able to make the local boys involved in the construction business understand that hooliganism will not be tolerated if they continue in the business. So things are much better now. ⚫ What are your election promises? I will run the Patharghata hospital properly. (At present there is a primary health centre). There is space already allocated for it. I will start work. I will offer free medicines to the poor by introducing a mobile van with a doctor. Every fortnight, it will visit a ward. I will build an electric crematorium in Rajarhat. It will be a Rs 2.5 crore project. There is a facility on land donated by a private donor by a canal but it is a primitive one, using wooden logs (Hajratola burning ghat in Golashia). Locals prefer to go all the way to Nimtala. I also plan to distribute reference text books among students. I tell people that they will not find a Hindu like me as I have built a temple in Narayanpur and organise Durga puja and several Kali pujas in my locality. Also they will not find a Muslim like me as I have developed and beautified a burial ground for them and run a school for their children. ⚫ Rajarhat has a sizeable Muslim population. Are you worried at the possibility of Muslim votes getting divided? This election will not just decide the 2021 Assembly result but also reflect what will happen in 2024 (Lok Sabha election). BJP won more seats than its proportion of voteshare. We know that 68 per cent voters did not vote for BJP. If we can consolidate that vote, we need not worry about victory. We need to tell voters not to bother about Hindu-Muslim issues but think about the dire strait of the economy. Our main enemy now is communalism. In Bengal, since Trinamul Congress is the main anti-communal force, people should support us, just as in Tripura, since CPM is the main anti-communal force, they should be supported to keep the BJP at bay. I used to know CPM to be a secular, anti-communal party when I was a part of it. It has joined hands with a communal force (Indian Secular Front, led by cleric Abbas Siddique of the shrine of Furfura Sharif in Hooghly) now and become BJP’s B team. ⚫ Which party will be the runner-up in this seat? Though the candidate is weak, I think BJP will be second. ⚫ Though New Town has less than 11,000 voters, what will you say to voters of New Town? The cornerstone of development today is participatory planning. Many educated citizens live in New Town. I will seek their suggestions. We will sit with NKDA and figure out a way to let residents have a voice since the township still does not have the numbers to have an elected civic authority. Some areas are still under the panchayat. But what development will the panchayat do there? We will also request Hidco to take care of the fringe areas as a township cannot prosper in isolation. ⚫ The Covid-19 situation is going from bad to worse, especially with gatherings occasioned by political campaigns. Your comments? The Election Commission of India should have thought about this. They should have sat with political parties at the very start and figured out a way. Instead, it spread out the election in Bengal over so many phases over a month and a half! Had it not been for their decision, the election would have been over by now. Development has been brought to a halt. Election holey jomayet jonosobha hobe.Supporter-ra lorai er hujuge thake.There is a lot of emotion. What is the alternative? Had they told us not to hold rallies, we could have thought of other ways like going door to door or doing digital campaigns. Vote-er porer din theke amra eta niye nambo Corporation theke. ⚫ Your parting message to voters. Late into the night at 1am, there are three entities who will answer your call — the police, the street dog and Tapas Chatterjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-83
16-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Elections 2021: Priority for local youth in local jobs, says Bhaskar Roy||Bhaskar Roy recites Thomas Hardy’s elegy In Time of The Breaking of Nations and highlights his Bengali medium schooling to impress upon his Rajarhat voters how he has risen from the ranks. He names multi-national companies where he has held high posts to further boost his aspirational image. The BJP candidate resides on the fringes of New Town, just outside NKDA area. Here are snatches from his speeches delivered at street corner meets across Rajarhat and at a meeting with local party workers uploaded on the party’s local unit social media page. ⚫ Huge buildings have come up in New Town — Uniworld City, Rosedale, Elita Vista, DLF… They have everything — sewerage, drainage, drinking water, roads… But New Town and Rajarhat are like Suorani and Duorani. The Left Front built the place and Trinamul Congress ruled for 10 years. Could they not include these fringe areas under Hidco as added area, at least in terms of civic services? Could the earlier Trinamul MLA (Sabyasachi Dutta) not have tried to get this done? He has realised his mistake. He too had to work within the structure of his party. So he has quit his party and joined us. ⚫ There is no scope of livelihood here except brokerage and building materials syndicate. Youngsters here do not know how much they will earn at the end of the month, This is an entirely unorganised sector. The Trinamul government has done nothing to create jobs here. Look at Eco Park. How many local youths are employed there? Not even 10. There is an IT Hub in Action Area III. How many Rajarhat boys have got work there? All the chief minister does is hold a Global Business Summit where foreigners come. I develop software and export to 14 countries. I too have been invited to that summit in Eco Park. If I win, I will make sure local lads get priority in jobs here. Not everyone needs to be B.Tech or M.Tech. There can be job-oriented crash courses. These offices will need all kinds of people. I will create an employment bank so that new offices that come up can contact and employ local youth. ⚫ It is perfectly acceptable if local boys pool in funds and start a business in supply of building materials. If any house or boundary wall is coming up in the area, they could even approach with a request, saying: “Kaku ba Dada, Apni toh baire theke jinish kinben kono dokan theke. Amra toh parar-i. Apni amar thekeo nite paren.” But the decision will rest with the owner. Backed by police or political leaders, if they go and demand that building materials must be taken from them, that will not be allowed. Je syndicate manusher jibon durbisoho kore tole, shei syndicate hote debo na. ⚫ The Left Front had this principle of langol jar, jomi tar (land belongs to him who ploughs the land). They took away land from farmers and redistributed it (among share-croppers as part of Operation Barga, the land reforms programme). As a result, farmers here have small parcels of land which does not allow them to even get bank loans. The system has collapsed. They imported communism to replace our 5,000-year-old Hinduism. During their regime, Hidco took away lands of local villagers paying Rs 5,000 to 5,500 per cottah. Now land in New Town is worth Rs 30-35 lakh per cottah. Their leaders are so old that they cannot see. I am telling you who their projected chief minister candidate is — Mohd. Salim. He is contesting from Chanditala. (The LF has made no such announcement). ⚫ There is no hospital here. Those who have money go to Apollo (Gleneagles Hospitals) or AMRI Hospital and those who do not, have to go all the way to RG Kar or Nil Ratan Sircar (Medical College and Hospital). Even there you don’t get beds. I plan to build a super speciality hospital, either a government one or one on public-private partnership model. ⚫ The place also needs good government schools. I will work to improve the condition of the local Bengali medium schools. ⚫ They have fielded a namesake of mine as a dummy candidate. So there is another Bhaskar Roy (from Bahujan Samaj Party) right under my name on the ballot paper. But people will look for my symbol and vote. Even if six Bhaskar Roys are fielded they will not be fooled. This is a war between Ram and Rahim. There is a need for consolidation and polarisation of votes. We want to build a Hindu rashtra though we do not neglect other religions. But if anyone refuses to chant Bharat Mata ki jai, he will be treated as minority. ⚫ My campaign starts at 6.30am with a cha chakra with people. From 7.30am till 1pm, I am going door-to-door. There are drawing room meetings scheduled from 3pm to 4pm. There are again door-to-door campaigns in the afternoon. Street corner meetings take place in the evening. After 9.30pm, I hold organisational meetings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-83
16-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Return to Left Front vision of New Town, says Saptarshi Deb||Saptarshi Deb, the 33-year-old Left Front candidate fielded by the Sanyukta Morcha, may be fighting his first election but the Presidency University alumnus who stays in New Town has politics in his genes. ⚫ Your father Gautam Deb has a link with the birth of New Town. Yes. As housing minister in the Left Front government, he had spearheaded the New Town project in 1998. An unplanned urban explosion was happening in Calcutta and middle class residents were getting pushed out of the city due to economic reasons. An urban housing crisis was looming. The housing department took up MIG complexes along the Bypass to mitigate the crisis. But my father realised more needed to be done and proposed a township, which Jyoti babu (Basu, the chief minister) encouraged. The Major Arterial Road was the first construction. Along it, complexes like East Enclave and Eastern High started coming up. My father says the road was the first advertisement for New Town as people started using it to reach the airport. ⚫ What was the development vision for the township? Development was to take place phasewise, hence the action areas were demarcated. In a few years, Buddha jethu (Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee) became chief minister. It was a boom time for the IT industry. Sector V took off. DLF 1 and 2 happened, Candor Tower, Unitech.... IT parks started opening one after another. The vision for New Town was it would not be a sleeping city, like Salt Lake, where people come to sleep after spending the day elsewhere at work. It would have its own vibrant economy, which would be based on soft industries like FinTech and IT. The financial hub, which was supposed to have come up, was to have share trading, banking… A smart city which would give employment opportunities to the city’s educated youth. We want to return to that vision. New Town will be a prominent part of the industrial development plan we have for Bengal. ⚫ Will you revive Special Economic Zones (SEZ), which the Trinamul government has abolished? Our party policy makers are the right people to comment on that. But SEZ was a part of the Left Front industrial plan, so it could be in our plans. We have seen flight of industry, with the departure of the Tatas (from Singur). SEZ hok na hok, that trust has to be revived. The Silicon Valley (opposite City Centre 2) is a farce. We want to see what is happening within its walls. It is not enough to hand over land. You have to create an investment-friendly atmosphere. Hassle-free land acquisition has to be offered. Take Shapoorji Pallonji (Sukhobrishti). It was to be Asia’s biggest mass housing project. The government had mobilised land for it. No private player could do it on its own. ⚫ Why has work got stalled there? It must be the company’s internal problem in recent times. Back then, Hidco’s initiative had paved the way for 22,000 flats to come up. When it will be complete, it will be a Grade II municipality on its own, housing a lakh people. The space opposite Eco Park was to have been the central business district. The hotels came up but post-Singur, post-Left Front, the investments dried up and the businesses never materialised. ⚫ What are you saying in street-corner meets? Public transport is a problem in New Town and totos cost Rs 50-60. If the solution is owning a car, then it does not help the middle class. There is no government hospital. There are no government schools. Even Salt Lake has Bidhannagar Municipal School. The property tax is exorbitant. Residents are voiceless with regard to development policies. NKDA and Hidco are accountable only to the state government and not to any elected body. A city council could be formed with elected block-wise representatives. Do not let them handle the NKDA funds but let them have a voice. ⚫ The Left Front has fielded several young faces like you. Even a month and half ago, I did not know I’d contest (smiles). In my constituency, 50 per cent voters are below 40. So it is giving me an edge. I am talking of employment and getting great resonance. I am much more approachable. Khub hnatchhi. I am going door to door almost like panchayat elections. I have also created a three-minute digital introduction for social media. Life is hectic but nice. Since I have been fielded from my home constituency, I can come home (in BF Block, New Town) at night and get to meet neighbourhood uncles and aunts doing their morning walk when I leave for the day. ⚫ Who will come second? BJP is not a factor here, though the contest will not be bipolar as it was in 2016. They did get 37 per cent votes from this Assembly segment in the 2019 Lok Sabha election, thanks to post-Pulwama patriotic wave, while we got 10 per cent but we have always done badly in Lok Sabha polls since 1977. The seat has 35 per cent Muslim voters and TMC’s Muslim support base is fast eroding since 2019. ISF (Indian Secular Front, led by cleric Abbas Siddique of the shrine of Furfura Sharif in Hooghly) is with us. They are a youth-driven organisation. We are focusing on booths where we did well in 2016 but not in 2019. In New Town, we did much better than in the rest of the Assembly segment in 2019, getting 20 per cent votes. I think 37 per cent will be a winning aggregate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-83
16-04-2021||Calcutta||New Town road perch for migrant mother idol||An idol at a Behala puja modelled on migrant workers who travelled for miles after the country-wide lockdown experiencing immeasurable hardships, was applauded far and wide last autumn. Now it has found space in full public view on a New Town street. The 8ft fibre idol was worshipped at Barisha Club in 2020 and was chosen to be preserved by chief minister Mamata Banerjee who had inaugurated the puja. The idol has been placed on an island near a pavement on the road connecting EcoSpace to Akankha More, near FinTech hub, that runs parallel to the Major Arterial Road. “We brought it in January and it was installed in March,” said a Hidco official, adding that it would be lit up. The decision was taken when the results of the state government’s puja contest Biswa Bangla Sharad Samman were announced. “At the virtual meet, we had requested the chief minister that the idol be placed in an open-air public place where future generations can learn about the struggle of the migrant labourers amid the Covid crisis. She suggested a few areas and asked minister Firhad Hakim to do the needful,” said Barisha Club puja president Sudip Polley, the local councillor. Artist Rintu Das was unaware that the installation was complete. “This is my first work to be exhibited on a road,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-83
16-04-2021||Calcutta||City’s second CNG station opens in New Town||As petrol and diesel prices remain skyhigh, a new fuel has made its appearance in New Town. A Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) pump has opened behind Axis Mall. “We opened on March 22. Several car makers have launched CNG variants of their models. There are three-four cars that come for refill per day,” said an official at Champion Hub, the gas station which so far dispensed only petrol and diesel. CNG was selling at Rs 67.67 per kg on the day The Telegraph Salt Lake visited the petrol pump. “This is our second pump after one in Garia which had opened on the same day,” said an official of Bengal Gas Company, which is a joint venture of GAIL (India) Limited and Greater Calcutta Gas Supply Corporation Limited, a state government entity. Two more gas stations are set to open near Shapoorji Pallonji in Action Area III and at Chinar Park once all permissions are in place. The company also plans to set up its own station opposite City Centre 2. “They have been given temporary permission to operate a pump there. In the long run, they are supposed to provide piped supply,” said a Hidco official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-83
16-04-2021||Calcutta||Taste of Bengal with tribal flavours||A breeze comes wafting across the paddy fields yonder, caressing a few krishnachura, palash and atashi flowers along the way. Cicadas sing in a monotone. A dim lamp or two in the courtyards of distant huts highlights the gathering darkness. Perfect setting to lounge outdoors and munch on muri and telebhaja. The ambience of rural Bengal can be experienced right in the heart of New Town, with Banglar Gram having come up over three acres, next to the herbal garden near Gate 6 of Eco Park. Now you can have a meal of dishes served in rural homes of Bengal or enjoy tea in a clay cup with traditional snacks seated in the midst of it all. “Many urban youngsters have little idea how villages look, how paddy is sown or how mustard flowers look. Banglar Gram, which came up a couple of years ago, helps them get that feel. But many visitors used to ask for a taste of Bengal’s villages too. That is why we have come up with an eatery serving tribal cuisine, called Dhamsa,” said Hidco chairman Debashis Sen, at the inauguration on Sunday. The restaurant, named after the Santhali drum, owes to it both its name and shape.  The structure is 22ft high and has a diameter of 35ft at the top. “If you take an aerial photograph, it looks like a dhamsa even from above,” said Anirban Das, a Dum Dum Park resident who is one of the city's best-known Durga puja theme-makers and is behind prominent pujas like Chetla Agrani. “It has a steel structure over which we have used tensile fabric, imported from France. The wooden look of the sides is actually fibre,” adds his partner Samiran Krishna Dey. The two had started work in 2016. “Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had come up with the idea of Banglar Gram and asked me to work on it after she saw a dhaner morai I had created at the Book Fair. We finished work in 2017,” he said. Dhamsa, he points out, was the chief minister's idea too. “She wanted the seats to be created out of stumps of trees and put us in touch with the forest department. We travelled to north Bengal in search of them,” Das says. There are three thatched hay roofs supported by carved wooden pillars under which the seats are placed around wooden tables. In spring afternoons and evenings, these are the best places to savour the meals served. Sen says there are plans to add more outdoor shelters once the tribal kitchen becomes popular. The indoor restaurant is air-conditioned and seats 18. The walls are done up elaborately with Warli paintings, a tribal art typical of Maharashtra, drawn on cane mat (sheetalpati). Dhamsa serves dishes soaked in the flavours of Bengal’s districts.  Currently it runs according to the park’s timings — 2.30pm to 7.30pm on weekdays, and 12.30pm onwards on Sundays. (Monday closed.) So two menus have been drawn up — for lunch and afternoon snacks.  The lunch menu serves five kinds of thali. One has Panta Bhat with alu bhorta, tomato bhorta, shaak, piyaji, kucho machh bhaja and papad. It costs Rs 178 (the vegetarian option costs Rs 135). Black rice is served in the Purulia thali, named after Pakhi Pahar in the Ayodhya hills. “It is slightly sticky and high on starch. It is cultivated mostly in Assam and Manipur. If the feedback is not good, we may shift to dhneki chhnata chal,” said Snehasis Sinha, additional general manager, tourism, Hidco. It comes with shak bhaja, alu bhorta, musur dal, khosha chochchori, kochu lotir ghonto, dimer mamlet dalna, buno murgir jhol, chutney, papad and payesh. It costs Rs 188. Certain specialities from the districts can be ordered separately too — like dumurer dalna or chochchori, kochur loti ghonto or jhal and anajer khosha chochchori or bhaja. Tribal touches have been added in dishes like Banspora Machh, Murgi or Mutton, where marinated fish or meat is stuffed within a hollow bamboo stem and chargrilled (priced Rs 167, Rs 157 or Rs 198, depending on the main ingredient). Another village favourite, Gugli, is also on the menu. Collected from the edges of ponds, gugli will be cooked as jhal, posto or chochchori (all dishes priced Rs 156). From 5pm to 7pm, there are three platters on offer, each costing Rs 95. The Muri Telebhaja platter has beguni, alur chop and piyaji. One called Kopai-er Jolkhabar has Kumro Phooler Bora, Alur Bora and Beler Morobba. The third features an assortment of papad - papad chura, sabu papad, masala papad, chaler papad with morobba. A la carte options at snack time include Egg Devil, Fish Chop, Fish Fry, Fish and Chicken Kabiraji Cutlet, all priced in the range of Rs 105 to 200. The costliest is Prawn Cutlet at Rs 252. There are plans to extend the restaurant timings to serve dinner as well in future. For that, a separate entrance independent of the park will have to be worked out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-83
16-04-2021||Calcutta||Summer meals delivered at home||If you want a light Bengali meal suited to soothe the body in this heat without stepping out of home, it is just a call away. Women from self-help groups are cooking such dishes at Mrittika Bhavan in DD Block, as part of an initiative of the West Bengal Comprehensive Area Development Corporation, under the department of panchayat and rural development, which is also arranging for home delivery of orders across Salt Lake, New Town, Kestopur, Lake Town and beyond, till the airport. A panta bhaat platter is becoming popular. It has panta bhaat made of aromatic rice soaked overnight, alu bhate with knacha lonka pora, sorsher tel-pneyaj diye posto bata, mourola machher chochchori and aamer chutney. It will cost Rs 225, and be reached at the customer's doorstep. Some summer special side dishes have also been introduced. Vegetarian ones like tok dal, jhinge alu posto and shukto cost Rs 50 on an average. Options in fish include Rui Machher Tok, Pabdar Jhol, Kajri Jhol and Doi Katla, costing Rs 80-90 each. A light Deshi Murgir Jhol, with potato and three pieces of meat, comes for Rs 170. Tok Doi can also be ordered separately for Rs 35. A basic thali costs Rs 40, with rice or three rotis, a vegetable and a fry. One can add the stand-alone dishes with this. Orders can be placed at 9163123556. “Since customers in Salt Lake and New Town are mostly aged, we have to keep their preferences and health conditions as well as the heat in mind,” said Soumyajit Das, administrative secretary, CADC. The corporation has registered a Rs 2.1 crore turnover in 2020-21 through home delivery in the pandemic-hit year. “We are ready with adequate supplies if any restrictions are imposed due to the worsening Covid-19 situation,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-83
