17-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: A confluence at a place of worship in Calcutta||A handful of men sat on the floor of a small mosque in Barasat in North 24-Parganas on Thursday evening to break bread together after fasting since the early hours for Ramazan. A 47-year-old man, a Hindu, munched on puffed rice, fruits and telebhajas along with the rest. Partha Sarathi Basu was not just another visitor at the mosque. His family has owned and cared for the mosque for over 50 years. Standing on a four-cottah plot in a neighbourhood some 26km north of Calcutta, Amanati Masjid can be a blink-and-miss structure for the uninitiated. In reality, it is a shrine to Bengal’s culture of inclusiveness, especially when the politics of religious polarisation is rearing its ugly head in the state. Partha’s grandfather shifted to Barasat’s Nabapally in the aftermath of the 1964 riots, swapping his family land in Bangladesh’s Khulna with that of a Muslim family in Barasat’s Nabapally. After shifting base, the Basu family found a “barren and almost desolate” mosque standing in the middle of the land. The property documents had no mention of the structure. Many Hindu neighbours had suggested that the Basus raze the mosque. But the family did not. Instead, they renovated the mosque and nurtured it with love. Today, the mosque is the praying place for hundreds of people in the area. “I am a practising Hindu from the Gautam gotra (gotras are lineage segments tracing their origins to seven ancient seers). But my religion teaches me to respect all other religions. The elders of my family have given their sweat and love in running this mosque. It is a part of our identity and I will preserve it,” Partha told Metro on Thursday. He stressed the “need” to preserve the identity because he was worried about the emergence of the politics of “division and hatred”. “Hindus and Muslims have lived peacefully here for years. But recently, the Jai Shri Ram cries get louder when a political rally passes by the mosque. I have also had visitors from certain Muslim organisations offering to buy the land on which the mosque stands to build a much bigger structure,” said Partha, who looks after his father’s kerosene dealership business. Partha is active on social media. “I have been taunted as Mohammed Partha Sarathi Basu by a certain section of people,” he said. The mosque falls under the Barasat Assembly seat, which votes on Saturday. The mosque is named after Shah Amanat, an 18th-century ascetic in Chittagong, worshipped by Hindus and Muslims alike, including Partha’s family. Amanati Masjid is among many such shrines that uphold the syncretic nature of devotionalism in Bengal. In March-end, this reporter had visited Ghutiari Sharif in South 24-Parganas to find Hindu and Muslim women dipping their palms together into a pond in the shrine compound, praying silently to have their wishes (manat)  fulfilled. Social scientists have pointed out that the deep-rooted syncretism in Bengal’s culture would challenge any political party seeking to polarise voters. Amanati Masjid, a single-storey structure with a tin roof, is not only revered by Muslims but by several Hindu families in the neighbourhood. On Thursday, some women turned up to light candles and incense sticks at the base of a tree inside the compound in the evening. A stop at the mosque is a must for a new bride stepping into the Basu family. After a death, the body is brought to the mosque on its way to a crematorium. Students halt at the shrine before an exam irrespective of their religion, residents said. Two boards with the name of the mosque stuck to its walls also have the three words written on them — “Prabhuke pranam koro (Pray to the Lord)”. “Prabhu is usually used in a church and pranam is a Hindu tradition. The first imam of the mosque, Abubakkar Siddiqui, had suggested the phrase because he wanted this place to be a refuge for all,” said Partha. His family home stands right opposite the mosque. His uncles still live there. Partha and his father, Dipak Kumar Basu, have shifted to an apartment in Barasat’s Dak Bungalow More. Basu senior is 71. Till a couple of years ago, he used to open the doors of the mosque every day in the morning and mopped the floors himself. “Diner por din haath e jhnaata niye sompriti rokkha korechhi. E jinish harale cholbe na. (I have preserved religious harmony with a broom, day after day. We cannot afford to let this go),” Basu senior told this reporter, sitting at his apartment in Dak Bungalow More. “When we saw the mosque in 1964, it was almost in ruins, replete with snake skins and thick shrubs. Many neighbours asked us to tear it down. But my mother, who was a staunch believer in Shah Amanat, lit a candle in the mosque compound one day. She felt an instant connection with the place,” the septuagenarian added. Abdul Akhtar, the present imam of the mosque, said the mosque drew visitors from far and near. “People come from all faiths. Everyone is equal in front of Baba (Shah Amanat),” he said. Sheikh Azharuddin, 24, is a regular at the mosque. A master’s in history from Rabindra Bharati University, Azharuddin has recently landed a job with the state police. He said he owed “his success to the mercy of Shah Amanat”. Shilpi Roy, a resident of the area, visited the shrine on Thursday evening. “Baba khali haath e pheraye ni kokhono (Baba has never returned me empty-handed),” she said. “Half a century ago, when the grandfather crossed over to this side, they were persecuted. They wanted this mosque to be a refuge for all those who were persecuted and who needed healing. We will neither let go of this place, nor this principle,” said Partha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-81
17-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal government sends doctors to Covid hospitals ||The health department is sending doctors, nurses and medical technicians to government hospitals in Calcutta, Howrah, and North and South 24-Parganas, which are the worst-hit districts in the second wave of Covid surge in Bengal. All these hospitals have been asked to increase the number of beds for Covid patients and Swasthya Bhavan has assured them to provide additional personnel. The doctors and others who are being deployed in the hospitals in Calcutta and the three adjoining districts are from districts where the case counts are comparatively less, health department officials said. Calcutta has been witnessing the highest number of new Covid-19 cases every day, followed by North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas and Howrah. Apart from attending to patients, the additional personnel will enable the hospitals to run three shifts, instead of two, and boost surveillance of Covid patients, health department officials said. “Over 80 doctors from districts including Birbhum, Jhargram and Kalimpong have been asked to join the Covid-19 hospitals in the four districts in the next few days.The decision has been taken following requests from several hospitals for additional hands,” an official of the department said. “In some of the Covid hospitals, including the Infectious Diseases Hospital in Beleghata, doctors in critical care units and medical technicians overseeing functioning of ventilators have tested positive, resulting in a shortage of personnel,” said an official of the health department. “We have set up a pool of doctors and others who are trained in handling Covid-19 patients. The postings are being made from that pool based on an assessment of the situation.” A health official in South 24-Parganas who oversees the running of two Covid hospitals, MR Bangur Hospital in Tollygunge and KS Roy TB Hospital in Jadavpur, said: “We don’t have enough doctors and other personnel to tackle the rush of patients. The health department has come to our rescue by sending additional doctors, nurses and technicians.” On Friday, the health department requested officials of ESI Hospital in Howrah’s Baltikuri to increase the bed count since it is the only Covid-19 hospital in the district. “As many as 32 medical officers and specialists from various districts have been asked to join the ESI Hospital in Howrah immediately,” said Bhabani Das, chief medical officer of health, Howrah. The number of active Covid cases in Bengal rose by 4,066 on Friday to 41,047. The state recorded 2,818 recoveries and 6,910 new infections during the day, resetting the record for the highest intra-day infection count yet again On Friday, Calcutta recorded 1,844 new cases, followed by North 24-Parganas with 1,592 cases. Howrah recorded 420 new cases and South 24-Parganas 402 cases. After five months of gradually climbing down from 37,190 to 3,110, the total active cases is now at its highest this pandemic, beating the October 26 level by nearly 4,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-81
17-04-2021||Calcutta||No Covid beds, patients turned away in Calcutta||A 45-year-old woman, a resident of Mukundapur off EM Bypass, tested positive for Covid on April 10, along with her husband and other family members. Her condition has been deteriorating since Thursday evening and she had to be put on oxygen support at home. Family members called up several private hospitals but failed to arrange a bed for the woman, who suffers from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, till late on Friday. A man in his late 40s, who suffers from chronic kidney disease and undergoes dialysis, tested positive for Covid earlier this week. Relatives took him to the private hospital off EM Bypass where he undergoes dialysis. “After making us wait for the entire day, the hospital told us that no Covid bed was available,” said a relative of the patient, who is a resident of Kasba. Many Covid patients across Calcutta are being denied admission at private hospitals and officials of several healthcare units said the number of beds was far inadequate compared with the number of people testing positive daily. And the number of Covid beds cannot be increased beyond a point because non-Covid patients, too, are queuing up for admission in large numbers. On Friday, the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission held a meeting with private hospitals and asked them to augment the Covid bed count by at least 20 per cent compared to what it was during the epidemic’s peak last year. “We have asked the private hospitals to take their Covid bed strength to a level that is between 20 to 25 per cent more than the number of Covid beds they had reserved last year,” said retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission. “The hospitals will inform us within 24 hours the number of beds they are going to add and by when. Based on today’s discussion, it emerged that there could be an increase of 500 beds,” said Banerjee. “We have also asked the hospitals to put on hold planned surgeries, which can wait, for two weeks. The hospitals had gradually converted the Covid beds into non-Covid ones after the number of Covid cases started going down last year. A lot of non-Covid patients are admitted and the hospitals have to wait for their discharge (to increase the Covid bed count),” Banerjee said. The crisis of Covid beds at private hospitals is so severe that at several healthcare facilities, patients are either turned away or have to wait for hours before being admitted. At AMRI Hospitals in Dhakuria, Salt Lake and Mukundapur, at any point, 10 to 12 Covid patients are waiting in the emergency wards for admission. Several hospitals said they were in a fix on how to further reduce beds for non-Covid patients and convert them into Covid wards. There are many patients who have undergone surgeries and are recovering. Many patients who had deferred surgeries for months because of Covid are now in hospital waiting for the procedures. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences has 550 beds, out of which 110 are for Covid patients. All were occupied on Friday evening. "As advised by the health regulatory commission, we will try and increase the bed strength by another 10 per cent over the next few days to take the count up to 121,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, of which the RN Tagore hospital is the flagship unit. According to Venkatesh, there are around 100 patients who are recovering after surgeries. And there are another 120-odd patients awaiting admission for surgeries and other procedures in the next three to four days. AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria has increased the Covid bed count from 80 a week back to 201. “All beds were occupied on Friday evening,” an official of the hospital said. Peerless Hospital has 43 Covid beds, of which seven are critical care beds. Of the total 360 beds at the hospital, 335 were occupied on Friday. “The pressure of non-Covid patients is very high,” said an official of the hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-82
17-04-2021||Calcutta||ICSE, ISC exams put off till June in view of Covid surge||The ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) exams have been deferred at least till the first week of June, the ICSE council announced on Friday. The ICSE candidates will be given the option of writing an offline exam along with Class XII students or not writing, a choice that several teachers said was “unfair” and will further “confuse and stress out” students. The ICSE council said the Covid situation would be closely monitored and the deferment of the ICSE and ISC 2021 examinations will be “reviewed and a final decision on the conduct of the board exams be taken by the first week of June”. “While the ISC examination (Class XII) will be conducted at a later date, the candidates for the ICSE (Class X) examination will be given the following options: i) To write the offline examination, along with the Class XII candidates ii) Not to write the offline examination," reads a statement issued by the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE). The statement has been signed by Gerry Arathoon, the chief executive and secretary of the council. Teachers and parents said the council should come out with one decision rather than giving students a choice. “Students are as it is stressed because of the pandemic and the delay in exams. The choice will add more stress and confuse them,” said Devi Kar, the director of Modern High School for Girls. The ICSE and ISC exams were scheduled to begin on May 4. “In view of the ICSE (Class X) candidates opting for the second option, the CISCE will develop a fair and unbiased criterion while preparing the results of such candidates,” Arathoon’s statement said. Students are anxious about how they will be assessed because schools followed different modes of examination in the pre-boards and some schools offered different modes to its own students. “Schools have followed different modes of examination and the evaluation of students have been different across institutions and sometimes different even within institutions,” the head of a reputable school in the city said. “The system (of preparing the results) should be adopted that would maintain parity across institutions. It should not be based on one particular exam but should be based on the year-long assessment of students,” said Basanti Biswas, the principal of Calcutta Girls’ High School. Many students and parents felt that the exercise of choice will depend on circumstances in their neighbourhood or family. “Some students may prefer to write the offline exam but cannot afford a private vehicle to go to school,” a teacher said. Many people are avoiding public transport amid a renewed surge in pandemic. One school head said there were different ways of assessing a student and promotion should not be based only on one two-hour pen-and-paper exam. Schools also felt that the delay in the decision on examinations will eat into the class time of Class XI. Usually, the session for Class XI starts before the results of Class X exams are declared. The council has not specified  how many days students will get between the announcement of the dates and the start of the examinations. The CBSE has mentioned that a notice of at least 15 days will be given before the start of the examinations. “A clear decision would help schools to start Class XI and save the loss of learning time for the year ahead,” said Kar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-82
17-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: No sign of protocol at Salt Lake EVM centres||Covid-19 cases are rising alarmingly but there was no such alarm at the centres where thousands of polling and police personnel had gathered to collect EVMs before being sent to their respective polling stations in buses and cars on Friday. Many were not wearing masks, many had them hanging on their chins or ears and no social distancing was being followed. Polling material and EVMs for three Assembly constituencies — Bidhannagar, New Town-Rajarhat and Rajarhat-Gopalpur — which go to the polls on Saturday, were distributed at Bidhannagar College near City Centre. There were crowds both inside and outside the college. The polling personnel had laid out mats and were sitting very close to one another under a large temporary shed on the campus. There were no temperature checks being carried out at the entry points to the college. No easily visible facilities to wash or sanitise hands had been installed on the premises. Inside, there was a rush among the polling personnel to collect EVMs and polling material, including masks, sanitisers and gloves. This led to massive crowding in front of the counters where the items were being handed out. Many polling officials were spotted chatting among themselves with their masks hanging on their ears or necks. Some had tucked their masks into their pockets to have tea and biscuits that were being distributed at a counter. An assistant professor at a womens’ college, who has polling duty at a booth in Salt Lake, said that although she had been wearing a mask, she was apprehensive because many around her in the crowds were not. “With the number of cases going up dangerously, we had expected people to become aware and behave responsibly. Here, we had no choice but to wait for hours in a large crowd where many were not wearing masks. I am worried as I have a child at home,” said the professor who did not want to be named. Excuses for not wearing masks were many. “I have a mask but I cannot wear it all day and talk to people. It is suffocating... I have already taken the Covid-19 shots so I am not worried,” said an official of the state education department deputed as the first polling officer at a school in Salt Lake. Health experts have stressed the need for people to adhere to the norms even after taking the Covid-19 vaccine. A senior official of the Election Commission of India at the distribution centre said that they faced an uphill task ensuring that everyone turned up wearing masks. “We have made announcements and held sessions about Covid-19 protocols during the training... It is also true that we are distributing polling material and EVMs from a limited number of counters and the area was crowded so maintaining distance was a challenge,” the official said. Asked if the polling personnel would follow the norms on election day, the official said that they had repeatedly asked the personnel to adhere to the Covid protocols. “All the polling stations will have cameras and our observers will also keep a check.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-82
17-04-2021||Calcutta||IIM Calcutta students vacate hostels early||Most first-year MBA students of IIM Calcutta, who had been set a deadline of April 18 to vacate the hostels, have already left the campus. On April 5, the institute had set the deadline for the students of the two-year MBA programme to vacate the hostels since the final term exams — being held on digital platforms — would be over on April 17. The students, who had been recalled last year so they could use the net facility on the campus, were supposed to write the exams online from April 15 to 17 from the hostels. But most of them have vacated the hostels before time following a spike of Covid-19 cases, said an IIM-C official. “Since the exams are being held online, it does not matter where they would be writing the exams from. If they decide to write the exams from home, it is their prerogative,” said an official, who is part of the Covid task force on the campus. As many as 70 students have tested positive on the B-school campus till this week — a rise that prompted the chief administrative officer of the institute, Alok Chandra, to set the deadlines for vacating the hostels. The students usually stay at the hostels for a period of 10 to15 days after the exams. Students of the one-year MBA executive programme and the second-year students of the two-year MBA programme left the hostels on April 10 and 11 respectively, a day after completing their exams in consonance with the deadline. According to the notice, the first-year students of the two-year MBA programme were to vacate the hostels by April 18 — a day after their exam got over. But many of the students did not take any chance. According to sources, 90 per cent of the 450-odd students have already vacated the hostels. Those who stayed back have serious connectivity issues at their place of residence. They will leave on April 18. A professor said, many students feared that travel restrictions could be imposed any day and wanted to reach home as early as possible. “Students come from states like Maharashtra, Delhi and Karnataka. Many feared what if travel restrictions were put in place as a preventive measure against the renewed surge in cases,” he said. The infected students have been quarantined in a special facility. Another official said since the students have vacated the hostels, the facilities would be  sanitised before students return after the summer break in June. Since the sanitisation process will take some time and those who are quarantined will take time to vacate the campus, the 15th batch of the one-year MBAEx programme will start their classes online from April 23. “Although it is a residential programme, we cannot allow any one a stay on the campus now,” said an official. The annual convocation of IIM-C will be held online on May 15 to discourage any assembly on the campus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-82
