18-04-2021||Calcutta||Cambridge cancels May-June exams||The Cambridge Assessment International Education (CAIE) has cancelled its May-June exams and decided to switch from “exam to school-assessed grades”, schools that offer the curriculum said. Several schools in the city that follow the CAIE received an email late on Friday. “In view of the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the country, we have decided to switch Cambridge International Schools in India, from exams to school-assessed grades, so that students can receive certification and progress with their education,” said an email from The Cambridge School quoting the mail from CAIE. At least three city schools, The Cambridge School, Bridge International School and Vidyanjali International School, informed students of the change on Saturday. In the mail sent to parents, The Cambridge School’s exam team said:  “We are writing to inform you that the May-June exams will not be held and you will have the option to either withdraw your candidate for May June exams...or have him/her receive a school-assessed grade.” In several city schools, students take the IGCSE (Class X), AS & A-levels (Class XI and XII). In CAIE, students have the option to switch to the October-November exams, school heads said. In a few schools in the city, students took the February-March exams. “Ninety-five per cent of our Class XII students have taken the February-March exam... Classes X and XI had been asked to wait thinking the situation will get better. Now, they are getting an option under the changed circumstances,” said Sarojesh Mukerjee, director, The Cambridge School. Schools in the city said they welcomed the decision. “We were receiving queries from parents about the exams especially since the boards in the country were cancelling or deferring exams. This will allay their fears,” said Saswati Datta, principal, Vidyanjali International School. Schools are also waiting for an interaction with the board, scheduled next week, for information about the school-assessed grades process. “The performance of a student in the last academic year, the assessments will be taken into account to award the grades. We are looking forward to the webinar to get more information,” said Shilpi Saha, exam officer, Bridge International School. Garden High International School will hold a meeting with parents to inform them about the decision. “We will encourage students to take the school-assessed grades because college admission of Class XII could get impacted if they have to wait for the October-November series,” said Anuradha Das, the director of the school. The number of active Covid cases in Bengal rose by 4,253 on Saturday to 45,300. The state recorded 3,426 recoveries and 7,713 new infections during the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-81
18-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal elections 2021: Polarisation does worry some voters||A mother and son who voted in Salt Lake lamented that issues like health, education and livelihood that bothered them found little or no mention in the political discourse, while religion and identities were being talked about in rally after rally. Covid vaccine doses are in short supply and there are no vacant Covid beds in many hospitals but they are rarely spoken about, they said. “Instead, there are boasts about a Ram temple,” said Soma Ganguly, 55, a homemaker who voted in HA Block. “I have grown up and lived in a Bengal where Sikhs were not touched during the 1984 riots, where Muslims did not feel insecure after the Babri Masjid demolition. The city and the state have always remained calm even when riots ravaged several parts of the country. But that peace and tranquillity is under threat now,” Soma said. “The election rallies now are a competition of who can speak more along religious lines,” she said. Soma said she wanted to hear more on how the parties would solve the vaccine shortage problem, how many affordable hospitals they would build or how many jobs they would create. Her son Somdeep, 29, said he “could not have imagined a few years back” that communal polarisation would drive the election campaign narrative in Bengal. “The real issues that affect people have become secondary and it pains me,” said Somdeep, a junior research fellow at the Wildlife Institute of India at Dehradun. “We want a peaceful society where people do not have to think about protecting themselves from mobs who target them for their identity,” he said. Soma and Somdeep felt that the Covid-19 pandemic had once again shown the importance of affordable healthcare for people and the need for more health facilities. So many people had to spend lakhs to get treated at private hospitals, spending their savings of years for a few days’ of hospitalisation. Covid vaccines are in short supply and there are no va-cant Covid beds in many hospitals. “The population needs to be vaccinated very fast to outpace the rise in infections, but India does not have enough vaccines. There are no vacant beds for Covid treatment in hospitals. I have many doctor friends who warned me that getting a bed if one gets infected is almost impossible. Jobs are few and our children are forced to go out of the state. These are the primary issues,” Soma said. She lamented that despite such a grim reality, “Ram temple and communal polarisation have become the biggest issue of this election”. The BJP, which has emerged as the principal challenger to the Trinamul Congress in the Assembly elections this time, has been accused by many of running a vicious communal campaign, pitting communities against each other. Several residents of Salt Lake and New Town said the BJP’s star campaigners had often highlighted “infiltrators” and “Bangladeshis illegally crossing over and staying in Bengal” during their speeches. AB Block resident Priti Kumar Sen said that earlier this week home minister Amit Shah had told a gathering of BJP supporters at the FD park that if the people of Bengal vote the BJP to power they would ensure that “not only Bangladeshi infiltrators but even birds will not be able to cross the borders and land in Bengal”. “We have trade relations with Bangladesh that is a neighbouring country and this lambasting of people from there is not only uncalled for but in a way is also a tactic to divide people based on communal faultlines. Many residents of Salt Lake including myself trace their roots to Bangladesh,” said Sen. New Town resident Ananya Choudhury, who works for a multinational company, said many of her neighbours in her housing complex who were not Hindu “happily participate in our festivals”. “Politics based on religion and radicalism has no place in Bengal. It is sad that several political leaders have been trying to do the same thing that the British did to us,” saidChoudhury. The divide along religious lines in society also pains Biswanath Biswas, who retired as a professor from Calcutta Medical College and Hospital. Biswas said some of his closest friends were Muslims and he never felt he looked at them as Muslims and they never looked at him as a Hindu “ever”. “We were all friends. That was our identity. I have eaten at their home on Id and they have eaten at my home during Puja. That is how things should be,” said Biswas, 68. The unwillingness of political parties to stop large gath-erings at election rallies despite the rising Covid cases has also shocked the Gangulys. “We deserve more responsible political leaders,” said Somdeep.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-81
18-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: No division on religious lines. Kabhi nahin: Kamarhati||In a neighbourhood off Graham Road on the northern fringes of Calcutta, a Lakshmi temple shares a wall with an open plot where Muslims traditionally assemble for Muharram rituals. At the polling booth in the area, the conversation among residents on Saturday was centred on why it was important to vote for Didi. “There is no concept of any division on religious lines here… Kabhi nahin (never),” said Shahida Khatun, 69. “We understand there is an attempt to create differences along religious lines now. Lekin ye bhed bhao hum nahin maante hain (We don’t agree with this divisiveness)…. Humara Didi sahi hain. (Our Didi is right),” she adds. Khatun has two daughters who are married. The eldest of her two sons runs a small business supplying building materials in the area, dotted with upcoming multi-storeyed buildings on small plots of land. Her youngest son is unemployed. One of his friends, Faiyaz Ali, joins Khatun for the late afternoon conversation. “Every year during Lakshmi Puja, the mandir just round the corner here (he says, pointing with a raised hand), is all decked out. The microphones continue to play for three-four days. Hum log mandir jaane sey koi aapatti nahin karta hain (no one objects to us visiting the temple),” said Ali, pulling up a stool to sit down with the others. Kamarhati, which went to the polls on Saturday, has around 27 per cent minority voters and a sizable number of them live along small lanes and dingy bylanes off Graham Road. Inside a small lane, popularly known as Raju Stores Gully, several residents spoke proudly of a “Durga Maa ki mandir” and a “Hanuman ji ka mandir” co-existing with mosques and dargahs in the locality and how every festival would witness the two communities celebrating together. “Sab mil jul key rehtey hain yahan (We live together here). We celebrate our festivals together,” said Mehrunnisa Bibi. “It never felt that we belong to some other country. Abhi humko sikhla raha hain ki kaagaz dikhlao (Now we are being told to show papers).” A few others of the locality joined in as the conversation veered towards the new citizenship matrix. Some wondered “dada pardada mar gaye hain (the old have passed away), now from where to fetch the papers?”. “Modiji ke vichaar sahi nahin hain (Modi’s views are not right). Didi has said she won’t execute all this,” said Khatun. Most residents across seven wards — from one to seven — of Kamarhati municipality had arrived in Bengal several generations ago from parts of Munger, Siwan and Chhapra of neighbouring Bihar. Senior residents of the neighbourhood said most of their forefathers had moved here to work in jute mills that dotted Kamarhati and Agarpara. “Some of these migrant labourers who settled here later, switched from working in jute mills to other factories in the area, including the likes of India Foils Limited and Beni Engineering,” said Sheikh Anwar, an elderly resident of the area. In January last year, when protests against the Centre’s Citizenship Amendment Act rocked the country, fear gripped many in places like Kamarhati. They were worried they may not be able to produce papers to prove their ancestry. “At Chaai Gada maidan, we had organised a protest against CAA for almost 35 days in January 2020,” Anwar said. “Many residents with roots in Bangladesh from parts of Belghoria, on the other side of BT Road, had joined us in our protests then,” he said. “Polls will come and go but we will continue to remain the way we have been,” said A.K. Pandey, a resident of the area. Pandey is a taxi driver. The crowd outside the polling booth gradually thinned. Some started preparing for Iftar while others got back to their daily chores. Some residents talked about Trinamul’s Madan Mitra making several rounds in the locality as a part of his campaign. Others talked about how Raju Banerjee, the BJP candidate from Kamarhati, has never visited the area even once.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-81
18-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid protocols only on paper as masks come off in booths ||Covid protocols were flouted across polling booths on Saturday. In several polling booths, polling officials were found seated inside the booth without wearing masks properly. People were standing within an arm’s distance of each other, many did not have masks or wore them on chin, and gloves were disposed off on the road, on the floor or on the ground of the polling station. Calcutta High Court had on Friday directed the Election Commission of India to take “hard” measures for the safety of citizens for the four phases that remain. “At this time, maintaining social distance, use of masks and sanitisers are a must. But nobody is following the norms. The EC should be more alert and take hard steps to make the final four phases of the polls safe,” Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan had said on Friday. Earlier on Tuesday, the high court had said the guidelines laid down by the election commission are in place.  “What needs to be done is that the said guidelines need to be implemented in the strictest possible manner. This the administration must do,” the court said while hearing petitions that expressed concern that election campaigns are not adhering to the Covid-19 protocols. The election commission had held an all-party meeting on Friday to discuss ways to combat the rising number of Covid cases in the state that has been partly blamed on no Covid protocols being followed in election campaigns. The Trinamul Congress had proposed that the last three phases of polls be clubbed together to stem the spread of Covid-19, while the CPM and the BJP opposed such a move. The election commission ruled out the possibility of clubbing the last three phases. Saturday’s scenes inside and outside many polling booths was an replica of what was seen on April 17, when places like Jadavpur, Kasba and Tollygunge had voted and Covid rules were flouted in many booths. But a number of voters had expected the situation would be better on Saturday after the election commission issued a set of guidelines on Friday to ensure that Covid-19 protocols were followed at political rallies. Many voters said they had thought that election commission would be very stringent in implementing the protocols on the day of polls, when the entire control of booths was in its hands. But that was not to be. On the contrary, even polling officials in some places were found without masks. At Salt Lake’s AH Block community centre a polling officer was found without a mask and another with the mask under his nose. Both were seated inside the booth. The agents of the political parties, too, were either without mask or with masks on the chins. Social distancing was not followed in almost all booths. “Is this a way to make people stand in a queue, so close to each other at a time when Covid cases are spiralling every day? I don’t understand why people are so careless. It is also their responsibility to stand at a distance from each other. Maintaining social distancing is something that is being told for over a year, yet people do not follow,” said an enraged voter outside Don Bosco Splendid Home, a booth at Bangur Avenue. Voters in the queue — which included men, women, young and elderly — were standing barely one feet away from each other. It was an identical picture at Kaikhali Mondol Ganti Abaitanik Prathamik Vidyalaya, off Jessore Road; Bandhabnagar Swamiji Vivekananda Vidyapith in Dum Dum. At Bandhabnagar and Dum Dum Motijheel Girls School the glove that were given to voters were discarded on the ground of the school, though there were yellow bins meant to drop the glove. The situation was worse at Nabin Sangha club in Baranagar’s Gopal Lal Thakur Road. While other booths that Metro visited had a health worker who gave the glove, checked temperature through a thermal scanner and gave hand sanitisers to the voters, this polling booth had no health worker. Voters came, stood in the queue, voted and left without any glove. Some of the voters who carried their own sanitisers cleansed their hands, others had no such opportunity. No glove was given to any voter — though temperatures were checked and sanitisers were given — at the two booths inside Baranagar’s Uttarayan housing complex. At the Brahmananda Keshab Chandra College in Bonhooghly voters were found coming out with the glove in one hand, whereas they are supposed to drop the glove in the yellow bins before leaving the polling station. A notable exception was Diwanpara Krira 0 Sanskritik Sangha, where jawans of the central forces ensured that everyone dropped their gloves in the yellow bin before leaving the premises. When the polls were announced on February 26, Bengal had 3,343 active Covid-19 cases. As of Thursday’s figures — Friday’s bulletin was yet to be issued when the development took place in court — there were 36,981 active cases, a 10-fold increase. The day’s number of new infections is close to 7,000, compared to 200-odd in February.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-81
18-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: Voters’ voice||As the polls reached Salt Lake, Lake Town, Bangur, New Town Rajarhat,Dum Dum, Kamarphari and Baranagar The Telegraph spoke to those who cast their votes on Saturday on issues that they kept in mind while pressing the button. Ronny Sen A resident of Salt Lake’s HA Block Ronny Sen, said  he had voted to stop a fascist force from grabbing power in the state. Sen said when the BJP came to power in Assam, it left out two million people from the National Register of Citizens (NRC), who turned into foreigners into their own land and ended up in detention centres. “I also voted to ensure that no such (detention) centres come up in Bengal.” Shamsher Hussain Tarafder, 29, said he had been looking for a job in the government as well as the private sector for at least four years before opening his own garments shop. Tarafdar, who voted at the Nawapara Free Primary School near City Centre II in New Town, said, “ Steps that the Centre too, including implementing GST, demonetisation and the implementation of the  lockdown, left a small trader lie me  in a lurch.” Tuhin Banerjee, who works in a private biotechnology company said he failed to understand the narrative of a particular party dictating what people can do. Banerjee, a resident of Belghoria, said: “This is a free country and nobody can impose anything on us.” Kaikhali resident Mohammed Irfan Alam, said  he only had a better job scenario in the state while casting his vote. “While on one hand the state government conducts exams then publishes the results in a very irregular manner, the Centre has been reducing the number of jobs with each passing year.” For homemaker Surabhi Saha, who voted at a booth in Dum Dum “women’s safety was of paramount importance”. Her husband Surajit said: “ I have voted with a hope that businesses will grow at a rapid rate in Bengal||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-81
18-04-2021||Calcutta||Remembrance of a Sikh guru turns out to be a reminder to preserve religious harmony||The remembrance of a Sikh guru turned out to be a reminder to preserve religious harmony. A host of religious leaders came together in the city on Saturday to remember Guru Tegh Bahadur, the ninth of the ten gurus of Sikhism, who was “executed on the orders of Aurangzeb” in 1675 because he had opposed religious persecution. The archbishop of Calcutta, Thomas D’ Souza, called the guru a “fearless warrior, lover of freedom, protector of others and ardent lover of equality of all religions and dignity of all people”. “The eminent speakers will tell us how Guru Tegh Bahadur and his philosophy of life are relevant to the situation we are living in today. In the midst of hatred and violence, when superiority and inferiority are shaping the attitudes of people, it is this Guru (Tegh Bahadur ji) who shines like a beacon showing the way to the eternal truth, for which he laid down his life,” he told the audience at ICCR. Guru Tegh Bahadur was born on April 1, 1621. The congregation celebrated his 400th birth anniversary. Sikh leaders from Delhi and Punjab were among the participants. “Muslims or Islam did not kill Guru Tegh Bahadur. The state did. The state has used religion to suit vested interests in the past. It is doing so now and it will continue to do so in the future,” said Giani Harpreet Sing of Sri Akal Takht Sahib, Amritsar. The congregation, called Parliament of Religion, was organised by the IHA Foundation and the United Interfaith Organisation. Giani Harpreet Singh Khalsa (head granthi, Sri Bala Sahib Gurdwara, New Delhi), Mataji Vipanpreet Kaur Ji (chairperson of Baba Kundan Singh Ji Bhalayi Trust Ludhiana), Swami Atmapriyanand (pro-chancellor Ramakrishna Mission Education), Reverend Paritosh Canning, (Bishop of Calcutta, CNI), Munni Mani Kumar Maharaj (Jain Monk), Md Shafique Qasmi (Imam of Nakhoda Masjid), Arunjyoti Bhikku (director, Tollygunge Sambodhi Buddhist Monastery), Swami Surjyagiri Maharaj (President, Gangasagar Math) were among the participants on Saturday. “Though many are aware that Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur ji was called Dharam di Chaddar, many are still unaware of the stages of his life. But it is important for the new generation of the nation too to know and understand it. From Guru Nanak Dev to Guru Tegh Bahadur and Guru Gobind Singh — our Sikh Guru tradition is a philosophy of life in itself,” said Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, chairman, IHA Foundation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-81
