19-04-2021||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur puts on hold calling back research scholars to campus||Lack of beds at hospitals to take care of Covid patients has prompted IIT Kharagpur to put on hold calling back research scholars to the campus, said an official of the institute. The dean of student affairs, Somesh Kumar, has told the scholars who were to return to the campus over the next few weeks to defer their journey because Covid beds in hospitals are not available in enough numbers. Thirty cases have been reported on the campus recently. Those infected include five students and the rest are faculty and staff. Some are being treated in hospitals in Calcutta, while the rest are in isolation on the campus, officials at the institute said. Starting December, the institute has allowed around 800 of its 4,000-odd research scholars to return to the campus in batches. Those who have already arrived have not been asked to leave. They have been advised to follow all Covid protocols. “Beds are unavailable all over. In such a situation, it won’t be advisable to recall students,” Kumar told Metro on Sunday. An official said the dean in his mail drew attention to the rising case count on the campus as well as surrounding areas. “BC Roy Technology Hospital on the campus is not capable of dealing with the rising number of Covid patients. Kharagpur Sub-divisional Hospital, near the campus, is full,” an official said. The Midnapore Medical College and Hospital, about 17km from the campus, is also struggling following the surge in Covid numbers, the official said. Many on the campus said they were reliant on hospitals in Calcutta for treatment of critical diseases. “Lack of Covid beds in Calcutta, which is reeling from the second wave of infection, has complicated the situation,” a professor said. Highlighting the stressed and insufficient medical facilities, dean Kumar has written to the research scholars: “In past few days several students have become Covid positive. They are being managed differently, depending on their condition, availability of beds in hospitals etc.” The mail says: “We are now observing that several students are getting infected on the way to Kharagpur while travelling from their hometown in train/car/flight, although they have RT-PCR negative report from their hometown”. The IIT has also put on hold its decision to call back 300 final-year undergraduate students, who need to attend in-person lab classes. They set to return to the campus from April 16. Shivam Singh, the officiating vice-president at Technology Students Gymkhana, a body that represents students on the campus, has said in a recent Facebook post: “However, keeping in mind the sudden rise in the COVID-19 cases all over the country and especially on campus... the safety and health of the students will be put in jeopardy, should they return to campus”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-80
19-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Wait for a bed can stretch for days||One private hospital had 68 Covid patients waiting to get admitted on Sunday. Many of them were waiting for three days and were turned away by other private hospitals because of lack of beds. At another private hospital, more than 50 Covid patients have enlisted their names, hoping to get a call for admission. A third hospital has stopped maintaining a waiting list of Covid patients because most of them will have to wait indefinitely. Senior officials of private hospitals said they were not taking calls from even friends and relatives, fearing there would be a request for a Covid bed. The crisis of Covid beds, which had started around the beginning of this month, has become severe and relatives of patients are desperately calling up hospitals but are unable to get a bed. The situation is the same at most government hospitals too, said relatives of several patients. A number of private hospitals have increased their Covid bed counts but those are inadequate given the steep surge in numbers, an official of the state government said. Adding to their problems, many private hospitals have long queues of non-Covid patients waiting for planned surgeries. Officials of these hospitals said they would start deferring such admissions in a day or two so that more beds could be set aside for Covid patients. A 50-year-old resident of Dhakuria tested positive for Covid on Sunday afternoon. His relatives called up two private hospitals in south Calcutta and were told that no bed was available. They also called up a government hospital but got the same response.  “My brother’s oxygen saturation went down to 91. (Doctors advise immediate hospitalisation if the figure drops below 94). He has high fever and is suffering from respiratory distress. After being told by three hospitals that there was no bed, we took him to a private hospital where we know a senior official,” the patient’s brother said. Doctors at the hospital, however, told the family that the patient had to stay in the emergency ward till a Covid bed was vacant. AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria has 120 Covid beds, compared with around 10 it had in April last year. All beds are occupied and the hospital had till a couple of days ago a long list of enrolled patients waiting to be admitted. “It took us almost six months to increase the number of Covid beds to 98 last year. But this time, we increased the count to 120 in just 15 days. We have stopped maintaining a waiting list and are admitting patients against discharge,” said an official of the hospital. Medica Superspecialty Hospital increased the number of Covid beds from 160 to 180 on Sunday. “We have requested the state government to hand over some of its facilities like a stadium which we can turn into treatment centres,” Medica chairman Alok Roy said. “Last year, many asymptomatic patients were requesting admission. This time they are staying at home. However, the number of infected people is so high that the number of those needing admission has gone up,” said Roy. On April 16 and 17, last year, Bengal had only 144 and 162 active Covid-19 cases, respectively. On April 16 and 17, this year, the figures stood at 41,047 and 45,300. “The number of beds is being increased and we are reaching the level witnessed during the peak of the epidemic last year. But this time, the surge is already many times more compared with last year and the virus is spreading fast,” an official in the state government said. Belle Vue Clinic has around 170 Covid beds, which is 86 per cent of its total bed strength. “We can’t increase it further because the rest of the beds are for children and emergencies,” said Pradip Tondon, the CEO of Belle Vue. Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals said it would increase the number of Covid beds from 56 to 100 this week. The number of active Covid cases in Bengal rose by 4,338, on Sunday to 49,638. The state recorded 4,053 recoveries and 8,419 new infections during the day, resetting the record for the highest intra-day infection count yet again While Calcutta recorded 2,197 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 1,860.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-80
19-04-2021||Calcutta||Govt and private hospitals in Bengal to get 11,500 more Covid beds in a week ||Government and private hospitals in the state will have 11,500 more Covid beds in a week, health department officials said, the move expected to ease the crisis of beds that are forcing some health-care units to turn away patients with the coronavirus infection. Government hospitals will have around 8,000 of the new beds, while the rest will be set up at private units. The government has set up two task forces, led by senior health department officials, to liaison with the hospitals to ensure that the Covid bed strength achieved the target by the end of the week. “The government is also planning to requisition some private hospitals for Covid treatment, like it did last year,” an official said. Sambhunath Pandit Hospital, a satellite unit of SSKM Hospital, will be converted into a dedicated Covid hospital with 200 beds by the end of the week. “The decision to add 11,500 Covid beds in government and private hospitals and run dedicated Covid hospitals were taken at a meeting chaired by chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay last week,” the official said. Another official, however, said that merely increasing the bed count would not bring any relief to patients unless there were adequate beds with oxygen support and ventilators, whose availability is under question. “The issue of deploying doctors trained in managing Covid patients is also haunting the health department,” the official said. At a meeting on Friday, the chairperson of the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission had requested private hospitals to increase their Covid bed strength by 25 per cent compared with the number of beds they had at the peak of the epidemic last year. Private hospitals had said increasing the number of Covid beds beyond a point would be a challenge because, unlike around this time last year, non-Covid patients, too, were queuing up in large numbers for admission. The commission advised the hospitals to put on hold planned surgeries that can be postponed so that more beds could be reserved for the treatment of Covid patients. On Monday, chief secretary Bandyopadhyay will meet officials of private hospitals to discuss how more Covid beds could be set up. The task force for government hospitals will ensure that at least 20 per cent more Covid beds, compared with last year, were available this time. The state government has also decided to approach central government institutions like Calcutta Port Trust, railways and defence, steel and coal authorities with the request that their health-care units be used for Covid-19 treatment. “In a couple of days, a team of officials will approach these institutions to find out about the status of their healthcare facilities and how they can extend help to the state government,” said the official. To create more facilities for accommodating Covid-19 patients, the state government has decided to encourage private hospitals that are part of the metropolitan hospitals' association to explore ways to set up satellite centres, where asymptomatic patients or those with mild symptoms can be accommodated. A state government official will talk to representatives of the tourism industry and private hospitals and draw up a blueprint for immediate setting up of satellite facilities. A satellite centre can be set up in a hotel, guest house or similar such facility. Doctors from the respective hospitals will visit the patients at these centres once a day and nurses will be available round-the-clock to monitor their health. Another team of officials will ensure migrant workers returning home are shifted to safe homes from railway stations if they test positive for Covid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-80
19-04-2021||Calcutta|| Dirty politics of demonising one group at play, says Sikh leader ||The attempt to demonise one community to secure the votes of another is dirty politics, the head of the highest temporal body of Sikhs said in Calcutta on Sunday. Giani Harpreet Singh, the jathedar of Akal Takht Sahib, Amritsar, also said Bengal elections would decide the future course of India’s politics. “The hate-filled campaign against one particular community to polarise the votes of another community is dirty politics, something that should be avoided…. It is a loss for the country and humanity,” Singh told The Telegraph on the sidelines of a Gurmat Samagam (religious gathering) at Gurdwara Behala. Without naming any political party, Singh said the Bengal elections would decide the future politics of India. “In the land I come from, all eyes are on Bengal. The election of Bengal will decide the political future of India. It will decide if federalism crumbles or continues to thrive in India,” he said. Attempts to polarise voters on religious lines have been one of the defining traits of the state polls. One leader after another from the BJP has accused the Mamata Banerjee government of “blatant minority appeasement”. The campaign speeches of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah have drawn charges that the desperation to win the elections has made them fall back on a polarisation tactic unbecoming of their offices. Last week, the Election Commission of India had barred Mamata Banerjee from campaigning for 24 hours for her remarks against central forces and a statement which had alleged religious overtones. The poll panel has so far been mum on Modi and Shah. “Communal polarisation for political dividends was not new in India. But it has found new traction over the past seven-eight years. But the problem is not limited to India. All over the world, there is a rise in the politics of hate and polarisation,” Singh said on Saturday. Before Independence, Bengal and Punjab had been the prime targets of the British, Singh said, because “these two places tormented the colonial rulers the most”. “That is why they wanted Partition, that would most affect Bengal and Punjab. Even today, these two states are symbols of resistance against the powers that be,” he added. He slammed the “branding of dissenters as anti-nationals”. “The government is not the country. Criticising the government does not mean taking a stand against the country. The government calls someone Pakistani, calls someone else Khalistani. This is absolutely wrong. Dissent is needed for the health of a democracy. The State should engage with people opposed to it,” he said. “In the same vein, the Narendra Modi-regime should engage with the farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders for so many months. After the Republic Day flare-up, the government has simply stopped talking to farmers. The channel of communication should be opened again,” Singh told this newspaper.. Singh is in Calcutta to take part in a series of events to celebrate the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur, the ninth of the 10 gurus of Sikhism. At an interfaith congregation at ICCR on Saturday, Singh had spoken at length on the need to preserve religious harmony. On Sunday, Gurdwara Behala was a glowing example of that harmony. People from different faiths had turned up for the langar that followed the Gurmat Samagam. “Sikh soldiers of a British cantonment settled in this area (now New Alipore-Taratala) built a small gurdwara for prayers. Today, it is a meeting place for Sikhs, Punjabis, Sindhis, Hindus and everyone else,” said Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, the general-secretary of Gurdwara Behala. Shilpi Pal, a resident of the area , has been visiting the gurdwara for 15 years. A mother of two, Pal lost her husband in June last year. She works in a tailoring unit to sustain her family. Pal visits the gurdwara every day and helps in preparing food for “around 30-40 people”. “Man ko sukoon milta hai (I get peace of mind),” she said. Sikh community leaders from Delhi and Ludhiana and priests of gurdwaras from across the state turned up for the programme at Gurdwara Behala on Sunday. “The government is not the country. Criticising the government does not mean taking a stand against the country. The government calls someone Pakistani, calls someone else Khalistani. This is absolutely wrong. Dissent is needed for the health of a democracy. The State should engage with people opposed to it,” he said. “In the same vein, the Narendra Modi-regime should engage with the farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders for so many months. After the Republic Day flare-up, the government has simply stopped talking to farmers. The channel of communication should be opened again,” Singh told this newspaper. Singh is in Calcutta to take part in a series of events to celebrate the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur, the ninth of the 10 gurus of Sikhism. At an interfaith congregation at ICCR on Saturday, Singh had spoken at length on the need to preserve religious harmony. On Sunday, Gurdwara Behala was a glowing example of that harmony. People from different faiths had turned up for the langar that followed the Gurmat Samagam. “Sikh soldiers of a British cantonment settled in this area (now New Alipore-Taratala) built a small gurdwara for prayers. Today, it is a meeting place for Sikhs, Punjabis, Sindhis, Hindus and everyone else,” said Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, the general-secretary of Gurdwara Behala. Shilpi Pal, a resident of the area , has been visiting the gurdwara for 15 years. A mother of two, Pal lost her husband in June last year. She works in a tailoring unit to sustain her family. Pal visits the gurdwara every day and helps in preparing food for “around 30-40 people”. “Man ko sukoon milta hai (I get peace of mind),” she said. Sikh community leaders from Delhi and Ludhiana and priests of gurdwaras from across the state turned up for the programme at Gurdwara Behala on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-80
19-04-2021||Calcutta||Archbishop Emeritus of Calcutta no more||The Archbishop Emeritus of Calcutta, Most Reverend Lucas Sirkar, passed away on Sunday afternoon. He was 84 and had been bedridden for about a year. “Most. Rev. Lucas Sirkar SDB (Archbishop Emeritus of Calcutta) passed away peacefully at Aradona Mandir Krishnagar, West Bengal, at 12.05pm today, 18th April 2021,” a letter signed by the archbishop of Calcutta, Thomas D’Souza, reads. “The funeral will take place at the Cathedral of the Most Holy Redeemer, Krishnagar, at 10am on Tuesday, 20th April 2021.” He was appointed the bishop of Krishnagar in June 1984 and coadjutor archbishop of Calcutta on April 14, 2000. He succeeded as archbishop of Calcutta on April 2, 2002. He retired on February 23, 2012.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-80
19-04-2021||Calcutta||Justice  Mukherjee passes away||Justice Monoj Kumar Mukherjee, a former Supreme Court judge who had led a panel to inquire Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s disappearance, died in Calcutta on Saturday. He was 87. Justice Mukherjee was elevated to the Supreme Court in December 1993 and he retired in 1998. After a successful career as a lawyer at Calcutta High Court, he was elevated as a judge of the court in June 1977. In November 1991, he was appointed chief justice of Allahabad High Court. From January 1993, he served as chief justice of Bombay High Court till his elevation to the Supreme Court. Justice Mukherjee did his schooling from Asansol and graduation from Presidency College. He did his LLB from Calcutta University. He was appointed by the Centre as chairman of the Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Disappearance Commission of Enquiry on May 14, 1999.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-80
19-04-2021||Calcutta||Shifting gears: ambulance and guitar||You need hard work and patience, says Arup Karan, whether you are driving an ambulance or playing the guitar. He should know, because he does both. The 47-year-old resident of Oriya Bagan in Beleghata works for a leading private hospital in the city as an ambulance driver. He has been working there since 2003. He works in shifts that sometimes extend to 24 hours. The pandemic has been the most trying experience. But through the years, in between the work shifts, he has been giving private guitar lessons to several students. Now he teaches about 20 to 22 students, of all ages. Karan is visiting me at my south Calcutta residence on his scooter, the guitar strapped to his back. He is a jovial man with a benign face and a smile that never disappears. I ask him about the Covid experience. “They were dark”, he says, talking about the early days. He uses the word literally, too. “First we had to get used to wearing the PPE all the time,” he says. The hospital has a room for ambulance drivers to rest. “But we don’t know when the next call will come,” says Karan. Picking up Covid patients was not so different. All patients were not in a critical state. What was difficult, says Karan, is the location of the patient’s house and the patient’s condition. Lanes are difficult to negotiate with a stretcher. A male nurse — “brother” — is always present in the ambulance. The driver and the nurse are responsible for picking up a patient from his or her home or dropping him or her home after discharge from the hospital. As an ambulance driver, Karan has received basic life support training, which includes artificial resuscitation. The biggest challenge, he says, comes with having to drive the ambulance with a critical patient, especially over a long distance. “I have driven 300km to 400km to bring a patient to Calcutta. You have to be fast, at the same time reassure the doctor that the patient is reaching in time, yet not hurt the patient if the road is bumpy. You have to reassure the patient, most of all, that help is at hand,” he says. Bad roads are a very big challenge for the ambulance driver. The city does not seem to be aware of that. “That is why you have to be patient,” says Karan. “The nights were scary when we began with during the pandemic,” he says. The EM Bypass looked haunted. “I would often look at the dark and maybe one vehicle would pass in half an hour. It looked like another planet.” Going back home on his scooter late in the night was a nightmare. Street dogs came tearing along after him, every night. “Nobody was giving them food during lockdown. The dogs were hungry.” As an ambulance driver, he cannot get over one or two experiences. He remembers dropping a patient, an old woman, possibly an NRI, to a five-star hotel in the city after her treatment. “For her, a hospital bed was installed at the hotel and a team of five-six doctors came in with her,” he says. On another occasion, he remembers how the streets were cleared for his ambulance on a working day by the bike-gang of a political leader who was inside his ambulance. Karan grew up at his ancestral home in Beleghata, the youngest of three siblings. He still lives there with wife and daughter, a student of Class IV and a cricket player. He shares two rooms with his elder siblings, who live there too. Due to his family’s limited means, he could not continue his studies beyond Class IX. He learnt driving and was driving private cars by the early 90s. But by that time he had developed a passion: the guitar. He had heard the Spanish guitar being played on stage and fallen in love with it for its sound and rhythm, and the life that beats in it. He began learning it. In a few years, he was performing on stage, often as back-up for the singer, and was also doing “tution-i” — giving private lessons. Music gives him peace. It keeps him centred in a world that is obviously more turbulent than that of many others, though he does not let it show. He has learnt to play the keyboard and the flute, too. The private teaching helps with an extra income, which is welcome. He manages to find the time for the tuition, during weekends especially. It is hard work. “Without hard work, the guitar won’t speak,” he says. “But I have said enough about myself. Now I will play,” announces Karan and unsheaths his guitar. Rabindrasangeet flows into Rabindrasangeet. He plays the first stanza, then the refrain, which leads to another song, making a chain of the Tagore songs that Bengalis are most prone to singing: Purano shei diner kotha merges into Khara bayu boy bege, which becomes Boro asha kore eshechhi go. He changes gear, into Bengali and Hindi classic pop, with a large dose of R.D. Burman. “fast songs”: Mone pore Ruby Roy, Hari Om Hari, Chura liya, Do lafzon ke hai. He also plays the “Nagin bin” tune. He is jamming with himself. He is no Eric Clapton, but goes to play obsessively, enjoying himself, and finishes with the Kishore Kumar number Chalte chalte and rises with a flourish. “I can play, can’t I?” he asks. “Some people doubt that an ambulance driver can do such a thing. They think I am lying.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-81
19-04-2021||Calcutta||Barriers to protect New Town bicycle track||Barriers have been set up along bicycle lanes of a road in New Town to prevent dumping of construction materials and parking of vehicles. The barriers made of reinforced plastic are bolted to the road surface and have been fixed at regular intervals along a 300m stretch of the road that leads from Swapno Bhor to the Major Arterial Road intersection near the Biswa Bangla Convention Centre in New Town’s BE Block. Hidco, which builds infrastructure in the township, had set up 17km of graded bicycle tracks in New Town. In some areas a bicycle track is a lane set aside for cyclists on pavements, while in other areas such tracks have been demarcated on roads with green paint. According to a Hidco official the barriers are made out of tough reinforced plastic. “These barriers can bend in case somebody crashes into them. We installed this type of barrier to ensure that no cyclist gets injured in an accident,” the official said. According to the official, a survey had been carried out to find out the problem places. The first batch of barriers were fitted after the survey. Metro had reported in March how these lanes had been rendered useless as motorists and two-wheeler riders would often park their vehicles on the tracks. Sundeep Agarwal, who pedals for at least two hours in New Town every day, said the obstacles on the tracks were proving to be risky for cyclists. “We cycle through the tracks because they are safer. Getting off the bicycle because of parked cars and dumped construction materials was painful. Now, at least near Swapno Bhor, things have improved,” Agarwal said. Ashis Bajaj, a resident of Sanjeeva Town in New Town, thanked the authorities for the barriers. “People parking or dumping construction materials on bicycle tracks is a problem and I am happy that the authorities have already taken proper measures to stop it,” said Bajaj. “It is great that the barriers have been placed but the awareness levels of people should be such that they don’t park their vehicles or block the tracks in any way.” said Lipika Biswas, an Eastern Railway employee who has cycled solo across Europe. Debashis Sen, the chairman and managing director of Hidco, said they were determined to ensure that cyclists don’t have any problems. “The barriers are being put up in phases and will be out across all the cycle tracks,” Sen said. The Institute of Neurosciences Kolkata observed its Foundation Day on April 15, celebrating 12 years of service in healthcare. The institute has been working in research collaboration with Newcastle University and the University of Oxford for the last few years. An MoU was signed between the Institute of Neurosciences and Ramakrishna Mission Vivekananda Educational and Research Institute, Belur Math. Present on the occasion was Swami Atmapriyananda, pro-chancellor of Ramakrishna Mission Vivekananda Educational and Research Institute; Pramod Agarwal, chairman, Coal India Limited; Hrishikesh Kumar, the vice-chairman of the Institute of Neurosciences; AR Sonthalia, a member of the board of directors of the institute; and Avik Roy Choudhury, the CEO of the institute. RP Sengupta, the founding chairman and managing director of the Institute of Neurosciences Kolkata and Arjune Sen of the University of Oxford joined the celebrations online||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-81
