20-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Fresh guidelines issued for churches||The churches under the archdiocese of Calcutta has restricted the number of people at a Holy Mass to 50 in in the churches as Covid-19 cases continue to rise. Likewise, a maximum of 20 people would be allowed for baptism, marriage and funeral. Fresh guidelines for all the churches were issued on Sunday night in a circular addressed by archbishop Thomas D’Souza. “As you are aware the second wave of coronavirus is very active in many states in India, including West Bengal. The city of Calcutta and North-24 Parganas district have seen many cases of Covid-19 infection and even deaths. In such a situation, it is necessary that we take a fresh look at the arrangements in our churches for the Sacred Worship,” said the archbishop in the circular. The guidelines, which came into force from Monday, include: The circular mentioned that periodic review of the situation would be done and guidelines would be issued accordingly. “Under the circumstances fresh guidelines were essential. We have told the Small Christian Communities (SCC) to hold online meetings only,” said Father Dominic Gomes, the vicar-general of the archdiocese of Calcutta and the director of SCC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-79
20-04-2021||Calcutta||Autorickshaw services between Garia and Tollygunge suspended on Monday||Autorickshaw services were suspended between Garia and Tollygunge on Monday. Auto drivers on the route refused to ply their vehicles in protest against an autorickshaw being taken back by the vehicle’s financier as the driver, who was also the owner of the vehicle, had missed two loan instalments, police said. Suspension of the auto services on the first day of the week caused inconvenience to hundreds of commuters who had been availing of the services, especially to avoid the crowded buses during the pandemic. The police said one auto rickshaw had been taken back by a finance company after its owner had failed to pay multiple monthly instalments for the vehicle. Several auto drivers said their income had been hit badly because of the pandemic-induced lockdown. “We are barely surviving in the present circumstances. Our income has almost halved as many who used to take auto are now travelling in private cars. How can a finance company be so inhuman to take away the vehicle that is the only source of bread and butter for auto drivers?” a driver said. Auto drivers said many of them had bought their vehicles on bank loans which they were finding difficult to repay because of the losses in their income in the past few months. Several Calcuttans who had no inkling about the suspension of the auto services on that route suffered as they waited on the road in vain for hours for autorickshaws which did not come. “I waited for 30 minutes at the Naktala crossing. There was not a single auto on the road. Suddenly, I heard a bus conductor saying: “Chole ashun, auto bondho ache. Aborodh cholche (Come along, auto services are suspended),”  said Subhankar Chatterjee, who was heading for Behala on Monday noon. Autos that ply between Garia and Tollygunge are the lifeline of communication for hundreds of commuters between southern fringes of the city and pockets of south Calcutta like Haridevpur, Behala, Thakurpukur. Srimoyi Mukherjee, a resident of Ranikuthi, who has her office in Garia, had been taking auto rides for years now to reach her workplace. Monday was an exception. “I have completely stopped taking buses because they are over crowded. Today, it was an unimaginable situation when I had to step into a private bus after waiting for 40 minutes at the auto stand. There were empty vehicles stationed along the road But no one was ready to go,” she said. The fact that the majority of the buses have been requisitioned for the Assembly election-related work compounded the plight of many commuters. An elderly resident of Bansdroni said if the condition prevailed, she would be forced to stop commuting to her daughter’s home in Tollygunge. “I cannot afford a taxi. I will have to wait for the auto services to resume before I can see my daughter who is expecting her first child,” the woman said. Officers of Regent Park police station said they held a discussion with several auto union members and convinced them to resume services for the benefit of the public. “We have explained to them that the entire fleet should not go off the road for one auto owner defaulting his loan,” said an officer. A few autorickshaws hit back the road late on Monday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-79
20-04-2021||Calcutta||Supreme Court rejects bail plea of Arsalan scion Raghib Parwez||The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed the bail plea of Arsalan scion Raghib Parwez, the prime accused in the fatal Jaguar crash in August 2019, as it refused to interfere with a Calcutta High Court order directing him to surrender by April 20. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Guptalm, however, said certain observations by the high court would not affect the trial or cause prejudice to Raghib. “We are not inclined to interfere with the impugned order. The special leave petitions are dismissed…. We clarify... that observations made in the impugned order are only for the purpose of bail and would not affect the trial in any manner…,” Justice Kaul said. On the night of August 16, 2019, a Jaguar had crashed into a Mercedes E-Class 220d at the Theatre Road-Loudon Street crossing, which in turn had hit two Bangladeshis, killing them on the spot. Police say Raghib was at the wheel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-79
20-04-2021||Calcutta||West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission issues order for 4 hospitals||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Monday asked the CMRI hospital to pay Rs 10 lakh in compensation to the family of a woman who passed away after childbirth in February last year. “The woman was admitted to the hospital on February 18, 2020. She delivered a baby the next morning around 10.40am. She passed away at 5.05am the next day. The medical records revealed that the woman’s health was not monitored between midnight and 3am, when she started having complications,” said retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission. “The post-mortem found blood in the woman’s abdomen. Our doctor members felt that if the monitoring was done properly, a corrective surgery could have been done... We have asked the hospital to pay Rs 10 lakh in compensation to the family.” The commission asked the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences to pay Rs 2 lakh to the family of a 67-year-old man who died from a hospital-acquired infection. “The man was admitted to the hospital in November 2019. Since he died from an hospital-acquired infection, the establishment cannot absolve itself of responsibilities,” Banerjee said. The man was admitted to the hospital with subdural hematoma after he suffered a brain stroke, Banerjee said. The commission asked Narayana Superspeciality Hospital in Howrah to pay Rs 50,000 to the family of a patient who was given blood of a wrong group. Anarul Haque, who was battling cancer, was given B positive blood instead of B negative blood. “An expert said blood of a different group could be given to a patient during an emergency but that could lead to complications. In this case the hospital had given the wrong blood by mistake. There were no complications,” Banerjee said. Haque passed away at the hospital later. “We have asked the hospital to give the family Rs 50,000 for its mistake,” said Banerjee. A similar complaint was lodged against Binayak Multispeciality Hospital in Dum Dum. “A woman developed complications after she was given blood of a wrong group. She had to stay in hospital for 52 days, of which 45 days were spent in the ICU. It cost nearly Rs 7.5 lakh. The hospital did not charge any amount other than what was paid during admission. We have asked this hospital to refund the amount,”  said Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-79
20-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Increased demand for 24×7 caregivers||Households that have bedridden patients and depend on attendants who work in shifts have been requesting service providers for 24X7 caregivers so they don’t have to allow outsiders into their homes amid rising Covid-19 cases. Trained nurses who work 24X7 in some households are not being allowed to go home over weekends to meet their families because the employers fear the caregivers could catch the infection while travelling. Along with the rise in anxiety in many homes, the rise in Covid cases has struck a hard blow to many associated with this unorganised sector. The shift in requirements has landed the caregivers and attendants, many of whom are single mothers, in a difficult situation. Agreeing to provide round-the-clock service may not be possible for them if they have children to look after at home after work. If they refuse, they stand to lose their jobs and be left without an income. Some of these women told The Telegraph that employers are often using lists of replacements to coerce them into agreeing to the new routine, even if it inconveniences them. Deepali (name changed on request), an attendant-cum-cook now working in Naktala, has been taking care of an elderly woman who is barely mobile over the past two years. On Thursday morning, when the 42-year-old caregiver went to the centre she is engaged with in Sonali Park, Bansdroni, to share the weekly commission, she found the manager striking hard bargains to fix rates to make the attendants work 24X7. “The centre’s manager told me to get ready to be available for 24X7 service as such requests could come from the family that I look after. A fresh wave of cases has triggered a demand for employing an attendant round the clock who will not have to travel. I don’t know what I will do,” Deepali said. When The Telegraph checked with the centre, one of the two owners said they are receiving a barrage of such requests because families are insisting on curbing the entry of those who use public transport to reach work. “We are helpless. If we refuse, they will approach another service provider,” said the co-owner, a middle-aged woman who did not want to be named. Another centre based in the Bansdroni bazar area said the emerging situation has made things difficult for them, too. “When we send one caregiver who will work both halves of the day, we are cancelling the services of the other person for no fault of hers. In some cases, we are retrenching the services of both of them and engaging a different person who does not have a family of her own to look after and can stay for months on,” said the owner. Households, too, have their compulsions. A family member of one such home in Netajinagar said the residents of the building where she lives are objecting to two attendants she engages to look after her mother. “They insisted I engage one caregiver to minimise the health risk. I am giving the idea a serious thought,” she said. A woman in Narendrapur, on the southern fringes of Calcutta, has engaged a round-the-clock trained nurse to take care of her mother since last December. Usually, such caregivers are replaced every month. Nurses could also occasionally take leave for a few days to spend time with their families and a replacement would be provided. “But we won’t allow any replacement now. The family members have to come to our place to catch up with her (the caregiver) under our watch in strict adherence to safety protocols,” the Narendrapur resident said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-79
20-04-2021||Calcutta||Warning signs of post-Covid-19 illness in kids||Many children are suffering from a post-Covid ailment whose symptoms are persistent fever, rashes and a fall in blood pressure, said paediatricians. The disease, multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C), can also trigger ventricular dysfunction (inability of the heart to pump oxygenated blood to vital organs) that can lead to multi-organ failure, they said. The disease is usually being detected within two to three months of contracting Covid-19, although there is no conclusive study that says it cannot affect a Covid survivor after three months, the doctors said. A 14-year-old boy was brought to the emergency of Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals on February 9 with lethargy, rashes and persistent high fever with severe paleness. “Initial investigations revealed thrombocytopenia (abnormally low levels of platelets) with raised acute reactions like inflammation in the body. Further clinical findings revealed that he was suffering from multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children. His blood sample was sent for an iGg test, which yielded a positive report. This meant he had antibodies against Covid-19 in his blood, which in turn meant that he had been Covid-19 positive at some stage,” said an official of the hospital. His family members were not aware of the infection. “I had no idea when my son had Covid. No one in his immediate family contracted the disease either,” his father said. He had developed fever — from February 3 — which would not come down with paracetamol. Tests for malaria, typhoid and dengue came back negative. His parents had him admitted when his platelet count fell below 60,000, said the hospital official. With intravenous immunoglobulin and steroids, the child’s condition improved. Fever spikes gradually decreased with improvement in laboratory parameters and he was discharged after a week. “Persistent high fever, rashes and a fall in blood pressure are the common symptoms of multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children. The symptoms are usually seen within three months of contracting the virus,” said Kaustabh Chaudhuri, consultant, paediatric intensive care, at the hospital. “Identifying cardiogenic shock due to MIS-C as fast as possible is crucial for recovery or else it can be life-threatening. Once identified, the condition can be easily managed with steroids,” said Chaudhuri, who treated the teenager. The doctor said he had handled over 35 cases of multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children in the past 12 months. Apurba Ghosh, a paediatrician and the director of the Institute of Child Health, said he had also treated “many cases of multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children” since 2020. “Parents who are aware of their children contracting the virus as well should keep an eye for persistent fever and rashes after recovery. Parents who are not aware should also seek medical advice if their children have similar symptoms,” said Ghosh. Doctors said that many children were contracting the virus in the renewed surge in Covid-19 cases. They anticipated the cases of multisystem  inflammatory syndrome in children to go further up in the coming days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-79
20-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Virus cases hushed up in housing complexes||A surge in Covid-19 cases has allegedly given rise to instances of suppression of infections in housing societies and neighbourhoods either because of the fear of social stigma or restrictions on the entry of maids at home. Residents in several housing societies have alleged that they have come to know about their neighbour testing positive only through “second hand sources” like a maid or driver in the recent past. Multiple cases of alleged suppression have been found in a south Calcutta residency that has several reported cases of Covid-19 at present, a resident of the housing society said. “Despite repeated reminders from the RWA to not suppress information, three families were found to have been affected who did not tell anything before the word got out,” the resident added. In one of the cases, the family had asked their maid not to come and the word got leaked to the other flat owners who also had the same maid. In a housing society on the southern fringes of the city, another case apparently came to fore when the news of a person testing positive spread through his office colleague to another resident of the same housing. An official of an RWA in a housing society along EM Bypass said there were four “Covid cases” in their housing society at present and the way all of them were suppressed had prompted them to issue a notice asking residents “to cooperate”. According to a public health specialist, such instances of suppression not only increase the chances of spreading infection among people who interact with the affected person without realising the stakes, but also endanger the family members if they, too, are living in the same house without isolating the patient. “The rule says a person should remain isolated for 17 days from the onset of symptoms. In case of suppression, if the biomedical waste is not disposed of separately, it may spread infection,” said the public health expert. The cases of alleged suppression, as reported in many housing societies and city neighbourhoods, are also an indication of the kind of ostracism families often have to face when they report infection. Last year, police had received several complaints seeking immediate help against ostracism that patients in home quarantine had faced, many police officers recalled. “On one hand, we were prosecuting people for not following the lockdown rules and on the other, we were trying to pacify people for over-reacting to their neighbours who tested positive or to those who were involved in the health sector,” said a senior police officer in Calcutta. A section of the people who have been victimised for being a Covid-19 patient said the stigma of being treated as an “untouchable” in the society was the biggest fear that plays at the back of the mind. Last year, a 42-year-old IT professional living in a Kasba neighbourhood was forced to seek police help when his maid was told by neighbours not to step into his home even after he had recovered from the infection and returned from the hospital with a fitness certificate. A doctor, who had tested positive in September 2020 and was in home isolation at his Shibpur ancestral home, recalled his last year’s experience to Metro: “I had borne the cost of getting the entire neighbourhood fumigated. But then also, some of my closest neighbours who saw me grow up, used to panic and behave indifferently if they saw me standing at my balcony.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-79
20-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Elections 2021: Calcuttans march as part of a ‘No Vote to BJP in Bengal’ campaign||An 82-year old man walked with a tall umbrella to support his infirm knees along with students and others from diverse walks of life in a rally on Monday because they thought “the BJP poses a threat to Bengal”. The march, part of a “No Vote to BJP in Bengal” campaign, started from the Academy of Fine Arts and ended at the Rashbehari intersection, through the Bhowanipore and Rashbehari Assembly constituencies, which go to the polls on April 26. Metro spoke to some of them to find out what made them walk. Utpalendu Chakrabarti, 82, needs the help of a stick or an umbrella to walk. He decided to ignore the discomfort and walk 5.8km. “They are talking about developing ‘Sonar Bangla’ and leaving a trail of destruction. How can one support that? Let the people take a look at me and realise what could have prompted an octogenarian to march and make up their mind,” said Chakrabarti, who had retired as an overseer at a factory. A resident of Metiabruz, Chakrabarti said in August last year, when the first wave of the pandemic was underway, the Prime Minister was “busy laying the foundation of the Ram temple in Ayodhya”. “It did not strike him that building health infrastructure to combat Corona was the need of the hour. Just see what is unfolding now that the second wave has struck. I am out to tell people that they should not do anything that allows these demons to come to power,” he said. Alpana Dutta, a retired school teacher, said she joined the rally because she felt angry about the actions of the BJP-led government at the Centre. The 65-year-old who worked in a school in Basirhat in North 24-Parganas, walked till the march culminated at the Rashbehari crossing. “What really agitates me is the fact that all the policies that the BJP pursues are anti-people. This Prime Minister is holding meetings to combat Corona. Again the same Prime Minister is holding rally after rally in Bengal where his supporters don’t maintain basic Covid hygiene. He has not cut down on rallies despite so many deaths. What more does he need?” Dutta asked, joining the students to raise slogans. Slogans like: “Ei Surya Sen er maati te BJP ke ektio vote noy (In this land of Surya Sen, not a single vote to the BJP). “Narendra Modi does not utter a word against Kumbh being held in utter disregard of health protocols. So this time you cannot attribute the surge of cases to China. In Bengal, the surge of cases could be blamed on him alone. We don’t want a party led by him in power in Bengal,” said Dutta. Koushani Mukherjee, an undergraduate Presidency student, came to the Academy of Fine Arts on a Monday evening to buy a ticket for an upcoming play. She saw an assembly building up outside. “I could have left for my residence in Barrackpore. But instead, I decided to march because I felt BJP poses a threat to the dignity of women,” she said. A third-year student of performing arts, Mukherjee said she had taken part in a protest outside Presidency University against the brutalising of a Dalit woman in Hathras in Uttar Pradesh last year. “The same Yogi Adityanath, the chief minister Uttar Pradesh under whose watch it all happened, is now campaigning in Bengal and screaming at the top of his lungs that an anti-Romeo squad will be raised in Bengal. What could be more scary than this?” said Mukherjee, holding aloft a blue flag that had embossed on it the face of BR Ambedkar. “I am scared. Maybe this is a last ditch effort to thwart these subversive forces. If I don’t walk now, then when will I?” Yogeshwar Prasad, a postdoctoral research fellow at the Saha Institute of Nuclear Physics was holding aloft a banner that read: “Fascist RSS aar BJP r biruddhe Bangla (Bengal against fascist BJP and RSS)”. The 34-year-old scholar said he was marching as “the BJP is against freedom of expression”. “Being a part of the students’ community, I remember how they started a confrontation with students in FTII, Pune. This was followed by incidents at JNU, Jamia Millia. There is a pattern in what they do. It is to silence students through intimidation so they don’t dare to raise questions,” Prasad said. According to him, if the BJP comes to power, they will target institutions like Jadavpur University and Presidency University that spearheaded the campaign against issues like CAA and NRC. “We cannot allow such an anti-student force run to the state,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-79
20-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Behaviour that fans pandemic||Covid is spreading like wildfire in Calcutta and other parts of Bengal but safety protocols have gone for a toss because of the way a large section of people is behaving, said hospital officials, doctors and public health experts. People without masks is a common sight on roads and at malls and markets across Calcutta. But there are others whose behaviour can have much larger implications. The Telegraph lists some behaviours that can fan the pandemic: About three weeks ago, a man in his 50s who works as an executive at a private firm in Delhi had lost his sense of smell and taste, clear symptoms of Covid. The man took a flight from Delhi to return home to Calcutta without getting tested. A day after landing in Calcutta, he underwent the RT-PCR test for Covid at a private hospital and was found positive. “I called up the man, who is a friend of mine, and told him about the report. He said he was sure that he had Covid and so took a flight to Calcutta so that he could be with his family,” said a senior official of the private hospital off EM Bypass. “I told him that it was a criminal offence to fly when he was certain that he had Covid.” Passengers flying in from Telangana, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Kerala need to have an RT-PCR negative report before boarding the flight. There is no such requirement for passengers from other states. “The only way to know whether a passenger arriving from another city has Covid or not is to check his or her body temperature using a thermal scanner,” said an official of the Calcutta airport. So an asymptomatic Covid patient can arrive and enter the city undetected. The authorities of several Covid vaccination centres in the city were taken by surprise when they found that close contacts of Covid patients had turned up for the shot. Officials at private hospitals and the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC), which is administering Covid jabs through its ward health clinics, said they were regularly facing the problem. “While talking to some of the vaccine recipients standing in the queue, we discovered to our surprise that someone in the family had recently tested positive for Covid-19. These contacts are supposed to stay quarantined at home and not step out till the quarantine period is over. But they are not adhering to the protocol. They are turning up for the shot without completing the quarantine period,” a CMC official said. “We are asking vaccine recipients whether they have come in contact with Covid patients recently,” said an official at AMRI Hospitals, which has been facing the same problem as the CMC health clinics. Officials at vaccination centres said the problem with contacts of Covid patients turning up for the shot was one of logistics. “If such persons inform us in advance, we can allot special slots to them or request them to take the jab after completing the quarantine period. We will give them priority on that day (when they arrive after completing the quarantine period). But if they stand in a queue with others, there is a risk that others may get infected. Even the personnel at vaccination centres may get infected,” said the official of the private hospital. A middle-aged man suffering from Covid and diarrhoea entered the outpatients department of a private hospital on Monday. “He did not tell the OPD staff that he had Covid. Once in the doctor's consultation room, he said he had tested positive for Covid and was having diarrhoea,” said an official of the hospital. “The doctor told him that he was supposed to be in home isolation and have video consultation or call up a doctor. If the symptoms persisted, he should have got admitted.” Doctors said they were encountering several such incidents. “One patient with all signs of Covid walked into the OPD and sat with other patients before entering my room. Ideally, he should have gone to the fever clinic,” said physician Chandramouli Bhattacharya. Public health experts said Covid patients were feeling free to step out because of lax surveillance and also because the practice of declaring containment zones had been effectively discontinued. Some hospitals have reintroduced stringent measures for visitors. AMRI Hospitals, for instance, is allowing patients and visitors to enter only after they are giving details of their health to the security personnel in the lobby. A 50-year-old man who tested positive for Covid needed to get admitted to hospital on Sunday evening. The resident of Dhakuria and his relatives first tried to hire an ambulance. “There was no ambulance available. My brother didn't have a choice and had to travel to the hospital in Phoolbagan in a yellow taxi,” said the patient’s brother. He had not told the taxi driver that he had Covid. “This way he not only put the driver at risk but several other passengers who would ride the taxi later,” said a public health expert.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-80
20-04-2021||Calcutta||Summer vacation in government schools to start from April 20||All government schools in Bengal will go into summer recess from Tuesday because of “heat wave and prevailing situation”, the state education department said on Monday. Education minister Partha Chatterjee said the government was also appealing to private schools to take “appropriate decisions after considering the present situation”. Bengal is witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases and has reported more than 5,000 new infections daily over the past few days. “We are announcing summer vacation from Tuesday. We appeal to private schools to take appropriate decisions after considering the present situation,” said Chatterjee. A circular issued by education secretary Manish Jain on Monday said: “Due to heat wave and prevailing situation, it is advised to declare summer vacation in the schools under your administrative control with effect from 20/04/2021, until further instructions. You are therefore requested to take necessary action accordingly.” An official in the education department said summer vacation would mean that online classes would remain suspended for the time being in government schools. At CBSE and ICSE schools, practical exams for Class XII boards are being held. “It is for principals to take a call about what they would want to do regarding practicals. The council has given schools time till May 31 to complete the practicals,” said Gerry Arathoon, the chief executive and secretary of the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations, which conducts the ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) exams. A number of CBSE schools, however, said they would go ahead with the practicals in the absence of any intimation from the board. “This is to inform… examinees that the practical examination and viva voce will continue as per schedule, keeping all precautions in mind. Today the State Government has advised schools under the State Board to begin summer holidays from 20.04.21. However there is no specific direction from the CBSE in the matter till now and hence we are unable to stop the ongoing Examinations being conducted in School, keeping the academic interest of the examinees in mind,” said a notice issued by South Point. The state government had allowed schools to reopen from February 12 for Classes IX to XII. The schools had remained shut since March last year as a precaution against Covid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-80
20-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Set up more beds, government tells private hospitals||The state government on Monday asked private hospitals to scale up their Covid beds to a level that would be 25 to 30 per cent more than they had at the peak of the epidemic last year. The government also suggested that the hospitals consider shifting the outpatient department (OPD) to any banquet hall and use the space to add Covid beds. The hospitals have also been requested to defer elective surgeries for two weeks and open more satellite units for Covid patients with mild or no symptoms so that critical patients are not denied hospital beds. The government made the requests to the hospitals at an online meeting attended by chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission chairperson Ashim Banerjee and senior officials of the state health department. “The private hospitals have been told to have 25 to 30 per cent more Covid beds than what they had at the peak of the pandemic last year. The hospitals have been advised to keep on hold planned surgeries for two weeks,” said Banerjee. If planned surgeries are put on hold, the beds that will be freed can be used to treat Covid patients. Hospitals in and around Calcutta together had 5,500 Covid beds at the peak of the epidemic last year, an official of a private hospital said. Various measures that can help increase Covid beds at private hospitals were discussed at the meeting. “The private hospitals were advised to shift their OPDs to a banquet hall or a marriage hall near their hospitals. The space in the OPDs can then be utilised to set up Covid beds,” Banerjee said. Several private hospitals in the city have increased their Covid beds in the last one or two weeks but that proved insufficient given the surge. Belle Vue Clinic had 171 beds on Monday, 37 of which were critical care beds. The hospitals will add 21 more beds within a week or two, said an official. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) had 110 Covid beds on Monday, 48 of which are critical care beds. The hospital has plans to add 51 Covid beds in a phased manner over the next fortnight. “The hospitals were also advised to set up more beds in satellite units,” said Banerjee. An official of a private hospital said that if Covid patients with mild or moderate symptoms were treated at satellite units, then more beds for critical patients would become available in the hospitals. “In the coming days, options like setting up beds in parking spaces may have to be explored,” said Rupak Barua, the president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India and the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals. AMRI Hospitals, he said, have already set up 150 beds in satellite facilities. Belle Vue Clinic and the RN Tagore hospital have set up 48 and 24 beds at their satellite units. The state government has also decided to set up a quarantine facility at Uttirno auditorium in Alipore. It will be run jointly by Covid Care Network, a voluntary organisation of doctors, health officials and Covid survivors, and the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. A quarantine facility for contacts of Covid patients has been set up at Kishore Bharati Stadium in Jadavpur.  The total number of active Covid-19 cases in Bengal rose by 3,780 on Monday, to 53,418. The state recorded 8,426 new infections and logged 4,608 recoveries during the day. While Calcutta recorded 2,211 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 1,801. Of the 38 deaths reported on Sunday, 12 were from the city and nine from North 24-Parganas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-80
20-04-2021||Calcutta||ICSE council cancels Class X board exams||The ICSE council has cancelled the Class X board exams, the chief executive and secretary of the council said in a circular issued late on Monday. As for the ISC (Class XII) exams, the council's earlier decision stands and the test will be conducted at a later date following a review of the situation in the first week of June. “The ICSE (Class X) 2021 Examination: Given the present worsening situation of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country, the CISCE has decided to cancel the ICSE (Class X) 2021 Examination. The options given in the earlier circular dated 16th April 2021 now stands withdrawn. The safety and wellbeing of our students and teaching faculty is our topmost priority and of paramount interest,” said the circular signed by Gerry Arathoon, the chief executive and secretary of the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations. The council had last week deferred ICSE and ISC exams, which were scheduled to start on May 4. It had also said the Class X students could write or skip the exams. Arathoon said on Monday: “The CISCE is committed to devising 'a fair and unbiased criterion' as stated earlier. The criterion on which basis the results will be declared for the ICSE (Class X) students and the date of the result declaration will be announced by the CISCE later.” Many schools were also concerned about the consequent delay in starting Class XI classes if the Class X exams were not over anytime soon. On Monday, the council said schools should start Class XI admissions if they had already not started the process. “All CISCE-affiliated schools (having the ISC section) are hereby advised to begin the admission process for Class XI, if not already started,” the circular said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-80
