21-04-2021||Calcutta||Shankha Ghosh breathes his last while fighting Covid-19||Noted Bengali poet Shankha Ghosh passed away on Wednesday morning while he was in isolation at his residence after testing positive for Covid-19, his family said. Ghosh, 89, was found to be Covid-positive on April 14. He was in home isolation on the advice of doctors, according to Health Department sources. Ghosh, who suffered from several comorbidities, was hospitalised a few months ago due to deterioration of his health condition. Considered to be having authority on Rabindranath Tagore, Ghosh is known for 'Adim Lata - Gulmomay' and 'Murkha Baro Samajik Nay', among other books. Ghosh, known for being vocal on various social and political issues, was awarded the Padma Bhushan in 2011 and conferred the prestigious Jnanpith Award in 2016. He received the Sahitya Akademi Award in 1977 for his book 'Babarer Prarthana'. His works have been translated into several languages, including English and Hindi. Ghosh is survived by his daughters Semanti and Srabanti, and wife Pratima. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday condoled the demise of  Shankha Ghosh and said he will be remembered for his contributions to Bengali and Indian literature. "Shri Shankha Ghosh will be remembered for his contributions to Bengali and Indian literature. His works were widely read and admired," Modi tweeted. "Saddened by his demise. Condolences to his family and friends. Om Shanti," he said. Litterature Subodh Sarkar said Covid-19 snatched away Ghosh when he was needed the most as "the state was faced with the threat of fascism". "He was soft-spoken but his pen was razor-sharp, always speaking against intolerance. He used to be a participant in all conventions and movements for free and liberal thinking," Sarkar said. Ghosh was born on February 6, 1932, at Chandpur in present-day Bangladesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-77
21-04-2021||Calcutta||Drive-in Covid test centres in New Town||A couple of drive-in and as many walk-in coronavirus testing centres will be opened in New Town, an official of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) said. “The New Town authorities have offered space to set up a drive-in kiosk in front of Utility Building in Action Area II and another near the Akankha crossing. Both will be run by Apollo Day Care,” an official said. Apollo Day Care runs New Town’s lone drive-in Covid testing centre near the New Town fairground, opposite Marriott Fairfield hotel. “Those who want to get themselves tested can drive to any of the kiosks in their vehicles. People can get themselves tested even if they do not have any doctor’s prescription,” an NKDA official said. The existing kiosk near the New Town fairground is modelled on those set up in South Korea. It has a glass shield that separates the person collecting samples, who is inside the kiosk, from the person whose samples are being collected. Despite the glass shield, the person who collects samples wears full personal protective equipment (PPE). Once the test is complete, the report is mailed to the person. Apart from the drive-in kiosks, two walk-in sample collection centres will start functioning on the permanent stage of the New Town fairground, an NKDA official said. Those who want to get tested for Covid can walk into the centres for sample collection without any doctor’s prescription. One of the walk-in centres will be run by SP Diagnostic and the other by Suraksha Diagnostic. Both are private facilities. Appointments can be booked over the phone to avoid rush. The contact number for SP Diagnostic is 6292212643 and for Suraksha is 7595055017. All kiosks will collect samples from 10am to 4pm, the official said. A 20-bed safe house for Covid-19 patients has been readied in New Town. The unit, adjacent to tank 12 and near City Centre in Action Area I, has come up in a building owned by the Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco). Logistical support for the facility will be provided by the New Town Kolkata Development Authority and Hidco. The health department will provide doctors, nurses and medical equipment. Officials said the safe home would have doctors as well as nurses to monitor the patients. “The safe house is meant for people who cannot isolate themselves at home because of space constraints,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-77
21-04-2021||Calcutta||Raghib Parwez surrenders in Calcutta court||Raghib Parwez, the prime accused in the Theatre Road hit-and-run case, whose interim bail was cancelled by Calcutta High Court last week, surrendered before a city court on Tuesday. The surrender came a day after the Supreme Court upheld the high court order cancelling Raghib’s interim bail and setting April 20 as the deadline for his surrender. Had Raghib not surrendered by Tuesday, the police would have been free to arrest him. Raghib, a scion of the family that runs the Arsalan chain of restaurants, surrendered before the trial court on the Bankshal court premises on Tuesday and was remanded in judicial custody till May 5. The police said the court directed the jail authorities to provide proper medication to the accused and keep him “segregated” in the jail. Raghib has charges of culpable homicide not amounting to murder, rash and negligent driving, mischief, jumping signal and destruction of public property against him. If convicted, he can be jailed for up to 10 years. Raghib was sent to the Presidency correctional home from the Bankshal court. On the night of August 16, 2019, a Jaguar F-PACE had crashed into a Mercedes E-Class 220d at the Theatre Road-Loudon Street crossing, which in turn had hit two Bangladeshi nationals, killing them on the spot. The police said Raghib was at the wheel of the car. A chargesheet has been submitted in connection with the case. However, the framing of charges was stalled because of Raghib’s bail in April 2020 on the ground of his “mental illness”. A purported medical report from a government institute that declared him “fit to face trial” had prompted the high court to cancel his bail and ask him to surrender by April 20. Raghib’s family had moved the Supreme Court against the high court order but their petition was dismissed. “The next legal step in the case is framing of charges, which the trial court is likely to do next month,” an officer said. During framing of charges, the magistrate will evaluate the charges slapped by the police against the evidence collected and submitted along with the chargesheet. “The court has the power to add or remove some sections. The trial will start under the sections approved by the court,” a criminal lawyer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-78
21-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid: NIT Durgapur decides to shut hostels||The National Institute of Technology (NIT), Durgapur, has decided to close the hostels and asked all residents to vacate hostels “immediately” to contain the spread of Covid-19. The institute had early this year recalled 250-odd research scholars and 37 MTech students who needed laboratory work and they had been put up in the hostels on the campus. A notice signed by the institute’s registrar, Soumya Sen Sharma, says: “To control the spread of Covid-19, the hostels will be closed and all the boarders shall be required to vacate the hostels immediately. The day-scholars also will not be permitted to enter into the campus.” Several research scholars have tested positive and had to be quarantined in a special facility set up on the campus. Project and PhD scholars at NIT Durgapur had started returning to the campus in January following production of parents’ declaration about the health and recent community interaction of a scholar’s family. The institute had decided to call the scholars back to the campus on the basis of the Centre’s Unlock-V guidelines, which allow higher education institutions to reopen for research scholars and postgraduate students in technology and science streams who require laboratory work. But the rising number of cases and lack of beds in hospitals to treat Covid patients in Durgapur town and across the state has made the stay of students unsafe, said an official of the institute. “Hospitals in the city are full of patients coming from Durgapur town and adjacent areas. Even the hospitals in Calcutta don’t have beds as the city is reeling under a fresh wave of cases. So, it is advisable that students are sent home early to minimise the chance of getting infected by the virus,’’ said an official of the institute. NIT Durgapur director Anupam Basu said they wanted to send students home before any travel restrictions are imposed as a precaution against Covid. “Although no such decision has been taken so far, we are apprehending that if such restrictions are imposed again, the students would get stuck. At a time when cases are being reported on the campus, it won’t be safe to stay on the campus,’’ said director Basu. At the NIT Durgapur half of the students come from states outside Bengal. Their return would become uncertain. The notice issued by the institute’s registrar says: “It may be further noted that till further notification keys to the laboratories of the departments/centres shall not be issued to students/research scholars by the security personnel to restrict access. Online classes shall be taken up as per the academic calendar’’. The institute last week had disallowed the delivery of goods booked on online platforms inside the campus to contain the spread of Covid-19. “But getting the hostels vacated became crucial as we have to undertake an elaborate sanitisation drive on the campus,” said an official. The institute has scrapped the recall of final-year BTech students following the rising number of cases on the campus and across the country. IIM Calcutta last week asked students of its two-year MBA programme and one-year MBA executive programme to vacate hostels “due to developing Covid-19 situation in the country and Calcutta”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-78
21-04-2021||Calcutta||33 pairs of local trains cancelled after staff test Covid positive||Dozens of local trains in the Sealdah and Howrah divisions have been cancelled because many drivers and guards have tested positive for Covid-19. On Wednesday, 33 pairs of EMU local trains in the Sealdah division will not ply. In the Howrah division, 19 pairs of EMU local trains and 16 passenger trains will remain cancelled, the Eastern Railway said in a statement on Tuesday night. The cancellation of local trains started on Sunday. “Several drivers and guards have tested positive. We are trying to restrict the cancellations to non-peak hours for local and passenger trains as far as possible. But if the cases continue to surge, then the office-hour disruptions will also go up,” said an official of Eastern Railway. An official in the Sealdah division said over 60 drivers and around 30 guards had tested positive till Sunday. In the Howrah division, around 50 have tested positive, said sources. “So far, we have not disrupted the schedule of long-distance trains. But no one knows what will happen in the coming days,” said an official of the Howrah division. “The drivers of long-distance goods trains can be deputed to drive long-distance express trains. But they cannot be deployed on suburban trains,” he said. The trains cancelled in the Sealdah division on Wednesday include five pairs in the Sealdah-Barrackpore section, six pairs in the Sealdah–Bongaon section and four pairs in the Sealdah–Naihati section. The railway authorities have launched a drive to impose a fine of Rs 500 on any passenger entering the station premises without a mask. But the drive is yet to pick up steam, said officials. “The number of penalisations will go up in the coming days,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-78
21-04-2021||Calcutta||ICSE schools prepare to start Class XI online lessons||ICSE schools in the city are planning to start Class XI early after the council cancelled the Class X exams on Monday and advised schools to start “online classes for the Class XI students at the earliest”. Several schools said they were planning to start either by the end of this month or in the first week of May. Schools are considering the students’ academic performance in Class X and IX before granting them admission. In some schools, admission tests have been conducted in science subjects and mathematics to assess the students’ aptitude. “Students had to submit their choice of stream at the time of annual report card in April. Now, we will speak to the academic coordinators, look at their marks in Classes IX and X and then offer them their subjects. We will also speak to parents to see whether a child can pursue in Class XI a stream he has selected,” said Father Thamacin Arulappan, the principal of St Xavier’s Collegiate School. He plans to start classes by the end of this month. Those applying to St Xavier’s from other schools will have to upload their marks and appear for an online interview after the school makes the announcement. La Martiniere for Girls, Sri Sri Academy, Rammohan Mission High School and St Augustine’s Day School, Calcutta plan to start classes by the first week of May. Schools like Modern High School for Girls will start next week and Calcutta Girls’ High School and Julien Day School, Ganganagar, where admissions have been completed, will start this week. The Loreto schools in the city have completed their admission process. La Martiniere for Girls will consider the “computed year’s average of the last academic year” for admission. “The admission to Class XI will be based on school records. We have already tested them and if we do not consider that we will be contradicting our assessment,” said Rupkatha Sarkar, the principal of La Martiniere for Girls. Unless students choose to move to a school with a different board, only the “syllabus and pattern will change” when they move to the next class, Sarkar said. Some schools took into account the Class IX marks because they were offline exams so schools could understand the progress and aptitude of the student, at least two heads said. In the circular issued to school heads on Monday, Gerry Arathoon, the chief executive and secretary of the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations, said: “All CISCE affiliated schools (having the ISC section) are hereby advised to begin the admission process for Class XI, if not already started. In addition, schools should prepare a schedule to begin online classes for the Class XI students at the earliest.” Some schools had already decided to start making use of the time. “We welcome the decision of the council because students now can concentrate on Class XI without having to stress over the Class X exams. It is a relief for both parents and students,” said Aruna Gomes, the principal of Loreto House. Gomes said that in Class XI, the students choose a stream and the subjects they want to study. Now that Class X exams has been cancelled, students need not study subjects that they do not want to pursue. Devi Kar, the director of Modern High school, said students will “look forward to new subjects and carry on”. “The best part of this announcement is children can move ahead instead of hanging on to something because no one can guarantee when things will get better. The excitement amongst children is obvious and their mind is now free,” said Jessica Gomes Surana, the principal of Loreto Convent Entally. Julien Day School, Ganganagar, had decided to start classes for those students who would choose not to appear for the exams but from Wednesday, they will start classes for everybody. “We were thinking of starting the classes and the  council’s announcement has made the decision easier for us,” said Sujoy Biswas, the principal of Rammohan Mission High School.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-78
21-04-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta private hospitals defer planned surgeries||Private hospitals across Calcutta on Tuesday started postponing elective surgeries and are not booking any planned surgery for the next 15 days so more beds can be set aside for the treatment of Covid patients. The hospitals are also opening satellite treatment centres for Covid patients with mild symptoms. Hospitals, however, said some planned surgeries could not be deferred because patients had already spent thousands of rupees on pre-surgery tests and had got insurance clearances. The state government on Monday asked all private hospitals to increase their Covid bed count. On Tuesday, the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission, the regulatory authorities for private hospitals, issued an advisory: "...Covid situation is really grim and it is unanimously held that it can be fought in a better and more effective way if the elective/planned surgeries other than emergency and life saving ones are kept pending and held up for a period of a fortnight for the time being.” The advisory added: "All the CEs (clinical establishments) in CMC (Calcutta Municipal Corporation) and BMC (Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation) areas will keep elective surgeries held up for a period of 15 days for the time being until further order in this respect. However, emergency and life saving surgeries will be exempted from its application." Most hospitals started postponing planned surgeries from Tuesday. The Telegraph has reported that Covid beds have become scarce at private hospitals and some Covid patients have to wait for days to get admitted. Peerless Hospital postponed around 80 surgeries for at least two weeks. However, there are many who have already got their mandatory pre-surgery tests done and some others have got clearances from medical insurance companies, said officials. “On Tuesday, we decided to defer around 80 surgeries. Deferring these surgeries will help us set aside more beds to treat Covid patients. However, there are many who have spent Rs 8,000 to Rs 10,000 on pre-surgery tests. It would be unfair to postpone their surgeries as they will have to spend money again for the tests,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. The hospital has 63 Covid beds and will add more beds once patients recovering from other diseases get discharged. Orthopaedic surgeon Sudipto Mukherjee of Peerless said three of his surgeries had been postponed. “All three are knee replacement surgeries. I have asked the patients to wait because these are not emergency surgeries,” Mukherjee said. At Belle Vue Clinic, the authorities on Tuesday deferred 12 out of 18 surgeries scheduled for the next three to four days. “Only surgeries like Cesarean section (for childbirth) are not deferred. We have seen the list of surgeries in the coming few days and have asked doctors to consult with the patients and let us know whether more could be deferred,”said Pradip Tondon, the CEO of Belle Vue. The Covid bed count at the hospital has gone up to 171, with the addition of four beds on Tuesday. “We will add 23 more after non-Covid patients on these beds are discharged,” Tondon said. At the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, officials will meet senior doctors of all departments to decide how many surgeries can be deferred. “A lot of elective surgeries are getting postponed because many patients are testing positive for Covid in pre-surgery tests. Of the remaining cases, we are working on categorising life-saving procedures from the rest. A meeting with all consultants will be held tomorrow for smooth implementation of the advisory," said R. Venkatesh, regional director, Narayana Health, of which the Mukundapur hospital is the flagship unit. Other hospitals like AMRI have deferred around 20 surgeries at its three units. They were scheduled over the next three to four days. Several private hospitals are either opening satellite units or increasing the bed strength of the ones they have already opened. The government wants Covid patients with mild symptoms to stay at satellite units so that critical patients are not denied beds at hospitals. AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria set up a satellite centre for the first time on Wednesday. “The centre has been opened at a hotel on Southern Avenue, where 32 beds have been kept. Patients will start getting admitted from Wednesday,” an official of the hospital said. “We are also looking for facilities to set up more satellite units in Mukundapur and the Lake market areas,” said Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI. He said the hospital chain had set up a satellite unit in Salt Lake, where all 24 beds are occupied by patients. The hospital will rent another hotel, where 34 more beds will be set up. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences increased the capacity of its satellite unit from 16 to 24 beds on Monday. “We will set up another unit adjacent to the hospital soon,” an official of the hospital said. If I don’t get a call, where can I dial? Helpline: 1800 313 444 222 CMC control room: 033 2286 1212/ 1313 Who will be admitted to the institutional quarantine centre? If all members of a family test positive and they don’t have facilities for self-care, the members can move to the institutional quarantine centre. How will patients be transported to a safe home or quarantine centre? The CMC will arrange for the transportation What if the condition of one of the family members deteriorates? The patient will be immediately shifted to a hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-78
21-04-2021||Calcutta||Biker dead in crash with car in Thakurpukur||A motorcyclist allegedly driving without a helmet down Diamond Harbour Road died after suffering head injuries in a collision with a private car in Thakurpukur on Tuesday afternoon. Police said Anil Kumar Dey, 65, a resident of Kalipada Mukherjee Road in Behala’s Barisha, was taken to Vidyasagar State General hospital, where he was declared dead. “The CCTV camera closest to the accident spot does not cover the place where the collision took place. But the two-wheeler is seen tumbling over and the man falling on the road,” said an officer of Thakurpukur police station. Police officers said Dey had suffered head injuries. The person at the wheel of the private car was apparently returning home with his wife. “The accused is a driver by profession. The car belongs to his employer. He and his wife were in the car when the accident happened,” an officer said. A case under IPC sections related to causing death due to negligence, rash and negligent driving and mischief has been started against the accused driver. A senior officer of the traffic department said it was not clear whose fault it was but the case would be against the person at the wheel since the victim (motorcyclist) had died. Cops engaged in managing traffic on Diamond Harbour Road said the stretch where the fatal accident happened was mostly congested with vehicles and pedestrians throughout the day. Another accident A motorcyclist was injured in an accident on Hospital Road, near the Queensway crossing, on Monday night when he apparently lost balance and skidded off the carriageway, police said. Ayan Kumar Dey, 35, a resident of Andul Road in Howrah and a police constable by profession, has been admitted to SSKM Hospital with head and facial injuries. Amherst Street: A stationary private bus on route number 204/ 1 that was parked along APC Road caught fire on Tuesday afternoon. No one in the bus, police said. Two fire tenders doused the flames but the cause of the fire could not be ascertained till late in the evening. The Telegraph||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-78
21-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Jadavpur University sets limits on open days ||Jadavpur University has announced that all sections, departments and schools will remain open for only two or three days a week with skeleton staff because of the surge in Covid-19 cases. A notice issued by registrar Snehamanju Basu on Tuesday said the offices would remain open for “preferably two days” and “maximum three days”. The offices had reopened in accordance with the Centre’s unlock guidelines and non-teaching employees were asked to report for duty five days a week. A section of teachers was visiting the campus regularly so they could use the virtual classroom facilities to conduct classes on digital platforms. As a result, the administrative staff attached to the departments had to attend office, too. Since research scholars were visiting the labs, a section of teachers who act as guides and employees who oversee the facilities were also turning up regularly. The authorities had in January restored hundred per cent attendance of the non-teaching staff and officials. But as a number of JU employees who were going to the campus tested positive for Covid, the authorities had to cut down the duration of the campus remaining open and staff attendance, registrar Basu said. “According to a government guideline, skeletal staff not exceeding 50 per cent in any department can enter the campus for administrative work. The sections and departments concerned have been told to prepare their rosters accordingly,” said Basu. The notice says research scholars and others are not allowed on the campus unless there is a pressing reason. “Permission from the registrar duly forwarded by the supervisor/HoD is required in that case (exigency),” the notice says. The entire campus will be sanitised at least twice a week. Among the employees who have tested positive is pro-vice-chancellor Chiranjeeb Bhattacharya, who is in home isolation. The campus has been shut for in-person classes as a precaution against Covid since March last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-78
21-04-2021||Calcutta||A sense of mutual respect and stronger bondings||Sushila Birla Girls’ School Sushila Birla Girls’ School recently arranged a virtual picnic for the students of classes Nursery to III. Each class selected a separate theme and wore informal clothes accordingly. The Nursery students enjoyed a virtual trip to Disneyland, while Kindergarten and Class I students visited Dubai Miracle Garden. Students of Class II were taken to Tulip Garden, Srinagar, in keeping with their theme, flowers. The enthusiastic students even made boarding passes for themselves. Class III children sought an entry into Jurassic Park at Universal Studio, Hollywood. Children thoroughly enjoyed the creative activities organised for them and danced on peppy beats along with their dance teachers. Parents, too, actively took part in the event and praised the teachers and the school for the initiative. “Picnic is one of the most-awaited events in our calendar. And it was a pleasure to see the enthusiasm with which both students and parents joined in,” said headmistress Vidisha Panja. Fun-Learn Day Boarding School Students of Fun-Learn Day Boarding School observed the birth anniversary of B.R. Ambedkar on October 14 by celebrating the spirit of our constitution that makes India a secular nation. Since the occasion also happens to be the first day of the calendar year of many states and communities of India, the children put up a show representing all of them. They donned traditional outfits of Assam, Bengal, Kashmir, Maharashtra, Manipur, Punjab, Sikkim, Telangana and Tamil Nadu and performed the songs and dance steps of those states. “The occurrence of so many festivals around April 14, which happens to be B.R. Ambedkar’s birthday, makes the day even more meaningful to us. It is through these differences that we celebrate the oneness of India, which is exactly what Ambedkar rooted for. If the children understand that India is not only our motherland, but also our way of life — that it means respect and equality for all irrespective of caste, colour, creed, social standards, religions or beliefs — our work as teachers is done,” said founder Udita Chakraborty. Akshar School Akshar School broke the monotony of online classes with an out-of-the-box activity for the UKG students. Kids aged four and above from the UKG were encouraged to read newspapers in the virtual classrooms to inculcate the habit of reading to enrich their vocabulary. The tots were asked to delve into their areas of interest such as comic strips, fashion, food and sports and find words that they could read. The school held this activity for the primary students, too.  “The oral skills are important to know the child’s ability and attitude. Reading newspapers is a good habit and students can enrich their vocabulary through reading. Besides, we also asked the students to share pictures showing them reading in their comfort zones. We started with the UKG students, and it is running through the school,” said principal Kavneet Khullar. Krishnagar Public School A group of students from Krishnagar Public School recently performed at the inaugural ceremony of the Maitree Cup at Battalion 54 grounds in Shikarpur, Nadia. It was an exhibition football match between India and Bangladesh, organised by Border Security Force (BSF) and Border Guard Bangladesh (BGB), to build cross-border co-operation and commemorate the golden jubilee of Bangladesh’s independence. The BSF had invited the students. The inauguration ceremony commenced with the national anthems of both the countries and then the children presented a special dance performance. It reflected the traditional culture that are common on both sides of the border and the spirit of camaraderie across the two nations. Several BSF and BGB officers of rank and former India goalkeeper Bhaskar Ganguly were present on the occasion. “We feel honoured to have been invited to perform at such a historical event. They maintained all Covid protocols for the safety of our students and all. It was a privilege for our young students to experience such fruitful bilateral exchange,” said principal Sankar Prasad Dutta. BDM International BDM International recently conducted a series of online activities for the pre-primary and primary students, highlighting kindness as an essential virtue in everyday life. Kids for Peace, a non-profit global youth organisation, has been awarding the school with the kindness certificate for the last three years. This year, students made kindness hearts and thank you cards, wrote letters to friends, donated educational kits and made chains with their teachers, spreading the message of kindness as part of the celebration. The kids also thanked the caregivers and teachers, recognising their efforts and hard work. “A small act of kindness can go a long way. At BDM International, we work to instil the power of kindness in all our students and make them believe that they have the power to make a difference. Kindness is a virtue that is never wasted and amidst the uncertain times, our little ones have extended their unadulterated love to everyone. I wish them all the happiness and pray for them to become ideal citizens of the world,” said principal  Vijaya Chaudhuri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-78
21-04-2021||Calcutta||Lowdown on Covid safe homes in Calcutta||The state government has converted Uttirna, a six-storey building next to Women’s Correctional Home in Alipore, into a safe home to accommodate Covid-19 patients. The Alipore Road cultural complex has an open-air theatre, guest rooms, dormitories and a 10,000-square foot office space.The safe home to be set up in the building will be run jointly by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation and the Covid Care Network, an organisation of health officials, doctors and those who have recovered from the coronavirus disease. Here’s a lowdown on some safe homes Capacity: 90 beds on the third floor of the building to begin with. The capacity will be scaled up to 500 beds. The fourth floor will be reserved for women patients. Two other floors will also be made ready over the next two weeks to accommodate more patients. “Our aim is to gradually scale up the number of beds,” said Satyarup Siddhanta of the Covid Care Network. “Once we do that, Uttirna will accommodate patients admitted in hospitals but whose condition has stabilised. This will create room for more serious patients in hospitals.” Capacity: 200 beds on the second floor of a building on the Park Circus connector. More beds can be set up on another floor. Capacity: 700 beds across three floors in the safe home. The fourth floor of the building off EM Bypass will be dedicated to doctors and nurses. Patients can be accommodated over the next few days. Capacity: 200 beds in the safe home at the stadium. The facility at the stadium adjoining Acropolis Mall, on the Rashbehari connector, is being readied. Capacity: 200 beds at the institutional quarantine centre at Kishore Bharati Stadium, Santoshpur. The capacity will be scaled up. Who will be admitted? Asymptomatic Covid-19 patients who cannot isolate themselves at home or lack a full time caregiver. In some cases, patients with very mild symptoms will be accommodated, too. How will they get admitted? Once a person tests positive, doctors in the civic ward where the patient lives, will get in touch with him or her to know about the health condition. Health officials in the borough office, too, will contact the person. Finally, someone from Swasthya Bhavan will connect with the person and find out the symptoms and whether he/she has comorbidities or not. After that a decision will be taken on whether the patient can be admitted to a safe home. What next “Once a person is identified as asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic and he or she lacks space at home to stay isolated, an ambulance will take him or her to the nearest safe home,” said a CMC official. Will the patient have to pay? No. The cost will be borne by the state government? When will the patient be discharged? The decision will be taken by a team of doctors that will monitor the patient’s condition. If the condition worsens, the patient will be shifted to hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-78
21-04-2021||Calcutta||One held for dupe, cop impersonation||A man was arrested for allegedly duping people by impersonating police officers and pressuring them to part with money and jewellery if they did not want to be arrested in a false murder case against them, police said. Cases have been reported in Burrabazar, Bowbazar, Hare Street, Muchipara, Entally and Amherst Street police stations about such a crime, where victims were convinced by a “cop” that they were “wanted” in a murder and the only way to get rid of the case was to handover the money and jewellery they had on them, a senior officer in Lalbazar said. As a part of his modus operandi, in all the cases, the victims were allegedly made to wait on the pretext that the “cop” was going to make a call to his senior officer. The victims would wait while the accused would flee, the police said. Police officers, during the probe, examined CCTV cameras of all the locations where the victims were duped and found the image of the same person in all six locations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-78
21-04-2021||Calcutta||In Calcutta school and no fans, for a tower of cards||In a closed school, a Class VIII student had been working alone without a fan for six to seven hours at a stretch for over 10 days. The fan was switched off because the breeze would blow his hard work away. Arnav Daga, 13, was making a replica of the Qutab Minar with playing cards. He was in school because his house would not be able to accommodate the near-16ft structure that he decided to build. Arnav’s pursuit of making structures and buildings out of cards started during the early days of the lockdown last year and the Qutab Minar, which he completed on Tuesday, is the highest so far. The student of Sri Sri Academy used 21,000 cards for the tower. The 5ft and 8 inches-tall boy climbed onto desks and stools to reach the higher levels, with his parents or family members holding on to the desks to save him from a fall. “I started with smaller structures but this time I wanted to make something tall. But height is just one category. I have also made wide structures like the Iowa State Capitol,” Arnav said. “While at work, I have to keep the fans switched off, the air conditioner off and the windows shut. I cannot afford the slightest breeze because that could make my structures collapse,” he said. It’s not always that he has been able to keep his structures intact while making them. Once, while making the Big Ben at the end of the second day the clock tower collapsed on him. “Its part of the game. You fall then you get up,” Arnav said. On teachers’ day, he made the school building as a tribute to his school. It takes him a few days to a month to complete his structures, depending on what he is making and how much time he gives to it. “For the Iowa State Capitol, it took me about a month because I was doing it in between my exams,” said Arnav. His interest was sparked while making small houses with cards in March last year and he was “inspired by card stacker Bryan Berg and addicted to trying out new structures”. This was a skill that he acquired during the lockdown and the school kept encouraging him. His teachers vouch for his art of balancing studies and his passion, one does not interfere with the other, they said. During the last few days, Arnav attended all his classes before starting the day’s work on the Qutab Minar in the school auditorium. “I get a good sleep because I am tired,” was his response to the principal when she asked him if he got tired. “He requested for a space because he was planning a 16ft structure. We provided him with the auditorium which is almost 20ft. What he has displayed is rare determination and fortitude. While making the structure he did not take a single day’s break. There were days when he came to school in the morning, attended all his class before going to the auditorium,” said Suvina Shunglu, the principal of Sri Sri Academy. Arnav’s houses of cards are not permanent structures, he brings them down himself. “If I do not to break them, how will I make something new?” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-79
21-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: With electoral paraphelpia missing, is BC road less political?||There is no more telling an address where the hackneyed Election Juggernaut slows to a crawl. Other than glow signs featuring a beaming Narendra Modi at some bus stops and handbills seeking votes for Subrata Mukherjee, BC Road betrays not too many sights and sounds that must engulf Bengal in election season. The south Calcutta neighbourhood is usually happy minding its own business — which is considerable, considering the unmistakable signs of wealth that peep through the nonchalant air the stretch affects — and gives the impression that it wants others to reciprocate the disinterest in the affairs of others. The Telegraph did not risk knocking on the doors because of the pandemic but tried to get past some of the intimidating gates on BC Road over phone to connect with a few residents of the prosperous belt where Old Money and the nouveau riche have learnt to live with each other. The objective was not to gauge the mood — the sample size was too small to reach any credible conclusion — but to gain an insight into what goes on behind the seemingly placid environs encircled by a choppy sea of electoral politics. The ground rules were assurances that those who want to remain anonymous can do so and disclosure of their political preferences is entirely voluntary. The sole condition that they should speak their mind. Quick takeaways from the dial-up: ⚫ Electoral paraphernalia may be missing but BC Road is as political as they come. ⚫ Almost all wanted to be anonymous. Few, including those who live in one of the safest zones in Calcutta, want to take chances when it comes to politics. ⚫ Not all have taken decisions driven by emotive issues. Careful consideration has gone into weighing the pros and cons and then reaching a conclusion. ⚫ In spite of prosperity and good station in life, two persons confirmed that there are takers for the conspiracy theories that are spun about Muslims. One person said Murshidabad looked like a Muslim country, conveniently forgetting that an overwhelming majority of districts in India also have highly visible Hindu symbols. The two persons showed a remarkable familiarity with Amit Shah’s discourse on the Bangladesh economy. ⚫ Some did speak their mind. A few were frank, frighteningly so. At least one who got married right after school acknowledged that her source of information is the so-called “WhatsApp University”. Senior citizen  Presidency College alumnus Former teacher Lives in a bungalow with spouse Children settled abroad Very worried about the election. Cannot tell you which party I will vote for. We grew up in a cosmopolitan society. In school and college, we were taught to be inclusive. We want a better society, a safe country for our children to come back to. But I can see that today there is a lot of divisiveness all over the country. I have not been travelling much within the country in the last few years but get to hear from friends and relatives living outside Bengal that in other states the economic conditions are probably better. We need economic growth, jobs in the state, especially after the pandemic. But we also need a society where women feel safe and we do not see any human rights violations. Retired management professional Ex-IIT, ex-IIMC Husband of the teacher mentioned above This might be an Assembly election but it has national significance. We need to think very carefully. The current state government’s performance is nothing to write home about. It is a city of retired people, nothing to keep the young generation here. But if we look at the central government, certain radical economic measures taken did not instil confidence — like demonetisation and the GST implementation. The demonetisation sucked out the liquidity from rural areas and GST implementation was a disaster. Socially, the country is bifurcated. Step out of the city and it is very apparent that there is a higher percentage of Muslim population — much higher than the national average. Though we have been brought up not to differentiate between people on the basis of religion, it is alarming. But again, we also do not need to be at the other extreme. Having to prove one’s patriotism, having to chant Jai Shri Ram, all these are extremely worrying. And at our age, we really cannot accept a change in the concept of India we grew up with. India and Bengal are a cosmopolitan country and state where everybody, including the Hindus, Sikhs, Jain, Buddhists, Christians, Muslims should love to live together. Airlines professional 30-plus Lives in a bungalow We need the same party at the helm at the Centre and in the state. Makes processes easier. Look at how Uttar Pradesh is developing. Why do people leave Bengal? Where are the jobs, where is growth? I don’t think demonetisation was a failure, a lot of black money is out of the system, GST implementation has had a few hiccups but most traders, exporters believe things have been simplified. We are making progress. I wish the intelligentsia, instead of criticising the government, contributes to policy-making. We are from Murshidabad. In Murshidabad, you will feel like you are in a Muslim country. Much of our property has been occupied by Muslims from across the border. In Bangladesh, the fruits of development are being reaped by the top layer. The poor are still coming here. I have a lot of Muslim friends, I work for an airline in the Middle East. I have nothing against the educated, non-radical Muslims. But here the population of Muslims has multiplied. In the Burrabazar area, a lot of Muslims are buying up property at exorbitant rates. The money is coming from the Gulf. Suddenly, areas like Lake Town are bustling with burqa-clad Muslims. It’s not just Park Circus or Beckbagan. Former political science professor of a CU college 79 Lives in a bungalow alone Children are abroad I will not go out to vote this time because of the surge (in Covid cases) though I have exercised my voting right every election, including the last Lok Sabha polls. My priority now is to keep myself safe. But I try to follow politics and feel Mamata Banerjee will win though her winning margin might be less than before. The BJP might win a few seats but will not be able to capture power here. The party, unlike in other states, cannot make a dent here because Bengalis owing to their culture cannot identify with them. The BJP is a parochial party and cannot understand the Bengali ethos and will try to impose its own hegemonistic culture here. On the other hand, Mamata has tried to work for the people within the limitations that she has. Her work is mostly for people who form her votebank. She gives them doles, builds roads and hospitals. The intelligentsia here might vote for the Left, particularly Jadavpur University academics, but the Left’s tie-up with the Congress and the ISF does not really bode well. It’s an opportunistic alliance for elections. Senior corporate executive 70 Lives in a highrise apartment I will vote for the ruling party here. The Left-Congress alliance might win a few seats but ultimately it’s a fight between the TMC and the BJP. Of the two, the TMC is the lesser evil. If jobs and growth are the issues this election, both were going down in the rest of the country from before the pandemic. Covid is not the excuse. The two central government moves of demonetisation and sudden lockdown have dealt a lethal blow to the economy. Of course, the BJP has its strengths, like taking decisions much faster. But when you take decisions fast, you don’t consult and you do not consider what can go wrong. Again, the central government has done a good job with GST, has been allowing other vaccines developed in advanced countries to come here. But polarisation is the worst thing that has happened this election. And it is a permanent damage. You have stirred the pot. Don’t think that things will go back to what it was just by putting out the fire. Look at Amit Shah talking about Bangladesh. Even when his foreign minister asks him not to talk, he still does. All the good that might have come from Modi’s visit to Bangladesh gets nullified. Agree that there has been some Muslim appeasement but it should not have been treated so roughly. Tomorrow you can’t tell me to read my newspapers in Hindi and become a vegetarian. You can’t kill people because they store beef in their fridge, and form anti-Romeo squads. Bangalorean 45-plus Self-employed Had dropped in at a friend’s home on BC Road Vote for change. Vote for the BJP. Three major reasons: Jobs. Generation after generation of the youth are out of Calcutta, it’s a dead city. Jobs needed at the cost of everything. The BJP isn’t rocking at the Centre or in the states it is in power but even then, we need to give them a chance here, they can do something for this state since nothing is here. They will bring their capitalist cronies here and create jobs. Trinamul has no organised plan or growth strategy Corruption. It’s embedded in Bengal. Increasing Muslim population: Changing demography. Muslims are still coming from across the border. Bangladesh’s growth is skewed, the top 3 per cent are reaping the benefits of growth, the poor in Bangladesh are still seeking better lives here. India is secular as long as Hindus are in majority. Beef and mutton are available in Bangalore, it’s not as if all shops are shut in Karnataka where the BJP is in power. Engineer 32 Lives in Baroda and works for an MNC. Grew up at his BC Road home and has his vote in Calcutta Will vote for the Left-Congress combine for change. Can’t vote the BJP for its ideology. I don’t believe voting for the Left will help the BJP. Want media to give same coverage to the Left as it does to the TMC and the BJP. I have a major grouse against the syndicate culture and corruption. No wonder bridges and flyovers crash in Bengal. Hindi imposition is not welcome, nor is the TMC’s open invitation to people from Bihar, letting them do Chhath Puja…. Content provider Wife of engineer  mentioned above Will vote for the BJP. Women are safe in BJP country. I have seen women in Baroda and wish Calcutta women had a life as safe as theirs. Jobs are the main issue. Yes, I know the BJP doesn’t have a good economic record but even then, we need change after 10 years of TMC. Hindi and Hindi culture cannot be imposed by the BJP if Bengalis don’t want it. Homemaker Lives in Alipore Visits friends, boutiques on BC Road We were taught certain things in school like unity in diversity and secularism and all that. But now I read the WhatsApp forwards and I have truly begun to understand the politics that went on during the Independence movement and Partition. Why did Nehru have to make India a secular country? We, like Pakistan, should have been a state for Hindus — Hindustan, Sthan for Hindus. Because of Nehru’s politics and the Congress, and now the TMC, we have extremists from the Muslim community spreading so much hate. I saw on a Bangladeshi television channel a Muslim spreading hate. I feel the future of the coming generation is not secure in our country. Every religion in the world has their own land, but ours does not. In 1962, China took Aksai Chin from us, then the Bangladesh war happened, slowly our territory is going. Recently I heard a member of the community saying that north Bengal, the neck of eastern India, “will be ours”. They have bought off 10km of land along the border. And they are being aided by people from the Middle East. So long we treated the other community members as equals, what is the result? We have been very resilient. And they have spread hatred. Salim-Javed made so many Bollywood films, not a single hero belongs to the Muslim community but all the Mumbai dons are Muslims.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-79
