22-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: Checklist for voters||Dry day rules Liquor shops in the Assembly constituencies going to the polls and the ones in the adjoining constituencies will remain closed till the end of voting on Thursday.
According to orders issued by the state excise department, all categories of retail excise licensed premises shall remain closed in Dum Dum (North), Khardah, Barrackpore, Naihati, Bhatpara and Noapara and the adjoining Bidhannagar, Maniktala and Cossipore-Belgachia Assembly constituencies till the end of voting on April 22. Restaurants that are licensed to serve liquor may remain open but cannot serve liquor during the period. Election Commission of India:1950 Barrackpore police jurisdiction: 9874447929 Voters have to present any of the following documents at the polling station to establish his or her identity
⚫ Aadhar card
⚫ MNREGA job card
⚫ Passbooks with photograph issued by bank/post office
⚫ Health insurance smart card issued under the scheme of ministry of labour
⚫ Driving licence
⚫ PAN card
⚫ Smart card issued by the Registrar General of India under National Population Register
⚫ Passport
⚫ Pension document with photograph
⚫ Service identity card with photograph issued by central/state government./PSUs/public limited companies
⚫ Official identity card issued to MP/MLA/MLC||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-76
22-04-2021||Calcutta||Shankha Ghosh: Tireless writer, never shy of protest||Which particular scene should I recall at this melancholic moment? Scene one: In a capacious room filled with admirers, Sankha Ghosh is reciting his poems from Dinguli Raatguli, published in 1956, to his Gandharva Kabita Guccho, published in 1993. His voice is almost inaudible and the listeners are straining their ears to catch the fascinating words. Scene two: Sankha Ghosh is leading a vibrant protest march from College Street, adjacent to Presidency College, to the Dharmatala crossing which is condemning the Gujarat massacre. Scene three: In spite of his ever busy schedule he is listening meticulously to what the danseuse Surangama Lala Dasgupta is saying on her future project based on the dance dramas of Tagore, and then recommending the most appropriate title for the production which is Etodine Taar Ahobaan. I am most reluctant to choose one from the above three because all three together constitute the personality of the great poet who expired on Wednesday. In fact, I need to add a fourth scene which depicts the poet alone in his study writing inimitable prose which will lead to masterpieces of creative critical writing like Nirman o Srishti or Kaaler Matra o Rabindra Natok. While the former is undoubtedly the most brilliant work on poetics and aesthetics written after Abanindranath’s treatise on the same subject Bageshwari Shilpa Prabandhaboli; the latter forcefully negates the verdict that Rabindranath was a second grade dramatist whose poetic dramas are unfit for stage production. Yet why should I limit myself only to his high-grade work? He has written for children as well. His Sakalbelar Alo, for instance, is a must read for juniors who would like to know more about the partition of Bengal and the exodus which followed it. This text is full of love for the village the Ghosh family left behind and the arduous journey thereafter is described in such a humane and heartfelt manner that even a fragment of rancour does not find a place in it. Sankha Ghosh was a dutiful teacher and indefatigable writer. But still he could scoop up the time required to protest and demonstrate. This fighting aspect of his personality was revealed after the Gujarat massacre when he, veritably, led the agitation against the communal holocaust that raged in Gujarat. We all looked up to him respectfully in that phase and he led the movement, quietly and firmly, in his own splendid style. The same story was repeated after the mayhem in Nandigram. Supporters and sympathisers of the CPM earnestly requested him not to come out on the streets but he remained adamant. His politics was of a redemptive nature, and thereby it crossed the suspicious limits of petty politics and realpolitik. When we read his political poem Jamunaboti, included in his first book of poems Dinguli Raatguli, we realise what constituted his political self — courage, fearlessness, stubborn idealism and an aspiration for redemption. Like the famous neo Marxian aesthetes he practised nothing short of what we may term “redemptive politics”. Only a stirring, redemptive passion can write the following lines —  “Jamunaboti Saraswati Kaal Jamunar Biye, Jamuna Taar Basor Roche Barud Buke Diye (Jamunaboti Saraswati tomorrow is Jamuna’s marriage / Jamuna prepares her bridal chamber by placing gunpowder in her breast)”. Still he was not a pre-dominantly political poet like Subhash Mukhopadhyay and Birendra Chattopadhyay. He was more like Pablo Neruda who remained steadfast to the kindred points of Home and Heaven. With masterly fluency he could write romantic poems as well which could be burning and impassioned in character. To cite one specific instance, the title poem Dinguli Raatguli rolls out like volcanic lava inspiring the poet to write lines such as: “Akankha Unmotto Hoy, Premer Nishaane Tara Chhute Chhute Matha Kute Kute Morey, Bhoy Knaape Door Durantor (Desire turns mad, inflamed by the calls of love they run amok and crush their heads. The distant and far away trembles in fright).” I have deliberately used these lines to prove that Sankha Ghosh, who excelled in formal versification, could turn severely passionate when the theme so demanded. Indeed his restless and turbulent dedication which was couched within a very soft-spoken exterior, drew him close to the Naxalites. When I questioned him deliberately on this issue, he said: “We endorsed the idealism, desire and aspiration of the Naxalite youths — with that we did not have any problem. But we questioned their method, course of action and violent programme. We were dead against the ruthless state oppression that was launched against them.” When his favourite student and Naxalite Timir Baran Singha was shot dead in Behrampore jail, he wrote a moving elegy that still haunts, “the Maidan drops heavy in the midst of fog/ route march melts towards the horizon/ I sit low and pick up with my hands/ your cutout head Timir.” Sankha Ghosh’s best friend Alokeranjan Dasgupta, a remarkable poet himself, predeceased him five months ago. He was also deeply attached to Timir Baran Singha, his student, on whom he also wrote an elegy. Perhaps the two — Sankha and Alokeranjan —are together now in some other realm and conversing animatedly with each other planning a joint production, as they did once in Saptasindhu Dash Diganta. The latter is a selection of world poetry translated into Bengali, which they edited. There is no point in counting the number of books Sankha Ghosh wrote. His collected prose and poetry are being compiled and published. What is more important are the words and lines written by him, which have become a part and parcel of our spoken language. Lines such as, “Bhikhari Banao Kintu Tumi Toh Temon Gauri Noyo (Turned me into a beggar but you are not like that Gauri)”, “Mukh Dheke Jaye Bigyapone (the face is covered with ads)”, “Nibhonto ei Chulli te Maa Ektu Agun De (Light up the fire of the ebbing oven, Maa)”, are now an indispensable part of the language we speak. Sankha Ghosh has enriched our lives and language in the very basic sense of the term.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-76
22-04-2021||Calcutta||IIEST sets up Covid-care unit on campus||The primary healthcare centre on the IIEST Shibpur campus has been turned into a Covid-care unit with beds, oxygen support and isolation facilities after several residents, including teachers and staff, tested positive and had trouble finding beds in hospitals the institute has tie-ups with. The unit became operational on Wednesday. Since the beginning of April, at least 15 people on the campus have tested positive for Covid-19. The institute was forced to scrap its decision to call its students back to the campus for laboratory work and supplementary tests because of the rise in cases. Atharba Thakur, one of the medical officers looking after the Covid-care unit, said 16 beds have been set up on the unit’s first-floor. “There are eight beds each in the male and female wards — four for confirmed cases and four for cases found unconfirmed in the rapid test but whose RT-PCR results are awaited,” said Thakur. Rapid test facilities have been set up on the ground floor of the unit. There are cases where a person has tested negative in the rapid test but his or her oxygen saturation level has dropped, another medical officer said. “Samples of such people will be sent to the labs the institute has tie-ups with for the RT-PCR test. If the report confirms the infection, the person will be shifted to the confirmed cases ward, if beds are available. We are trying to arrange an oxygen concentrator,” he said. In a worst-case scenario, if beds are unavailable or a patient’s condition deteriorates severely, he or she will have to be admitted elsewhere, said assistant registrar Bivore Das. The doctors running the unit will be able to determine the cases that can be treated through home isolation, director Parthasarathi Chakrabarti said. “For such cases there would be telemedicine facilities,” he said. Chakrabarti said a lack of beds in hospitals came in the way of the family members of an official trying to get admitted last week and this was the trigger behind setting up the unit on the campus. “This will work as a back up to some extent at a time when cases are on the rise on campus. The unit armed with preliminary facilities, Covid-related medicine and oxygen support is expected to provide the critical care,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-77
22-04-2021||Calcutta||CM asks hospitals to increase number of Covid beds||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday asked officials of both private and state government hospitals to increase the number of Covid beds. She also asked them to open more satellite units where Covid patients with mild symptoms can be admitted, some of those who attended the online meeting told Metro. Mamata asked senior state government officials to ensure that there was no scarcity of oxygen in the state. Officials will have to ensure that no one hoards oxygen or sells it at a higher price. The state government on Wednesday identified several crucial areas of Covid management like facilitation of hospitals admission, availability of ambulances, bed augmentation in hospitals, creation of new satellite facilities and funerals. Senior government officials have been entrusted with ensuring that all these facilities are rolled out and work smoothly. During the meeting, state government officials told the chief minister that the state had 11,000 Covid beds on Wednesday. “The chief minister told us to increase the number of beds. She told us to keep the commitments we made regarding bed augmentation. When the chief secretary told her that we have promised to augment beds within a week, she said to speed it up and complete the new bed addition before that deadline,” said an official of a private hospital who attended the meeting. “She also asked all hospitals, both private and government, to set up more satellite facilities so that patients who have mild symptoms can be treated there. This will keep a lot of hospital beds free for patients who cannot do without hospital care,” said the official. Addressing a news conference after the meeting, Mamata said that safe homes should be categorised into A, B and C grades. “The A grade is for more serious patients who should be transferred to hospitals next. The B grade is for those who are mild. The C grade should be for those who have no space at home to isolate themselves,” she said. “Hospital beds should be occupied only by those who need it. Those who do not require hospitalisation should be at home or in safe homes.” “Our officials will see to it that there is no problem with oxygen availability. They will also ensure that there is no hoarding of oxygen to sell it at high price,” Mamata said. The state government has given the responsibility of oxygen supply to two senior officials who will coordinate with all stakeholders to ensure a steady supply of oxygen. In the meeting, the chief minister also suggested that the safe home or satellite units can also be used to keep patients who were in hospital earlier and need a few days observation before they can be discharged. “There are many patients who do not have any severe symptom after a few days but they are still kept in hospitals for observation before they are discharged. It seems that she suggested that these patients can be kept in satellite units for observation once they stop having any symptom. We can discharge the patients after a few days,” said an official of another private hospital. The chief minister’s meeting with heads of hospitals from Malda via videoconferencing came in the wake of a rapid rise in infections and deaths from Covid-19 in the state. According to the state health department, 10,784 new Covid cases were reported in the state on Tuesday. The rise in cases has resulted in a Covid bed crisis in hospitals despite several of them augmenting their bed strength. “We have increased our Covid bed count from 110 to 161 beds with 95 critical care beds. We have commissioned 32 beds in our satellite unit and plan to increase it to 50 by this weekend,” said an official of the Rabindranath Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences. Peerless Hospital had 63 Covid beds on Wednesday, up from 40 a few days back.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-77
22-04-2021||Calcutta||Belur Math closed indefinitely for visitors  from today||Belur Math, the global headquarters of Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission, will remain closed indefinitely from Thursday. At an emergency meeting of the governing council of the organisation on Wednesday, it was decided that Belur Math would have to be shut down immediately because of the surge in Covid cases. “Because of the rapid spread of the coronavirus, the premises of Belur Math will remain closed to visitors and devotees from April 22,” said Swami Suvirananda, the general secretary of the Ramakrishna Math and Mission. Over the last week as numbers kept rising across India, the governing council realised it would have to take a call considering the health of the nearly 300 monks and around 250 workers who stay on the Math premises. Belur Math had reopened its gates to visitors on February 10 after remaining closed for six months as a precaution against Covid. Around 200 visitors have been turning up every day and the number goes up on weekends and holidays. So, after deliberations, the monks decided that gates would be closed indefinitely. “...it is a prudent decision,” said a senior health department official. On Wednesday, senior monks of several other centres of the Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission came together to discuss their course of action. “Similar restrictions are likely to be in place for centres in Calcutta and other urban areas. A final decision will be taken after discussions with the centre-heads,” said Swami Nityamuktananda, of Mayer Bari at Bagbazar. At Ramakrishna Math in Cossipore (Udyanbati), timings for visitors have been curtailed. “The gates will remain open for two hours from 9am. In the evening, it will remain open from 4pm to 7.30pm,” said Swami Pareshatmaananda, a senior monk at the Math. The managing committee of the Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission in Kamarpukur has decided that all pranams will have to be done in the standing posture. “If the numbers continue to rise out here, we might decide to close the gates,” said a senior monk at the Kamarapukur centre in Hooghly. Shilbhadra Dutta, the BJP candidate from Khardah, alleged that a group hurled bombs at his car. The alleged attack came less than 12 hours before Khardah votes on Thursday. Dutta was having tea at a roadside stall in the Bandipur area when bombs were hurled, police said. A man was detained with Rs 33.87 lakh in central Calcutta on Wednesday night. Bubai Chakraborty, 27, of Bongaon in North 24-Parganas, could not provide any information about the source of the money, police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-77
22-04-2021||Calcutta||Keen to step out, man falls to death on Hazra Road||An 87-year-old man who was confined to his room for a few days as others in the family had tested positive for Covid, fell off his apartment's second-floor balcony while allegedly trying to climb down a getaway rope he had made with clothes. On Hazra Road around 9.30am, neighbours and onlookers shouted and tried to stop the elderly man when they saw him cross the balcony railing and hang from the rope. The man lost his grip on the rope and fell on a car parked below, police said. He suffered head injuries and was taken to a nearby hospital, where he was declared dead. His son, who is quarantined at home along with his wife, told Metro that he was too unwell to speak, especially after the tragedy. The elderly man lived with his son and daughter-in-law, both of whom tested positive for Covid a few days ago. His daughters live in Ahmedabad and the US, the police said. Like most elderly people whose movements have been restricted by their families to protect them from the coronavirus, the victim was confined in the apartment for several weeks. Restrictions were further increased when his son and daughter-in-law contracted the disease, a police officer said. The building is located on the busy Hazra Road and has a car showroom on the ground floor. The remaining four storeys have residential apartments. The police said he had landed on a car breaking a rear view mirror of the vehicle. The family has purportedly told officers of Rabindra Sarobar police station that around 7.30am last Thursday, the elderly man had sneaked out of his room and tried to leave home for a haircut. He was stopped and asked to get back into his room. “The victim’s family was trying to protect him by keeping him confined in his room, especially because two members in the family were infected. He was given the only room that had a balcony so that he would feel better,” said an officer of the police station. The police said they were certain that this was not a case of suicide but an attempt to escape the captivity. The tragic incident is another grim reminder of how the coronavirus has affected lives, so much so that the son of a deceased person could neither step out of the home to take care of his injured father nor perform his last rites. The victim’s son sent an authorisation letter through phone to one of his cousins, who took the elderly man to the hospital and then arranged for his last rites, the police said. Hundreds of elderly people are feeling suffocated because of restrictions on movement that have been necessitated by Covid-19, said a police officer who interacts with members of Pronam in south Calcutta. Pronam is a wing of community policing in Calcutta that looks after elderly people living alone. “Elderly people feel extremely lonely and anxious, especially when they are stopped from going out for their regular walk. That is the only time when they get to meet their friends,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-77
22-04-2021||Calcutta||Sankha Ghosh passes  away||Sankha Ghosh, one of Bengal’s foremost intellectuals, poets, professors and literary critics, passed away in Calcutta on Wednesday morning. He was 89. Ghosh had tested positive for Covid-19 and was in isolation at his home in Ultadanga. He leaves behind his wife and two daughters. According to his family, Ghosh had got himself tested last week after running a temperature for a couple of days. He also had a bout of cough and cold. “The report came on April 14. He did not want to get hospitalised. His condition started deteriorating from Tuesday night. He breathed his last this morning. A doctor declared him dead around 10.30am,” said a relative. As in life, Ghosh’s last journey was bereft of pomp. Of late, a gun salute has been a regular affair at the last rites of cultural luminaries in Bengal. Not for Ghosh because he would not have it that way. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said: “I extend my condolences to his family and well-wishers. He was down with Covid-19. But despite that, we will cremate him with full state honours. I have instructed the chief secretary. Ghosh did not like gun salutes. I spoke to his daughter. We will respect the family’s wishes. We will not do that.” Ghosh was a man of few words. But his public utterances had an indelible impact in the corridors of power. Ghosh had spoken out against the 2007 Nandigram firing during the Left Front regime, the 2012 arrest of a professor for circulating a cartoon lampooning chief minister Mamata Banerjee and the 2013 Kamduni gang-rape and murder. He had also been vocal against the citizenship thrust of the Narendra Modi regime and supported the long-standing farmers’ protests. A few lines from a poem called Sabinay Nibedan (Humble Appeal), written after the Nandigram firing, is topical even today. “Ami to amar shapath rekhechhi, akshar e akshar e; jara pratibadi tader jiban diyechhi narak kore/ dapiye berabe amar dal, onnye kobe na katha; bajra katheen rajya shashone setai swabhabikata (I have kept my pledge, letter by letter; have turned into hell the lives of protesters. My party will run amok, others will not utter a word; this is the normal in the rule of a State with an iron-fist).” On Wednesday, condolences poured in from all quarters, including from the Prime Minister. Born in Chandpur (now in Bangladesh) on February 5, 1932, Ghosh had graduated in Bengali language and literature from Presidency College and did his master’s from Calcutta University before taking up teaching as a profession. He taught at Bangabasi College, City College, Jadavpur University, Visva-Bharati and Delhi University, among other places. He won multiple awards, including Sahitya Akademi, Jnanpith and Padma Bhushan. Dinguli Raatguli (Days and Nights), Babar-er Prarthana (Babar’s Prayers) and Mukh Dheke Jaye Bigyapan-e (Face Covered in Advertisement) are among his noted collection of poems. He was also an authority on Rabindranath Tagore. Actor-director Koushik Sen, a veteran of “civil society protests” alongside Ghosh, said the poet was the chief architect of an “apolitical space” in the state. “Being apolitical does not mean not being political. It means asserting your opinion without being the stooge of any political party. Sankha Ghosh was not only a poet and a literary critic, he was the chief architect of this apolitical space. He was not with us. We were with him,” said Sen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-77
22-04-2021||Calcutta||Active Covid-19 cases in Bengal rise to 63,496||The number of active Covid-19 cases in Bengal rose by 5,110 on Wednesday, to 63,496. After five months of gradually climbing down from 37,190 to 3,110 cases, the total is now at its highest this pandemic, beating the October 26-level by over 26,000. Of the 58 deaths reported on Wednesday, 13 were from the city and 14 from North 24-Parganas. The state recorded 10,784 new infections on Wednesday. While Calcutta recorded 2,568 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 2,149. The state logged 5,616 recoveries. The CPM’s candidate from Jadavpur, Sujan Chakra-borty; Trinamul Congress’s Kamarhati candidate Madan Mitra; Trinamul’s Khardah candidate Kajal Sinha; and Congress’s state president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury have tested positive for Covid “It is the extensive campaign, with little or no regard for Covid-19 safety protocols, and for the mega eight-phase polls that dragged Bengal down, after that exemplary turnaround,” said a minister. “Every party in the state now has thousands of infected people, because they took part in the campaign,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-77
22-04-2021||Calcutta||Painful wait of 10 hours for Covid vaccination||Soma Das, 52, and husband Santanu Das, 59, got their first dose of Covid vaccine at 2.20pm on Wednesday, after standing in a queue outside a Calcutta Municipal Corporation clinic in Kasba since 4am. There were hundreds like them who had joined the queue outside the civic clinic on P Majumdar Road in Kasba, in Ward 107, before sunrise. When Sandip Roy, 60, arrived at 4.45am, there were around 80 people in front of him. Many elderly people were seen desperately seeking a shade to avoid the scorching sun. A group of such elderly people jostled under the shade of a sweet shop, forced to violate the protocol of safe distancing. Others, who were less lucky, stood under the sun, protecting themselves with umbrellas and caps. The uncertainty over the supply of Covid vaccines has led to a situation where officials of civic clinics are no longer in a position to tell potential recipients when the jabs will be administered, something they used to do in the early days of Covid vaccination. “We were getting a steady supply at that time, but no longer. If we are not sure how many people we can vaccinate on a given day, how can we assign assured slots to potential recipients? We do not want to give a specific date and time to someone and then tell him or her that doses are not available,” said a CMC official As the clinics are not allocating specific slots, potential recipients, many of them elderly, have no option but to queue up since 4am or even before. “When we came here at 4am on Wednesday, we were 43rd and 44th in the queue. A man was noting down the names,” said Santanu. The husband and wife, residents of Kasba’s Kayasthapara, took turns to stand in the queue. Santanu went back home around 5.30am and returned an hour later. Wife Soma then went home to prepare breakfast for the family. She rejoined the queue at 8.30am. “Neither of us left after 8.30,” Santanu said. “I had tried to get the jab at a few private hospitals but there, too, people were queuing up since 6am. Since this clinic is close to my house, my wife and I decided to stand in the queue here,” said Santanu. Sandip Roy had visited the clinic last week but there were 276 people ahead of him. It was not clear whether all of them would get the jab. “Those who were in the queue told me that I had almost no chance of getting the shot that day. So I had to go back,” he said. When Metro visited the clinic on Wednesday morning, an official was heard telling a person they were not in a position to say how many they would be able to vaccinate. “We will get to know only when we receive the vials. Please stand in the queue. If we have enough doses, you may get the shot today. Else, you have to try your luck another day,” the official said. An official of the CMC told Metro that the clinic had been receiving between 20 and 30 vials daily for a week. Each vial has around 10 doses. “Earlier, we were going door to door and handing over tokens to eligible people. The tokens had a serial number and the date and time when the person has to turn up at the clinic for the jab. We had a fair idea how many people could be vaccinated on a given day. But we are no longer so sure because of the uncertainty over the supply of doses. Also, we have to keep aside some doses in anticipation that a few people would turn up for their second dose,” the CMC official said. A notice outside the clinic’s gate said tokens to get vaccinated would be distributed from 9am every day on a first-come-first-served-basis. But many of those in the queue said they would not have received the jab had they turned up as late as 9am.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-77
22-04-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine ordeal as supply drops when demand surges||Vaccination centres across Calcutta are struggling to cope with a rush of people, many of whom are elderly who are queueing up for hours to get the shot. Long queues and people being turned away from vaccination centres are triggered by several reasons, officials said. Some of them are ⚫Uncertainty over the supply of doses, because of which vaccine centres are unable to calculate how many people can be given the shot on a particular day ⚫Fear of being unable to get vaccinated later if fresh supply fails to come ⚫Malfunctioning of the CoWin portal, where one has to register to get the jab. Several hospitals had to suspend Covid vaccination for hours on Wednesday after running out of stock. Vaccination resumed at these centres in the afternoon but many potential recipients had to be turned away because of shortage of doses. “Even around 15 days back, we were asking private hospitals and the Calcutta Municipal Corporation to organise awareness campaigns so that more people came forward to get vaccinated…. But the situation has changed completely in the last week following a steep surge in Covid cases. People are scared and are desperate to take the shot,” said Joly Chaudhuri, the joint secretary of the state urban development department. “Added to the scare of Covid is the fear of vaccine shortage. So more and more people are queuing up at vaccination centres.” Chaudhuri said 227 centres across Calcutta are vaccinating around 40,000 people daily. The state government’s target is to vaccinate at least 50,000 daily, provided there are enough doses. Dover Lane residents Shyamal Mukherjee, 81, and wife Kamala, 75, are scheduled to take the second dose of Covishield after April 22. Their elder son had called up the private hospital in south Calcutta where his parents had taken the first dose to know when the second dose would be administered. “An official of the hospital said they were not giving the second dose to more than 100 people a day and recipients were queuing up from 4am,” said their son. Officials of several private hospitals said problems in the CoWin portal and uncertainty over supply made it impossible for them to tell in advance how many people could be vaccinated on a particular day. “We are accepting appointments by phone calls. But every day at least 100 people are coming for walk-in registration. But we are not sure how many doses we will get,” said Pradip Tondon, the CEO of Belle Vue Clinic. On April 18, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had written to the Prime Minister highlighting the inadequate supply. “Unfortunately for us, the supply of vaccines from the GOI (government of India) side has been scarce and erratic, which has been negatively affecting our vaccination programmes,” she had written in the letter. The erratic supply is also affecting distribution of doses, said state government officials. On Wednesday, the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences had to suspend vaccination for about three hours. “We had been advised to keep a limited stock of vaccines from the previous day to tide over the crisis the next morning. But there were so many recipients in the morning that we could not manage... and had to wait for fresh supply to come at noon,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, which owns the Mukundapur hospital. “On an average, over the past three days, we have been vaccinating around 425 people - around 150 first doses and 275 second doses. Because of limited availability, the second dose is being given priority. We had to counsel and send back around 50 to 60 people coming for the first dose,” Venkatesh said. The shortage is also creating a waiting list for the second dose. “There is a daily backlog of more than 60 people for the second dose,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-77
