23-04-2021||Calcutta||Govt spaces offered on rent to corporate hospitals for setting up Covid units ||The state government on Thursday offered it’s facilities like stadiums, auditoriums and conference halls to big private hospitals to set up extended treatment units and satellite facilities for Covid patients. “We are offering government spaces against rent to corporate hospitals who have a minimum 250 beds, for setting up treatment facilities and satellite centres for Covid. These spaces would be available for rent for three months which can be extended upto one year,” a senior state government official said on Thursday. He said several hospitals had shown interest in requisitioning such facilities. The official said although private and government hospitals are increasing beds but unlike last year, this time Covid is spreading much faster affecting more people. So, there is a need to have as many facilities as possible to accommodate patients. “The facilities will be given out on nominal rents. The facilities should be in proximity to the hospitals,” said the official. Some of the hospitals said they are interested in setting up treatment units at such government facilities. Medica Superspeciality Hospital wants to take the Kishore Bharati Stadium in Santoshpur on rent. “We want to set up a 200-bed unit for treating mild to moderate Covid patients. The unit will have oxygen support,” said Alok Roy, chairman of Medica. Hospitals across Calcutta have started creating more Covid beds by opening new wings taking over entire floor in a building where earlier only non-Covid patients were treated. AMRI Hospital, Mukun-dapur is opening its new twin buildings for Covid treatment. The construction was complete last year but the hospital was waiting for the clinical establishment licence for the buildings which it received on Wednesday evening, said officials. “We will start with 30 Covid beds, including 10 in the critical care unit from Friday and eventually there will be 110 beds,” said an AMRI official. RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences took over an intensive care unit in its non-Covid building to set up 50 critical care beds for Covid patients. “Last year we didn’t have to set up Covid beds in this building which has non-Covid wards. But with the increasing number of cases we decided to create more facilities,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east of Narayana Health of which RN Tagore hospital is a flagship unit. He said one of the five elevators has been cordoned off and dedicated for the Covid ward on the second floor. The hospital now has 161 Covid beds. Peerless Hospital now has 63 beds and will start vacating non-Covid patients from other wards from next week. “These patients are recovering and are set to be released. Once these are vacated, we’ll add more beds,” said Sudipta Mitra, chief executive of Peerless Hospital. The hospital has requested the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission to help get clearance from the Calcutta Municipal Corporation for extension of wards which would help them have more beds. The government hospital too are increasing beds. All medical colleges in the state must have at least 100 beds each reserved for Covid patients, the state health department has decided. As per an order issued by the state health department on Thursday, 944 beds will be added in hospitals in Calcutta immediately, while 5,673 beds will be added in 49 hospitals across the state. Thursday’s order mentioned that RG Kar Medical College and Hospital will add 150 beds, with 50 of them being high-dependency unit (HDU) beds. Four hundred Covid beds will be added in Sambhu Nath Pandit Hospital, 20 of which will be critical care unit (CCU) beds and 25 would be HDU beds. The government would also set up general Covid beds at JB Roy State Ayurvedic Medical College and Hospital, Calcutta Homeopathic Medical College, DN De Homeopathic Medical College and Mahesh Bhattacharya Homoeopathic Medical College.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-75
23-04-2021||Calcutta||Circulars during elections mean nothing unless they are implemented: HC to EC||Circulars on Covid-19 protocols during elections mean nothing unless they are implemented, a Calcutta High Court bench, headed by the Chief Justice, told the Election Commission of India on Thursday. The remark came after the commission submitted an affidavit on the implementation of the Covid-19 guidelines during the Assembly election campaigning and at poll booths. Not being satisfied with its contents, the bench of Chief Justice Thottathil B. Radhakrishnan and Justice Arijit Banerjee asked the counsel of the poll panel to submit “a very short affidavit” again on Friday. “In view of the urgency of the situation, we cannot but post these matters as the first item tomorrow,” the bench said. The court was hearing petitions expressing concern that election campaigns are not adhering to the Covid-19 protocols, risking a serious spike in cases. “We are unable to reconcile the fact that the Election Commission of India is not able to update us as to what action by way of enforcement of the circulars has been obtained,” the bench said. “Issuance of circulars and holding of meetings by themselves do not discharge the onerous responsibility of the Election Commission of India and officers under its command in due performance of not only the statutory power and authority under the Representation of People Act, 1950, and the Representation of People Act, 1951, but the confidence that the Indian polity would have on it to carry forward the mechanism of upholding the democracy by use of requisite facilities even in pandemic times like heightened challenge by Covid-19 virus and its variants,” it added. At an earlier hearing on April 13, the bench had said the district magistrates and the chief electoral officer of Bengal “shall be personally responsible” for ensuring that the Covid guidelines are scrupulously followed by everybody. While taking note of the Covid-19 guidelines laid down by the Election Commission, the bench had also made it clear that the guidelines need to be implemented by the administration in the strictest possible manner. But even after that, election campaigns have shown scant regard for the Covid protocols. In the fifth phase of polling on April 17, polling officials were found seated inside the booth without wearing masks properly. People were standing within an arm’s distance of each other, many did not have masks or wore them on the chin. Gloves provided at the poll booths were disposed of on the road, on the floor or on the ground of the polling station. On Thursday, the bench did not hide its displeasure. “We are not satisfied with the materials on record to state that the Election Commission of India and its officers on ground in West Bengal have enforced their circulars. We are sure that circulars are not merely advisories to be wrapped up by the political parties or those involved in the political propaganda or even the public at large,” the bench said. Srijib Chakraborty, a counsel for the petitioners, said: “Today, the court made some observations. We expect a concrete order tomorrow.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-75
23-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Delivery staff grapple with last-mile fear ||The scare of infection has prompted many online delivery men to enquire about the Covid-19 cases in the housing societies before stepping in so that they don’t turn up outside an apartment with a Covid patient. To address cases where online delivery men had refused to leave items at the doorstep of a Covid-19 affected family, several RWAs have gone back to the mode of home delivery through their in-house staff, which they followed last year to stop entry of outsiders inside the housing. Many Calcuttans The Telegraph spoke to said these days the first question delivery men ask, when they call to inform about their arrival is: “Bari te kono Covid patient nei toh (Hope there is no Covid patient at home)?” Although managing an in-house delivery system requires manpower and coordination among staff, several RWA officials said this was the only way to help both — the quarantined patients and the vendors who are scared. Urbana — a housing complex along EM Bypass — has set up a “Covid assistance team”, made up of members of the security and housekeeping staff who have been trained. “We have made an SOP that involves keeping a sanitiser outside the apartment where a (Covid-19 positive) case is reported. If something needs to be delivered a member of the Covid assistance team keeps the delivery at the door step and sanitise their hands. The family is informed over the phone about the delivery,” said a member of the RWA. South City Residency, too, has devised a similar method. A table has been placed at the ground floor of each of the towers where delivery men are leaving behind deliveries meant for the affected families, a resident said. The housekeeping staff delivers the items at the apartment. Raju Das, a delivery person who works for an online pharmacy, said: “We are asking everywhere (if there’s a Covid patient at home). If yes, then we are leaving the medicines at the main gate with the security guards.” However, many housing societies are trying to counsel the delivery men so that they go till the doorsteps of the flats. “Delivery men enquire at the main gate and refuse to deliver if there is a patient at home. We have briefed our security guards to explain to them that leaving the medicines at the doorsteps of a flat should not be a reason for concern...” said a member of an RWA at a housing society in Narendrapur. A public health expert said chances of transmission were very less if the delivery person did not interact with the patient. “...How can a person be affected just by keeping something at the doorsteps of a flat or a house? Problems may arise if the affected family comes in contact and tries to pay in cash at the time of the delivery.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-75
23-04-2021||Calcutta||Once ostracised, 74-year-old now distributes masks ||A 74-year-old-man who was infected by the coronavirus last year stepped out of his home despite his age and vulnerability and distributed masks, sanitisers and chocolates among strangers in market areas near his home on Wednesday. Parimal Dey, who lives with his wife in their home in Ganguly Bagan in south Calcutta, said he was ostracised and his supplies were cut off for a week by some of his neighbours when he had contracted the virus last year — an experience that bolstered his determination to help people and create awareness against the stigma associated with the infection, he said. “We were boycotted despite following all quarantine rules in July last year. The grocery shop and the fruit vendor in our neighbourhood were threatened by some of my neighbours to not deliver anything at our home while we were in quarantine. I realised, I needed to do something about creating awareness once I get cured,” Dey shared his experience. Dey, who runs a business, had started distributing masks last year. “There were very few takers in the beginning. Then I started distributing chips packets to lure the people who came at least for the chips if not the masks,” he said. After a pause of a few months, Dey resumed distribution of masks and sanitisers and chocolates on Wednesday despite objections from his wife who feels “uneasy” every time the elderly man steps out of the house when most of the Calcuttans his age have been advised to stay indoors in the security of their homes. “I understand that my wife feels extremely uneasy and anxious about me going out in market places. But someone has to do the work. Even yesterday I found so many people either without masks or not wearing them properly. Although people were collecting the masks like freebies, the biggest challenge is to make them wear that,” he said. Several people Dey found without masks  only had a “sheepish smile” in response to the question why he/she was not wearing a mask. “Some even said: ‘o-amar kichu hobe na (nothing will happen to me)’,” said a youth who was helping Dey in the distribution. On Wednesday, Dey walked around Ramgarh market between Ganguly Bagan and Ramgarh to distribute around 3,000 masks. He aims to carry out similar drives to cover all the marketplaces around his neighbourhood. “I wash my hands, feet and face once I am back home. I inhale vapour with menthol and take vitamins as prescribed by my doctors. I am trying my best to be safe as well as help others at this hour of crisis,” Dey said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-75
23-04-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta Municipal Corporation decides to open 40 more Covid vaccination centres||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) has decided to open more Covid vaccination centres across the city though the uncertainty over a steady supply of vaccine doses is making the civic officials sceptic about the implementation. As the CMC is already running Covid vaccination centres from 140 of its 144 ward health clinics, the new ones would be set up in community halls or in the civic body run schools. “We have decided to open about 40 more vaccination centres across the city,” said a CMC official. Vaccination for anyone above 18 years will begin in the state from May 5, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced on Wednesday. The new centres would help the CMC to distribute the pressure in a more equitable manner. The officials, however, were sceptical whether they would receive adequate number of doses of the vaccines even after opening the new centres. “There is a supply issue already. Increasing the number of Covid vaccination centres will become a futile affair if the supply does not increase,” said an official. A similar worry also dogged officials of private hospitals. They were also worried about other resources. “We have space in our hospital to increase the number of vaccinate sites, but we need more vaccine supply. Also with a pressure to increase Covid beds, increasing more vaccination sites could also prove to be challenging as a new site would require nurses, a doctor and other vaccination staff. From where do we get so many trained personnel,” said Pradip Tondon, the chief executive officer of Belle Vue Clinic. Metro reported on Thursday how people had queued up outside a CMC run health clinic in Kasba since 4am or even earlier for the jab. A CMC official had said the officials in the civic body’s clinic in Kasba were not sure about how many vaccines they would get in a day, a reason why they were unable to give exact date and time to the recipients. In the absence of a confirmation about the supply, the officials asked people to stand in the queue and if vaccine doses did not get consumed till their turn came, they would get the jab.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-75
23-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal elections 2021: Poll trumps pandemic||Voters left home on April 17 with two masks on face, surgical cap on head, gloves on hands, sanitiser in pocket and shield over face. Oh yes! And voter card in pocket. Polling in the times of a pandemic meant additional safety measures for voters and officials, provisions for Covid-positive voters and courage in the hearts of those who braved the pandemic to exercise their franchise. The Telegraph Salt Lake toured the twin townships on V-Day to see how Covid influenced elections. Late start to safety “I went and cast my vote but no one checked my temperature or offered sanitiser. Some people in the queue had read in the papers that we would be offered these facilities and complained to the authorities but the latter were clueless,” said Dally Chatterjee at Salt Lake School in CA Block at about 8.20am. Early voters at other booths had the same grouse. The anganwadi workers who were entrusted with the job of checking temperature, offering gloves and sanitisers at the entrance, were late for work at some places. “We were put up at the stadium and are being dropped off at different booths by bus now,” said Bobita Kundu Hansda from inside a bus that was going booth to booth. At 8.30am, their bus was between Salt Lake School and Hariyana Vidya Mandir. Once they reached their booths, they continued till the end of the day. “We are coming in contact of so many people and are scared of exposure but this is our job,” said Kabita Mondal later in the day at Begum Rokeya Smriti Balika Vidyalaya in CJ Block. Voters were handed a glove, wearing which they were to press the button on the EVM and then dispose it in bright yellow bins outside. “When I went to vote at 2.30pm they were out of gloves,” shrugged Anup Sen, outside Labony School. “Some voters complained but were too exhausted to walk out and get their own gloves so it was business as usual. The authorities should have ensured better supply of essentials.” Gloves were missing also at BE Block community hall, where the anganwadi workers reached at 10.30am.  At the two booths there, presiding officer Nilotpal Roychoudhury claimed he was not handed any at the distribution centre, while Manik Midda, the presiding officer at the other booth, said he had handed a packet of 50 gloves to Mehera Khatun. The booth had 993 voters and the presiding officer is supposed to have received an equal number of gloves. On being asked, Khatun produced five crumpled plastic gloves from her handbag which she said were too inadequate to offer to anyone. Lack of distancing Around 8.45am, voters had formed two queues at the gate of Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Government College in New Town where residents of Action Area 1 were voting. Two women security guards were manning the gate and letting in voters in batches. The women’s queue was long but the men’s was serpentine. It flanked the buildings to the left of the college campus and turned along the pavement into the adjacent lane. This meant in many families, the women were done faster and were waiting for the husband or son to come out or leaving on their own. In case of a lady from AE Block, her husband had not even managed to enter the building complex while her vote was already cast. For senior citizens, the wait was proving to be trying. Debajyoti Bardhan, 70, has a knee replacement surgery coming up. “I am standing for an hour in the queue. Why can’t they form separate queues for each of the booths?” the DB Block resident said irritably. Younger residents were upset that entry was restricted right at the gate, a side of which was pushed slightly ajar from time to time to let voters in or out. “Entry and exit should have been separate. There is no social distancing in the queue,” said Ranjani Lahiri of East Enclave. It could not be known what her reaction was on reaching the college building where the corridor looked like a canal of heads from a distance. There were three adjacent rooms along the corridor and voters of each had formed parallel queues. There was no distance either between people in the same queue or between parallel queues. Some took pictures, possibly to post their anguish on social media. Those who were to vote in an auxiliary booth at another side of the floor were luckier as voters there were few in number and there were no other booths close by. Inspector in charge of New Town police station Sanat Das, who arrived with his team for supervision, pointed out that this was the only voting premise in New Town proper while the rest were in the outskirts. “There are as many as 10 booths here, which means about 10,000 voters. Wish they could be decentralised to prevent the gathering. But this rush will reduce after 12noon,” he said. Indeed, by 10.30am, the queue outside the main gate had vanished. It was extremely crowded outside Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan too, mostly comprising residents from the slums of Duttabad. Their queues snaked across the entire flank of road, a few of their masks were pulled down, their kids played on the street and voters themselves chatted gaily among themselves at a distance certainly too close for comfort. Facing the heat Some residents tried to vote later in the day when the sun was blazing but crowds thin. “I only got two passengers in the morning but 10 in the afternoon. The elderly refused to come out early morning when most people got to vote,” said rickshaw driver Gopal Krishna Jana, after dropping a BH Block couple at Apeejay School at 2pm. S.K. Ghosh of HB Block braved the heat a little before noon. “It’s extremely uncomfortable but at least the crowd is thin so I can reduce chance of infection,” said the 76-year-old who came wearing mask, cap and face shield, and with sanitiser in pocket. Bharati Banerjee, a 77-year-old of BE Block, voted at 2.15pm. She got Kartik Mondol, a neighbourhood rickshaw-puller, to take her and her son to Bhagabati Devi Balika Vidyalaya. “My cook has bunked. They always do that on polling day. So I prepared a dish for lunch and went to vote on finishing the meal.” The Pals of BE Block deftly avoid both crowd and the heat by coming at 4pm. “We always vote around this time,” said Ipsita Pal. Courage against Covid “I haven’t even been going to the market this last year and had initially thought of skipping the polls too. But I’m 75 and there’s no knowing if I’ll be around to see cast a vote five years later so I came after all,” smiled Babul Chandra Debnath, outside his booth at BK Block’s Acharya Prafulla Chandra High School for Boys. Then again, Tapas Sen Chowdhury of AL Block reasoned that if was going to the market why could he not go to vote. A feisty 75-year-old, who had gone to vote at Hariyana Vidya Mandir, recalled horror stories of past elections when her son — a polling agent — had a gun placed to his temple by goons of the opposition party. “I’m the daughter of a policeman. If violence cannot keep me away from voting, what is Covid?” she challenged. Inside the booth It’s not the voters alone who were at risk. It was also polling officials. “Those of us on polling duty were administered the first vaccine but it’s not time yet for the second jab! So many of us are still vulnerable,” said Rakhi Ghosh, presiding officer at Bhagabati Devi Balika Vidyalaya in AE Block.
Anindita Sil, a resident of Sourav Abasan in ED Block, who was also on duty, got her second jab in the nick of time. “But my colleagues ran from pillar to post as there was a shortage of vaccines everywhere. They performed election duty unprotected,” she said. 
“All four officers at our booth, including me, were pulled out of reserves in the last minute. We suspect it is because the earlier assigned officers got Covid,” said Aparajita Koner, presiding officer at the New Town college. 
Some officers were weary of Covid-positive patients coming to vote but Meena Dey, presiding officer at Labony School, felt that was the least of their concerns. “If we get Covid it will be from exposure at Bidhannagar College, that served as our distribution centre,” she said. 
Every officer spoken to described the centre as a chaotic congregation of thousands of officers, screaming, sweating, pushing and shoving their way about. The officers had to report there to collect voting machines, documents etc before polling and to submit the same afterwards. 
There was talk of someone turning up there on election-eve and declaring she was Covid positive. Asked why she had come out of isolation, she had reportedly shot back: “Amar chakri-ta ki apni bnachaben?”
The officer-in-charge of election for the Bidhannagar constituency Arnab Saha also recalled with horror how an official had attended a full day’s training and then come up requesting for a substitute as he was Covid positive.
“The polling room we got was tiny and it was impossible to maintain distancing among officers and agents there. Elderly voters were fumbling with Covid protocol too. They were taking off their right glove to sign the register but putting in on their left hand after getting inked. The ink was wiping away and we were having to repeat the process,” said Dey. Positive voters The rule book allowed Covid patients to go vote in the last hour with help from one booth official clad in PPE kit but many lacked clarity about the procedure. “My booth was given one PPE suit. What would the three other officials and agents wear? Shouldn’t Covid protocol require us to dispose of the ink, pen and register used by the voter? These questions were not answered,” said Dey. No patient turned up at her booth. But there was panic in HA Community Hall when Covid patient Mukund Maheshwari landed up in the final hour. The authorities advised him to leave without voting but he protested. “It is my right to vote,” the young businessman made it clear from behind two masks. The heads went back into the booth and someone came out with a PPE suit. But instead of one of the polling officials wearing the PPE, as was stipulated by the ECI, they asked Mukund to don it. He complied but the officers were still nervous. They asked him to wait till other voters had voted but Mukund objected. “You can’t ask a sick person to wait indefinitely,” he said. By then the sector officer had arrived and the man was allowed to go and cast his vote. But he didn’t get inked as he was in PPE. “We have more PPEs in reserve and will hand them out at any booth that calls in saying they have Covid patients,” said sector officer Deb Kumar Samanta. Safety over franchise Despite the precautions, some people were too scared to go and vote. Others were unwell after their jabs and were unable to go. Yet some others were down with the big C itself. “My husband and I got our addresses changed on our voter cards just this year and I am upset that we couldn’t vote,” said Annu Bengani, a resident of Uniworld City whose husband was down with fever. As a precaution they stayed away. “I feel even worse since we had to pay a bribe to get the voter cards.” Polling day business was far from robust for the totowallahs who had queued up in front of Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Government College in New Town. “It seems people are preferring to travel in their own car in fear of infection. We would have done much better if the college was open,” said Soumen Mondal. The totos ply on several routes starting at the New Town bus stand. Indeed, the polling percentage showed a dip in both constituencies. Off to court, almost Are votes more important than voters, some plead. “What was the burning need to hold elections amid the pandemic?” asked 78-year-old Kamlesh Guha outside Labony School. “The world is witness to how dangerous coronavirus is so aren’t we risking voters’ lives by asking them to go vote now?” If it was really unavoidable, Anup Sen of Labony argues that the authorities should have gone door-to-door to collect votes. This option was provided to those above the age of 80 years this year. 
Sanchar Banerjee fielded another poser. “If Board exams can be called off, why not elections? But then if the Kumbh Mela can be allowed, why not elections? They must have a universal approach,” said the IT sector employee who voted at Labony School. So pertinent is the issue that an organisation — Rama Ghosh and Sunil Chandra Ghosh Memorial Trust in AB Block had contemplated filing a public interest litigation against the Election Commission (EC). “We had to back out due to lack of funds and time but we think that by holding elections during a pandemic the EC is, in fact, depriving many from coming to vote in fear of the disease,” said Arijit Karmakar, a voter from AB Block and managing trustee of the body.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-75
23-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal elections 2021: First-time voters||Amrita Dasgupta Seen at: BF Block community centre “I was so excited about voting that I announced to my parents I was going the first thing in the morning. They could come later when they had time,” said the student of masters in applied mathematics. “Voting gives power in our hands and it’s not just who we want to bring into power but about who we do not want to bring into power.” Seen at: BC Block community centre “I had done my homework and knew who I wanted to voted for,” said the 22-year-old, who is waiting for her MBA classes to begin. After voting she excitedly clicked selfies of herself with her inked finger. Seen at: BC Block community centre “I’m feeling slightly nervous as I’ll be voting for the first time but I want the new government to work on development projects and to improve overall infrastructure,” said the 19-year-old psychology student. Her parents had ensured she wore gloves to the booth, as a Covid protocol. Seen at: BC Block community centre “I’m a political science student and have always been interested in the voting procedure. As a child I would ask my parents about it once they returned home from voting,” said the 19-year-old who was most excited about getting inked. Seen at: Salt Lake School, CA Block “Previously when my parents would go to the booth, I would follow election news on TV. This year I get to vote myself but I’m not sure who to vote for. Options are aplenty but is anyone worthy of my vote?” wondered the law student.  “I’m also concerned about the poor representation of youth and women in politics.” Seen at: Hariyana Vidya Mandir “This is my first vote so I’m not giving it much thought. I’ll just vote for whoever I like,” said the girl who wanted to upload a picture of her inked finger on social media. Seen at: Bhagabati Devi Balika Vidyalaya, AE Block “I study B.Tech in Durgapur and so if it wasn’t for the pandemic, I would probably be in college now and would miss my chance to vote,” said the 20-year-old who had come with his elder brother. “I want the government in power to provide jobs.” Seen at: Bhagabati Devi Balika Vidyalaya, AE Block “I do not appreciate parties using religion for politics. I want peace and harmony in our state,” said the 18-year-old economics student.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-75
23-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Elections 2021: Senior citizen voters||Kanti Mukherjee Seen at: BB Block community hall Age: 93 “I am fairly active and wasn’t going to miss my chance to vote,” said the BB Block resident who had come with wife Archana Mukherjee, 76. “I have come to vote early in the morning and will stand in the super-senior queue.” Seen at: Bidhannagar Government High School, BD Block Age: 92 In the past one year of pandemic, Archana Dutta had only been to the temple, for her vaccine and to vote. While she walked into the school herself, daughter Debjani Ghosh arranged for their car to be driven through the gate to pick her up on their way out. Seen at: Labony School Age: 92 Not just a nonagenarian voter, Shanti Chakraborty is a Covid survivor too! “My mother and I had both got Covid around the Pujas last year but while I was hospitalised she was in much better shape,” said son Swapan Chakraborty, himself a doctor. Although not very vocal now, the lady was once very interested in politics and cricket, with Sourav Ganguly being the apple of her eye. Seen at: Bhagabati Devi Balika Vidyalaya, AE Block Age: 90 As Roy was wheeled into the booth, she drew nods of admiration from neighbours and even a selfie-seeker! “I have never missed a vote,” said Roy. Neighbour Subrata Dutta Choudhury, while clicking the selfie, spoke of how proud he was to see a 90-year-old exercise her franchise. Seen at: SBI staff training centre, HC Block Age: 88 The octogenarian had reached the booth all masked up but then realised she had left her voter card at home. So she sat waiting outside under a garden umbrellas as her grandson fetched the card. Though she did not speak much, neighbours came and greeted her. “She must be the senior-most voter of IC Block,” said neighbour Bikash Kumar Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-75
23-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Peaceful polls, sporadic unrest||Shantinagar, behind Sukantanagar, was witness to the biggest incident of unrest last Saturday when polling for the Bidhannagar Assembly constituency was largely peaceful. The Trinamul Congress (TMC) and BJP supporters got into a scuffle in front of Naobhanga Primary School polling station, that prompted both BJP candidate Sabyasachi Dutta and TMC’s Sujit Bose to reach the spot. The day after the polls, too, trouble erupted in Duttabad as clashes broke out among supporters of rival parties at Duttabad, on the fringes of Salt Lake, that left five persons injured, police said. Ballot blues At around 10am, trouble started brewing at the polling station in Shantinagar when some women voters who were waiting in the school’s field alleged that that a group of unknown men had pelted stones at them. According to one of the women, Shyamali Mondal, the stones pelted by the men landed on the heads of at least three women inside the polling station that left them injured. “We immediately took them to a local pharmacy that was shut but we asked the owner to open it and put antiseptic solution on their heads alongwith water,” said Mondal. Soon after this, a large police contingent led by the deputy commissioner headquarters of the Bidhannagar Commissionerate Surya Pratap Yadav reached the spot, along with a RAF team, to bring things under control. “A large group of people who are not from this locality had gathered here outside the booth. Once the supporters clashed, some men were pushed to the ground before a large police force rushed in,” said Lakkhi Pal, who owns a pan shop in the area. After the police reached, so did Dutta and blamed the Bidhannagar South police station of inaction. “I heard that many outsiders had gathered in front of the school and were intimidating voters. This was happening in front of officers of the Bidhannagar South police station and one of their officers too was aiding the outsiders to jam the booth and cast false votes,” Dutta claimed. According to him, at least two women supporters of BJP had been injured and he then called up officials of the Election Commission of India to report the issue. Several minutes after Dutta reached, Bose also reached the area and alleged that Dutta was trying to incite violence. “Dutta is moving around with 15 outsiders. He cannot do this. He knows he has lost the elections. This is why he is up to such shenanigans. I have reported it to the observer,” said Bose. The observer too reached the spot and was heard telling police officers that he would not tolerate such trouble mongering. “I won’t stand this. If need be, put both the candidates in a single car and give a police escort team in front of the vehicle and one more behind it and tell them to move through the constituency together,” the observer told a senior police officer at the spot. A similar incident was reported from Nayapatti when an argument broke out between Dutta and former Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation councillor Joydeb Naskar. BJP supporters alleged that Naskar had come to the area with some outsiders to create trouble. Dutta was the target of slogans from a section of men and women who were standing outside Naskar’s house. Police as well as the central forces then moved in and asked the residents to disperse from the area if their votes had been cast. In Rajarhat The situation was similar in the Rajarhat New Town constituency. At Hatiara and Ghuni, two BJP polling agents alleged they were stopped from entering the booth by TMC workers and claimed they were assaulted with blunt objects. “Trinamul supporters assaulted me and even tried to run over me with a scooter,” said Swapan Malakar, the BJP polling agent. At Machibhanga, a scuffle broke out between the BJP and Trinamool supporters where TMC alleged BJP workers were trying to influence voters within 100 metres of a booth. Meanwhile, CPM candidate Saptarshi Deb alleged that polling agents affiliated to his party were not allowed to sit inside several booths in Rajarhat and Narayanpur. Later, Deb and his supporters sat on a demonstration on Rajarhat Road, alleging booth capturing and rigging by TMC poll agents. TMC candidate Tapash Chatterjee denied the allegations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-75
23-04-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine centre starts in Action Area 1B||Vaccination started on Tuesday in a newly constructed NKDA banquet hall in the Pride Hotel campus. The new centre replaces the one in Action Area II near Tank 12 that was originally a safe house from August to December last year. In view of the rise in Covid-19 patients across New Town, it will resume operation as a safe house. It was closed down as a vaccination centre after inoculation on Monday. On the first day, 297 took the jab at the new centre while the figure was 301 on the second. “Many had turned up at the old centre on Tuesday morning. We had anticipated that since they had booked earlier and an electric bus was kept there to ferry them to the new centre. Many came up to praise the arrangement when I visited the centre around noon,” said NKDA chairman Debashis Sen. There was a crisis one day last week when there was no supply of vaccine in the morning. Those who had booked appointments had to return without the jab. “Since then, supply has been adequate,” an official said. People who register over the CoWin portal or call up on the NKDA helpline 18001037652 are being issued tokens when they reach and are being called inside in twos as there are two vaccination booths. “People are liking it as the centre, including the waiting area, is air-conditioned,” said Sen. The old centre did not have AC and was on the first floor, accessible only by stairs, which caused problems for some elderly residents. The other NKDA vaccination centre on the second floor of CB Block community market is also operating.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-76
23-04-2021||Calcutta||Booth trek of a Covid positive voter||Sourav Chakraborty of DL Block learnt of the Election Commission of India’s provision to let Covid positive voters cast their ballot in the final hour of polling and turned up at his polling booth, Sri Aurobindo Institute of Education, all by himself, causing a mini consternation. He shares his voting experience with The Telegraph Salt Lake. I was ill since April 3. There had been no breathing distress, no fever. But when I started experiencing body ache — it was as if someone was beating me with an iron rod; I could not even lie down at night — I decided to go for a test. The result came positive. Since then, I was wondering whether I could vote. I got affirmative news on talking to politically active friends and then checked the Election Commission of India guidelines. Though it was not mandated, I placed an order for a PPE kit with a CK Block chemist. On Saturday afternoon, I put on the kit, that cost me Rs 450, and a faceshield that cost another Rs 200, and set off. Though my house is less than 300m away from the booth, I decided not to create a spectacle of myself by walking the distance and be a target of barking streetdogs. I parked my car and beckoned at a CISF jawan. He heard me out, went inside and asked me to come back at 6.15pm. The final hurdle Half an hour later, when I stepped out of the car, the jawan called the presiding officer out of the building.  She was quite alarmed to see me. “Apnar ki vote na dilei noy?” she asked. When I pointed out it was my democratic right, she argued that I would infect the balloting unit. I assured her that I had brought a pen along and would press the button with it. I also mentioned that I had a voter slip carrying my serial number and no one needed to be in the room when I voted. Finally she relented. The polling agents had already left as, being local residents, they knew I was coming. I asked the three polling personnel to move to the farthest corner of the room. But the machine needed to be activated, which one of them did. My identity was not checked, nor was my finger inked. But I had finally cast my vote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-76
23-04-2021||Calcutta||Polling booths manned by women||Fifty four polling stations across Salt Lake and 35 across Rajarhat-New Town were manned by, well, women. The presiding officer along with the three polling officers at these centres were exclusively ladies. A notice issued by the electoral registration officer specified that these booths were chosen only after being certified by the police as being safe and where separate rooms were available after accommodating central armed police forces at the polling premises. The women performed their duties and went home feeling empowered, although not without suggestions for the next time. Jostling in queues A common issue with all the women spoken to was the mad rush at Bidhannagar College, the distribution centre (DC), where they had to report to pick up and then drop EVM machines and the like. “They had a special queue for women only for attendance. Otherwise it was common queues to tag our phone numbers, guards, micro observers… My second polling agent was down with fever so it was yet another line to get a substitute,” said Rakhi Ghosh, presiding officer at Bhagabati Devi Balika Vidyalaya in AE Block. “Everyone wanted to get their work done fast at the DC so there was pushing, jostling, shouting and chaos. Women could not battle it out with the men in those queues. Women need separate queues,” added Chaitali Mondal, presiding officer at Bidhannagar Municipal School in FE Block. Heavy lifting The next issue was the sheer weight of machines like the VVPAT and control unit. “They were too heavy to carry, especially for officials nearing retirement age. And this was besides all the documents and our own luggage that we had to ferry,” said Sucharita Chatterjee, on duty at BD Block’s Bidhannagar Government High School. The officers had to stay at the booth overnight before polling but Chatterjee’s team preferred not to sleep as the room was under CCTV surveillance and they felt uncomfortable being watched. Meena Dey, presiding officer at Labony School, said it was impossible for women to wrest open the VVPAT machines at the end of day and remove batteries. Ditto for Anindita Sil, who is still rubbing balm on her sore arms and shoulders after all the heavy lifting. Training trouble The women appointed for poll duty hold government jobs like those of school teachers and once selected, they were trained a few times for the new role. “All four officers in my booth, including myself, were pulled out of reserves,” said Aparajita Koner, assigned at Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Government College in New Town. “I suppose the original officers are down with Covid. I still received two training sessions but a team mate had to make do with a single rushed class. Obviously it wasn’t enough and we had to study by ourselves on YouTube.” Some women were assigned in their own constituency and used election duty certificates (EDC) to vote in their own booths. “I was promised a booth in my constituency but got posted at Dum Dum. I couldn’t vote,” says Sil, who lives in ED Block’s Sourav Abasan. Many booths were in schools and colleges and so toilets were decent. The ladies had brought biscuits or bought meals but most said they had no time to eat on the big day. Home calling Some women were weary of leaving behind their families and young children for overnight duty. “But that was before I spoke to the CAPF guards who stayed on our premises,” said Chatterjee. “After the Sitalkuchi incident, we think these forces are brutes but my heart broke to hear that one of them had not managed to take leave in years. When he was home last, his wife was expecting and now he bought a dress for his six-year-old child and was asking if I think it would fit her! I too have a six-year-old son and realised I had no business feeling sad after hearing of these forces’ sacrifice,” she said. Anima Das broke into laughter when her four-year-old called her up in the midst of a tiring day at the booth. “She had been hearing us talk about how dangerous election duty can be and she wanted to know if I was safe!” said Das, who was posted at the FE Block school. Transport was available for the women to be dropped home at the end of the day but since most of them live within the constituency, many chose to return home on their own as and when their paper work was completed. Strict but gentle “I noticed my booth was manned solely by women and found them helpful, polite and efficient,” said Babul Chandra Debnath, a voter at Acharya Prafulla Chandra High School for Boys in BK Block. When an altercation broke out at Chatterjee’s booth about a voter having forgotten to get his I-card, she intervened with utmost kindness. “I was strict about the rule but explained the problem patiently,” she said. At the end of it, the voter said I had been so polite, he couldn’t be mad at me if he tried!” Mondal created a separate queue for the elderly at her booth when someone requested her and Dey did her best to solve the “EVM in the dark” problem. Voters across the board complained that the EVMs were placed at rather dark corners that made it difficult to read the candidate’s names. “The EVM malfunctions if placed under bright light. We also couldn’t keep it near a door or window to protect voter privacy. The best I could do was offer my mobile phone’s torch for elderly citizens,” Dey said. Empowered on the way Das found some voters wondering out loud if an all-woman team would be up for such a crucial job. “But they were happy seeing us pulling it off,” she smiled. Chatterjee agrees. “Now that I’ve proved to myself I can undertake a job of such great responsibility, I know I can take on any job. It’s been empowering.” Das’s was the first all-woman team to complete their paper work and submit their machines at BNC, within two hours after voting stopped. “The authorities were surprised! They didn’t expect women to complete the work to perfection and that too on time. In fact they broke into applause for my team and even clicked our pictures,” smiled Das. Encore or not While those like Koner said they had gained from their maiden experience and would put up an even better show next time, some others were reluctant. “It’s not a choice for us, it’s mandatory duty,” said an officer assigned at Salt Lake Point School in CD Block. Sil suggested that the Election Commission of India recruit employees dedicated to conducting polls around the country. “That would be better than dragging teachers out of their comfort zone and forcing them to perform duties they are neither suited nor prepared for,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-76
23-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal elections 2021: Battle royale for Bangur Avenue||Bangur Avenue is a crucial turf that is expected to play a significant role in deciding who has the last laugh on May 2 — sitting MLA Sujit Bose or turncoat challenger Sabyasachi Dutta. “If we can lead with a minimum of 15,000 votes from the 10 wards under the South Dum Dum Municipality (that are under Bidhannagar constituency), I will make up the rest from Salt Lake,” Dutta told The Telegraph Salt Lake on poll-eve. Seated at the BJP party office in Block B, he is a picture of confidence. His current party BJP had taken a lead of 18,916 in the Bidhannagar Assembly segment in 2019 even when Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar had been elected from the Barasat Lok Sabha seat, which has six other Assembly constituencies under it. Bangur Avenue (Ward 29) alone had given BJP a lead of about 4,600 votes out of a cumulative lead of about 6,152 votes from the 10 South Dum Dum wards. Trinamul Congress had managed a majority in only three wards then. This includes a lead of 13 votes in Kalindi, where Mriganka Bhattacharya was a councillor of Ward 19. If Dutta is so confident, it is because Bhattacharya has shifted loyalty from TMC to BJP, like he has. “It is because of Mriganka that I could gain an easy foothold here,” Dutta says. “He is very popular here. His name is synonymous with development. He has really worked hard on issues like water logging, plastic ban, underground drainage etc. Residents know what he is capable of,” the former mayor of Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation said, with the councillor by his side. Till a decade ago, Bangur Avenue was infamous for waist-high water-logging during monsoon. After the state government’s 2007 ban on the use of plastic started getting strictly adhered to during the Trinamul regime, things significantly improved in monsoon. A beautification drive took place in 2013-14, in course of which the 2km stretch along VIP Road, from Golaghata to Bangur Avenue, became a sight for sore eyes.  The waterbody was dredged and renovated, with a hanging bridge in the middle. The adjoining pavements were tiled and fitted with streetlights and statuettes. Both Bose, the vice-chairman of South Dum Dum Municipality, and Bhattacharya, the then chairman-in-council, public works department and local councillor of Bangur Avenue, claimed credit for it. Bhattacharya has accused Bose of replacing the original foundation stone which carried the names of chairperson Anjana Rakshit and other councillors with one bearing only his own. With the two politicians in rival camps now in the election, the battle for Bangur Avenue has got interesting. Of the 18,000-odd residents, about 40 per cent are of north Indian origin. Dutta spent a lot of time here on his campaign trail, even playing Holi with residents here. Bose, on the other hand, got members of several social and cultural forums of north Indian communities from this area and his own backyard Sreebhumi to endorse him as a candidate at a pre-Holi meet in BF-CF Park, a stone’s throw from Dutta’s election office in Salt Lake. Riot of party colours The political tussle is apparent in the area, which is bedecked with poll publicity material. There is either a flag hanging from a shop or a banner stuck to a veranda or a festoon attached to the grille of an iron gate. For every Sujit Bose banner, there is a Sabyasachi Dutta festoon right next to it or on the opposite wall. The residents have simply been carpet-bombed with campaign as well as campaign material. The weeks leading up to the polls had the evening air rent with rap music, which were customised compositions commissioned by both parties. Dutta campaigned twice a week in Bangur Avenue, brought in TMC-turned-BJP political heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari for a public rally on April 10 and a touch of Bollywood in Mahima Chaudhry for a roadshow along Jessore Road on April 12. He also played Holi with residents here. Bose made sure he was amply visible in all kinds of pujas and other religious gatherings held in March-April, right from Neel Sashthi to Makar Sankranti. He also held a Football Festival on April 18, the day after election. The tournament was held chiefly for party workers in Bangur Avenue, as possibly a reward for their hard work. Bose is confident that TMC will win and form government for third time. “Banners don’t decide elections. That is just publicity material. Our work here proves we have a strong base. Also, Mriganka always went against party instructions. He never obeyed his seniors which is why we are not bothered that he changed sides. In fact, it is good that he left; we now have a more organised party system,” he said. Polling may be over but there is politics on everyone’s lips. Right from social occasions to vegetable markets, the only discussion that seems to be happening is on who will win from Bangur. It is no different at the tea stalls, be it the one owned by two Bengali siblings or Sharma Tea, known for tandoori chai and kesar chai, served with a sprinkle of saffron. As one walks five minutes off VIP Road, to one’s left, opposite the supermarket, is the BJP office that once belonged to Trinamul. Bhattacharya continues to hold fort here. Only the plastic chairs that are strewn all over the place have turned from green to bright saffron. Will Bangur Avenue flaunt saffron on May 2 or will green make a comeback? The debate rages over cha-singara in Bengali as well as over chai-samosa in Hindi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-76
23-04-2021||Calcutta||A day to celebrate democracy||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-76
23-04-2021||Calcutta||‘Iconic’ birds killed during hunting festival||A hunting festival in West Midnapore has killed birds of two species described as “iconic” by birdwatchers among a wide range of other wildlife. At least one Indian pitta was killed in the Gopegarh forest in Chandra beat, around 5km from Midnapore town, alleged animal activists. Around six black francolins were killed in Tamakbari forest in the same beat, around 15km from Midnapore town, they alleged. April 21 was one of the several dates of ritual hunting in the southwestern districts of Bengal — West Midnapore, Bankura, Jhargram and Purulia. The calendar started from April 3. The Indian pitta’s dazzling appearance makes it a hot favourite in magazine covers, stamps and cellphone wallpapers. A picture of an Indian pitta adorns the 13th edition of The Book on Indian Birds by Salim Ali, the renowned ornithologist and naturalist. The many names the bird has inspired — in Bengali, it is called Barnali and Navrang (because of its nine colours) in north India — are a testament to its popularity. The black francolin is jet black in colour with streaks of gold and white cheek patches and a touch of copper near the collar. “Both are endemic birds. The pitta is still found very rarely in urban areas, the black francolins found in arid grasslands, forests and agricultural tracts. An Indian pitta has recently landed in Rabindra Sarobar. Till the renewed surge in Covid-19 cases, scores of birdwatchers flocked the lake and waited for hours to get a picture of the bird. Both the Indian pitta and the black francolin are prized clicks for birders,” said birdwatcher Sujan Chatterjee. Arka Sarkar of HEAL (Human and Environment Alliance League), an NGO, was in West Midnapore on Wednesday to track the alleged hunters. “Till a year or two ago, every hunting session was followed by a congregation of hunters. They assembled the kill, drank and feasted on the cooked meat. A drive undertaken by the forest department has forced the hunters to curb the number of congregations. We could only see two such assemblies with scores of birds and animals — wild boars and hares. But it was only a fraction of the total animals killed,” he said. Animal activists also said that thousands of people gathered for the hunting rituals with scant regard for social distancing. The pointed out that bushmeat consumption is dangerous at the times of the Covid-19 pandemic. A Calcutta High Court order in 2019 put a complete embargo on ritual hunting in various districts of south-western Bengal. The court directed the civil administration as well as the police authorities to provide all possible cooperation to the chief wildlife warden to stop the hunts. Recently, in an order dated March 21 this year, the court reiterated its earlier stand, saying that all such illegal activities have to be completely stopped by the state by exercising police power, if needed. Sources in the forest department said any “stern action” against the alleged tribal hunters was unlikely in the election season. “We are trying our best despite staff shortage because of the election. The police are also busy with the polls. We have set up nakas (check points) at roads leading to the forests. We have also done a lot of awareness camps with local tribal leaders and residents. The incidents of hunting have come down. But the forests are fragmented and some stray incidents are being reported. We are looking into them,” said V.K. Yadav, the chief wildlife warden of Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-76
23-04-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta University keeps only emergency services open with 50 per cent attendance||Calcutta University has decided to keep only departments providing emergency services, like audit and accounts and controller of examinations, open with 50 per cent attendance till further orders because of the rise in Covid-19 cases. The departments will function following Covid protocols. In a notice signed by the university’s registrar, the faculty have been requested to “carry on the academic activities via online mode only”. Members of staff and officers have been advised to take care of their own health and look out for symptoms like fever, respiratory problems etc. “If feeling unwell, they are advised not to come to the university,” the notice said. The decision was taken after Covid cases were reported on campuses like College Street, Ballygunge Science College and Rajabazar Science College, a university official said. “Those infected include teachers, research scholars and administrative staff. Some are admitted in hospitals,” he said. Audit and accounts, the controller of examinations, PhD, migration, transcript and registration are the departments that will be open with half of the staff strength, the notice issued by registrar Debasish Das said. The campuses have been shut for in-person classes as a precaution against Covid since March last year. “Some teachers were coming to the campuses to attend their labs following all the safety protocols. But under the circumstances, we won’t allow that,” said vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee. In the previous (odd) semester that had ended in March, CU was the only university in Bengal that reopened its campuses for practical classes, allowing teachers and postgraduate students to access the labs. In the even semester, which started in April, practical classes have been stopped because of the spike in Covid cases. “Now, access to the lab for some teachers has been stopped as well. This will continue till the situation stabilises,” said a CU official. Parthiba Basu, the president of the Calcutta University Teachers’ Association, said there was a genuine need to restrict the access to the labs, following a spurt of cases. “I have stopped visiting the labs over the past ten days. Research scholars have been told not to come. I have written to the VC on behalf of the university community to hold vaccination camps for the teaching and non-teaching employees,” said Basu, who heads the zoology department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-76
23-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Kids suffer learning loss a second time||Children from financially deprived homes are being pushed into suffering a loss of learning once again with centres shutting down because of a rise in Covid cases, those who work with the children said. The surge in infections and instances of more children getting the infection has led to several NGOs in and around the city closing down their centres. In the past several months, students had started going to the centres. Many of them were being provided with remedial classes to compensate for the loss suffered during schooling at home to help them reach the level of the class they study in. At least one NGO had started a project of taking a bus to neighbourhoods to hold classes for children aged four to six years. The NGO had drawn up a plan to extend the project to children in the age group of six to nine, where teachers would travel to their localities and take classes in the bus. But the plan had to be suspended even before it could take off. “For the pre-primary and primary children, this intervention is important because it is the time when they start learning to write. With a teacher in front of them they can be guided and monitored to see how they are writing. This is getting impacted,” said Ananya Chatterjee, the school administrator at NGO Calcutta Rescue. Most of the students are first generation learners and their parents cannot help them write. Teachers cannot be sure how much of their work is being done by elder siblings without the student actually learning to write, said Chatterjee. “For older children, they have moved to a new class and new concepts and topics are being introduced in class. Teaching the same portion online and in a classroom is not the same. It is much more challenging online,” she said. Unlike last year, with parents still going out to work, the children’s access to mobile phones for online classes is far more limited now. “For mainstream schools, they have been able to move back to online classes but for our children the access to devices is severely restrained this time. Some of them might get a phone only at 11 at night,” said Manjusmita Bagchi, the associate director at NGO Ek Tara, which primarily works in Topsia and Tiljala. Ek Tara had been conducting tele-classes last year when teachers would call the students over the phone twice a day and monitor their progress. There were instances when the staff of the NGO distributed the worksheets at home, which is a challenge now amid rising Covid cases. “This time, the fear of infection among people is much more and mobilising people is becoming difficult,” said Bagchi. Asking students to come to the centres in small batches is also not an option now. “If even one student gets infected under the circumstances it will be difficult to provide medical care,” said Arjun Dutta, the president of Calcutta Social Project. The heads of several NGOs fear dropouts would be much higher this time. “Last time, there was a dropout of 10 per cent and we went back to their houses to convince parents to send them back to school. But with another gap, we fear many of the children will lose the urge to study. In many of their homes there is no atmosphere of studies,” said Tanmoy Patra, the founder of Howrah Vivekananda Siksha Kendra. It is not only their academic progress but also their overall grooming and social interaction that is getting impacted. “At our centre, we develop their sense of hygiene and overall personality, too,” said Patra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-76
