24-04-2021||Calcutta||Jadavpur University to remain closed till May 3||Jadavpur University authorities on Saturday announced that the institution will remain closed till May 3 due to sudden spike of COVID-19 cases in West Bengal. JU Registrar Snehamanju Basu told PTI only basic emergency services, required for giving logistical support to online classes and running administrative work on the virtual mode for the time being, will be run from the campus with the presence of very few staff who will be given all necessary protection to avert contamination.The institution will remain closed from April 24 to May 3, officials said. The move followed several members of the university faculty and other staff being infected with the virus in past couple of days as the varsity had opened its administrative building which is the hub of academic activities and many faculty members and top official's attended the office as COVID-19 cases had dipped in the state in past months. "With the sudden rise, we need to break the chain. Hence the decision. We are also sanitising all the buildings and blocks in an extensive manner," Basu said. All the senior functionaries including Vice-Chancellor Prof Suranjan Das, Basu herself, faculty members are working from home. A senior functionary of Jadavpur University Teachers Association said to their knowledge university authority will review the situation on May 3 and take decision about whether the campus can be opened for academic and administrative works with 50 per cent attendance, based on the emerging situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-73
24-04-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta University to vaccinate all employees above 45 years||In view of the sudden spike in COVID-19 cases in West Bengal, Calcutta University has decided to vaccinate all employees aged 45 years or above, a top varsity official said. Vice-Chancellor Sonali Chakraborty Banerjee told PTI on Saturday that this was necessary to prevent contamination from the highly infectious virus and ensure the employees above 45 years are not exposed to its threat. The VC said the vaccination drive will be funded by the state-run university and will be carried out in two campuses. While one centre will be at the Rajabazar Science College where vaccination will take place on April 27 and 30, the other centre will be at Ballygange Science College Campus on April 28 and 29. The university authorities said one has to give consent to be vaccinated. A university spokesman said CU is the first state university in West Bengal to have opted for this full vaccination drive for its employees. "While classes are being held online, for administrative and other job, a section of employees have to come. We had restricted the presence of employees to half of present numbers after coronavirus spread again, but to keep administrative work functioning we cannot take the risk of closing down the office," the spokesman said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-73
24-04-2021||Calcutta||As in life, so in elections: Mahmood banks on Bengali Hindus to halt BJP||Unable to manage the Ramazan rush, a small eatery on Zakaria Street started noting down the names of customers waiting for kebabs, fries and desserts a few years ago. “The process confirmed what we always felt — that over 70 per cent of our customers were Bengali Hindus,” said Muhammad Mahmood, son of the owner of Dilli 6, one of the many joints selling Ramazan delicacies on Zakaria Street. In election season, Mahmood -- and many others in the neighbourhood -- are banking on that very segment, Bengali Hindus, to halt the BJP’s marauding Hindutva juggernaut in Bengal. “I have grown up here. Trust in the Hindu brethren of Bengal has been a part of our upbringing. The Hindutva politics will not work here,” Mahmood said with an air of confidence. A 10-minute walk from Lalbazar through Rabindra Sarani leads to Zakaria Street, where the imposing Nakhoda Mosque overlooks scores of shops on both sides of the road. While the road might seem an extension of the Canning Street and Rabindra Sarani markets for the rest of the year, the run-up to Id is different. From Ramazan till Id, Zakaria Street is the place to go for tens of thousands of Calcuttans. Stalls dotting the road sell everything — haleem, kebabs, sewai, bakarkhani (a type of bun), sheermal (a type of sweet bread), dry fruits, attar, kurta-pyjamas, abayas and skullcaps. The stretch used also to serve as the venue for many heritage walks until the arrival of the virus. This year, in the middle of the elections, a sense of insecurity, agony and rage is palpable in the same air that smells of fritters, fried meat and falooda. The insecurity stems from the prospect of a Right-wing regime in Bengal. The agony is rooted in a feeling of being “second-class citizens”. “I don’t feel scared in Zakaria Street. But I feel scared when I watch TV news channels. The anchors call us names every day. Political leaders keep calling us termites and traitors,” said Muhammad Mustaq, 63, who sells mats and gamchhas in a small makeshift stall on the pavement. The rage is directed against “political leaders who come from Delhi on chartered flights and speak of hatred and polarisation every day” and hyper-nationalist TV anchors. However, a walk through Zakaria Street suggests an overarching belief in the secular fabric of Bengal, overshadowing all other emotions. Muhammed Samir and Muhammed Tahsin, brothers who trade in stones, own a small shop on the road. Bengali astrologers form the bulk of their clientele. “If a Hindu customer drops in during iftar, he joins us in sharing the meal. This is not new. Our father did the same thing during his time. We have been raised in this tradition of inclusiveness. During my youth, I used to go pandal-hopping every Durga Puja,” said Samir, 47. The younger brother, Tahsin, 37, said that “Jai Sri Ram” sounded more like a war cry than a slogan. “People are being beaten up for refusing to chant the slogan. This is madness,” he said. Food blogger Indrajit Lahiri has been visiting Zakaria Street during Ramazan for years now. “Bengali Hindus have been visiting Zakaria Street and its neighbourhood for ages for Ramzan-specific street food. But with the emergence of social media, Zakaria Street has become a status symbol. In a way, it’s a natural progression and an extension of the inclusive character of our land,” he said. Zakaria Street falls under the Jorasanko Assembly constituency, which votes in the last phase on April 29. Hindi-speaking traders, a segment the BJP likes to believe is its “vote bank”, form a sizeable bloc in the constituency. The street is a 10-minute walk from the BJP’s state headquarters in Murlidhar Sen Lane. In 2016, Smita Bakshi of the Trinamul Congress won Jorasanko, bagging around 45,000 votes, or approximately 43 per cent of the pie. The BJP’s Rahul Sinha came second, winning a little over 38,000 votes, which translated into a 37 per cent vote share. Jorasanko is part of the Kolkata North constituency, which Sudip Bandyopadhyay of Trinamul won in 2019. But the BJP candidate, Sinha, led from the Jorasanko Assembly segment. He bagged over 51,000 votes compared with Bandyopadhyay’s 47,000. This time the contest is between the BJP’s Mina Devi Purohit, Trinamul’s Vivek Gupta and the Congress’s Ajmal Khan, the Sanjukta Morcha candidate. Muslims form the majority in only a few of the dozen-odd wards that make up the Jorasanko Assembly seat. Before 2011, they swore allegiance to the CPM. But since the change of guard in 2011, they have been firmly behind Mamata Banerjee. “We will finish sehri (an early morning meal before the Ramazan fast begins) and head towards the polling booths. We must vote and vote wisely, even at the cost of being shot at. This is not Sitalkuchi but we are ready to go to any extent to exercise our franchise,” said Ahmed Hasan, a resident who owns Bashir Hotel at neighbouring Colootola Street, famous for its haleem. Some people this newspaper interacted with slammed Indian Secular Front chief and Furfura Sharif cleric Abbas Siddiqui. “The ISF is a front to split minority votes to help the BJP,” said Irfan Ali, a local Trinamul leader. The anti-BJP sentiment in Zakaria Street and neighbouring areas has been fuelled by the Narendra Modi regime’s citizenship matrix. From January to March 2020, the street was the centre of a demonstration against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), National Population Register (NPR) and the National Register of Citizens (NRC). Women — homemakers, political activists and students — were at the forefront of the sit-in in front of the Nakhoda Mosque. Many participants and speakers were Hindus. “The graves of our forefathers in this land are proof of our citizenship. But if anything, our faith in Hindus was strengthened during the protests against the new citizenship laws. We know they have our back,” said Abdul Hameed, a 54-year-old resident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-73
24-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid second wave: Why we didn’t wear masks||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-74
24-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Calcutta HC pins Covid hopes on EC||The high court on Friday said it was “sure that the Election Commission of India is steering its way forward in the proper direction” after going through an affidavit filed by the poll panel on what it was doing to implement Covid guidelines. The certificate came a day after the high court seemed to have come down heavily on the commission by saying merely issuing circulars and holding meetings on Covid guidelines would not be enough. The division bench of Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan and Justice Arijit Banerjee said the affidavit showed the “Election Commission will further push forward requisite action to obtain obedience to its direction”. “We are sure that the Election Commission of India is steering its way forward in the proper direction and the action taken so far, as reported in the latest affidavit, which we have taken on record today,” the order says. It adds: “The Election Commission will further push forward requisite action to obtain obedience to its direction. Any restrictive governance imposed by the Election Commission of India as regards public behaviour as regards the protective protocol in relation to Covid management shall be strictly followed and abided by the people.” Rapped by the high court on Thursday, the commission had issued another circular restraining political parties from holding large campaign rallies. In its affidavit on Friday, the commission informed the court about its latest circular and lawyers said the “court seemed pleased with this circular”. The advocate for the petitioner, Srijib Chakravarty, said many people were still not wearing masks in campaign meetings. "The EC should force them to wear masks,” he said. The bench said: “It will be within the jurisdiction of the competent authorities to enforce that masking, social distancing, etc. as required by the Covid protocol, are strictly adhered to and enforced in... Bengal.” The bench will hear the case again on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-74
24-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP leader Arjun Singh’s guards open fire in Calcutta||BJP leader Arjun Singh’s guards allegedly fired in the air several times after some residents of Belgachhia in north Calcutta protested against a roadside rally of the party on Friday evening, police said. No one was injured, the police said. Allegations have surfaced that multiple bullets were fired in the air by Singh’s guards, apparently to pacify a crowd of protesters who had gathered around the dais. “An investigation is on to ascertain the sequence of events and the identity of the persons who fired,” an officer said. Singh, who was on the dais, said he and other BJP leaders at the meeting were attacked, which prompted his guards to fire in the air. “Some people attacked us. My guards had no other option,” Singh, an MP, told a news channel. The place where the incident happened is in the Cossipore-Belgachhia Assembly constituency, which will go to the polls on April 29. Shibaji Singh Roy, the BJP candidate from the constituency, said he suffered injuries during a scuffle between BJP and Trinamul supporters. The election commission has sought a report from the police on the firing. A case has been lodged with Ultadanga police station. A large force was deployed in the area. Several people in the neighbourhood said they were scared hearing the gunshots. “We are habituated to rallies and roadshows. But people opening fire at a public rally in the heart of Calcutta is new,” said a homemaker, who lives in the locality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-74
24-04-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier’s University defers law entry test in view of second Covid wave||St Xavier’s University has postponed the Xavier Law Admission Test (XLAT) that was to be held on April 25 till further notice “considering the current pandemic situation”. The computer-based tests were to be held in nine cities, including Calcutta. Considering the fresh wave of Covid-19 cases that are being reported across the country, exposure at the test venues could be unsafe for the candidates and so, the tests have been postponed, said an official of the university. Apart from Calcutta, the tests were to be held in Mumbai, Delhi, Siliguri, Durgapur, Guwahati, Ranchi, Patna and Bhubaneswar. The entrance tests are conducted for admission to BA-LLB (Honours) and BCom-LLB (Honours), both five-year degree programmes, run by St Xavier’s Law School. On April 25, two slots had been fixed for the multiple-choice admission tests of 100 marks each for the two programmes. “It would not be advisable to ask the candidates to step out of their homes and reach the venues to appear for the tests. The situation is grim in cities like Delhi and Mumbai. There the citizens are not stepping out of their homes until and unless it is a health emergency. The condition is bad in other cities as well,” said Father Felix Raj, the vice-chancellor of the university. For the computer-based tests, the law aspirants go to a centre where they are given terminals to write the tests under the watch of invigilators, an official of the university said. The test proceedings are also recorded on camera. “Issues like whether the centres have been sanitised properly, the risk of using public transport or any means of transport on the way to the centre are bound to trigger worries…. There is a crisis of beds in hospitals and oxygen support to treat Covid patients,” the official said. Asked if the tests can be held online so that candidates can write them from home, Father Felix Raj said the Bar Council of India had specified that the tests had to be conducted in the computer-based or physical pen-and-paper mode. “We will announce the next course of action depending on how the situation evolves. Candidates will be kept posted,” he said. Classes for the two courses are supposed to begin in July. Students who have passed Plus-II exams and who are not older than 20 years are eligible to apply for the admission test. Father Dominic Savio, the principal of St Xavier’s College, said all offices will function with 30 per cent staff strength till further notice because of the surge in Covid cases. A notice signed by him said: “Support staff members, availing public vehicles, need not come to the college on a regular basis. They will be asked to come to the college as and when required. Students are allowed to visit college offices for urgent works only on Tuesday and Thursday. Online classes will be continued.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-74
24-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid jabs-for-all: Calcutta units in the dark||One private hospital is receiving around 1,200 calls every day from people between 18 and 44, who are seeking bookings for Covid-19 vaccine shots. Another private hospital is having 10 to 12 young persons standing in the vaccination queue, carrying their Aadhaar cards. They want to book slots for Covid jabs as soon as vaccination for all adults opens across the country on May 1, fearful that doses might run out soon. In Bengal, people between 18 and 44 will be vaccinated from May 5. Private hospitals are flooded with queries about how the vaccination for all above the age of 18 would roll out, but they have no answers. Till Friday evening, there was no clarity from the central government about who would procure the vaccine doses and from whom. In the absence of such details, private hospitals are telling people that they are in no position to book appointments. Now, private hospitals are procuring vaccines from the state government and are charging recipients Rs 250 for each dose. The Centre has stated that from May 1, the state governments can procure doses directly from the manufacturers. The vaccine manufacturers have been empowered to release up to 50 per cent of their supply to the states and on the open market at a pre-declared price. However, in the absence of written guidelines from the Centre, the Bengal government is yet to tell the private hospitals how to proceed with the vaccination of those above 18. “We are awaiting a clear guideline from the Centre, without which we can't tell private hospitals how to procure vaccines for the next phase. A meeting is scheduled with the Centre on Saturday and we are expecting some clarity,” a health department official said on Friday. Amid the confusion, private hospitals are unable to plan the next phase of inoculation. Officials of several hospitals said they immediately needed clarity because the number of vaccine recipients would be huge post-May 5. “We had contacted the Serum Institute of India (which manufactures Covishield) and Bharat Biotech (manufacturers of Covaxin) on how to get the supply. They are unable to give us any clarity about how the doses would be supplied to hospitals,” said Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals and president, the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India. The call centre of AMRI Hospitals receives around 5,500 calls every day. Now about 1,200 calls are from people between 18 and 44, who are keen to book jab slots. “We are telling the callers that they would be able to register in the CoWin portal from April 28, as announced by the Centre, but they should call us before coming because of uncertainty over the supply of vaccines,” said an official of AMRI Hospitals. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences is receiving around 300 vaccine enquiry calls daily from people above 18. “They are seeking appointments at the earliest. The most common questions include the date of commencement and price of vaccines. We don't have answers to both,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, of which the Mukundapur hospital is the flagship unit. “Because of the surge in Covid cases, it would be difficult to arrange for the additional manpower once all adults become eligible for the shot,” he said. At Peerless Hospital, 60 to 70 people are calling up to find out about the new phase of vaccination. “But there are 10 to 12 people who are queueing up with their Aadhaar cards. These people want to book appointments for vaccination when the drive opens for everyone above 18. There is a desperation among people to get vaccinated,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-74
24-04-2021||Calcutta||Teachers test Covid positive, Calcutta schools struggle||Several schools are struggling to hold classes and having to make adjustments after a number of teachers have been infected with the coronavirus, principals said. At a few schools, some classes have been suspended or temporarily cancelled. The classes will be rescheduled once the teachers recover. Several schools are assigning substitute teachers and combining sections. At some, teachers are sharing the correction load for those who are unwell. In most cases, teachers themselves are infected, while some are busy taking care of Covid patients at home. “We are suspending classes if teachers are unable to take class. Even when teachers are recovering, they are weak... We don’t want to pressurise them,” said Basanti Biswas, principal, Calcutta Girls’ High School. “They also have to run the household and take care of members (if a family member is infected). We do not like classes to be missed but we have to understand that it is not physically possible for teachers (to take classes in such a situation),” Biswas said. Several heads said they could manage the situation because classes were being held online. However, at some institutions as many as 10 to 15 teachers have been infected, making it difficult for the heads to manage. “I do not recall an instance when about 10 per cent of our teachers had to take leave simultaneously. We are having to make adjustments,” said Sharmila Bose, director, Sushila Birla Girls’ School. At some schools like Indus Valley World School and Sri Sri Academy, classes are being rescheduled. “For a few of the senior sections, we are having to suspend classes and will reschedule them when the teachers are back,” said Amita Prasad, director, Indus Valley. At South Point, Delhi Public School New Town, Sri Sri Academy, St Augustine’s Day School, Calcutta, Indus Valley and North Point Senior Secondary schools, teachers are substituting for their colleagues or classes are being combined. “We have shadow teachers taking class in the absence of subject teachers. But the subject teachers will have to redo the portions when they are back,” said Rita Chatterjee, director, North Point Senior Secondary Schools. At Modern High and Loreto Convent Entally, students are being given offline work. “A percentage of our children are from families who are struggling with the data pack. So, in case a teacher is unable to take classes, worksheets are assigned to students, which they have to submit within a period. We do not want to assign a substitute teacher because in that case the flow of studies won't be the same,” said Jessica Gomes Surana, principal, Loreto Convent Entally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-74
24-04-2021||Calcutta||Shortage of kits delays Covid tests in Calcutta||A shortage of Covid testing kits has resulted in many suspected patients being turned away from testing centres, while several centres are taking more than two days to deliver the results. A number of Calcuttans with Covid symptoms have complained that their test results arrived 48 hours after their samples were collected. In Salt Lake and New Town, many residents are unable to get tested as some testing centres lack the required kits. Covid-19 testing centres run by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation in Salt Lake and Narayanpur are not being able to collect more than 40 samples a day because of a shortfall in the supply of RT-PCR test kits, an official of the civic body said. A couple, residents of Mahisbathan, on the fringes of Salt Lake, had queued up in front of a testing centre opposite Mayukh Bhavan on Friday. Around 12.30pm they were told that no more samples would be collected. Another couple, residents of Salt Lake, wanted to get an RT-PCR test done at a drive-in centre in New Town as a colleague of the wife had tested positive. “We had called the centre and they said they were open only for an hour in the morning. They said they could extend the hours because of shortage of test kits,” said the woman. A 52-year-old resident of Kasba and his wife gave their swab samples on April 16 morning and the result arrived around 11.30pm on April 18. The couple’s daughter had given her swab samples on the morning of April 14 and the result arrived close to midnight on April 16. All three tested positive. “There is a crisis of testing kits. Since the situation is worse in several other states, the demand for testing kits is even greater in those states. As a result the supply of kits is getting affected in our state,” said a health department official. Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital, told Metro that there was an acute shortage of VTM (the viral transport medium). “Swab samples are kept in VTMs and transported to the laboratory. But there is an acute shortage of the VTMs,” he said. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC), which has opened a sample collection centre in each of the 16 boroughs, is unable to deliver the results on time, too. An official of the civic body said they were collecting about 1,000 samples every day and the results were at times arriving 72 hours after sample collection. “Last year, we could deliver results within 24 hours. But now the results are taking 48 to 72 hours to arrive,” said a CMC official. “We have been sending all our samples to SSKM Hospital, which receive samples from other centres, too. So, the analysis is taking time,” said an official. Senior CMC officials on Friday discussed the delay in arrival of results. “It was decided at the meeting that the CMC will send samples to the National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases (NICED) and the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, along with SSKM, to distribute the load,” an official said. Doctors said the delay in arrival of test reports could affect the treatment of a patient. “Suppose someone has breathing trouble, but he will not take it as seriously unless the report says he is positive,” the doctor said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-74
24-04-2021||Calcutta||Online fun keeps children happy||Shri Shikshayatan School Music, dance and poetry — the staff members of Shri Shikshayatan School recently celebrated Holi with the flavours of the season at their school auditorium. The focus was to spread the message of harmony, peace, unity and love, while following all Covid protocols. Members of the management as well as the academic and non-academic staff members performed before an audience that included secretary-general of Shikshayatan Foundation and Shri Shikshayatan School Bratati Bhattacharyya, principal Sangeeta Tandon, headmistress Poushali Mukherjee and the faculty of Calcutta Business School. The emcee of the event was junior school teacher Ambreen Kayal. The programme commenced with music teacher Pallavi Gathak from the senior section singing a thumri, Rangi sari gulabi chunariya re. The admin department presented a medley of songs and self-composed poetry. The junior section presented yet another medley of song and dance that brought alive the joys of spring. “The festival of colours always cheers everyone up. We conducted two programmes, an online one for the students and a live one for the staff members, maintaining all Covid protocols. We wanted to tell everyone that despite the pandemic, nothing is lost. Life goes on. Usually, we have a party post the performances, but this time only food packets were distributed. But the celebration lifted everyone’s spirit,” said Bhattacharyya. Tandon said: “The teachers and staff members felt happy and rejuvenated post the celebrations. That was what we wanted.” Asian International School The junior teachers of Asian International School recently conducted a virtual puppet show for lower and upper kindergarten students to keep them entertained and active amid the pandemic. The half-an-hour show had music and storytelling that aimed to teach children new words and improving their vocabulary in a fun way. “Amid the gloom all around and in a situation when the children are not able to reach their school, we, as educators, try and reach out to them in various ways,” 
said principal Vijaylaxmi Kumar. Headmistress Simran Sanghera said: “The virtual puppet show organised by the school stimulated the imagination and creativity of the young minds and unlocked the monotony of the virtual world.” Birla High School Birla High School recently conducted an online orientation programme for classes IX and X. The event commenced with a sloka. Then principal Loveleen Saigal addressed the audience and virtually introduced the class teachers, IT co-ordinator, counsellors and special educators. She also shared the board results of classes X and XII with parents and mentioned how the school had been one of the pioneers in starting online classes in the city. She raised the issue of discipline, which was to be maintained even during online classes. The second half of the programme was conducted by co-ordinator of classes IX and X Sreemati Sen, who focused on academics-related issues. “Each year we plan an introductory session for the parents to orient them about the school, general rules, a few parenting tips and of course the assessment pattern for each class. This year, it was done virtually. We take a few queries and questions from the parents at the end of each session. The co-ordinators of different classes co-host the programme along with me. Our basic intent is to start the new academic calendar on a positive note, given the tough times, and to appraise the students and parents about the school,” said Saigal. Ruby Park Public School Students of Ruby Park Public School recently celebrated Holi virtually with a special programme named Colouroma. The pandemic could not hinder the students from celebrating the festival of colours with art and craft class activities and rehearsal sessions for cultural performances conducted online by the teachers. A compilation of the recorded dance performances and photographs of the art and craft work done by the students was put together in a video. The video was uploaded on the school’s social media page. It commenced with an opening song by students, followed by a dance performance by the pre-primary kids. Classes VI to IX presented classical solo dance as well as group dance performances along with pictures of the art and craft class activities. “We were compelled to celebrate Holi online amid the pandemic. Holi symbolises the spirit of joy and merriment which we experienced through the online celebration. There is a virtual platform where we all come together and connect with the children and parents and through this large platform, we are reaching out to everyone, including all the parents and students. It is definitely different celebrating Holi online but it made us feel good celebrating something together,” said principal Joyita Majumder. Krishnagar Public School Krishnagar Public School recently celebrated Pi Day, an annual celebration of the mathematical constant Pi, with a variety of fun activities for the students. The day was celebrated to enhance the interest of students in mathematics and to look at the subject in a fun manner. Students of classes V-X participated in a number of class activities where they made 3D models of Pi, designed memes and creative content on it, wrote slogans and worked out the approximate value of the mathematical constant. A few students also baked a pie with resemblance to the occasion. “The day was observed with zeal and zest by our math enthusiasts through various fun activities that revolve around the mathematical constant Pi. As a school we always aim to turn abstract concepts into tangible reality,” said principal Sankar Prasad Dutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-74
24-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid vaccine shortage hits Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, New Town Kolkata Development Authority ||Hundreds of residents in Salt Lake, New Town, Lake Town, Bangur, Dum Dum and parts of Rajarhat waited for hours on Friday for a dose of Covid-19 vaccine. Many went back without a jab because the two vaccination centres, run by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation in Salt Lake and Narayanpur in Rajarhat, ran out of vaccines. Metro had reported earlier how the civic body had shut down 10 of its vaccination centres because of erratic supply of Covid-19 vaccines. Only two centres — at the Matri Sadan Hospital in EE Block and at Narayanpur — are operational. But they are also struggling because of the rush of people, who are queuing up from as early as 4am. Anita Banerjee,83, a resident of Dum Dum, had come to the Matri Sadan Hospital with her son Sanjib, 49, a trader, but had to return home after 4pm without a jab. The Banerjees had registered themselves on the CoWin portal on Thursday and had selected the 3pm to 4pm time slot. “One of my neighbours, who had got the jab from this centre, advised us to go early because of the rush. However, after waiting for more than 10 hours, they informed us that they had run out of stock,” said Sanjib. Kuheli Banerjee, 56, a resident of EE Block in Salt Lake, said she had registered her name on the hospital’s register at 4am. She came back to the hospital around 6am.“They started calling out the names from 10am. I finally got the jab at 3pm.” On Friday, some recipients at the Matri Sadan Hospital got into an argument with the superintendent of the hospital asking him why they did not get the jab even after waiting for hours. “People get irritated after waiting for so long. But we are running short of vaccines,” a hospital official said. Kusum Adhikary, the chief medical officer of the civic body’s health department, said when the first phase of vaccination was announced they were getting around 200 vials per day for each centre. “The number is down to 35 vials. We are barely managing to administer shots to around 200 people per day at each centre.” In New Town, too, several people had to be turned away from the two vaccination centres run by the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA). An NKDA official said there were instances where more people had turned up than the list of recipients on the CoWin portal. “We had to turn them back.” Debashis Sen the NKDA chairman said they had an emergency meeting about the situation on Friday. “We decided to vaccinate only those people who have registered themselves on the CoWin portal,” said Sen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-74
24-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Plea for cop deployment at Calcutta vaccination centres||Health officers of several boroughs in Calcutta have sought police deployment at vaccination centres fearing unrest because shortage of doses is resulting in many people leaving without getting the jab despite queuing up for hours. In letters addressed to the officers-in-charge of several police stations, the officials have expressed the fear that trouble might break out at vaccination centres any day. Vaccination is under way at 140 of the 144 ward health units across Calcutta. Health officers in the city’s 16 civic boroughs oversee the supply of doses and the subsequent inoculation at units under their control. Over the past few days, potential recipients have been queuing up outside these health units since early morning — at places as early as 3 or 4am — for the jab. Many of them return home without being inoculated as stocks run out. Tempers ran high at a vaccination centre in Bagbazar recently when officials declared in the afternoon to a long queue of potential recipients that the day’s quota was over. Many people in the queue were senior citizens who had turned up at dawn. While most people left for homes, some demanded that they be shown how many vials had reached the centre that day and how many doses had been administered. Each vial contains around 10 doses. At a vaccination centre in Kidderpore, people are using items like boxes and buckets to reserve their place in the queue. At a centre near Tallah police station, many senior citizens decided against joining the queue on consecutive days realising it was too long for them. “Tempers have been running high at centres because of shortage of doses,” said Tarun Saha, the chairman of borough I, which includes Tallah, Cossipore and Bagbazar. “It would have been easier if we could say in writing how many doses were available on a particular day. But that is not possible because the supply is not uniform.” “The health officers expressed the fear that there could be unrest resulting from shortage of doses. Some of them have attached a copy of an earlier letter from the state health secretary to the state’s director-general of police and the police commissioners requesting police protection for vaccine transportation and vaccine centres,” an officer at Lalbazar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-74
24-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid: RKM closes Mayer Bari for visitors from Monday||The authorities of the Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission have decided to close Mother’s House, popularly known as Sri Sri Mayer Bari, in Bagbazar for visitors from Monday as a precaution against Covid-19. Holy Mother Sri Sarada Devi, wife of Sri Ramakrishna Paramhansa, had stayed in the house for 11 years from 1909 to 1920. “Considering the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, the authorities at Belur Math have decided to close Mayer Bari for an indefinite period starting Monday,” said Swami Nityamuktananda of Mayer Bari. Around 300 visitors turn up every day at Mother’s House, in Gopal Neogy Lane. The Udbodhan building, which brings out the Udbodhan magazine, the Bengali mouthpiece of Ramakrishna Math and MIssion, and is located near Mother’s House will remain open. However, entry of visitors will be restricted, senior monks said. Belur Math has been closed for visitors since April 22. It had reopened on February 10 after remaining closed for around six months because of Covid. A number of monks and employees who stay on the Belur Math premises had tested positive for Covid. In January, when a major fire broke out in Bagbazar in a row of huts and spread to a part of the Udbodhan House, senior monks had rushed out to ensure that the flames didn’t reach Mayer Bari. The building was saved even though the parts of Udbodhan House were damaged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-75
