25-04-2021||Calcutta||Mask is must||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-72
25-04-2021||Calcutta||What to do in case of a Covid death||The death of a Covid-19 victim at home is unlocking a vault of miseries for family members. Getting the death certificate and arranging for a hearse is often taking hours because of the curbs imposed by the government. In many cases, more than one family member is affected by the virus, making things more difficult. The agencies involved in arranging the funeral are often taking a lot of time to reach the home of a deceased person because they are overburdened with the steep rise in the number of deaths. The state health department on Saturday issued a circular containing “guidelines on issuance of death certificates and funeral related activities in non-institutional deaths and deaths occurring during inter-institutional transit due to Covid-19”. “We have arranged for many hearse vans. But this is an unprecedented situation. We request people not to panic and contact us,” said a senior official of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. The Telegraph draws up a set of FAQs on the basis of the circular and interactions with officials of the CMC. A member in my family who had tested positive for Covid-19 passes away at home. How do I get a death certificate? The registered medical practitioner under whose treatment the person was before the death, either in physical or virtual mode, can issue the death certificate. What if the doctor cannot be contacted? Contact the local police station. The police will arrange for the body to be taken to the nearest government hospital and arrange for the death certificate, said a CMC official. What if the person dies while being shifted from one hospital to another? “If a person admitted in the Covid/pre-Covid/Sari (severe acute respiratory infections) ward of a hospital dies during transit while being referred to another hospital, the last treating doctor of the referring hospital will issue the death certificate accordingly,” the circular said. After getting the death certificate, how do I arrange for the cremation? Calcuttans should call the chief municipal health officer at 9830011041. They can also send a WhatsApp message to the number along with the following documents. ⚫Death certificate ⚫Covid-positive report ⚫No objection from next of kin ⚫A small note with details — name, age, address of the deceased and a request for arranging the cremation A hearse van should reach the deceased person’s home and take the body away for cremation. Can a family member of a deceased person go to the crematorium? A CMC official said “two family members are allowed to visit the crematorium to see the funeral from a distance”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-73
25-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid crisis: Prescription must for oxygen  at home||The state government on Saturday said that only Covid-19 patients in home isolation or quarantine and patients with other medical conditions will be entitled to buy medical oxygen IP (Indian pharmacopoeia) against a doctor’s prescription. The department of health and family welfare in a government notification stated that several cases of hoarding and sale of medical oxygen cylinders to general public without a valid prescription of a medical doctor have been reported across the state, prompting the department to issue the notification. Reported incidents of Covid deaths because of scarcity of oxygen in parts of the country have led many to believe that oxygen cylinders need to be stored at home for an emergency. The sudden demand of oxygen cylinders in the market has also reportedly encouraged some people to procure the medical oxygen in large quantities from retailers and pharmacies and sell them to people in distress at a higher cost, illegally. Senior officers in Lalbazar said all police stations and the enforcement branch of the city police have been alerted to prevent hoarding in the city. According to the rulebook, license-holding distributors and pharmacies can sell or let out oxygen cylinders or refill them only after checking valid prescriptions of registered medical practitioners. However, in reality, alleged lack of prosecution by the law enforcement agencies and absence of regular checks on distributors’ stocks on one hand and blackmarketeers on the other, often lead to man-made crises in the market. During last year’s lockdown, several people had been arrested for hoarding essential commodities like rice, soy chunks, pulses and sanitisers — that were most in demand when only stores selling essential supplies were allowed to operate. Several shops selling essential commodities like soap and grains were robbed in the city. “It is important to keep a check (on blackmarketeers) to prevent hoarding before the situation goes out of hand. Often, such crisis situations are created when hoarders stockpile essentials and emergency commodities to sell them in the blackmarket,” said a senior police officer. Hoarding or the offence of stocking, selling and transporting medical oxygen cylinders without valid permit and prescription of the medical doctor, will be punished under Drugs and Cosmetic Rules, 1945, IPC and Epidemic Act 1897 and amendments 2020, the notification also mentioned. The total number of active Covid-19 cases in Bengal rose by 6,638 on Saturday, to 81,375. The state recorded 14,281 new infections and logged 7,584 recoveries during the day. While Calcutta recorded 2,970 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 2,821.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-73
25-04-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier’s College’s professor passes away ||The first vice-principal of St Xavier’s College (Autonomous) Calcutta, BCom evening section, M.M. Rahman, passed away in the city on Saturday. He was 84. His wife also breathed her last on the same day. Both of them succumbed to Covid-19. Rahman, a professor, was the vice-principal for eight years from July 2006 to June 2014. “With the passing away of Prof M.M. Rahman, the college has lost a true Xaverian of 60 years of bonding and a great professor who not only taught in the college for more than 50 years but immensely contributed in shaping up St Xavier’s College, Calcutta in its present stature,” said Rev. Father Dominic Savio, principal, St. Xavier's College (Autonomous), Calcutta. Rahman was awarded the Nihil Ultra Award, the highest academic award of St Xavier’s College, Calcutta, for his dedicated service to the college and “outstanding contribution in the field of higher education”. His association with the college is a long one which started when he entered as a student in 1951. He started teaching in the college in 1960 after completing masters in commerce from Calcutta University. He also served as the Dean of BCom morning department and assistant director of the computer centre of the college. Rahman was known for his “outstanding personality, strict discipline, caring nature for the students, and above all as a dedicated teacher,” the release issued by the college said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-73
25-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: At Calcutta port, job undercurrents||In one Calcutta seat, the Trinamul Congress’s lead has only increased in the past 10 years, no matter which election it was. In 2011, Firhad Hakim had won from Calcutta Port by 25,033 votes. Five years later, he won the seat again, this time by 26,548 votes. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Trinamul’s Calcutta South candidate Mala Roy had polled 82,102 votes from this constituency. Her nearest rival Chandra Kumar Bose of the BJP had got 45,863 votes. The margin:  over 39,000 votes. This election, if one Trinamul candidate appears most certain about his victory, that is Firhad. Firhad, the city’s outgoing mayor and the state’s outgoing urban development minister, says this time the margin will be possibly higher. “In my door-to-door campaigns and meetings, I have never said please vote for me. Never,” Firhad said. “I have told my electorate to find someone who has done more than me in this constituency in the past few years and cast votes in his favour.” Firhad listed a sewage pumping station at Kabitirtha Park that should bring relief from waterlogging in parts of Ekbalpore, Mominpore and Garden Reach; a desilting programme to ensure that water keeps flowing down the pipelines to Tolly Nullah; a water pumping station at Watgunge to address the shortage of drinking water; several girls’ schools and a flyover connecting Ramnagar More to Kantapukur. “There is more left to be done,” Firhad said. “A logistics hub at Garden Reach has been built. Our aim is to ensure women who work on assembling mobile phones or those with some other skill get to work in a proper environment in this hub.” The Calcutta Port constituency was once dreaded for criminal activities.   Deputy commissioner of police, port, Vinod Mehta, and his bodyguard Mukhtar Ali were murdered in Garden Reach in 1984. Nearly three decades later in February 2013, a police officer was shot dead in violence that broke out over filing of nominations for a student’s body election at Hari Mohan Ghose College in Garden Reach. Calcutta’s police commissioner RK Pachnanda lost his post. Mohammad Mukhtar, who was later arrested for his alleged involvement in the death of sub-inspector Tapas Chowdhury, is the Congress candidate of the United Front this time. “The state government has all its machinery in place. Then why can’t it prove my involvement in that case? Why am I still out and not in prison?” asks Mukhtar. “People of this area have realised that bluff and will vote against it.” In a constituency with over 40 per cent minority voters, the BJP has decided to go with Awadh Kishore Gupta, its candidate from last time. Gupta is riding a hope of consolidating Hindu votes in the constituency and securing over 46,000 votes that Rakesh Singh, the Congress candidate in 2016 and now his fellow worker in the BJP, had bagged. Gupta then had polled a little over 11,000 votes and Rakesh is now in custody after being arrested in a cocaine case. “The minority vote will be split between Firhad and Mukhtar. There is a clear polarisation in this constituency and the BJP will reap the benefits,” said Gupta. “Half of the projects that are being talked about are yet to take off.” The perceived failure of some Trinamul councillors to deliver the basics has continued to embarrass the leaders across wards. “There is no proper health care facility in the area,” said Mohammad Shahid, a resident of Dent Mission Row. “A maternity home in Kidderpore has been converted into an annex of SSKM Hospital. This will be a mother and child hub,” Hakim says elaborating on his plans. “The existing infrastructure of the Garden Reach maternity home is being overhauled.” Criminal lawyers said the number of cases from Garden Reach and Ekbalpore police station reaching them in Alipore has gone down. “From a monthly average of over 300 cases from Garden Reach police station, the number has come down to 110,” said Arindam Das, a criminal lawyer of Alipore Court. But demand for jobs has gone up. A bustling market area skirting Calcutta’s port, young men and women want jobs to meet their aspirations. “Even if a few MSME’s (Micro Small and Medium Enterprises) set up units here, a lot of us will land with a job,” said Shagir Hussain, a commerce graduate and a resident of Dr Sudhir Bose Road in Kidderpore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-73
25-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: Section 144 imposed within 200 meters of all polling stations in the city||Section 144 of the CrPC has been imposed from 6.30pm on Saturday within 200 meters of all polling stations in the four Assembly constituencies in the city that will vote on Monday. The government order issued by Calcutta police commissioner Soumen Mitra on Friday night restricts the movement of more than four persons in a group within the periphery of the polling stations in Rashbehari, Ballygunge, Bhowanipore and Kolkata Port Assembly constituencies for 48 hours before the elections end on Monday. Section 144 of the CrPC is usually imposed at the polling stations only during the election hours. Several police officers said the restriction that was put in place 48-hours before the official time of the ending of the election on Monday was to prevent any pre-poll clashes and unrest in the pockets of the city that will vote. “The firing incident that happened in Belgachhia on Friday was alarming. Monday’s polling would be very sensitive as voters living in the heart of the city would step out of their homes to cast their vote. The restrictions on gatherings from 48-hours before the election is to ensure peace and tranquillity in the neighbourhoods. People should not feel terrorised,” said a senior police officer in Lalbazar. The commissioner’s order mentions restrictions on carrying stones, weapons, firecrackers and other explosive materials within the areas that are under section 144 of the CrPC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-73
25-04-2021||Calcutta||NKDA  stops spot registration for the Covid-19 vaccination||Spot registrations for the Covid-19 vaccination process has been stopped at the two centres run by the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) because of erratic supply of the vaccines. Both the vaccination centres —  inside the government bus terminus near Pride Hotel and at the CB Block community market in Action Area 1 — witnessed a surge in the number of walk-ins to get a vaccine after cases started going up. The NKDA officials as well as representatives from the state health department held an emergency meeting on Friday and decided to only administer shots to those who had registered themselves on the CoWin portal. “We are not getting adequate supply of Covid-19 vaccines at both the centres. A lot of recipients had to be turned back in the past several days as the centres were running out of vials that led to arguments among officials and residents,” said the official. The NKDA has called in for resident volunteers who will sit at community centres, markets and other public places with laptops and help people get registered on CoWin. NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said several blocks had stepped forward with volunteers who would set up the laptops and help people register.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-73
25-04-2021||Calcutta||Private hospitals should reserve 60% of their sanctioned beds for Covid-19 patients, says Panel||All private hospitals should reserve at least 60 per cent of their sanctioned beds for Covid-19 patients, the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission said on Saturday. Several private hospitals have already increased their Covid bed count in the past few weeks but that has not been sufficient. “All the clinical establishments in the private healthcare sector would be segregating 40 per cent of the total sanctioned beds, including day care beds, emergency triage, for emergency non-Corona treatment like dialysis and emergency surgeries. The rest, being 60 per cent of the sanctioned beds/set up, would be dedicated for Covid treatment,” the commission said in an advisory to private hospitals. “It is apprehended that many precious lives may be lost if Covid beds are not enhanced to accommodate the increasing number of patients.” Apollo Gleneagles Hospital had 130 Covid beds on Saturday out of the total 700 sanctioned beds in the hospitals. Forty of the Covid beds were critical care beds. An official of the hospital said it would increase the number of Covid beds to 425 within a short time. Peerless Hospital had 90 Covid beds on Saturday of its sanctioned 400 beds. “We will reserve 240 beds in hospital for Covid very soon. Last year, we had 150 Covid beds at the peak of the pandemic,” said an official of the hospital. Belle Vue Clinic had 174 Covid beds on Saturday out of their sanctioned 241 beds in the hospital. Thirty-seven of the Covid beds are critical care beds. An official said they would add 23 more Covid beds. Medica Superspeciality Hospital has 340 sanctioned beds and 224 of these have been converted into Covid beds already. The hospital has 135 critical care beds for Covid patients. Medica will add 20 more Covid beds. Besides it has proposed to the state government to build a 200-bed unit at the Kishore Bharati stadium in Santoshpur. In its advisory, the commission stated that hospitals that have already reserved more than 60 per cent of their sanctioned beds for Covid patients should not reduce the number. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday asked officials of both private and state government hospitals to increase the number of Covid beds. She asked them to open more satellite units where patients with mild symptoms could be admitted. Senior officials of the state government had earlier requested officials of private hospitals to shift their vaccination centres and OPDs out of the hospital and use the space for adding more Covid beds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-73
