26-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: Charisma and old work versus lockdown service for the poor||At the Ballygunge Assembly constituency, old warhorse Subrata Mukherjee of Trinamul is pitted against the CPM’s Fuad Halim, a doctor known for his service for the poor, and the BJP’s Loknath Chatterjee, little known to most electors. Mukherjee, 74, a 10-term MLA, is a visible face in the area. A veteran of many poll battles, he is known as “efficient” and “accessible”. His personal charisma — he is among the very few in Trinamul who call the party supremo by her first name, Mamata — has also influenced many voters. Halim, 50, has gained respect among the electorate for his service for the poor and needy, especially during the lockdown last year. The physician said he had provided treatment to over 6,000 people between March and November last year for Rs 50 each. “I have also organised free eye cataract surgeries for thousands under the aegis of an NGO I have founded with school friends,” Halim told Metro. A truly cosmopolitan area, the voters in Ballygunge speak Bengali, Hindi and Gujarati, among other languages. There is also a large Muslim electorate. The constituency, which goes to the polls on Monday, has leafy neighbourhoods like Ballygunge Circular Road and Queens Park, replete with bungalows with large gardens. Glittering sedans roll out of the bungalows every now and then. Then there are places like Puddapukur and Ballygunge Place, where the traditionally affluent and educated people have been living for years. In stark contrast are the Pearabagan Bustee, near Ballygunge Government High School, and Samsul Huda Road neighbourhoods where one has to squeeze one’s way through a teeming mass. The aspirations and expectations are as varied. Samir Gayen, 30, who runs a small automobile repairing shop near Pearabagan, and Ali Khan, 29, who stays off Samsul Huda Road and works as a sales representative at a store, said jobs were their topmost priority. “I think whoever forms the next government should create more jobs for the youth,” said Ali, who feels Mukherjee will garner the maximum number of votes. “Fuad Halim, too, will get votes because he has always helped people.” Sumita Chatterjee, 65, an investment consultant who stays on Bondel Road, said people from all communities lived peacefully in Ballygunge. “I was born here and my husband is from here, too. I have lived here all my life. Just a few minutes from our home, there is an area that is Muslim majority but there has never been any trouble,” she said. “This is the first time I find there is a planned attempt to remind everyone what their religion is. This will destroy the quiet neighbourhood. It should never happen.” But the issues that will play at the back of people’s minds when they vote on April 26 could be ones that are not unique to Ballygunge. A number of voters said the worsening Covid epidemic would affect their voting. Tanushree Bandyopadhyay, a schoolteacher in her mid-30s, was angry at how the epidemic was being tackled. “We are living in constant fear. What will happen if we get infected? There are no vacant beds at hospitals. Election rallies and other gatherings should have been stopped long ago. I think people will keep in mind who is responsible for the current situation when they vote in the last two phases,” she said. Chatterjee and Bandyopadhyay both said they were impressed by Halim’s philanthropic activities. Halim had contested from the seat in 2011 but lost to Mukherjee. None of the voters Metro spoke to had heard of the BJP’s Chatterjee, an advocate at Calcutta High Court and a former student of the West Bengal National University of Juridical Sciences. Chatterjee, 30, however, said he had done his bit of campaigning. “I have spoken about our development programmes. I have also campaigned in Muslim-dominated areas where Trinamul supporters have attacked me several times,” he said. In the 2016 Assembly elections, Mukherjee had defeated the Congress-Left combine’s Krishna Debnath by 15,225 votes. In the 2019 parliamentary polls, Trinamul’s South Calcutta candidate Mala Roy had taken a lead of 54,452 votes in the Ballygunge Assembly segment over her nearest competitor, Chandra Kumar Bose of the BJP. Residents said they had seen Mukherjee and Halim campaign, but not many had seen Chatterjee of the BJP. “I am an old-school politician. I go door to door and seek votes. People have a sense of pride in voting and I respect that. I do not bring celebrities and stars to campaign for me,” Mukherjee said while visiting voters at a slum in Puddapukur on Friday morning. He was accompanied by six aides. A section of residents said Halim’s lack of administrative experience could work against him. Mukherjee, on the other hand, is still remembered for his work as Calcutta’s mayor from 2000 to 2005. “The Left Front was in power in the state and the Calcutta Municipal Corporation was run by the Trinamul-BJP alliance. Mukherjee managed to do a lot of good work without fighting with the state government,” said a voter. Halim had wrapped up his campaigning by then and was at the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, donating plasma for Covid patients. “Mukherjee has been MLA from Ballygunge for 10 years but done little for the place. There are issues like parking, water scarcity and huge traffic snarls when schools like South Point, BSS and Modern High School for Girls give over. I will try to find a solution to these and many other problems,” said Halim.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-72
26-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: In CM backyard, BJP slips on fuel, TMC on muscle ||A middle-aged man stopped Rudranil Ghosh, the BJP’s Bhowanipore candidate, during a door-to-door campaign in Surjya Sen Colony behind Presidency Correctional Home on Friday afternoon. “Gas er daam, tel er daam-er ki hobe? Vote hoye gele to dekha korte gele appointment lagbe (What about the price of gas, the price of fuel? Once the vote is over, we will need an appointment to meet you),” the 54-year-old man told Ghosh, who switched sides from the Trinamul Congress to the BJP just before the Assembly polls. When Ghosh was gone, the same man, and several other residents of the colony, told this newspaper that the area had seen a lot of improvement in terms of roads and drainage but they were fed up with the high-handedness of local Trinamul leaders. “From a hospital admission to a government grant, you need the party’s approval for everything. We respect Mamata Banerjee, but her party’s men are no different from the CPM when it ruled the state,” said a senior citizen. Mamata is the sitting MLA of Bhowanipore but this time she has contested from Nandigram against her former party colleague, Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP. Trinamul has fielded veteran leader Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay from Bhowanipore, which votes on April 26. Md. Shadab Khan of the Congress is the Sanjukta Morcha candidate from the seat. Bhowanipore is decked out in Trinamul flags, festoons, posters and banners. At least in terms of campaign paraphernalia, the BJP is no match to the ruling party. But while criss-crossing the constituency, this newspaper encountered a mixed bag of responses. Discontent against the ruling party was visible at multiple pockets. On Harish Mukherjee Road, a woman pointed towards Abhishek Banerjee’s residence, around 50 metres away. “Amar tali-r bari aki roye gelo, didir moto. Odike prasad toiri hoye gelo (My tiled-roof house remains what it was, like Didi’s. There, a palace has come up),” said the woman. The third-generation owner of a 110-year-old shop in Jadubabur Bazar that sells school uniforms and kurta-pyjamas was on the other side of the spectrum. “Bhowanipore had been a Congress bastion even at the peak of the Left rule. After Mamata’s emergence, old Congress supporters sided with her because she could fight the CPM. That bond with Mamata has been intact. It does not matter who is fighting from Bhowanipore. This will remain Mamata’s seat. The BJP will come a distant second,” said the 66-year-old man. The Trinamul support base comprises a large section of the old Bengali residents of Bhowanipore, who were Congress loyalists before shifting allegiance to Mamata. Bhowanipore has over two lakh voters. Apart from Bengalis, there are Gujaratis, Marwaris and Punjabis. The BJP had in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls got a lead of 185 votes over Trinamul in the Bhowanipore Assembly segment, which falls under the Calcutta South parliamentary seat. In the 2016 Assembly elections, Mamata got around 66,000 votes, or a 48 per cent vote share, and won the seat. The Congress’s Deepa Das Munshi came second, getting around 40,000 votes, which translated to a 29 per cent vote share. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Trinamul’s Mala Roy led from the Bhowanipore segment, but only by some 3,000 votes. “We are eyeing the Gujarati and Marwari communities, which traditionally vote for the BJP. We also expect the bulk of the lower-middle class votes,” said a BJP leader. A trader in Beltala, whose family traces its roots to Gujarat, said Narendra Modi had made “India proud on the global stage (desh ka naam roshan kiya)”, without delving into the specifics. But around a kilometre away, the mood outside Balwant Singh dhaba, a popular eatery on Harish Mukherjee Road, was different. “No educated person will vote for the BJP and Modi,” said Maninder Singh, 30, who had come for a cup of tea. Calling Modi an “absolute failure” in handling the Covid-19 crisis, he said all the BJP was interested in was “dividing the country along religious lines”. “Uski ulti ginti yahaan se chaalu ho gayi hai (The countdown to Modi’s downfall has started from Bengal),” he said. “After how he has handled the farmers’ agitation, no Punjabi is going to vote for Modi.” Ghosh, the BJP candidate, sounded upbeat. “The queen has left her kingdom because she had sensed defeat,” he said, referring to Mamata’s choice to contest from Nandigram. “There was a slender margin in the Lok Sabha. This time, there is a wind of change in favour of Modiji, despite Trinamul’s desperate attempts to stop us from campaigning. I am confident of winning.” His opponent, Trinamul’s Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, was at a makeshift chamber on the ground floor of his Rupnarayan Nandan Lane home when this reporter met him. Chattopadhyay, the minister of power in the outgoing state cabinet, had been down with Covid-19 in the middle of the campaign season but has since recovered. He is a ninth generation resident of Bhowanipore but is better known as the MLA from Rashbehari. “It is a matter of pride that Mamata has chosen me from Bhowanipore. This is the first time I will vote for myself,” he said with a smile. “I started my political career in 1962. But even before Bhowanipore residents knew me as a politician, they knew me as a boxer and social worker,” he said. The boxing club where Chattopadhyay trained stands a stone’s throw from his house. “Roads, drainage, hospitals, everything has seen remarkable development in Bhowanipore. Our work and Mamata Banerjee’s pull are more than enough for a smooth victory,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-72
26-04-2021||Calcutta||Weddings and other events deferred as Covid cases rocket||Several weddings are being postponed in the wake of the fresh surge in Covid-19 cases, said event managers. Families who are still going ahead with the pre-scheduled weddings are scaling down on the festivities. Susmit Ray Choudhuri and Debjani Banerjee, techies based in Mumbai but are in Calcutta for close to a year because of the work-from-home culture, were to have got married at a banquet in Rajarhat on May 14. They had hired an event aggregator six months ago. The number of invitees was around 250. Virtual wedding cards had been sent to guests when the second wave of the virus started making its impact felt. Two days ago, the two families decided to postpone the party to November, hoping things would improve by then. “The fresh surge (in Covid-19 cases) is scarier than last time. We cannot risk a large gathering, with several aged guests. It is not only about the guests. A big event means exposure to several external agencies — decorators, caterers and other vendors. Going ahead with the event would have been too risky,” said Ray Choudhuri. The couple will get their marriage registered at a new flat they have rented on April 30 in front of close family members. The summer wedding season starts in late April and continues into May, said event managers. Sudipto Hore, the general manager of Regenta Orko’s hotel in Kasba, said he has had “at least four wedding events postponed so far”. Some other events are being scaled down substantially, he said. “There is no government cap on the number of guests. But the guest lists of 200-250 are being brought down to 100 or lower, combining both the bride’s and the groom’s side,” he said. “This time last year was pathetic in terms of business. But we were trying to stand up on our feet from November. But this (the second wave) blow has again knocked us down,” said Hore. Event managers in Calcutta said the increasing deaths was driving fear this time. The death of a kin because of Covid-19 makes it virtually impossible for the bride or groom’s family to go ahead with the wedding, they said. “Till a month ago, preparations for weddings were in full swing but things started changing over the past 10-15 days,” said Rishabh Bapna, the owner of a popular event management firm called Cherry Tree. He was supposed to organise three parties — with over 200 people attending each — in the run-up to a gala wedding on April 27. He got a call from the client a few days ago. They wanted only a dinner for 30-40 guests on April 26 before an austere wedding the next day. A caterer in south Calcutta, who did not want to be named, said other social events like birthday parties had also been scaled down. “I had a contract of serving around 60 guests at a birthday party of a boy in New Alipore on April 24. The order was cancelled at the last moment,” the vendor said. The Maualana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology, to which all private engineering colleges in Bengal are affiliated, will remain shut till further orders because of Covid. Monday was the hottest day in Calcutta this season, with the Celsius clocking 39.7 degrees. The maximum temperature was four notches above normal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-72
26-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal elections 2021: Checklist  for voters||The Assembly constituencies that will go to the polls on April 26 include Rashbehari, Ballygunge, Bhowanipore and Kolkata Port. Here is a list of  things voters should know and follow ⚫ Voting starts at: 7 ⚫ Voting ends at: Officially at 6.30pm (voters who stand in the queue till 6.30pm will be allowed to vote) ⚫ Covid-19 patients: Patients suffering from Covid and those under quarantine will be allowed to vote in the last hour under the supervision of health authorities ⚫ Identification: Voters will have to be present any of the following documents at the polling stations to prove their identity • Electoral photo identity card •  Aadhaar card • MGNREGA job card • Passbook with photograph issued by bank/post office • Health insurance smart card issued under the scheme of the ministry of labour • Driving licence • PAN card • Smart card issued by the registrar general of India under National Population Register • Passport • Pension document with photograph • Service identity cards with photographs issued to employees by the central/state govt./PSUs/public limited companies • Official identity cards issued to MPs/MLAs/MLCs Covid protocol at booth ⚫ Voters have to stand six feet apart in the queue and wear masks ⚫ Every voter will have to undergo thermal screening for body temperature before entering the booth. If the temperature exceeds 100.4 degree Fahrenheit, the person will be subjected to a second check. If the reading persists, he or she will be asked to collect a token and go home. The voter can come back in the last hour of polling and cast his or her vote following all Covid protocols ⚫ Every voter will be given a disposable glove ⚫ No more than 1,000 voters will be allowed on the premises of a polling station at any given point of time Helplines ⚫ Election Commission of India: 1950 ⚫ Lalbazar control room: 033-22143230 / 033-22141310 ⚫ Dry day: Liquor shops in the Assembly constituencies going to the polls and in the adjoining constituencies will remain closed till the end of polling on Monday. Restaurants licensed to serve liquor may remain open but cannot serve liquor during the period||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-72
26-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Calcutta police seizes hoarded oxygen cylinders ||The enforcement branch of Calcutta police has seized at 25 filled medical oxygen cylinders from an agency in Bhowanipore and at least 15 empty cylinders from a godown in Maniktala. Officers suspect the empty cylinders were to be used to sell oxygen at a premium at a time the demand for the life-saver has rocketed following a surge in Covid cases. The police said a racket was operating to procure empty oxygen cylinders from registered sellers and distributors, refill them and sell the gas at double or triple the market rate. “The raid was conducted based on specific information. We have launched an investigation and sought documents for the empty cylinders found in a godown. If the godown owner fails to produce proper documents, he will be arrested,” an officer of the enforcement branch said. The empty oxygen cylinders were of different capacities. Thirteen of them weighed 52kg and two 15kg. Police said the filled cylinders — 10 litres each — were seized because the agency had stored cylinders beyond what it had been allowed to stock. Sources said multiple teams of the enforcement branch had fanned across the city to look out for illegal sale and stocking of medical oxygen to ensure there was no artificial crisis. The raids started on Saturday night, within hours of the state health and family welfare department issuing a notification that referred to reports of hoarding of oxygen cylinders across the state. The notification mentioned that only Covid-19 patients under home isolation or in quarantine and patients of other ailments in need of oxygen could buy or take on rent medical oxygen cylinders from licensed distributors and pharmacies. Reports of hoarding of oxygen cylinders and life-saving drugs during the Covid-19 crisis are not uncommon in the country. Reports of deaths of Covid-19 patients in pockets of the country because of lack of oxygen has prompted many to stock oxygen cylinders at home. Blackmarketeers are stocking cylinders, further intensifying the crisis, to sell them at a higher rate. A police officer said: “We are trying to prevent hoarding before things go out of control. We request people not to panic. They should buy or take on rent oxygen cylinders only if asked by doctors.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-72
26-04-2021||Calcutta||State govt offers facilities to private hospitals to set up Covid treatment centres ||The state government has offered several of its facilities in Calcutta to big private hospitals to set up Covid treatment centres but so far there has been only one taker. The lone private player that has shown interest till Sunday evening is Medica Superspecialty Hospital, which is keen on setting up a temporary 200-bed Covid treatment facility at Kishore Bharati Stadium in Santoshpur. Medica received the state health department’s nod on Sunday to set up the facility. “The 200-bed facility will start running in seven days,” said an official at Medica. Kishore Bharati Stadium housed a quarantine centre for contacts of Covid patients who did not have spare rooms at home to stay quarantined. Health department officials said they had started releasing people who are testing negative for Covid from the quarantine centre. “We have received the state health department’s nod to set up a temporary Covid treatment facility at Kishore Bharati. We will set up 200 beds. Half of them will have oxygen supply. We will complete the conversion in a week’s time,” said Alok Roy, the chairman of Medica Superspecialty Hospital. The hospital had proposed to the health department that Kishore Bharati Stadium be converted into a Covid treatment centre. “Patients will contact us for admission. It is like an extension of our hospital. The treatment will be offered at West Bengal Health Scheme rates for patients getting admitted to the Kishore Bharati facility,” Roy said. The state government and the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) have opened a 200-bed safe home – for Covid-19 patients with mild symptoms who do not have space at home to isolate – near Science City. They are now working on opening another 200-bed safe home at Gitanjali Stadium in Kasba, next to Acropolis Mall. The CMC and the health department have also decided to increase the number of beds at the safe home at Uttirna in Alipore from 100 to 500. “Any individual who wants to get admitted in a safe home has to contact the state health department or the CMC or the South 24-Parganas district administration. The government will send an ambulance to bring the person to the safe home. The contact numbers are available on the health department’s website,” said an official. An official of the CMC said the safe home at the auditorium was being managed by SSKM Hospital. Patients whose condition is worsening are being shifted to SSKM and patients recovering at SSKM are being sent to Uttirna a day or two before discharge. “This is being done to free beds at SSKM,” said the official. Officials of several private hospitals told Metro that their human resources and infrastructure were stretched to the limit and they were not in a position to run a centre outside their premises. An official at Peerless Hospital said treating a patient outside the hospital was impossible for them. “We are concentrating on increasing the number of Covid beds at our hospital. We think we cannot provide treatment to a patient outside our campus comparable to what we offer at our hospital,” the official said. Ruby General Hospital, too, does not want to set up any treatment facility or satellite unit outside the hospital. “We have 110 beds now. We will increase it to 130 very soon. But we do not want to treat Covid patients outside the hospital,” said an official. An official at AMRI Hospitals, too, expressed inability to run treatment centres at a stadium or an auditorium. The group has opened satellite units.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-72
26-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid cases on rise but door-to-door vigil yet to start||The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation has not yet started door-to-door Covid surveillance during the second wave of infections though areas under the civic body are reporting at least 300 new cases every day. An official in the corporation’s health department said they had not yet started door-to-door visits as many from their department were busy with election work. During the first wave of the epidemic last year, the civic body had carried out such a surveillance. “A number of civic officials who would have led such door-to-door monitoring of patients suffering from fever and other Covid symptoms are now on election duty. We don’t have adequate personnel at our disposal to launch such a large-scale campaign right now,” the official said. Last year, the survey was conducted by 1,200-odd health workers. They were trained in Covid surveillance and were also told to look out for accumulated water as part of the civic body’s dengue prevention drive. “Most of the health workers are busy sanitising Bidhannagar College, where security personnel and polling officials are camping, and other facilities involved in the ongoing polls. No additional workers have been hired on a contractual basis to carry out the surveillance,” an official in the health department said. Residents of several blocks in Salt Lake said that even though Covid cases were on the rise, no health team from the civic body was sanitising the blocks, let alone conduct door-to-door visits. Tapas Sengupta, the secretary of the AE Block Samaj Sangha, said no civic team had sanitised the buildings from where Covid-19 cases had been reported and the ones where Covid patients were staying in isolation. “Civic health teams cannot be spotted though there has been a sudden surge in the number of cases,” Sengupta said. Last year, each of the 41 wards of the civic body had been given a couple of portable sanitisation units, a civic official said. Basudeb Basu, a DB Block resident, echoed what Sengupta said. Soham Chakraborty, of ED Block, said no one from the corporation’s health department turned up even after a resident had died of Covid-19. “We are living in fear as the corporation has been completely inactive,” said Chakraborty. The area under the corporation spans around 60.5 sq km. The population, according to the latest census, is around 6.5 lakh and households total 1.46 lakh. While wards in Rajarhat have 1.17 lakh households, Salt Lake accounts for 26,000 households. These, however, exclude households in areas like Duttabad, Polenite,Udayanpally and areas bordering the East Calcutta Wetlands, including Khasmahal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-72
26-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Health department  books beds at private hospitals||The state health department has decided to requisition Covid beds at private hospitals, which will be reserved for patients referred by the government. An order issued on Saturday said 1,387 beds at 24 private hospitals across the state would be taken over for the treatment of Covid patients. Most of the hospitals are in Calcutta and North 24-Parganas, the two worst-affected districts in the state. Some of the hospitals where beds have been requisitioned include Peerless Hospital, RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, Fortis Hospital, CMRI, Belle Vue Clinic and Columbia Asia in Calcutta; ILS Hospital in Dum Dum; Charnock Hospital in New Town; and Megacity in Barasat, North 24-Parganas. The requisitioned beds will be separate from the Covid beds the hospitals have to set aside. The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission has asked the private hospitals to reserve at least 60 per cent of their total beds for Covid patients. “The government-requisitioned beds will be separate from the Covid beds that the hospitals have to create for patients who will approach the hospitals directly for admission,” said retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the commission’s chairperson. “If a hospital has 100 beds and the government requisitions 20 beds, it has to reserve 60 per cent of the remaining 80 beds for Covid patients. Thus, altogether 68 beds will be reserved for Covid at the hospital, of which 20 will be set aside for the treatment of patients referred by the government,” Banerjee said. “The way the demand for beds is rising, we felt that we needed to augment the number of beds. Patients on government-requisitioned beds will not have to pay. The state government will reimburse the hospitals the cost of their treatment. A patient can get the benefit only if the government refers him or her to any of the hospitals where beds have been requisitioned,” a health department official said. The government had introduced the system last year but the requisitioned beds were gradually released after Covid cases started falling. Patients whose family members approach the health department for admission are usually allotted government-requisitioned beds. The department has requisitioned 30 beds (including 10 critical care beds) each at Peerless, RN Tagore, Belle Vue, CMRI and Medica. Twenty-five beds (including five critical care beds) have been requisitioned at Fortis Hospital. The department has also requisitioned 50 beds (including 20 critical care ones) at Charnock Hospital, 21 beds (including seven critical care ones) at ILS Dum Dum, 50 beds (including 25 critical care and 20 high-dependency ones) at Techno Global Barrackpore and 50 beds (including 12 critical care ones) at Megacity Barasat.  The order, issued on Saturday, came into immediate effect. Despite most private hospitals increasing their Covid bed strength over the past few weeks, the crisis has not been resolved as cases are increasing sharply every day. Case count The number of active Covid-19 cases in Bengal rose by 7,425 on Sunday, to 88,800. The state recorded 15,889 new infections, resetting the record for the highest intra-day number yet again, and logged 8,407 recoveries during the day. Calcutta reported 3,779 new infections and North 24-Parganas 3,140.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-72
