27-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Voters blame Election Commission for bungling of Covid-19 management||The bungling of Covid-19 management was a burning issue for voters on Saturday, taking precedence over issues like unemployment and development that emerged frequently in conversations during the last few rounds of voting in Calcutta. Many of the voters The Telegraph spoke to across constituencies blamed the Election Commission of India and the “babus from Delhi” for the current situation. The election commission should have at least clubbed the last three phases of the elections as there was enough evidence that things were going out of control, voters said. The Centre should not have wasted crucial time when the Covid numbers were low and used the relative lull to ramp up health infrastructure, a voter in Ballygunge said. Employment and development can only be of use if people live to enjoy them, “only if their health is fine”, said a young voter in Rashbehari. “I think Covid has become the most important issue in today’s phase and it will also remain the most important issue in the last phase of the polls on Thursday,” said Moloy Prakash Mitra, 49, who voted at a booth on Ballygunge Circular Road. “Issues like unemployment and development have become secondary. It is now a question of life and death,” said the businessman. Sukla Mitra, 70, Moloy’s mother, added: “There can be no justification for allowing such huge rallies and meetings. No one was wearing masks during election campaigns and there was no distancing. Yet the rallies continued.” Sixty-nine-year-old Chandra Chatterjee, who voted at a booth in Lake Market, found “no justification” for having eight-phase polls in Bengal. “The eight-phase polls are squarely responsible for the Covid situation in Bengal today. If elections can be held in two-three phases in other states, then why not in Bengal?” she asked. “The babus from Delhi came almost every day to hold rallies and meetings, while the Covid situation kept worsening.” Shagufta Taj, 25, who voted with her parents at a school off Broad Street in Ballygunge, also felt that large rallies should have been stopped. “Everyone knew that the pandemic was around, yet large public meetings were allowed. Why? The people in those campaigns acted very irresponsibly,” she said. Bengal recorded 15,992 new cases on Sunday and there were 68 deaths from Covid-19. The state had reported 827 new cases and two deaths from Covid on March 27, when the first phase of polls was held in Bengal. A month before that, on February 27, the state had reported 192 new Covid cases and two deaths. “The numbers had started to rise by the time the first phase of polls was held. But neither the election commission nor the leaders from Delhi felt that it was necessary to stop large gatherings to halt the spike,” said a voter who wished not to be named. Many people have been critical of the role played by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah, who held rallies in Bengal almost every day even as Covid numbers kept rising and more and more people dying of the disease. The argument was repeated by voters on Monday. “What was the need of holding so many rallies by the Prime Minister? All the meetings had large gatherings,” said Mohammad Tarique Ahmed, 28. He felt that the last three phases of the polls should have been clubbed to contain the spread of Covid-19. “The Trinamul Congress had proposed to the election commission that the last three phases be clubbed but the panel did not agree. There was enough evidence by then that the Covid situation in our state was getting out of control. Are people’s lives less important than elections?” asked Ahmed, who voted at Lady Brabourne College. Conversations with voters in some of the earlier phases of the polls had revealed that issues like jobs, communal harmony, development and women’s safety were their top priorities. But on Monday, most voters Metro spoke to said that the Covid situation in the country was at the top of their mind now. “Covid is the most important issue now,” said Shagufta. Many residents in the south Calcutta constituencies that went to the polls on Monday did not vote because they were angry with how the Centre had ignored the deteriorating Covid situation. Many of these people were until a few days ago vouching for a change in Bengal as they believed “a change in Bengal” would create more jobs and usher in an era of rapid development in the state. But the Covid situation seems to have overtaken their aspirations for a change. “The Prime Minister in a recent rally boasted that he had never seen such a huge gathering in a rally, but we all know that staying away from one another helps reduce the spread of Covid. How can a Prime Minister make such an irresponsible statement?” said a south Calcutta voter, a long-time admirer of Modi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-71
27-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Election Commission fails to keep ramp promise at polling booths||A champion of disability rights, Jeeja Ghosh, who went to vote on Monday, did not find a ramp at the polling station, a promise she said that the Election Commission had not kept. Ghosh, 51, who went to St Lawrence High School to cast her vote, said that while her own experience was “comfortable”, the fight was not hers alone but for all individuals with disabilities who deserve more “dignified” treatment. She related her experience to The Telegraph. I went to the polling station around 10.15am with my husband to vote. It was comfortable and I had no problem but what I noticed is that there was no ramp. If a person is on a wheelchair how are they expected to navigate the steps, even if it is only a few steps? Picking up the wheelchair physically is not dignified and that is why we ask for ramps. I asked the security personnel in the premises “ramp ache? (Is there a ramp?)”. They answered in the negative, saying “na didi, ramp nei (there is no ramp).” A ramp is one of the things that the Election Commission had promised to us in a meeting that they had with us in January and also in an online meeting in March. They had called some of us (individuals and NGOs working for disability rights) for a meeting and we had pointed out that there should be ramps. They had told us that they would arrange for ramps but it was not there. Even if the booth is on the ground floor and there are only a few steps, there has to be a ramp.  The other issue that we had spoken about in the meeting was the presence of Braille script on the EVM machine, which I noticed was there in my polling booth. In the 15 minutes that I was there on the premises, I did not see anyone in a wheelchair but there could have been individuals who needed a ramp to reach the polling booth. I could climb up the three steps but there are others who cannot. The usual attitude of those at the booth is “amra achi, tule debo (we are there, we will lift the person)”. But that is not the right approach. Not having ramps also acts as a deterrent for individuals with disabilities to go out to exercise their voting rights. Being physically picked up amounts to sympathy and we do not want others to sympathise. We want to be treated as equals. That is our right and that is what we want.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-71
27-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: 2 held for illegal sale of remdesivir||A 23-year-old homemaker who had allegedly promised a family a dose of six vials of remdesivir 100 has been detained on the charge of facilitating the illegal sale of a vial for Rs 21,000, enforcement branch officers said. Remdesivir is at times used to treat Covid. One dose of the medicine, comprising six vials, costs around Rs 4,000, police said. An employee of a reputable city pharmacy was arrested at a spot on Park Street where he was supposed to deliver the medicine to the woman, who police identified as Nidhi Goel, on Monday evening. Police said one vial of remdesivir 100 was seized from him. He had allegedly removed it from a reputable store without keeping any record. No receipt had been issued, the police said. According to the protocol, one dose of the medicine comprises six vials. “We had received a complaint from a family alleging that a woman was selling them one vial of remdesivir 100 for Rs 21,000. Initially, she had promised six vials, but apparently could arrange only one. The actual price of the entire dose of six vials should be within Rs 4,000. The family said they had contacted the woman through a mobile number they found on social media. Tracking the phone number, we zeroed in on her. She is Nidhi Goel, a resident of Park Street,” said deputy commissioner, enforcement branch, K.P. Barui. Pursuing her statement, a joint team comprising officers of the enforcement branch and the state drug controller picked up the pharmacy employee, Biswajit Das. Barui said Das was an employee of a medical store on Chowringhee that had taken the franchise of Blueprint. “We have found details of the store owner. He will be booked, too,” Barui said. Das has purportedly admitted before the police to have smuggled out close to two dozen remdesivir vials violating the ban on their sale to individuals, an officer said. A state government order on April 24, which dealt with the “guidelines for judicious use of remdesivir”, mentioned: “remdesivir has been approved under Emergency Use Authorisation in the management of Covid-19 virus infection during the replicative phase of the virus, but it has been observed that it has been used indiscriminately which is not only inappropriate but has also created an artificial crisis in the market…. It must not be sold to patients on prescription and should only be supplied to hospital by companies or their vendors.” The order also mentioned that roughly 10-20 per cent of all Covid-19 cases fulfilled the criteria of treatment with remdesivir. A formal complaint was lodged with Park Street police station by officers of the drug controller, Bengal, on Monday night and a case was drawn under IPC sections related to cheating and criminal conspiracy and under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act. A police officer said many who felt insecure and threatened by rising cases of Covid-19 in the country might have decided to stock remdesivir at home and some black marketeers had illegally procured the drug from distributors and pharmacies to exploit the opportunity. Several hospitals in the city that are treating Covid-19 patients reported non-availability of remdesivir in the market. An official of Peerless Hospital said: “We have 20 patients who need remdesivir today but we have doses enough for only four. We have been promised fresh doses by the government.” Another private hospital official said they had a requirement for 200 patients but had stock for only 40. “The government has promised us more vials. We are telling the patients’ families that we would not be able to administer the drug if we don’t get fresh supplies from the government,” said an official of the hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-71
27-04-2021||Calcutta||‘School’ on JU campus for disadvantaged children||Jadavpur University campus has a fresh batch of students. They are not university students, but little children who had no other means of carrying on their education amid the pandemic. A group of university students — present and former — has organised classes over the weekend for around 12 children on a campus that is otherwise shorn of people. The JU students, who last year had run community kitchen for the destitute, have launched an initiative so that these first generation learners don’t lose touch with books for want of smartphones or tabs. On Sunday evening, Pritam Nashkar, Joy Halder, Priya Sardar, Payel Sardar, Jyoti Gupta and others were walking in a group on the concrete driveway of the campus that overlooks Aurobindo Bhavan, the administrative headquarters of JU. They reside in slums around Jadavpur railway station. With small bags, containing textbooks, held in their hands, they entered through gate number 1 and were headed to the “school” set up within a fenced enclosure that faces Aurobindo Bhavan. A room that used to be accessed by the university’s gardeners has been turned into a school, named after Ashu and Timir — Ashu Majumder and Timir Baran Singha, the two former JU students who were killed by police during the crackdown on Naxals in early 70s. Two of the four teachers Soumyajyoti, a postgraduate student of sociology, and Debjan Sengupta, who graduated in comparative literature in 2019, were waiting for their pupils. Debjan asked the children: “Kar Kar mukhe mask ney?” (Is there anyone who is not wearing a mask?” They responded: “Sabbai er ache”. (All of us are wearing). They sanitised their hands and entered the school. “It is important that they also get a lesson on how to keep themselves clean and take it back to their homes,” said Debjan. The Sunday’s class started with the birthday celebration of Pritam Nashkar. Small slices of cake were placed on the mattress and a candle was lit to celebrate. These children, whose parents are masons, attendants and drivers, don’t have smartphones for attending classes on the digital platforms and are gradually losing touch with education — a void that the students of the university are trying to bridge. Sunday’s birthday boy offered a case study. “I don’t have a smartphone. Over the past one year I have not been able to attend any classes,” said Pritam, a Class-VII student of Jadavpur Rishi Aurobindo Vidyapaith. His father works as a mason whose earnings have dropped amid the pandemic following a slump in construction works. Joy Halder, a Class IX student of the same school, too could not attend any classes following lack of smartphone. “My mother works in a mall and could not buy me a smartphone,” said Joy. The schools affiliated to the state board had reopened for students of Classes IX to XII from February 12. But the renewed surge of Covid-19 forced the government to announce summer vacation from April 20 till further notice. Schools are free to hold classes on the digital platforms, but for likes of Joy and Pritam this does not make any sense. What made the JU students, associated with the JU Commune, think of starting the school? Arijit Saha, an MTech student of power engineering said, they felt the need while they used to visit the slums for distributing food. “The parents told us about the plight of kids following the closure of schools and absence of devices. This led to the launch of school from March 9, that marks the death anniversary of Ashu Majumder,” said Arijit. Taishi Nandi, a postgraduate student of comparative literature said, lack of touch with the school was weakening the base of these students. “This will create a situation where in they will fail to cope up when promoted to higher classes,” said Taishi. Since the university has been closed till May 3 following a rising number of cases, the organisers are not sure whether the classes could be held this weekend. A notice was issued on Saturday. “As we came to know about closure very late, the classes were held. But we have told our students the classes could be suspended for some days only. We will soon resume,” said Debjan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-71
27-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Elections 2021: Adherence to Covid-19 norms confined to masks at booths across Calcutta||Adherence to Covid-19 protocols was limited to masks at most polling booths across Calcutta on Monday. Voters stood close to one another in queues. At several booths, they discarded their gloves on the premises of the polling stations or on the road outside, instead of disposing them in designated yellow bins. Some people wore masks under their chins. Outside a polling booth in Lake Market, at least 100 people stood in the queue around 10am. Many of them did not maintain social distancing. Some of the voters had their masks under their chins. “It is very suffocating. I just lowered my mask to breathe properly for a while,” said a young man who had his mask literally hanging from his chin. At another polling booth at a school in Rifle Range, social distancing in the queue seemed like an alien concept. Things were no different at the booth inside Patha Bhavan school in Ballygunge. After this newspaper started taking pictures, the jawans guarding the booth took it upon themselves to prod people to stand apart from each other. At a polling station inside a girls’ school on Sarat Bose Road, voter after voter was discarding the gloves on the road outside the booth, though yellow bins had been kept on the booth premises to dispose of the gloves. One of the voters, who wore a handkerchief as a face cover instead of a mask, threw his glove right outside the booth. The glove landed on a heap of discarded gloves. A jawan standing near him chose to turn a blind eye. Ditto at St Lawrence High School in Ballygunge. A jawan posted there said he had told a couple of voters to wear their masks properly. But he pointed to his senior when asked about the improper discarding of gloves. Calcutta High Court has repeatedly directed the election commission to take “hard” measures to ensure the safety of citizens in the polling season in the wake of a surge in Covid-19 cases. On Monday, multiple voters told The Telegraph that holding elections in eight phases was driving the surge in Bengal. But some of them also pointed out that the onus was on citizens to follow basic Covid-19 protocols. The number of people without masks on Monday was much less compared with the previous rounds of voting in the city and on the fringes. Workers of political parties at camps near polling stations, who seldom cared to wear masks, had mended their ways on Monday. But not all of them. Two camps, one of Trinamul and the other of the BJP, were set up almost opposite one another near a polling booth on Lake Road. Among the four persons in the Trinamul camp, one was without a mask. The camp of the rival party had two young men, both without masks. “Checking the names of the voters is not an easy task. It needs concentration. Being suffocated behind a mask makes it doubly difficult,” said a Trinamul worker at a camp in Chetla. He was wearing one.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-71
27-04-2021||Calcutta||State health department asks private hospitals to obtain Covid vaccines from manufacturers||The state health department on Monday officially told private hospitals that they would have to procure Covid vaccines from the manufacturers from May. The state government now supplies vaccine doses to private hospitals. The arrangement will end on April 30. Private hospitals now pay Rs 150 a vial. Each vial contains 10 doses. From May 1, the private hospitals have to shell out more. The Serum Institute of India, which manufactures Covishield, has announced that private hospitals have to pay Rs 600 for each dose. Bharat Biotech, which produces Covaxin, has priced its vaccine at Rs 1,200 a dose for private hospitals. “We have officially come to know that private hospitals have to buy their own stock of vaccine vials. While the government has assured us of help in contacting the manufacturers, we have asked for more clarity on some issues. The state government will get back to us in a couple of days,” said Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals and the president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India. “We are not sure whether we will get a minimum number of doses as we have to buy directly from the manufacturers,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. “We are not taking any bookings for vaccination for May because we are not sure about the supply. What is more worrying is how we will vaccinate those whose second dose is due from May. We do not want to fail on our commitment to administer the second dose but we are not sure about the supply,” said Mitra. The Centre has announced that anyone above 18 will be eligible to be vaccinated against Covid from May 1. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has announced that vaccination of people above 18 will begin on May 5 in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-71
27-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: Calcuttans vote to ‘preserve the city’s inclusive culture’||Calcuttans came out in good numbers to cast their votes on Monday despite the Covid-19 threat and many of them said this election was more than a battle for political power. Outside a polling booth in Bhowanipore, financial consultant Alka Karnani said: “Diwali dinner at our home is incomplete without our Muslim friends. Similarly, we go to their places during Id celebrations.” “We must preserve the inclusive culture of Calcutta against an onslaught of religious polarisation,” said Shiv Karnani, a resident of Nafar Kundu Road. Shiv and his wife Alka voted at a booth in Bakulbagan, a stone’s throw from their home. Shiv’s ancestors trace their roots to Rajasthan but moved to Bengal over 200 years ago. “When I go to Rajasthan now, I go there as a tourist. Calcutta is my home,” said the 57-year-old, who is in the medical equipment industry. The couple have two sons, the elder one settled abroad. “We also want our children to get jobs here. So that they don’t have to leave home for jobs,” Alka said. A sizeable presence of senior citizens and women was seen in queues outside many polling booths on Monday. An old man, walking with a stick, came out of a booth on Ramesh Mitra Road in Bhowanipore around 11am. The April sun was scorching and the man paused to rest for a few seconds after every few steps. On seeing a couple of TV cameras, he flashed his left index finger marked with the poll ink. “Some of my family members and neighbours were sceptical about me stepping out to vote. But I was bent on voting. Voting gives me a reassurance that I am still not invalid,” said Sambhu Nath Dutta, 86, a resident of Puddapukur in Bhowanipore. Asked what the main issue that influenced his voting was, Dutta replied: “I voted for a Bengal where everyone can live together peacefully, a Bengal without violence.” The Election Commission had arranged for postal ballots at home for voters aged above 80. But Dutta said he was not aware of the provision. At the polling station in Deshbandhu College for Women off Rashbehari Avenue, the queue of voters stretched around 100 metres around noon. Several voters stood under umbrellas. At the Institute of Jute Technology on Ballygunge Circular Road, the polling booth was busy since early morning. The queue of women voters was much longer than that of men. From Chetla to Lake Gardens, polling stations were busy for most of the day. Till 5pm, the voter turnout percentage in Calcutta was around 60 per cent, according to the EC. Sukriti Dutta, 20, a first-time voter, stepped out of a polling booth on Sarat Bose Road around 10.30am. The BSc student, a resident of Manoharpukur, said women’s safety was one of the main issues for her. “I can return home safely after 10pm now. I voted to keep things that way,” she said. The polling booth at South City International School was also busy. Debdatta Mukherjee, 64, a Poddarnagar resident, had come to vote at the booth with wife Kabita, 60. “The communal polarisation we are witnessing threatens to tear apart the ‘politically conscious’ badge that Bengalis love to flaunt. There are no jobs here, there is no industry. Social harmony is the only asset that we have in Bengal. We must protect it,” said Debdatta, a chemical engineer from Jadavpur University. Ridhhisha Halder, all of seven months, made her way to a polling station in Bhowanipore on Monday morning, in her mother’s arms. “There is no one to look after her at home. We could not miss voting. So, here we are,” said her mother Urmila, a homemaker. Her husband Ritesh said the vote was important because it was a battle between locals and outsiders. “We are not perfect. But we are happy. We don’t need the ‘Sonar Bangla’ projected by leaders from Delhi. They will turn Bengal into a land of strife and unrest,” said Ritesh. Md Tarique Ahmed, 28, a marketing professional, cast his vote at Lady Brabourne College in Park Circus. He said that Bengal would not fall to the politics of polarisation. “The BJP relies on a tried and tested formula — division of people along religious lines. The party has done the same in other states. But it will not work in Bengal,” he said. Anirban Ganguly, 31, a Ballygunge resident, had come to cast his vote at a polling booth at South Calcutta Law College. He stressed the need to ramp 
up the healthcare infrastructure. “The Covid-19 pandemic has revealed the ramshackle state of our healthcare system. Any government, at the state or Centre, should concentrate on affordable healthcare for all,” said Ganguly, who works in the travel and tourism sector. Sreedita Dasgupta, a first-time voter, and mother Srabanti had come to cast their votes at South City International School. Sreedita, a BTech student at a private engineering college, said she wanted enough jobs in her home state. “Young people studying here should not have to leave the state in search of jobs. I want the new government to ensure that,” she said. Her mother said: “Manush e manush e hingsha jano bondho hoye (Violence among humans should stop).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-71
27-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Elections 2021:  Nikhat and Pritam vote for humanity||Kuppili Pritam and Nikhat Parveen stepped out of a polling booth in the Calcutta Port constituency on Monday and she spoke about how “humanity comes first”. Nikhat has been fasting every day in the Ramazan month like any devout Muslim and she holds the diya during the household puja at her Hindu in-laws’ place with equal fervour. So does Kuppili Pritam. A cook at a star hotel in Calcutta, Pritam makes the iftar meal at home whenever he gets a chance. On Id, he takes leave from work to celebrate. “My husband loves cooking Chinese dishes. That is what he specialises in. But on the day of Id, he prepares mughlai,” Nikhat says with a smile. Nikhat and some of her friends in their Mominpore neighbourhood chose to step out in the afternoon to cast their votes. That was convenient for them because they wake up early for their sehri, the pre-dawn meal during the Ramazan fasting, and go back to sleep. Since her childhood, Nikhat has never skipped her Ramazan fast. Pritam and his family have not come in the way of her choice. “We grew up together from childhood. He (Pritam) was my best friend. So when we decided to get married, there were no issues,” Nikhat said, arranging the white snakha bangle around her wrists. “My papa was slightly upset because we went to the Kalighat temple to marry. But later he accepted my decision.” A Class VIII dropout, Nikhat doesn’t remember her mobile number. But the 23-year-old remembers nuances of some of the Hindu rituals, which she has picked up from her in-laws since she married Pritam in February last year. Pritam had worn a golden sherwani suit with an ornate cap for the occasion and Nikhat chose a red Benarasi sari. When the two exchanged garlands, priests in the temple clapped to the sounds of conch shells. “There were no issues with either family. The rest you hear from her,” Pritam said before rushing to join his work in the hotel. A predominantly minority locality, Mominpore has accepted the marriage without a hue and cry. When the couple’s fathers, Kuppili Raju and Akbar Hussain, meet and greet, residents of the area don’t pause to stare. “A girl has married a boy from her neighbourhood. It doesn’t matter what their faiths are. They are happy and that’s what we want them to be,” said Bablu Karim, a resident of Braunfeld Row. The narrative of division based on religion being played out for the last few months across the state has hit Mominpore, too. But every time the issue of mandir and masjid cropped up, it firmed their resolve to preserve the city’s inclusive culture. “Saabse aagey hai insaniyat (It’s the humanity that comes first),” Nikhat said. “We voted today to preserve this Calcutta.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-72
