28-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengali writer Anish Dev no more||Popular Bengali writer Anish Dev died at a city hospital on Wednesday after being infected with COVID-19, family sources said. Dev, who was on ventilation, died at the age of 70, they said. He is survived by his wife and daughter. The writer was admitted to a private hospital after suffering cardiac arrest at home a few days back and was later diagnosed with COVID-19 infection. Dev, who was on ventilation, died at around 7:10 am. Born in 1951 in the metropolis Deb started writing at the age of 18. His prominent works include futuristic thriller Teish Ghanta Shat Minute, Saper Chokh, Jibon Jakhon Phuraye Jay, Hate Kalome Computer, Bignyaner Dashdiganto among others. Deb was also known for transliteration of world science fiction into Bengali language and popularised science. He got the Vidyasagar Puraskar instituted by the West Bengal government in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-70
28-04-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier’s College principal pens prayer seeking divine intervention to save humanity from Covid-19||Merciful God in heaven, we are facing the most grave danger to our beloved India and to humankind, the latest and very grave pandemic situation caused by the coronavirus. We pray for your kind intervention to be with us and save us. First of all, we pray for your Divine Forgiveness for humankind. In your forgiving love, forgive us all our sins. We are in fear and gloom, we are helpless. Turn our hearts to you. Calm our fear and desperation. Strengthen us and give us hope, show us light and direction. We pray for those afflicted all over the world, specially for those in India, in Bengal, in Calcutta. Heal them all Loving and Merciful God. Please protect the others. Help each of us to be responsible to  use masks and sanitisers, maintain needed distance, follow other directions and thus avoid community transmission all over. Loving God, give wisdom and guidance to the scientists doing research that they may soon develop many more effective vaccines and medicines to combat the sickness speedily and properly. Let these be easily available at an affordable price for all to use. We pray to you to save the lives of those in grave danger. Please help to ease the acute shortage of oxygen, beds, medicines and other essential materials. Bless and give courage, protection and comfort to all those directly helping and battling in this field all over the world, specially in India and in Calcutta, very specially the doctors, nurses,  medical workers and those working along with them in various responsibilities, doing their best to save us by risking their own lives. Bless and protect their families. Also bless and protect the civic and others workers and those working in crematoriums, burial grounds and the likes. Bless and protect their family members. Also bless and protect the government personnel, civic and all other workers and those associated with them, the police and administration, those running the transport, those in sale and distribution of various goods and materials and those in essential services and the likes. Also bless and protect the poor, helpless, those without food, money and shelter, those who have lost their jobs. Those Indians who are abroad, help them to be safe there and have needed food, shelter and medicine. Bless all the leaders of our country, all the government heads and administrations all over India. Guide them with your wisdom and hope so as to lead, protect and save the people of India. Bless and protect and guide each one of us Indians, especially those of us in Bengal, in Calcutta, to be responsible to do our part sincerely and properly for the good of all. Loving and Merciful God be with us all, at all times during this crisis and guide, protect and save us all.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-70
28-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid surge: St Xavier’s College defers online semester exams||St Xavier’s College has deferred all online semester exams “given the increasing gravity of the pandemic situation” that has led to a scenario where students are struggling “to concentrate on classes and prepare for examinations”. Father Dominic Savio, the principal of the college, issued a notice announcing the deferment. The exams were to begin from early May. The notice said: “Given… the number of students being affected directly or indirectly, and the difficulty of many students to concentrate on classes and prepare for examinations, it has been decided to defer all examinations temporarily. The dates for the examinations will be announced keeping in mind the developing situation.” The revised exam timetables will be published ensuring that the students get at least 15 days’ notice. Explaining the difficulties the students are encountering, Father Savio said several teachers had tested positive for Covid-19 and online classes could not be held according to schedule, which made it difficult to complete the syllabus on time. “In many cases, the parents or the family members of the students are down with Covid-19. Students themselves are testing positive. This has created a situation where the students are not being able to concentrate on their studies. They are under a lot of stress and appealed to college authorities for deferring the exams till the situation stabilises,” he said. According to the exam calendar uploaded on the college’s website, BCom sixth semester exams were supposed to start on May 3, BCom fourth semester exams on May 7, and arts and science sixth semester exams on May 8. An official of the college said there was widespread apprehension that the situation could be worse in May and they thought “it would be prudent to defer the exams during the month”. “More cases could mean greater health emergencies at home both for the teachers and the students. This could keep them more preoccupied with health hazards and cause further strain. Asking a student to attend examination in such a scenario would amount to being inhuman,” he said. Earlier, the college had said its offices would run with 30 per cent staff because of the surge in Covid-19 cases. Support staff members who use public transport had been asked to go to the college only when required. St Xavier’s University in New Town has postponed the Xavier Law Admission Test (XLAT) that was to be held on April 25. The computer-based tests were to be held in nine cities, including Calcutta. During the pandemic, it is usually on-campus exams that have been cancelled. Nicco Park to shut down from Tuesday The Nicco Park authorities have decided to shut down the amusement park in Salt Lake from Tuesday because of the surge in the number of Covid-19 cases, a park official said. The park will be shut at least till May 7, the official said. A large part of the park’s workforce, including ushers, ride operators and security personnel, depend on public transport to travel. The park still had some visitors and it did not want to be seen as a spreader, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-70
28-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid: City police track social media posts that promise easy medicines||The city police are tracking social media posts that promise easy medicines that are used to treat Covid-19 but are at times said to be unavailable in the market. A police officer said it was obvious that drugs that mandatorily need prescriptions for sale cannot be procured through online chats. “Such posts could only mean that either the person is in illegal possession of the drugs, which are prohibited to be sold over the counter, or it is a trap to cheat the buyer,” the officer said. Several numbers that have been in circulation from purported do-gooders have been found switched off all along, an officer in the police’s enforcement branch said. “Blackmarketeers choose buyers and get back to the really interested parties.” The enforcement branch had on Monday arrested an employee of a pharmacy in Chowringhee who was allegedly caught with a vial of remdesivir that he had plotted to sell for Rs 21,000, almost five times the actual cost of the full dose of the medicine comprising six vials. The police said on Monday they had come across the alleged involvement of a 23-year-old homemaker, Nidhi Goel, who was to collect the vial for a family that had approached the police against her for cheating. “The complainant family had come across this woman through social media. There are many phone numbers in circulation. People are being asked to call the numbers for medicines that are otherwise not meant for sale to customers directly,” said an officer. According to a government directive, remdesivir is not meant for sale directly to customers with or without prescriptions. Only hospitals can procure it directly from distributors and vendors. However, several hospitals have reported a shortage of the medicine, which seems to have prompted families of many Covid patients to look out for ways to procure it at a premium. “We have learnt about one or two cases where we have specific information that the families have spent twice or thrice the marked price to procure remdesivir,” the officer said. The arrested pharmacy employee, Biswajit Das, has been remanded in police custody. Goel will be examined again, the police said. Chief justice of Calcutta HC will retire on April 29 Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan, the chief justice of Calcutta High Court, will retire on April 29. Justice Rajesh Bindal will take over as acting chief justice, according to a notification issued by the Union law and justice ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-70
28-04-2021||Calcutta||Auto driver killed in road accident at Burrabazar||An auto driver died in a road accident in Burrabazar early on Tuesday morning when his autorickshaw collided with a private car on the MG Road and Kalakar Street crossing. Police said the incident happened close to 1am on Tuesday. The autorickshaw was empty except the driver, who was returning home. The driver identified as Gautam Manna, 54, of Joy Narayan Chandra Lane was taken to the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital with multiple injuries where he was declared dead. Officers of Burrabazar police station seized the private car and arrested the driver under charges of causing death due to negligence, rash and negligent driving and mischief. Officers of the traffic department said the crossing where the accident took place usually remains congested during the day but was deserted early on Tuesday morning. “It is apparent that both the vehicles were moving at a high speed,” said an officer. Police officers said the majority of the motorists end up speeding on empty stretches and often fail to control the speed when a vehicle suddenly appears in front of them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-70
28-04-2021||Calcutta||Several city schools do away with usual prize-day certificates||Several city schools are doing away with the usual prize-day certificates — given at the end of the year —  mostly on academic excellence. Instead they have decided to reward the students for sustained efforts, conduct during the online class, organising fests online or also how they overcame financial challenges at home to be able to attend classes. This has been an unusual year and heads of schools said students cannot be judged by the same parameters like any other year. Some schools have reworked their criteria and done away with ranks. “Prizes that were determined by marks lost significance this year because of the way the exams were structured,” said Sharmila Bose, the director of Sushila Birla Girls' School. At Modern High School for Girls, the seniors will be acknowledged for their organisational skills like hosting events or helping teachers with the technological knowhow. At Lakshmipat Singhania Academy there are no “proficiency” prizes for the primary section. For the middle and senior students, classroom interaction and being pro-active during an online class have gained prominence. Calcutta Girls’ High School has also decided to do away with proficiency prizes. During the last academic year with a change in platform students have also learnt to do things and one needs to recognize their efforts, a head said. “We had to change the parameters because teaching and learning have been on a different platform...,” said Devi Kar, the director of Modern High School for Girls. Schools that give attendance prizes to children for not just one academic year but several years together have also considered the challenges at home. “There are students who get prizes for attendance. If we noticed that because of the pandemic and a crisis at home they could not attend a particular day we have considered them for a prize,” said  Lakshmipat Singhania Academy director Meena Kak. The pandemic has also thrust difficult times in many homes and some schools felt it was important to recognize the efforts of those children. “It had been a difficult year in some homes where parents have lost jobs or there has been illnesses in families. But despite that some students have strived hard and we will give special prizes to them,” said Terence Ireland, the principal of St James’ School.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-70
28-04-2021||Calcutta||Transplant surgeries: Two men get doctor’s heart, kidney||A 34-year-old man from Tangra, who had undergone a kidney transplant 10 years ago, underwent a second transplant at the Rabindranath Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences on Tuesday. A 30-year-old man, a resident of Howrah’s Tikiapara, underwent a heart transplant surgery at the Narayana Superspeciality Hospital in Howrah. Both the organs were donated by the family of a 64-year-old doctor who had been declared brain dead at another city hospital on Monday. The man from Tangra had undergone the first kidney transplant in 2010 and was doing well with medication. But the first transplanted kidney stopped functioning when the man could not get the necessary medicines during the Covid-19 pandemic last year. “Usually, a transplanted kidney works for a period of nine to 13 years. This man’s transplanted kidney was working well, though there was a slight increase in creatinine levels. But it stopped working when he missed medication for months during the first wave of the pandemic last year. He had been on dialysis for the last few months,” said Deepak Shankar Ray, the head of the nephrology department at RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences. “His condition is now stable. He will be kept under observation for about a week.” Unlike heart and liver transplant where the damaged organs are removed before the new organs are transplanted, damaged kidneys are not removed in a kidney transplant. “The man will now live with four kidneys. Since kidneys are very small in size they do not cause a problem even if they are not removed,” said Ray. The 30-year-old man who underwent a heart transplant was suffering from dilated cardiomyopathy. “It is a situation where the heart muscles weaken leading to enlargement and considerable reduction in the heart’s pumping action. He had recurrent heart failure. He is stable after the surgery but we will observe him closely in the ICU,” said Debasis Das, a cardiothoracic surgery and heart transplant surgeon. The doctor, whose organs were donated, was posted at the East Midnapore District Hospital where he suffered a head injury in an accident on Thursday, said an official of Apollo Gleneagles, where he was brought on Friday. The man’s corneas went to Disha eye hospital and his skin went to SSKM hospital, said an official of Apollo, where the organs were harvested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-70
28-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Trinamul Congress hopes to retain Jorasanko ||If there is one seat in Calcutta where the BJP flags and posters match, if not outnumber, those of Trinamul, it is Jorasanko. The seat, which votes in the last leg of the polling on Thursday, comprises around two lakh voters. A sizeable section of them is from the trading community in and around Burrabazar, a segment the BJP considers its vote bank. The BJP’s candidate from the seat is Meena Devi Purohit, the councillor from Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s Ward 22 (Burrabazar) for over 20 years. Hoping to dent the traders’ vote bank, Trinamul has fielded Vivek Gupta, a former Rajya Sabha member from the party, editor of Hindi daily Sanmarg and a Marwari himself. Also in the fray is the Congress’s Ajmal Khan, the Sanjukta Morcha candidate. Purohit’s image as a Marwari homemaker who lost her husband in an accident, had worked to her advantage at the start of her political career. Having won Ward 22 so many times, the 60-year-old — who, for five years from 2000, had been deputy mayor in the Subrata Mukherjee-led Trinamul-BJP civic board — now wields a significant clout in Burrabazar. Her ward is still not free of the ills of indiscriminate garbage disposal, illegal parking and encroachments. Yet, Purohit, or Meenaji, as she is known in Burrabazar, retains her pull among the electorate. “She is one of our own. She is accessible, always available on the phone. She has not changed in all these years,” said a 54-year-old trader on Kali Krishna Tagore Street, a few metres from Purohit’s home and election office. On Monday, inside her office, a young man touched her feet for a “favour” Purohit had done him. Minutes later, when this reporter was talking to her, an old lady walked up to her and said something in her ears. This time, Purohit bent low to touch the woman’s feet. The woman blessed her and left. “I have been working for people here for the past 25 years. People who have been pitchforked from outside have to prove their worth,” Purohit told this newspaper. A “permanent solution” to the partially fallen Vivekananda Road flyover and special focus on the education of girls will be on her “immediate to-do list” if elected, said Purohit. Jorasanko is part of the Calcutta North constituency, which Sudip Bandyopadhyay of Trinamul won in 2019. But the BJP candidate, Rahul Sinha, led from the Jorasanko Assembly segment. In 2016, Smita Bakshi of Trinamul won Jorasanko, defeating the BJP’s Sinha by around 7,000 votes. Gupta, the Trinamul candidate in 2021, sounded upbeat. “I challenge Purohit to list five achievements as a long-standing councillor,” he said. Gupta said a solution to the traffic mess, employment generation for local youth within the trading hub of Burrabazar and development of Jorasanko — the birthplace of Rabindranath Tagore — as a tourism hub would be his priorities if he won. Asked if it was an acknowledgement that his party was unable to do these things despite remaining in power for 10 years, he said: “The Lok Sabha vote was a wake-up call for us.” Gupta is hopeful of winning a large section of the vote share of the business community. “I am a businessman. I have been getting positive feelers from the clan,” he said. Muslim voters — in the Zakaria Street, Colootola Street, Mechhua and neighbouring areas — make up over 20 per cent of the electorate in Jorasanko. Trinamul poll managers are banking on that, alongside a chunk of votes of the old north Calcutta Bengalis. “If Gupta manages to dent the Marwari vote, we will win Jorasanko again,” said a local Trinamul leader. Ajmal Khan, the Congress candidate, said the BJP and Trinamul were two sides of the same coin and people would vote for a change this time. “One party speaks for 70 per cent (of the population), another speaks for 30 per cent. But we speak for 100 per cent,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-70
28-04-2021||Calcutta||New Town residents step forward to help senior citizens get registered on CoWin portal||People from different walks of life have stepped forward and responded to the New Town authorities' call to help senior citizens and those above 45 get registered on the CoWin portal so they can get the Covid shot. A group of 14 volunteers is helping potential recipients, especially seniors living alone in New Town, get registered on the portal. The motley group of volunteers includes a lawyer, schoolteachers and techies. The volunteers have already registered more than 200 people from New Town as well as places like Durgapur and Burdwan, said Samaresh Das, the chairman of the New Town News and Forum (NTFN), a residents' group. Arnab Banerji, a lawyer, said he responded to the call from the New Town authorities because "these are unprecedented times and he could not stand on the sidelines doing nothing". He said he was keeping the CoWin portal open on a window of his laptop’s internet browser while working on his cases. “Whenever someone calls me for registration, I tell the person to WhatsApp me an image of his or her identity document. I enter the details on the portal and get the person registered,” said Banerji, a resident of New Town's AA Block. He has been getting more than a dozen calls daily. Sucharita Das, a resident of DA Block who teaches at a government school, said her household chores had more than doubled because the family did not have any help but she still found time to help people register for the jab. “A lot of senior citizens want to get innoculated but are not being able to because they are not comfortable doing things online,” said Sucharita, who stays with her husband, two children and in-laws. “We have to help people in whatever way we can. This is a very small way in which we can pitch in to help everyone during these trying times.” Mitali Das, an accounting consultant, said she had seen first-hand how seniors faced problems while registering on the portal. “One of our neighbours, a senior citizen, had approached me to get herself and her husband registered,” said Mitali, who is juggling household chores and office work to help people get registered. On Sunday, the volunteers had organised a camp near Kolkata Gate to help people register on the portal. But the volunteers have decided to work online to avoid gathering as a precaution against Covid. The volunteers have also created a flyer containing their numbers and posted it on social networking sites, including Facebook. NTFN chairman Das said the flyer had gained a lot of traction and they were getting calls from abroad from sons and daughters of elderly residents of the township. “I get calls till late at night from the US, UK and other countries. They seek our help to get their parents and relatives registered.We are helping all irrespective of whether the person we are registering is a resident of New Town or not,” said Das. While one set of volunteers is working to help people register on the portal, at least six others are working to source oxygen cylinders for Covid-19 patients. Debashis Sen, the chairman of New Town Kolkata Development Authority, lauded the citizens' initiative and said it was heartening to see residents of the township respond to their call for help. The NKDA has restarted its Covid-19 helpline. Residents can call 1800 103 7652 to know the rules of home isolation and to find out about vaccine centres, testing units and the NKDA-run safe house.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-70
28-04-2021||Calcutta||State government wants to procure Covid vaccines for private hospitals ||The state government wants to procure Covid vaccines for private hospitals for the time being as several such units have expressed the fear that supply would suffer if they were to deal with the manufacturers directly as told by the Centre. At a meeting with the state government on Tuesday, officials of several private hospitals said they had approached the vaccine manufacturers for clarity on how and when to place orders, but there was not much response. The officials told government representatives that they were not sure whether the manufacturers could supply doses to all private hospitals separately. The government told the hospitals that it would write to the Centre to know whether it can procure vaccines for private hospitals, said an official of a hospital who attended the meeting. The Centre has announced that all private hospitals have to procure vaccines on their own from May 1, the day everyone above 18 becomes eligible for Covid jabs. In Bengal, however, chief minister Mamata Banerjee has said people above 18 will be given the shots from May 5. Private hospitals are getting dozens of calls every day from people above 18 who want to book slots for vacci-nations, but the hospitals are not being able to give them any assurance. “We have started approaching the manufacturers but we are not getting much response. We had a meeting with senior state government officials today. The government is writing to the Centre to know if it can... procure Covid vaccines on behalf of private healthcare facilities. But it will take a few more days for more clarity to emerge,” said Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals and the president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India. “We, the private hospitals, can then procure the vaccines from the state government.” A health department official said the government agreed to step in to ensure that those who had received the first dose did not miss the second. “About one lakh first doses have been administered in hospitals in the metropolitan Calcutta. We will stand by private hospitals and the recipients so that the second doses can be administered in time. We will also mediate about procurement of vaccines for private hospitals from May as well as calibrate and channelise doses to hospitals,” said the official. At the meeting, officials of private hospitals told the government that they would fail to administer the scheduled second doses if supply suffered from May. A private hospital official said the vaccine manufacturers would give more im-portance to a state government’s request for doses than requests from individual hospitals. “Officials representing the government asked for an estimated number of doses that private hospitals across the state will need. We said we would require about 1 crore doses. That is likely to see us through a couple of months. We are hoping that things will settle down by then and manufacturers will be in a position to supply us without fail,” the official said. Earlier on Monday, the health department had officially communicated to all private hospitals that they would have to procure vaccines from manufacturers directly from May. But after the hospitals expressed their doubts about procuring vaccines on their own, government officials agreed to intervene. “We are hoping the state will get a reply from the Centre in two to three days. We are waiting to see what the Centre says,” said an official of a private hospital. According to an order from the Centre, the current arrangement of the state government supplying vaccine doses to private hospitals will end on April 30. Private hospitals now pay Rs 150 a vial. Each vial contains 10 doses. From May 1, the private hospitals have to shell out more. The Serum Institute of India, which manufactures Covishield, has announced that private hospitals have to pay Rs 600 for each dose. Bharat Biotech, which produces Covaxin, has priced its vaccine at Rs 1,200 a dose for private hospitals. All Covid vaccination centres are anticipating an increase in rush of recipients from May as the number of eligible beneficiaries will increase manifold. Case count The number of active Covid cases in Bengal crossed the 1-lakh mark on Tuesday and touched 1,00,615. The state recorded 16,403 new infections, 73 deaths and 10,664 recoveries during the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-71
28-04-2021||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur teacher verbally abuses students and parents||An IIT Kharagpur teacher has been allegedly caught on video verbally abusing some students and their parents apparently for not standing up when the national anthem was being played during an online class last week. The students’ senate, which represents all students on the IIT campus, has written to director V.K. Tewari and requested him to look into the complaint that SC, ST and OBC students are being verbally abused by an associate professor of the humanities and social science department. Tamal Nath, the registrar of the institute, said: “We received a complaint from the students on Monday. The complaint is being looked into. If it is true, we will not support such behaviour.” Some of the students said the teacher played the national anthem during the start of every class and expected the students to stand up. Asked if there is any practice of IIT Kharagpur teachers playing the national anthem in class, Nath said: ’’I am not aware about that.” Repeated calls to the teacher went unanswered. The teacher did not respond to text messages either. The teacher is said to have abused the students during a class on preparatory English, which caters to the students from reserved categories. In the purported video, a rant could be heard: “This is the minimum you can do for your country. Listen to me…. I have 20 marks for you, I will give zero to everybody. All 128. Do you want that? Tell me. Do you want that? (‘No, ma’am’, says a student in a meek voice). Shameless people. You have to only stand up for two minutes in honour of the national anthem and you cannot do it. And one bloody b******. You know, this is also on your parents. Be it like that. I am calling your parents that. Do you have any shame? Shameless creature of prep course. One smart fellow. (He) did not stand up for the national anthem and said ‘Bharat Maata ki’. Are you in school now? Bloody B******. “When will you learn sense you idiotic people, prep course? I gave you one-week time. Have you caught up with my reputation? You don’t know who I am. Right? Okay. I will tell you who I am. Let’s start. Have you all settled down?” Some of the students attributed the rant to the teacher. One of the students in the class posted a video of the abusive behaviour on a Facebook page of IIT students. It was shared multiple times. The students’ senate and the dean of students’ affairs were tagged in the video. The “prep course” the teacher was referring to is a course that the IITs across the country run to arm students from reserved categories and the people-with-disability (PWD) category so that they can study the BTech course. Proficiency in English language is part of the skills that these students should be equipped with. Students belonging to these categories who clear the cut-off of the JEE Advanced but fail to secure admission can register for this course to seek admission a year later after clearing a test. A member of the students’ senate said the teacher routinely played the national anthem in the class. “The teacher did the same during offline classes as well. During online classes, the teacher either attaches a pen drive to the personal computer to play the anthem or downloads it from YouTube and plays it. The teacher wants everybody to stand as it happens in the theatre. The language suggests how intolerant and sinister the teacher is towards the students,” said a student. Promoting “nationalistic fervour” among students of the oldest IIT has been a priority since May 2018. The institute had in May 2018 issued a circular saying: “Our sole aim is to promote development of science and technology and nationalistic fervour among students.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-71
28-04-2021||Calcutta||Pre-poll drive: Unaccounted cash of around Rs 1.45 crore seized from eight persons in central Calcutta||Allegedly unaccounted for cash totalling around Rs 1.45 crore was seized from eight persons at different locations in central Calcutta on Tuesday, 48 hours before the pockets are to go to the polls. Police said the eight persons had been detained as they could not produce documents for the money they were carrying or explain the source and purpose of the cash. The spots where the money was seized are in the Chowringhee and Jorasanko Assembly constituencies, which will vote in the last phase of the Assembly elections on April 29. The police said a total of Rs 75 lakh was seized from five persons in the Muchipara, Jorasanko and Burrabazar areas. “Four of the five persons were carrying the money in bags. The fifth had kept the currency notes hidden in undergarment. They were intercepted during pre-election drives and checkings on roads,” a senior officer at Lalbazar said. Another police team intercepted a man and seized Rs 40 lakh from him in Posta. Another Rs 30 lakh was seized from two persons at the Moulali crossing. “In none of the cases, the accused could give a satisfactory reply on the source and destination of the cash. We have alerted the income tax department,” said an officer at Lalbazar. According to the election rules, anyone carrying Rs 50,000 or more should be in a position to explain with documents the source and destination of the money to the police and the income tax department. If the person fails to give any satisfactory explanation, the money is seized and handed over to the income tax department, which will start a probe in the matter. “If someone comes to claim the money with documents, he or she has to pay income tax on the seized cash and then claim the remaining amount,” said an IT official. A senior police officer said the amount seized on Tuesday was the highest in the run up to the elections. In none of the cases, the police said, it was possible to ascertain which politician or political party was going to benefit from the cash. “In almost all cases, hawala operators or people who are not known or related to the source or destination of the money are engaged to transport the cash. That ensures that if couriers are caught, the real culprits will remain behind the scene,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-71
