29-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Elections 2021: Polling and police jostle for space at EVM collection centre||At a time Covid-19 cases are on an alarming rise across the city and its fringes, thousands of polling and police personnel jostled for space at Netaji Indoor Stadium to collect EVMs before being sent to polling stations in packed buses on Wednesday. In the afternoon, the inside of the stadium was a scary picture. Polling personnel stood cheek by jowl to collect the EVMs and other polling material including masks, sanitisers and gloves. Many who had gathered inside were not wearing masks, several had them hanging on their chins or from their ears and no distancing was maintained. There were big crowds both inside and outside the stadium. Inside, counters had been set up from where the EVMs and polling material were being distributed. There were also counters where the polling personnel had to register before collecting the items. There were serpentine queues leading to the registration counters and polling personnel were seen standing close to one another. Many were also seen laying out newspapers and having lunch huddled in groups. Some others had tucked their masks into their pockets to have lunch or tea and biscuits. No facilities to conduct temperature checks were seen at the entry points to the stadium. The main gate served as both the entry and exit point from the centre. No easily-visible facilities to wash or sanitise hands had been installed on the premises. After the polling personnel collected the EVMs and material, they stood in a long queue for buses that would ferry them to their respective polling stations. Nearly all the buses that left the stadium were crammed, leaving no chance for them to maintain distance. A presiding officer headed to a booth in Beleghata said that many of them were scared for themselves and for their families. “This is a very, very scary situation. The way it was crowded inside, leaving no space at all to maintain any social distancing, has put us at great risk. We are now boarding the buses with a prayer on our lips,” the officer said. Another polling official was seen recording the crowded scenes on his mobile phone. “It is very likely that I will get Covid as the situation here is unprecedented and grim. I want to show my family members how we collected the items. I have already asked my wife to go to my in-laws’ place and stay there for a few days because I don’t want to take a risk,” said the official headed to a booth in Shyampukur. EVMs and polling material for seven Assembly constituencies in Calcutta North, including Maniktala, Beleghata, Entally, Chowringhee, Jorasanko and others, were distributed at the centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-69
29-04-2021||Calcutta||Government allots 1 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines for private hospitals for second jab||The Bengal government has decided to allot one lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines to private hospitals in the city so the second jab could be given to those who had taken their first at the private units. Officials said the 1 lakh-odd people who have taken their first dose at private hospitals will have their second shot due from May 1. As the private hospitals were supposed to return all vaccine doses post-April 30, following a directive by the Centre, there were confusions and anxiety whether these one lakh people would get their second dose. “We are aware of the anxiety over the issue. We have decided to allot the required number of doses to the private hospitals post-April 30 so they can administer the second jab,” said a senior government official. Sources in the health department also said the government would allot the doses free of cost and the hospitals could collect a service charge from recipients. “Majority of the private hospitals are carrying out vaccination for people over 45 years of age at Rs 250 a dose. Of which, the hospitals were paying Rs 150 for each dose and collecting Rs 100 as service charge. This time, the hospitals will be given the doses for free. So, they will only be allowed to collect the service charge,” an official said. Sources said the decision was taken after the state came to know that the doses to be returned by private hospitals after April 30 would go to the respective state governments. “So, we will have enough doses to supply to the private hospitals. And the private hospitals will not be charged for the doses as the state government has promised to provide vaccines for free,” a source said. The state government will fix a venue for each private hospital where the second dose can be administered. “For example, AMRI Salt Lake can be given a facility at the Salt Lake stadium,” the source said. The government has also decided to write to the Centre expressing its wish to buy a few crore doses to carry out a free vaccination drive in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-69
29-04-2021||Calcutta||CoWin portal crashes ‘under load’||“No Vaccination Centre is available for booking” – flashed on the screen of hundreds of Calcuttans aged between 18 and 44 years who were hoping to book their Covid-19 jab slots through the Centre’s Co-WIN portal. Registration on Co-WIN of people of ages between 18 and 44 opened at 4pm on Wednesday and they will be eligible for the doses from May 1 (May 5 in Bengal). Many complained that the website crashed and they could not register at all and many said it took them several attempts to get through because of delay in getting the One Time Password on their phones. Those who could finally register said they were greeted with the message “No Vaccination Centre is available for booking” on the screen. A state health department official said they had received a number of complaints about not being able to register on the portal. “We have spoken to the Centre several times on the issue. They are trying to fix it. A large number of people tried to log into the system at the same time. That could be a reason for the problem,” he said. “I failed to enter the system twice as it was taking more than 10 minutes to get the OTP. After I finally registered, I could not locate any date or vaccination centre. One of my friends in Delhi managed to get options for hospitals and dates,” said a 23-year-old techie in Calcutta. A tweet from Aarogya Setu at 4.35pm – an app from where people could link to Co-WIN – confirmed a glitch in the Co-WIN portal around 4pm, when the registration for people between 18 and 44 opened. “Cowin Portal is working. There was a minor glitch at 4PM that was fixed. 18 plus can register,” the tweet read. The Centre’s announcements that people between 18 and 44 can be vaccinated from May 1 had raised hopes in many who have to step out for work risking infection. Sabah Rahman, a teacher who lives in Gariahat, had registered for herself, her husband and siblings but could not schedule a slot for any of them. “I could not see any available date till July. The calendar is not scrolling down beyond that,” said the Gariahat resident. Rahman’s 83-year-old father-in-law and 74-year-old mother-in-law are fully vaccinated against Covid. The Co-WIN portal allows a registered user to check availability of slots at various vaccination centres by searching through the PIN or the district. Sampurna Mukherjee, a student, said she could register and spot the names of some vaccination centres in Howrah but could not find any slot for the 18-44 age group. Several private hospitals said despite the central government’s announcement to start the vaccination drive for people aged between 18 and 44 years from May 1, they were unable to commit any dates for at least the next few days. Rupak Barua, group CEO , AMRI Hospitals, said: “We are not taking any booking till May 5. Once clarity emerges about the availability of vaccines, we will update accordingly.” Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital, said: “We are telling people to wait or go to a government hospital because we are not sure when we will receive doses.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-69
29-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid vaccination: Uncertainty fuels second-jab rush||Several private hospitals in the city stopped offering slots for administering the first dose of a Covid vaccine on Thursday and Friday and some even failed to confirm appointments for the second dose as they are booked to the limit. Covid vaccination centres are witnessing a sudden rush as many fear they won’t be able to get vaccinated in May. The Centre has said all private healthcare facilities have to procure vaccines directly from the manufacturers from May. Private clinical establishments fear they may not get enough doses next month. This uncertainty has led to people queuing up at hospitals for the jab. What has added to the uncertainty, and contributed to the queue, is the health department’s advice to hospitals to give priority to second dose recipients. “We are not accepting any bookings for the first dose on Thursday and Friday. We will vaccinate second dose recipients,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive officer of Peerless Hospital. “There are many who are scheduled to get their second dose in May and they are calling us to know the status. We are telling them to contact us in the first week of May. We are also telling them that it will depend on whether we receive doses,” said Mitra. Alok Roy, the chairperson of Medica Superspecialty Hospital, too, said the hospital would administer Covid vaccines only to second dose recipients on Thursday and Friday. “About 95 per cent of the recipients at our hospital on Wednesday were second dose recipients. We will only vaccinate second dose recipients on Thursday and Friday. If there are some doses left after administering all second doses, we will give them to first dose recipients,” said Roy. The picture was identical at Belle Vue Clinic, which administered 640 doses on Wednesday. Only 20 of these were first doses. There were very long queues outside almost all Covid vaccination centres in the city. Hundreds had queued up outside SSKM Hospital. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC)-run Covid vaccination centres, too, had very long queues outside. Angry and agitated people, forced to stand for hours for the jab, were shouting outside a CMC clinic in Kasba. Ananda Lal, a retired professor of English, said his wife had set out at 7am on Wednesday. All vaccination centres she went to had hundreds already in the queue. “We were supposed to get the second dose of Covaxin on April 13. The majority of vaccination centres are not administering Covaxin. The few that are still administering it are running out of doses in a couple of hours,” said Lal. “It is distressing to see such a situation in the 21st century. It is not possible for those in the queue to maintain a 6ft distance from each other if there are hundreds in the queue. Some of those in the queue could be asymptomatic carriers of the virus and others could get infected. Imagine the plight of people who are frail and who are in their 70s and 80s,” said Lal, 65. Munmun Purohit, 53, who went to Belle Vue Clinic for her second dose, said the vaccination site was packed with people and it was not possible to maintain physical distancing. “The government has mismanaged the logistics. They are not being able to provide enough doses. Now that I have got my second dose, I am feeling that I have won a war,” she said. Officials managing vaccination centres said the steep rise in Covid numbers and the uncertainty over availability of vaccines in May had led to the rush. “The demand has far surpassed the supply and that is causing the chaos,” said an official. Case count Bengal on Wednesday recorded 17,207 new infections, 77 deaths and 11,933 recoveries. The number of active cases has risen to 1.05 lakh. Of the 77 deaths, 22 were reported from Calcutta and 16 from North 24-Parganas, the two worst-hit districts in the state. While Calcutta recorded 3,821 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 3,778. The recovery rate fell to 85.26 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-69
29-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Cossipore, where development vow is pitted against polarisation cry||An Assembly constituency that marks the northern end of Calcutta is a mirror to the city’s diversity. Ratan Babu Road merges seamlessly into Rustomjee Parsee Road. An affluent Bengali neighbourhood leads to a large slum adjoining a mosque. Cossipore-Belgachhia has around 2.3 lakh voters, comprising Bengali and Hindi-speaking communities and people from different faiths who have lived peacefully for years. In the run-up to the elections, the area has been witnessing attempts to create an environment of communal polarisation. On April 23, a clash had broken out between residents and BJP supporters allegedly led by Barrackpore MP Arjun Singh and Cossipore-Belgachhia’s BJP candidate Shibaji Singha Roy. The BJP IT cell head, Amit Malviya, had tweeted on the incident, saying Singha Roy and Singh “were attacked by members of Mamata Banerjee’s vote bank”. The Trinamul candidate from Cossipore-Belgachhia, Atin Ghosh, a former deputy mayor of Calcutta and a veteran leader of the ruling party in north Calcutta, wants to counter the polarisation narrative with an agenda of development. In the second week of April, Ghosh had released an election manifesto for his constituency and said it was a “promise in writing” of the things he would deliver if elected. Individual candidates releasing manifestos ahead of an election is not common. Some of the deliverables in the manifesto are converting open drains on either side of BT Road, between the Tallah bridge and Sinthee More, into underground ones and building footbridges at Chiria More, Sinthee More and at the intersection of Dum Dum Road and Raja Manindra Road. “Communal polarisation will not work here. I know because I have visited every single house in the constituency during the campaigning. None of my opponents has done that,” Ghosh told this newspaper. Other than Singha Roy, Ghosh’s opponents include the CPM’s Pratip Dasgupta. Trinamul’s Mala Saha had won the seat in the 2016 Assembly polls. She had defeated the Left Front’s Kaninika Bose by 25,810 votes. Cossipore-Belgachhia is part of the Calcutta North Lok Sabha seat. In the 2019 parliamentary elections, Trinamul’s Sudip Bandyopadhyay, who had won from Calcutta North, was ahead of the BJP’s Rahul Sinha in the Cossipore-Belgachhia segment by 13,592 votes. “Atin Ghosh has rich administrative experience. He has been a member of the mayoral council for a decade. He has been a councillor (from Ward 11) since 1985. His opponents don’t have a fraction of his credibility,” said a north Calcutta councillor and part of Ghosh’s election team. A resident of Ratan Babu Road in Ward 1 of the CMC said Ghosh was a clear favourite to win the seat. “But he needs to do more work, like focussing on the pathetic condition of North Suburban Hospital,” said the senior citizen who used to work as a manager in an automobile servicing unit. “A pipe supplying treated water to our ward had a leak three months ago. It was fixed recently, after multiple appeals to local leaders.” Cossipore and Belgachhia were CPM bastions before Trinamul wrested them. The CPM’s Dasgupta, a former Calcutta unit secretary of the DYFI, attributed the rise in the BJP’s vote share in 2019 to “an extremely polarised atmosphere”. This time, he said, the battle was far from over. “During the lockdown, we stood by the underprivileged sections 24X7. People have realised who their true well wishers are,” he said. Singha Roy, the BJP candidate, refused to accept Ghosh as a “heavyweight”. “People are fed up with Trinamul’s syndicate culture. There are no jobs for youth. They have destroyed the industrial belt along the Hooghly in Cossipore. Modiji’s Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikaas is the only way forward,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-69
29-04-2021||Calcutta||Two riders killed in accident on VIP Road||Two men were killed after a government bus rammed into a couple of two-wheelers near the Haldiram’s intersection on VIP Road near Chinar Park on Wednesday. The bus as well as the two-wheelers were heading towards Ultadanga from the airport, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. “The bus was travelling at high speed and it first hit a bike and then a scooter,” the officer said. Both the two-wheelers were flung towards the left side of the road upon impact and all the riders fell on the road. Baranagar resident Nayanaditya Kundu was riding the bike and Biyas Ghosh was on the pillion seat. The scooter also had two riders — Arjunpur resident Pintu Saha and his friend Kishan Roy was riding pillion. Kundu and Roy suffered head injuries and lost consciousness before they were taken to the Barasat sub-divisional hospital where they were declared dead. “Both the men had lost a lot of blood and were not conscious when they were brought in,” a doctor of the hospital said. All the riders were wearing helmets but Kundu’s had come off on the impact, a police officer said. Ghosh who also suffered injuries was taken to the Charnock Hospital off VIP Road near Chinar Park where she received treatment for her injuries. “She has received multiple stitches,” said an official of the Charnock Hospital. Babu Saha, an autorickshaw driver who was waiting for passengers on the service lane of VIP Road when the accident occurred, said the bus had been speeding and the driver had made no attempt to brake before it hit the two-wheelers. Police later intercepted the bus and arested the driver.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-69
29-04-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier’s College brings forward last day of classes||St Xavier’s College has brought forward the last day of classes for arts and science students to May 10 from May 20 “in order to give some breathing space to the students in the present Covid-situation”. A notice issued by Father Dominic Savio, the principal of the college, on Wednesday said: “Because of the same consideration the Last Class Day for B.Ed semester 2 is being brought forward to 10th May instead of 29th May.” The notice was issued a day after the college deferred all online semester exams “given the increasing gravity of the pandemic situation” that has led to a scenario where students are “struggling to concentrate on classes and prepare for examinations”. Details of the semesters for which the last day of classes has been brought forward have been given in the notice. Father Savio told Metro that the last day was being brought forward so the students did not have to remain preoccupied with attending classes at a time when many of them were encountering health emergencies in the family following a surge in Covid-19 cases. “Family members or parents of the students are testing positive. The students themselves are down with Covid-19 in some cases and are under a lot of strain. At a time like this, we don’t want to keep them preoccupied with attending classes and intend to give breathers to take care of other priorities,” he said. On an average, students are required to attend four or five online classes every day. The students also need additional time in this strenuous phase to prepare for the exams that were to begin from early May but have now been deferred, said Father Savio. “The alternative exam schedule will be announced soon,” he said. Does an early end to classes mean that courses would remain incomplete? An official of the college said the courses would be covered to a sufficient extent despite bringing forward the last day. “Ending classes early will also give some relief to the teachers, many of whom have tested positive for Covid-19 or have family members who have contracted the virus. They, too, are going through a lot of stress and need a breather,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-69
29-04-2021||Calcutta||South Point School launches Covid helpline||South Point school has started a “Covid helpline” where parents or staff can raise a medical requirement on the school app, which the school will post for all the 25,000-odd users of the app to help mobilise resources during this crisis. The requirement could be on information regarding availability of hospital beds, ambulances, oxygen, medicines, blood/plasma donors, nursing care services, food supply and isolation/quarantine centres, the school said in a notice issued to all parents and staff on Wednesday. “The second wave of the Covid pandemic has hit the country very hard and has stretched all health resources thin....Simply depending on the government system in such a dire situation is perhaps not enough...South Point, a large educational institution, with thousands of families directly or indirectly connected to it, would like to be of assistance in these trying times...” said the notice from the school. The school has a student strength of 12,000 and 700 odd staff, all of who use the school app. “We should leverage our strength, which is our numbers, and allow our parents and teachers to use the platform and get the message across,” said trustee Krishna Damani. The “Covid helpline”, a new option on the school app, where the school will post all requests for help or information. The users who need any help or information will have to raise a ticket through the help desk, with their full name and mobile number, which will then be posted on the school app. The people who can help can then directly contact the person who has generated the request. The back office of the school will work on processing requests for 13 to 14 hours and the school said they would try to post requests within an hour of receiving them. However, requests coming between 9pm and 8am will be posted on the next day around 9am, the school said in the notice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-69
29-04-2021||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur: Supreme Court panel takes up abuse complaint||The National Commission for Scheduled Castes has taken suo-motu cognisance of the alleged “use of unparliamentary language and casteist remarks” by an IIT Kharagpur teacher during an online class and asked the institute to submit an action-taken report within 15 days. The class on preparatory English was attended by students from underprivileged categories. A notice sent to the IIT Kharagpur director, V.K. Tewari, by the commission’s director, administration, Ajit Kumar Sahu says: “Her (the teacher’s) remarks have hurt the sentiments of many Indians, specifically the SC community.” Repeated calls and text messages to the director and the accused teacher did not elicit any response. Registrar Tamal Nath had said on Tuesday: “We received a complaint from the students on Monday. The complaint is being looked into. If it is true, we will not support such behaviour.” On Wednesday, he said: “The process of investigation is on.” An associate professor of the humanities and social science department has been allegedly caught on video verbally abusing some students and their parents apparently for not standing up when the national anthem was being played during an online class last week. In a purported video she allegedly called the students “bloody b*******”. The commission has intervened because there were Scheduled Castes students in the class, Sahu told Metro. “The chairman of the commission, Vijay Sampla, went through the video circulated on social media and he felt disturbed after listening to the way the learned teacher was verbally abusing the students. He asked me to take suo-motu cognisance of the unparliamentary language and casteist remarks. Accordingly, a notice has been sent to the institute on Tuesday,” he said. The notice has been also copied to the chief secretary of Bengal; director-general of police, Bengal; and the secretary in the Union ministry of education. The notice says the commission has decided to “investigate/inquire into the matter” in pursuance of the power conferred upon it under Article 338 of the Constitution. “You are hereby requested to submit the action taken within 15 days of the receipt of the notice either by fax/post/email in person in the following format,” the notice says. The format mentions filing of an FIR, slapping of relevant sections on the accused and arrest of the accused, among other things. Sahu said the commission said the institute could think of lodging a police complaint under the Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. after probing the complaint. “Under this act, no one can make casteist remarks. If they don’t do this, they have to inform the commission why this has not been done. If required the commission can lodge a police complaint,” Sahu said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-70
