30-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid: In vaccine queue from crack of dawn||Such is the rush for Covid vaccines that residents have started queuing up at hospitals from 2.30am. Such nasty arguments are breaking out over the procedure that the police have had to intervene on two occasions this week. Early on Wednesday, at 2.55am, Karunamoyee resident Biswanath De went to get himself enrolled for a jab at Matri Sadan. Given that the EE Block stretch was deserted, he assumed he would be first in the queue but to his horror, De was handed a serial number beyond 180! “I set an alarm to wake up and get here before 3am but I’m still late!” exclaimed De. He had come to the hospital twice before on different days but returned when he was being given serial numbers beyond 120. “Being after so many makes it certain that you won’t be vaccinated that day,” he said. It turned out that the man in charge of noting the names — a Hari Prasad who till then was sleeping on a cycle-cart — had been noting down names from 9pm the night before instead of at daybreak. That is why De got a number beyond 180. Chaos and confusion Sanjib, Banerjee, a resident of Dum Dum, had come to Matri Sadan Hospital with his 83-year-old mother Anita, after registering on the CoWin portal for the 3pm to 4pm time slot. “One of my neighbours, who had got the jab from this centre, advised us to go early because of the rush. We reached in the first hour but after more than 10 hours of waiting they said they were out of stock!” said Sanjib. Kuheli Banerjee, a resident of EE Block, had got her name down on the hospital’s register at 4am. “I went home and returned to join the queue at 6am. It was 3pm when I ultimately got the jab,” she said, exhausted but relieved. Atin Dutta had gone to queue up at 3am but returned without getting enrolled when he realised he would get a number beyond 180. “If there are leftover names at the end of the day, why are they not being carried over to the next day? Why do we have to queue afresh,” demanded the EE-Block resident. As patience wears thin, arguments are breaking out between officials and those in queue and on two occasions this week officers from Bidhannagar East police station had to be called in to diffuse tension at Matri Sadan. All in the same boat Other hospitals across the township are just as chaotic. At Calcutta Heart Clinic and Hospital, hopefuls are queuing up from 3.30am. They are themselves getting sheets of paper from home and writing down names of those in line, to be handed over to the staff when the service begins. At AMRI Hospitals too, people are queuing up since 4am, with the crowd peaking at around 6am. Under government facilities, the corporation has shut down 10 of its vaccination centres including the primary health care centre in Duttabad, due to erratic supply of vaccines. Only two centres are functional now — Matri Sadan and one at Narayanpur. Shortage and surge Hospital officials say they are at a loss handling the sudden surge in demand and fall in supply of vaccines. “Earlier there were days when we administered less than 20 shots as people were not willing to step forward. Now they are panicking due to the surge in Covid cases coupled with the fear that there will be even more people in queue from May 1,” said a Matri Sadan official. “Adding to our worries, we have extremely erratic supply of vaccines and are unable to predict how many people can get inoculated from beforehand,” said the official. A Calcutta Heart Clinic official said they had switched to a first come first serve basis regardless of CoWin registration. “We feel very bad about the situation and have even requested people not to turn up so early but they are panicked. We are trying not to turn anyone away but on most days we are run out of shots midway,” said Kishan Pradhan of the Calcutta Heart Clinic. The rush is such at AMRI Hospitals that they have erected a temporary structure in front to provide some shade to those waiting. “We are giving out tokens to those in line, provided they are registered on CoWin,” said an official. Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals on the other hand is taking no chances. “Despite CoWin registration, we are asking people to call our helplines and confirm their jab the day it is scheduled,” and official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-67
30-04-2021||Calcutta||Haj House to function as hospital||With the crisis for Covid beds reaching desperate proportions, hospitals in and around Salt Lake have responded to the health department directive to start satellite facilities. Charnock Hospital has gone one step ahead and is starting a 100-bed hospital at the government-run safe house at Haj House in New Town from May 1. “It is a public-private partnership. The government has given us the space. We are setting up the hospital. All the beds will be government acquisitioned. So admission will be via the health department’s mechanism,” said Prashant Sharma, managing director of Charnock Hospital. “Once the government refers a patient, we will admit him,” he added. The state government’s integrated Covid helpline is 1800-313444-222. Charnock is also running a satellite facility at Hotel Eastern Plaza on VIP Road. “We have 40 rooms there. We had started a satellite facility last year there as well but demand was less. People usually opt for our home isolation package unless things get serious and then they want to be hospitalised,” Sharma said, adding that they were having to refuse hundreds of patients seeking hospital admission on a daily basis. “The hotel is mostly for isolation of those who do not have space at home.” The charges at the hotel are Rs 9,500 per day while Charnock’s home isolation monitoring package comes at Rs 15,000 for seven days. Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals has taken 75 beds at Visitel next door which is operating since April 22. “Waiting list for ICU beds started since April 15 while for the last two days there are 20 patients in wait for even general Covid beds,” said a hospital source on Tuesday. The hospital has 100 Covid beds, to which it is adding 300 more in a staggered manner. At the satellite facility, the rates are Rs 5,000, Rs 7,000 and Rs 9,000. “Patients will be referred to Visitel if they are found to be asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic at the fever triage at the hospital,” the source explained. AMRI Salt Lake started its first satellite facility at Hotel The Sojourn next door with 14 rooms on April 14. Demand was so high that on April 22 they booked more rooms at Monotel in Sector V. “Not a single bed is free of the 40 we are offering,” said a hospital source on Wednesday afternoon, adding that there were plans to acquire more rooms in hotels. The procedure for admission is a visit to the hospital emergency where doctors are assessing if the patient is mild or moderately infected and is without co-morbidities. His oxygen saturation also needs to be above 95 per cent. In case any patient in these satellite centres turns critical, he or she is being hospitalised. “We are keeping a few beds in reserve for such situations,” the source said. The hotel quarantine service comes at Rs 8,000 per day for single occupancy and Rs 5,000 per person per day for double occupancy. Calcutta Heart Clinic and Hospital has also taken 19 beds at Hotel The Sojourn. “There is a crisis for beds and young people too are getting infected this time. This is a pre-hospitalisation stage where people are better monitored than at home. It is providing us a buffer zone before admission and after discharge and improving bed circulation,” said Subhankar Chatterjee, the Covid nodal officer at the hospital. The charges are Rs 5,000 per head for twin sharing and Rs 6,000 for solo occupancy. The hospital in HC Block has 67 non-ICU Covid beds of which just one was free on Wednesday evening. Plan for oxygen plant “We are planning to expand our facilities by 15-20 more beds. But for that we need to be self-sufficient in oxygen generation. An oxygen plant has been commissioned but will take about two months to be ready,” said Chatterjee. He also appealed to the government for supply of Rapid Antigen Test kit. “Results of RT PCR tests are taking 72 hours. Treatment is getting delayed. If we get the kit we can do the RAT ourselves,” he said. In the lean season, the hotels are happy to make the best of the situation. “We have offered the rooms at rock bottom prices to the hospitals. This is almost social service for us,” said Piku Bhattacharya, finance and revenue manager at Hotel The Sojourn. “Our housekeeping staff clean the rooms and the toilets daily in PPE and our kitchen provides five meals. Nurses of both hospitals are present to check on the patients and doctors are dropping by. They are taking the patients to the hospital if they need CT scan or if the oxygen saturation drops below permissible limits,” she said, adding that her staffers were providing stellar service. “Last year, when the satellite facility was started some had quit in fear. But seeing zero infections take place so far has bolstered their confidence,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-67
30-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Lessons from Kashmir, prayer for Calcutta||He does not vote in Calcutta. In fact his vote is thousands of miles away, in Kashmir, but he will be following the election result in Bengal with as much interest and anxiety as most voters of Bengal. He is Salt Lake’s own Kashmiri shawlwallah, Irshad Reshi, who has made the township his home for 10 years now. “I used to have a shop in BE Block. I found this place and opened here last November. The location is much more prominent,” says Reshi, the 52-year-old owner of a shop at Baisakhi crossing. He has been coming to Salt Lake along with his two brothers since 1987. “We used to take turns in coming from November to March. But residents here kept suggesting that we have a permanent outlet here as they wanted our things in summer too. Else they had to travel all the way to New Market. So we took up a place and one of us would stay back,” he recalls. The shop, he says, is a favourite with non-resident Indians who buy winterwear before they fly back. He stocks a variety of products — saris to salwar suits, coats and waistcoats. There are also bags with Kashmir’s typical ari work on faux leather, in three sizes, costing Rs 75, 200 and 300. Kashmiri mats called namda come for Rs 375. “Light semi-pashmina shawls sell the most. I keep cheap things too so that students who come for a look do not have to return empty-handed.” He used to take part in Bidhannagar Mela since the start but stopped 10 years ago when the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation took over its organisation and stall rates were hiked. The past one year has been bad. “Sabon ka maar hai, iss maar mein main bhi hoon,” he sighs, adding that if business was worth 10 rupees earlier now it is down to two rupees. After the lockdown was announced, he went home by a special train on May 27 and returned to Salt Lake in October. “The return was fruitless. People do not have cash to spare. Sector V is closed. Only government employees are buying a few things.” That is why even in Chaitra, he did not acquire fresh stock. “I am still sitting on leftover stuff.” The situation back home, where internet was shut for months together, is far more dismal. “There has been no business, no education since they abrogated Article 370. From August 2019 to February 2021, there has been no initiative. Internet (which was banned returned with 2G last March. Nothing can be done with 2G speed. And within a month, the lockdown started,” he recalls. Though 4G has been restored on paper this February, even now he says they were not getting 4G speed. Bachchon ki taalim (children’s education) is what he is most worried about. He has two daughters, aged 24 and 16. With the entire education process running online in the rest of the country, one can imagine what internet restrictions mean. His family has visited Calcutta earlier in winter when his daughters’ classes were off. “Yahan ka zubaan, rahan, sahan alag hai. But they liked it.” Speak to him and Calcutta comes across as his paradise in the rest of India. “We have travelled a lot since militancy overtook Kashmir in 1989. We have never had any problem in Calcutta. Logon se pyar mila hai. Women also are safest in Kashmir and Calcutta.” That is why he is keeping his fingers crossed for the election result in Bengal. “BJP aayega toh kharab hi hoga. Yeh jahan jatey hain, barbaad kar dete hain (It will be bad if BJP comes. Wherever they go, they mess up everything),” he sighs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-67
30-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: He who is Kali||At high noon on polling day. Ma Kali is walking down First Avenue, not far from Kwality More. But there is hardly anyone out in the streets or in the verandahs for the goddess to bless or to cross Samir Adak’s palm with silver. Adak is in a despondent mood. “I had no idea Salt Lake had election today,” the bohurupee, whose avatar for the day is Kali, laments. He has come all the way from Tarakeshwar, the seat of bohurupees. Though he is the first one in his family to take up the profession, there are enough in the locality to keep him company. He had earlier donned the avatars of Shiva, Durga and Loknath Baba. But it is Kali that is the most profitable. “She has the most devotees.” In the trade for 15 years, he has started coming to Salt Lake for two years now. “I come about twice a week. People here are generous. No one gives under Rs 5. Shopkeepers in the markets know me.” But it was a futile day. “On an average, I collect Rs 500-600. Today I have not managed even Rs 100,” said the 35-year-old, who has a wife to support. Being Kali means having to paint a coat of black all over the exposed parts of the skin. “Make-up takes an hour and a half,” he says. Though it is not a problem in winter, he concedes that the summers are challenging. But he makes light of the risk of going around maskless amid the pandemic. “Amar kichhu hobe na (nothing will happen to me),” he declares, adding that he did not have a choice. “I have to put the tongue on. How can I wear a mask over the tongue?” he asked, pointing to the metal sheet he had unclipped from his teeth to have this conversation. Tarakeshwar had voted on April 6. Ask him who will win, and he turns to a banner carrying a picture of Mamata Banerjee hanging on an adjacent wall and raises his right palm in a posture of benediction: “Didi-y jeetbe.” His house is five minutes away from the Tarakeshwar station. And it is by train that he travels from place to place to ply his trade. “Didi had started the Arambagh-Howrah line. I don’t have to pay on any form of public transport,” he says. One seeks blessings from the goddess, not ticket fare!||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-67
30-04-2021||Calcutta||This Month, That Year||Local 2018: BC Block becomes possibly the first neighbourhood in Salt Lake where a residents’ body takes the initiative to bring every house under CCTV surveillance. A total of 47 close-circuit cameras are installed across the block at strategic locations. 1809: Henry Derozio is born on April 18, in Calcutta to Indo-Portuguese and British parents. He grows up to become a poet and radical thinker and, as assistant headmaster of Hindu College, encourages his students to debate and question norms. Despite a short life of just 22 years, Derozio would become popular among the youth, with his followers calling themselves Young Bengal, and his ideas would influence the Bengal Renaissance. 1885: Rakhaldas Bandyopadhyay is born in Berhampore on April 12. He grows up to become an archaeologist, museum expert and professor of history but he is best remembered as the man who discovered Mohenjodaro, the principal site of the Indus Valley Civilisation. 1930: Surya Sen, a school teacher in Chittagong, leads a group of revolutionaries to raid the armoury of police and auxiliary forces on April 18 in what becomes known as the Chittagong uprising. Although ultimately unsuccessful, the incident sends ripples through society and inspires many more youths to join the freedom struggle. 1900: American physicist and seismologist Charles Richter is born April 26. He is best remembered for developing the Richter scale to quantify the strength of earthquakes. Richter first presents the scale in a 1935 paper and it quickly becomes the standard measure of earthquake intensity around the world. 1961: Soviet cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin becomes the first human to cross into outer space on April 12, when his spacecraft Vostok 3KA takes off. The flight consists of a single orbit around the Earth, skimming the upper atmosphere at 169km at its lowest point and takes 108 minutes from launch to landing. 2017: Charles Sobhraj is born on April 6 to an Indian father and Vietnamese mother. He grows up to become a conman and serial killer, targeting multiple Western tourists visiting south Asia in the 1970s. He is arrested but makes daring escapes and is quite proud of his notoriety, charging hefty sums for interviews and projects himself as a celebrity.  As on 2021, Sobhraj is in jail in Nepal. 1913: The first edition of children’s magazine Sandesh is published on Poila Baisakh, April 14. Started by writer Upendrakishore Roychowdhury, it is headed in later years by son Sukumar Ray, grandson Satyajit Ray and others. The magazine combines literature, humour and information and goes on to introduce popular characters such as Feluda, Professor Shonku and Bankubabur Bandhu. 1933: Cricketer Bapu Nadkarni is born on April 4. He is best remembered for his economical bowling, especially in the Madras Test against England in 1963-64 where he bowled a record 21 consecutive maiden overs. The figures at the end of the third day of the match read 29 overs, 26 maidens, no wickets for three runs. Later the national team’s assistant manager, Nadkarni becomes a mentor to Sunil Gavaskar. 1998: Nineteen-year-old actress Divya Bharti dies after falling from her fifth-floor apartment on April 5. Police investigation concludes the death to be accidental. Despite her short career, Bharti had starred in over 20 films, mostly Hindi and Telegu, including the Shah Rukh Khan-starrer Deewana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-67
30-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Labony girl’s ballot battle in Bankura||Salt Lake has fielded several residents in the Assembly election. While the others are seasoned politicians, Labony Estate girl Sayantika Banerjee is a debutante. Till the other day, she was shaking a leg and delivering dialogues on the big screen with the likes of Prosenjit and Jeet. Now she is awaiting her fate in the ballot box as the Trinamul Congress candidate from Bankura. “I was a political science student but never did I imagine I would be in politics,” smiles the 34-year-old who has starred in films like Awara, Kelor Kirti, Power and Abhiman. She has campaigned before in elections but being named a candidate this time meant a far heavier workload. “Whole of India is following this election.It is a big responsibility,” she says. Her link with the districts is the open-air macha shows. “We are on the road from September to March, which is the season. Induction oven, pillow and bed sheet stay packed in the car. In fact, I had performed in a show at Mejia Book Fair in Bankura barely two weeks before my name featured on the nomination list,” she says. Since her constituency went to polls on April 1, she had little time. “I camped there from March 12, putting up in a hotel for the first two days and then renting an apartment.” But she experienced a high even before stepping on the turf. “I saw a picture of my name being painted in wall graffiti. I posted it in social media, with the message: ‘Bankura, here I come’.” Once she reached, armed with “loads of sunscreen and ORS”, her dress code changed from jeans and T-shirt to cotton kurti and handloom sari. But she says it had nothing to do with trying to look her part. “The name of the character I played was Sayantika, so I had to be myself. I am comfortable in sari and white was a natural choice in the heat. There was a dry loo blowing.” She did not focus as much on make-up as she would during the shows. “It is true that they know me as a film star, so I had to check if the eye liner was in place before I got off the car. But after that, I could not keep the distance that we maintain when we appear in shows. I had to mingle and make eye contact, so I would keep my shades up above the forehead,” she says. Requests came in “hundreds of dozens” for selfies. “I would tell them: ‘Support-o kintu korte hobe’.” The early mornings were reserved for the rural panchayat areas while in the afternoon, she campaigned in the town. “We used to lunch at the local panchayat chief’s house. The vegetables and the fish were so fresh that the food tasted amazing. It helped that I love posto as much as the people of Bankura. They pampered me further by arranging for cold water, sometimes diluted with glucose.” A helicopter ride she took for campaigning was not novel — “I rode one in my childhood and again in Malaysia during the shooting of Awara” — but this was the first time that she got on a toto. “They opened the cover and I could stand and greet people.” Sometimes, she drove the campaign jeep herself on the way to a spot. “That made me so happy,” she laughs. Sayantika also has a two-wheeler licence and rides a Bullet. “Baba had a Royal Enfield too in his service life,” says the daughter of Guru Prasad Banerjee, the governor’s chief security officer for 35 years. His bike, on which he did pilot duty and which he had modified with visor glass, fog lights etc, has been preserved at the Police Museum on his retirement. People of Salt Lake know the handsome 6.4ft man best for Guru’s Dream Gym and as consultant to several gyms across the city. “My fitness addiction comes from him. As a child, I used to go to the gym at the BF Block swimming pool, where my father consulted, to do yoga. Even now, I carried dumb bells, skipping rope, yoga mat, resistance band and kickboxing pads with me to Bankura,” she says. Though Sayantika spends most of her time in her Tollygunge flat now, she comes once a week. “My vote is still at our Labony School booth. I spent my childhood chatting perched on the housing wall. A neighbourhood uncle commented on my contesting and asked: ‘Ebar ki madam bolbo’?” She does not think contesting from Bidhannagar would have given her an edge. “I may be born and brought up here but I am as unaware of the local political issues as I was at Bankura. So I’d have had to learn from scratch either way.” Asked about fingers being pointed at the elections for the Covid surge, she admits gatherings had happened. “I had to move without a mask as people wanted to see me. My parents were very worried. But there was hardly any infection in Bankura in end-March. Rather, they were at risk from us. I used to get Covid tests done periodically. Wish the polling did not drag on over so many phases,” reflects Sayantika as she sets off for Bankura. “I will be at the counting hall from the morning,” she signs off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-67
30-04-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine camp at Uniworld||Uniworld City became the first housing complex in New Town to host a vaccination camp. The camp, held on Tuesday, got 150 people vaccinated. “We arranged for the vaccine and the nurse. They provided the doctor and the venue. Since the nurse would have to do the online documentation as well, we figured it would not be possible to administer more than 150 jabs in a day,” said NKDA chairman Debashis Sen. The Uniworld City authorities prioritised the vaccine recipients’ list according to age. The oldest to get the jab at the camp was a 94-year-old lady. “We have about 3,000 families staying at Uniworld. We had requested NKDA to hold an offsite vaccination camp for us,” said Ratan Kumar Goel, member of the Kolkata Uniworld City Apartment Owners Association board. SP Diagnostics provided the post-vaccination awareness and support in case of possible adverse reactions. “We had two doctors and two attendants in attendance,” said microbiologist Bibekananda Panda, who runs the diagnostic centre. But there is unlikely to be another such camp unless vaccine supply improves. “We have received requests from about a dozen housing complexes to hold vaccination camps on their premises. In fact, the second camp was supposed to be held at Jal Vayu Towers today. But we had to cancel it as no supply came in the morning,” said Sen on Wednesday, adding how the issue was causing enormous stress among people. In accordance with a government directive, even at the NKDA vaccination centres only second doses would be given till April 30, he said. He urged elderly residents or those unable to register themselves on the CoWin portal to take the aid of NKDA volunteers. “We have trained them. Their contact numbers will be provided on calling our helpline (18001037652),” Sen added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-67
30-04-2021||Calcutta||Dear MLA||Medical help At a time when friends, relatives, neighbours are going down to Covid like ninepins, the first thing on voters’ minds is medical help. “All one hears these days is about the scarcity of oxygen and hospital beds. I want the MLA to help us with admission to hospitals and safe houses,” says Bijoy Narayan Chaudhuri, an 80-year-old resident of Jal Vayu Vihar. Indira Mukherjee asks for help at  the doorstep when one is in isolation. “Provide people food, medicines, groceries, oxygen, ambulance and at least have the person removed if he passes away,” says the CD Block resident. Debashis Sen Roy hopes the new MLA stops pouring money into big budget pujas and builds an oxygen factory instead. “This is the need of the hour,” says the resident of Sector V’s Midland Park Housing Complex, hours after hearing the news of a relative’s demise. “It will save lives and provide employment.” Sharmistha Mukherjee of DB Block wants better availability of oxygen, hospital beds, blood donation camps and well-organised Covid vaccination drives. Nonagenarian Samir Kumar Dasgupta wonders if we have the infrastructure to provide vaccination to the 18-plus population. “Maybe they can use our community halls for it,” says the CF Block resident. Not just facilities, residents seek information about the same too. “The MLA should build an app or web portal to give us live updates of the bed availability at hospitals. Where all do we run with sick patients,” asks Anik Chowdhury, of New Town’s AB Block. “We badly need an ambulance in every action area of New Town too. The other night a neighbour suffered a stroke and the only ambulance that agreed to come arrived in the morning. By then the patient was no more.” Arijit Mukherjee seeks 24-hour medicine shops. “In case of an emergency at night we only have hospitals to turn to and even they refuse to give medicines without prescription,” says the CK Block resident. Covid isn’t the only concern. Chirosree Mitra seeks mental health facilities. “Every second house has a mental health patient these days and the problem has worsened during the pandemic. Awareness has risen too but we lack facilities. Land needs to be allotted to build affordable mental health hospitals,” says the consultant counsellor from AD Block. Elderly care Many felt an urgent need for a system to look after the elderly. This was especially so since many of their children live out of town and since the threat of Covid lurks so close by. “The police backs a group like this called Saanjhbaati but not everyone knows of it. Plus, more than picnics and cultural programmes, this group needs to monitor their medical health and security,” says Arijit. Approachability Residents were disgusted by the nexus of corruption, favouritism and syndicates surrounding politicians. “It’s a nuisance. And these Gaal Kaata Pintus and Hath Kaata Bholas encircling politicians give them an even worse reputation,” says Abhradeep Banerjee of GD Block. Dhruv Bagchi says an MLA should be the guy next door who can be approached for problems. “Any emergency and they should be the first port of call but more often than not, we won’t get them,” he cites from experience. “An MLA is a people’s representative but instead, they feel like it’s a ticket to an entitled lifestyle. Their sidekicks are their pets and common people feel left out,” says the BF Block resident. Samares Bandyopadhyay cites instances when henchmen around politicians pushed and shoved senior citizens aside, claiming the leaders were too busy to meet them. “Well, whose work are they doing if not ours?” asks the DL Block resident. Many residents asked for the MLA to meet them at public forums at least once in three months. Freedom from encroachment Jhumpa Ghosh observes how the slum near GD Market has swollen in size. “The other night I was returning home through that stretch and my app cab driver was having a tough time dodging all the mask-less drunkards on the way. If the window was down there could have been a risk of snatching,” she says, also questioning how another slum could have been set up in a posh locality like the backyard of City Centre. “We have come to Salt Lake to live in a beautiful neighbourhood, that had been cleaned up before the under-17 Fifa World Cup of 2017. Then why is the cleanliness not being preserved?” she demands. Justice (retd) Soumitra Sen has noticed the Eastern Drainage Canal-side attracts hawkers and asks for it to be made encroachment-free for at least 100 meters on either side. “The eateries on the fringes of the canal are one of the biggest pollutants there too,” says the CL Block resident. Anik notes that while hawkers are squatting on the streets of New Town, their block markets are yet to open completely. “If shop lessees fail to roll up shutters within a stipulated time the authorities should take the shops back and let them out to hawkers. It would be a win-win,” he reasons. Greenery projects Arijit feels the greenery in Salt Lake has been reducing of late. “Not only were many trees felled to build the Metro, but trees also fall during storms. Where, which variety and how many new trees are being planted in lieu of these?” he asks. “We need 3,000 new fruit trees that will house birds, squirrels and provide oxygen.” Mousumi Mukherjee is saddened by the sorry state that Central Park is in, post-Amphan. “The lake is covered by water hyacinths such that one can barely see the water, the rose garden neither has any roses nor looks like a garden. We have fond memories of Central Park and want it restored to its former glory,” she says. Dasgupta asks for some legislature to prevent residents from planting certain tall trees in their background as their roots damage sewerage channels underground. Animal welfare Those who dislike street dogs want a stop to their ever-increasing population and those who love them also feel the streets are no place for the the animals to be living in. Rajib Roy wants an animal welfare centre and an apolitical body that would look after animals and the environment and be given due cognisance by authorities. “As of now if someone spots a monkey dance and complains, they are not even taken seriously by the police,” he says. Arijit wants a netting or fencing made on main roads to prevent animals from straying into the roads and getting run over. “The MLA should release funds to neuter 20 to 30 street dogs a month too.” Parks and halls New Town residents are all rooting for their own parks and community halls. “Who will agree to host a meeting at his house in the middle of a pandemic?” asks Anik. “It’s not safe. We need community halls for these.” Same with parks. “At present there are several blocks sharing one park and so they get crowded. Neither is it comfortable nor advisable during Covid.” Harmony “The MLA is the guardian of his constituency. He must ensure no one is victimised because of background, religion or political affiliation,” said Sen Roy. Eighty-five-year-old Mariam Wali agrees. “The MLA should see that amity prevails among religious groups. I’ve grown up in a Bengal when my mother would send sweets on Eid to our neighbours and our own house would be flooded with sweets sent by neighbours during the Pujas. Our children should not have to grow up in fear now.” Safety and security Some were concerned about women’s safety. “In Salt Lake most people are either inside AC rooms or travelling in cars. And the few who want to walk in the evening feel unsafe as it’s so deserted. They fear snatchings or eve teasings. So better police patrolling is necessary,” says Chirosree. Ease of doing business Businessmen wanted a corrupt ion-free and business-friendly environment where formalities like trade licence can be acquired quickly. “Bengal is blessed to have electricity, water, skilled and unskilled workers so if ample jobs can be provided, our youth won’t have to migrate elsewhere for work,” said Rajat Boobna of CG Block. Freedom from mosquitoes “Covid experts are asking us to keep our windows open for ventilation but mosquitoes swarm in if we do that,” complains Chaudhuri. Many others, particular those living near canals, are suffering the same fate and wanted respite. Public toilets “When entering Salt Lake from the Beleghata connector, there isn’t a single public toilet before Karununamoyee,” said Jhumpa. “Our block has a toilet attached to GC community hall that we allow outsiders to use. Policewomen and the like depend on it but the government needs to build more.” Citizen task force “Let the MLA form a team to keep tabs on departments like ration, police and medicine shops. Let the team report directly to the CM,” says Debalay Gonchowdhury. Rajib seconds him. “This citizen’s task force should comprise apolitical residents with integrity, goodwill and a minimum number of years spent in the constituency. The team should also be empowered to act against civic offenses like spitting, the use of plastic, traffic violation etc.” Light, roads, cleanliness Mousumi says the street lights in her FE Block lane are dim and that stretches in KB-KC blocks are almost pitch dark. “The vats there overflowing,” says the school teacher. She, like several others, complains of speeding by bikes and cars late every night. Roads need repair too. “They did some patchwork on main roads before the elections but lanes inside CK Block, CD Block, that from Matri Sadan to Calcutta Heart Clinic are all potholed,” says Arijit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-68
30-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal elections 2021:Through the lens of our readers||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-68
30-04-2021||Calcutta||You are to blame: How people are flouting rules||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-68
30-04-2021||Calcutta|| What mattered the most to those who exercised their franchise||Homemakers Indira Trivedi (left) and Sandhya Pal sat chatting outside Calcutta Girls’ School after casting their votes. Trivedi said that if the BJP comes to power, cooking gas cylinder prices were sure to skyrocket. “The exponential price increase is already making it a struggle to keep our kitchens running. I voted keeping in mind that if the BJP comes to power then we will have a harrowing time with the finances,” she said. Ghosh pointed out that the Centre’s policies were a double-edged sword aimed at crippling middle class’s finances. “On one hand there is price rise while on the other, they’ve been reducing interest rates on small savings schemes. We have had enough of this acche din, we want the burey din back,”she said. Sweta Sinha, 57, and her daughter Sreshtha, a student, had come to a polling booth in Tallah Park. Sweta, a homemaker, said the election schedule should have been shortened because of the surge in Covid cases. “Most certainly, yes. The huge rallies and meetings should have been avoided,” she said. Sreshtha, pursuing a master’s in sociology from Banaras Hindu University, had come home last year during the Covid-19 crisis and has not gone back since. “People, especially the young, should not cast their votes on the basis of religion,” she said. Swagata Chatterjee, who has completed her MSc in zoology from Calcutta University and is gearing up for government job exams, had come to a booth on Manmatha Dutta Road in Paikpara with her parents. “Women’s safety is one of the most important issues for me. I don’t feel unsafe while returning home late now. I don’t want that to change,” she said. Her father Rajan, a businessman, said his neighbourhood had witnessed “a lot of development”. His wife Mousumi, a government employee, said she voted for “peace and harmony” Raju Turi, who works for a private company, had come to a booth off Beleghata Main Road to cast his vote. Turi had come alone because most of his family members, including his wife, had decided not to vote out of fear that they would contract Covid. “I came despite my wife asking me not to as I feel that I need to exercise the only power I have as a citizen to oppose the two shoddily handled issues in our country — demonetisation and the handling of the current Covid-19 scenario,” he said. A Class XII student of Gyan Bharati Vidyapeeth, Rajnish Bhagat, had come to a polling station in Kankurgachhi to cast his vote. A first-time voter, Bhagat said that he believed votes should not be divided on religion and instead the government should focus on creating more jobs and livelihood opportunities for youngsters. “Most of my seniors in our neighbourhood have moved out of the state for jobs. I think that instead of crying themselves hoarse over religion, the government must try to create better job opportunities for us,” he said. Pictures by Bishwarup Dutta, Sanat Kr Sinha and Pradip Sanyal||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-68
30-04-2021||Calcutta||Police help sought to maintain ‘peaceful ambience’ at vaccination centres||The Bengal health secretary on Thursday wrote to the Calcutta police commissioner and the Bengal police chief saying the “peaceful ambience” at vaccination centres “is turning tense” because of the “ignited demand for vaccination”. The letter from Narayan Swarup Nigam says the number of recipients has been increasing by the day and a demand-supply mismatch was often leading to “untoward incidents” in the city as well as in the districts. “Although the inclination of the large number of people to get themselves vaccinated is an encouraging development, it will take some time to reach a stage when supply can match steps with demand. However, the crowds at the vaccination centres are bulging every day and peaceful ambience is turning tense. Even untoward incidents began to be reported from Kolkata and from the districts as well,” Nigam has written. “I solicit intervention of your good offices to pass suitable instructions to your field officers. This department is also advising KMC and DMs/CMOHs to liaison with their police counterparts in this regard.” Metro had last Saturday reported that health officers of several boroughs of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation had sought police deployment at vaccination centres fearing unrest because shortage of doses was resulting in many people leaving without getting the jab despite queuing up for hours. In the past 24 hours, at least four incidents of unrest were reported at vaccination centres in Calcutta, necessitating intervention by the police. On Thursday, the Gariahat police station had to send teams to a vaccination centre at Dover Terrace and another in Ekdalia. At both, the number of jab aspirants, many of whom had joined the queue early in the morning, has far outnumbered the number of doses, triggering discontent among those who had to leave without being vaccinated. On Wednesday, a group of people protested outside a vaccination centre in Kudghat after a guard at the facility said he had misplaced the list of the people who had enrolled. A section of the people who had turned up at MR Bangur Hospital on Wednesday for Covid jabs blocked Prince Anwar Shah Road after being told that the hospital had run out of doses. “People are queuing up outside vaccination centres from as early as 4am or even before but the centres get their supply only after 9.30am or 10am. The number of people who can be vaccinated on a given day can be estimated only after that,” said an officer of the south suburban division. Anirban Bose, a resident of Narendrapur, said it took him three attempts over as many days to get his elderly relatives vaccinated. A health department official expressed the fear that the situation might worsen after everyone above 18 years becomes eligible for a Covid shot after May 1 across the country. In Bengal, however, chief minister Mamata Banerjee has said people above 18 will be vaccinated from May 5. “Although vaccination for the 18-44 age group is not expected before May 5 in Bengal, many people are getting impatient and may turn up at vaccination centres from May 1. There is already tremendous pressure on the centres already,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-68
30-04-2021||Calcutta||City traders dealing in non-essential items volunteer to keep shops shut till Sunday||Over 15,000 traders across parts of central Calcutta will keep their shops shut till Sunday in an attempt to break the chain of transmission as the Covid-19 cases are increasing across the city. Some of these traders deal with non-essential items, including motor parts, sarees, garments, electronic goods, electrical items and bicycles and their shops are spread across parts of Bentinck Street, Central Avenue, Ganesh Chandra Avenue, Ezra Street, canning Street and a part of Strand Road. Parts of Posta and Burrabazar where traders deal with essential commodities, including pulses, rice, edible oils, sugar and salt, will remain open though during this period. “A few of our members have succumbed to Covid and several others are battling with the infection. Given the rise in the number of cases and the state of the healthcare system, we decided to keep the shops closed till Sunday,” said Sushil Poddar, the president of the Confederation of West Bengal Trade Associations, an apex body of several traders bodies dealing with different items in Calcutta. “The confederation will review the situation on Monday and decide whether or not to extend this closure for a few more days.” A bulk of traders, who are a part of this confederation, comprise a large part of Calcutta’s central business district mainly between NS Road in the west and Ganesh Chandra Avenue in the east, where lakhs of customers come everyday for their purchases, either in bulk or in small quantities. According to rough estimates, transactions worth over several crores take place in this part of the city on days when the shops are open and transporters remain busy loading and unloading items reaching from different parts of the country. “Many visitors to this area come without face masks or keep them below their chin despite repeated warnings,” said a senior officer of Hare Street police station. “Some of the relatively narrower lanes and bylanes have traders thronging throughout the day braving the pandemic situation. A closure of a few days will be of huge relief.” A section of the traders said they had been downing their shutters on Saturdays and Sundays and all shops would remain closed on May 1. In effect, the traders would be keeping their shops closed for a day, they said. “In Posta, there has not been a single Covid positive case in the second wave so far,” said Chandan Chakrabarty of Posta Bazar Byabsayee Samity. “All shops here will remain open. The supply of essential items will be hit if shops are closed.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-68
30-04-2021||Calcutta||Four more crematoriums for Covid victims in city and its fringes||Four more crematoriums in the city and on its fringes will be used for cremating people who have died from Covid-19, the state municipal affairs department has ordered. The new cremation ghats are the Siriti Smashan, Garia Mahasmashan, and the ones at Rajpur-Sonarpur and Baruipur. Till Thursday, the cremation of people dying from Covid-19 was being done at Dhapa, Nimtala and Birjunala crematoriums. A senior official of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) said they were also looking for a new burial ground. At present, people dying from Covid are buried at the Bagmari burial ground Senior officials at the CMC said increasing the number of cremation ghats had become necessary to avoid delay in cremations as the number of daily deaths was high. “...the Covid body cremation service presently being undertaken at Dhapa, Birjunala and Nimtala needs to be extended to the burning ghats at Garia Mahasashan (two chullis), Siriti Smashan, Rajpur-Sonarpur and  Barui-pur…to release the excessive workload particularly at Dhapa crematorium,” the order read. The cremation at the newly added crematoriums will be done between midnight and 5am. “After 5am, we will sanitise the pyres and cremate the non-Covid bodies...,” said a CMC official. CMC sources said there were enough hearse vans to carry the dead but the delay happened because the crematoriums were not being able to burn the bodies and a backlog was building up. An official of AMRI Hospitals said the civic body was taking between 16 and 24 hours to remove a body of a person who died from Covid in their hospitals. A month back it used to take between eight and 12 hours. “As the number of deaths has increased, they need more time to take away a body,” said the official. Up to six family members are allowed to visit the crematorium, an CMC official said. “The hospitals inform us in case of a death and we send our hearse vans to pick up the body. The family members are allowed to have a last look,” said the CMC official. Oxygen arrest The enforcement branch of Calcutta police arrested  A.Nangalia from Howrah on Thursday for alleged selling oxygen cylinders online without checking a doctor’s prescription or issuing any receipt against payment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-68
30-04-2021||Calcutta||City vaccination centres struggle to manage long queques||Covid vaccination centres in the city struggled to manage long queues as people flocked for jabs fearing doses would get scarcer after May 1. Most private hospitals administered only second doses on Thursday and asked those who had turned up for their first jab to wait till all second-dose recipients were inoculated. In many places, people who had their second doses scheduled for the first week of May had queued up on Thursday. The hospitals received many calls from people in the 18-44 age group who wanted to know whether they could book vaccination slots. They were asked to enquire after May 5. People aged between 18 and 44 will become eligible for Covid shots from May 5 in Bengal and May 1 in the rest of the country. “There was a huge rush at our hospital today. All 554 doses that were administered during the day were second jabs. The first-dose recipients who had called up were asked to call again in May,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. Fortis Hospital, Anandapur, gave first doses only after all second-dose recipients who had turned up were vaccinated. “The first-dose recipients who came in the morning were told to come back in the afternoon. We made it clear that they would be vaccinated only if doses were left after all second-dose recipients were vaccinated,” said Arafat Faisal, the head of medical services at Fortis, Anandapur. Long queues were also seen outside the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) clinics that are functioning as Covid vaccination centres. “The current surge in Covid cases has made people keen to get vaccinated. A lot of people are queuing up to take their first doses. But we are trying to give priority to those who are coming for the second dose,” a CMC official said. A sense of uncertainty has gripped those who are scheduled to get their second doses in the first week of May. AMRI Hospitals have sent text messages to all who have their second doses scheduled at their hospital in May. “We have asked them to wait for a few days. Since we are not sure ourselves about the supply, we are requesting them to wait for a few days for a clearer picture to emerge,” said Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals. The Centre has announced that all private healthcare facilities have to directly procure vaccines from the manufacturers from May. Private hospitals in Bengal, however, have requested the state health department to continue with the current practice, as part of which the state procures doses and distributes them to the inoculation centres. The state government has written to the Centre to know whether it can procure doses for private hospitals post-May 1. “Private hospitals cannot procure doses from the manufactures every day in small quantities. And the hospitals do not have cold storage facilities to store a large number of doses. The state government should procure the doses in bulk and distribute them in small quantities to the vaccination centres daily according to the need. That is the current practice,” an official of a private hospital said. In the absence of clarity on how private hospitals will procure doses from May, many people are queuing up now in hope that they will get their jabs before any crisis erupts. “We hope some clarity will emerge in a couple of days,” said an official of a private hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-68
30-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Elections 2021: Covid-19 norms rampantly flouted across constituencies||Covid-19 norms were rampantly flouted across the Assembly constituencies in the city that voted in the last leg on Thursday, in keeping with the trend of the previous phases. There was no semblance of social distancing in the queues outside some polling stations. At some other booths, voters discarded gloves everywhere instead of in the designated yellow bins. Some stations saw both norms being flouted. People at the camp offices of political parties near the poll booths sat without wearing masks, undeterred. The previous phases of elections had held up a similar sorry picture. But violation of the norms in the last phase came in the backdrop of the judiciary’s stinging admonition of the Election Commission. The Madras High Court on Monday held the EC “singularly” responsible for India’s second Covid wave, calling it the “most irresponsible institution” and said its officials might be booked for murder. The Calcutta High Court had earlier told the EC that its job was not confined to issuing circulars and holding meetings; it had to ensure the implementation of its guidelines during elections held in the pandemic. On Thursday, a tour of the polling booths across places like Cossipore, Shyampukur, Jorasanko, Beleghata and Entally showed that little had changed on the ground. Around 9.30am, there were multiple long queues outside the polling station at a girls’ school on Cossipore Road, in the Cossipore-Belgachhia constituency. None of them maintained distancing. At the entrance to the booth, the queues almost merged into one another and people literally rubbed shoulders with each other. A handful of jawans and a  couple of woman constables of Calcutta police were stationed at the gates. They were focussed on ensuring that only a few people entered the booths at a time. At Loreto Convent, Entally, the base of the concrete stairs leading to the polling station seemed to be the designated place for dumping the gloves. Scores of discarded gloves lay strewn there when this newspaper visited the booth. An Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) worker distributing the gloves and checking the temperatures of the voters said “there was no bin to dump gloves”. “We requested polling officials multiple times to arrange for a bin. But as of now, there is none,” she said. Asked about gloves being dumped at the stairs, a jawan at the booth had a brief response: “Maintaining law and order is our responsibility”. At another polling station at Raja Manindra College in Shyambazar, one voter after another discarded the gloves on the road outside. A heap of discarded gloves was seen on one corner of the road. A senior citizen, who came out of the booth around 10.15am, removed his glove and threw it on the road. Minutes later, another woman did the same thing. This newspaper asked a polling official — who stepped out to take a call — about the violation of Covid-19 protocol and the high court’s observations. “There is a bin inside the booth. If people are not responsible, then no government can do anything,” he said. At another polling station at a girls’ school on BK Pal Avenue in Ahiritola, two violations happened simultaneously — social distancing norms went for a toss and gloves were discarded everywhere except in the bins. Asked why he wasn’t interfering, a central force jawan said it was the responsibility of the Asha workers who distributed the gloves among voters. Two camp offices, of the BJP and Trinamul, on Brabourne Road, were a few feet apart. On Thursday afternoon, most of the men at both camps did not wear masks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-68
30-04-2021||Calcutta||Centre issues revised guidelines for home isolation||The Centre has issued revised guidelines for home isolation of asymptomatic Covid-19 patients and those with mild symptoms. Here are highlights of the guidelines: Eligibility for home isolation • A patient who is clinically assigned a mild/asymptomatic case by the treating medical officer is eligible for home isolation. According to the government guidelines, asymptomatic cases are laboratory confirmed cases not experiencing any symptoms and having oxygen saturation of more than 94 per cent • Such patients should have a facility of self-isolation at home and for quarantining the family contacts • A caregiver should be available 24X7, who will keep in touch with the hospital during the entire isolation period • Patients aged more than 60 and those with comorbid conditions should be allowed home isolation only after proper evaluation by the treating medical officer • Immunocompromised patients (transplant recipients, those suffering from HIV or are undergoing cancer therapy) are not recommended for home isolation without a proper evaluation by a medical officer. Home isolation duration • A patient in home isolation stands discharged and ends isolation at least 10 days after the onset of symptoms or the date of sampling for asymptomatic cases. Also, the patient has to be without fever for at least three days • No need for testing after the home isolation period is over. Instructions for patients • A patient in home isolation must isolate himself or herself from other family members, especially those with comorbidities • The patient must stay in a well-ventilated room • The patient must always use a triple-layer mask, discard it after every eight hours or earlier if it becomes soiled or wet. In the presence of a caregiver, both are advised to wear N95 masks. • Used masks must be disinfected with 1 per cent sodium hypochlorite solution before they are discarded • The patient must rest and adequately hydrate himself or herself • Hands must be frequently washed with soap and water for at least 40 seconds or cleaned with alcohol-based sanitiser. • Family members must not share the patent’s personal items • Surfaces that are often touched must be cleaned with 1 per cent hypochlorite solution • Self-monitoring of the blood oxygen saturation with a pulse oximeter is strongly advised • The patient must also monitor his or her temperature, heart rate, feel (better/same/worse) and breathing (better/same/worse). The chart has to be updated every four hours daily. Any deterioration in symptoms has to be reported to the doctor immediately. Instructions for caregiver • A triple layer mask or an N95 mask a must when in the same room with the patient. The front part of the mask should not be touched. The mask must be replaced immediately if it turns wet or dirty with secretions • Hand hygiene must be maintained after contact with a patient or his/her immediate environment, before and after preparing food, before eating, in the toilet and before and after removing gloves • The caregiver must wear disposable gloves during exposure to patient/patient’s environment. Direct contact with the patient’s body fluids has to be avoided. Cigarettes, utensils, towels or bed linens must not be shared • Masks, disposable items and food packets have to be disposed of separately. Treatment in home isolation • Patients must be in touch with the treating physician and promptly report any deterioration in symptoms. Medications for comorbid conditions to continue after consulting the treating physician • Patients may gargle with warm water or inhale steam twice a day • If fever is not controlled, the treating doctor must be alerted • Patients should not attempt to procure remdesivir or administer it at home. Decision to take remdesivir or any other investigational therapy should be taken by a medical professional and administered only in a hospital set-up • If symptoms persist for more than seven days, the treating doctor has to be consulted • In case of falling oxygen saturation or shortness of breath, patients may require hospitalisation. The treating doctor has to be consulted. When to seek medical help • If a patient suffers from difficulty in breathing • If oxygen saturation drops below 94 per cent • Persistent chest pain or pressure in the chest • Mental confusion or inability to arouse||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-68
30-04-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Jab mess uppermost on voters’ minds||A young voter in Jorasanko had issues like women’s safety and social harmony on her mind as she was gearing up to cast her vote on Thursday. But over the past few days, one concern has tipped all other issues — a Covid-19 vaccine for her father and herself. Sreya Seal, in her 20s and an analyst at a multinational company, tried to register her name on the Co-WIN portal on Wednesday, like hundreds of other Calcuttans. The "No Vaccination Centre is available for booking" message flashed on her screen, like it did on the screens of hundreds of other Calcuttans. “The Centre had claimed there was no vaccine shortage. But it is almost certain I won’t get one when the rollout for people over 18 years starts.... This uncertainty is killing us at a time when cases are rising,” Shreya told Metro outside a polling booth on Amherst Street. She was not alone. Many voters on Thursday shared their sense of helplessness because of a lack of vaccines and their displeasure at the Centre’s handling of the Covid situation. “It is infuriating that we were sending vaccines to other countries till a few days ago and now we don’t have them for our own people. It is shameful that we are staring at a shortage despite being the largest vaccine producer,” said Raktima Deb, a resident of Surah East Road who cast her vote at a booth in Beleghata. Some senior members of her family are struggling to get the second Covid jab. “The lack of jobs in Bengal was set to determine my voting choice but now the mishandling of the Covid crisis did so,” said Raktima, a private sector employee who was accompanied by her siblings to the polling booth. The uncertainty over vaccination is the biggest talking point in the city. Most private hospitals offering jabs are booked to the limit. They stopped offering slots for the first dose on Thursday and Friday and some even failed to confirm appointments for the second dose. At government hospitals and health centres run by the civic body, people are queueing up in large numbers, often from very early hours, for the jab. The mess has led many Calcuttans to believe that the Centre has let them down by passing the vaccine buck to the states at a time cases are surging alarmingly. The feeling was evident outside polling booths. “A regime that does not deliver on promises and puts its own people at risk should not come to power in Bengal,” said Mohammed Rizwan Hussain, a trader in Rajabazar, who cast his vote at Victoria Institution. At Shyambazar, Dipak Sengupta, 72, and his wife Sabita, 69, came out of a polling booth inside Maharaja Manindra College. Despite “trying hard”, the two are yet to get a single jab of a Covid vaccine. Sengupta, who is hypertensive and suffers from spondylitis, cannot stand for long in a queue. “The least a country’s government can do is take care of its senior citizens,” he said. Chanda Rani Biswas, 81, who came out minutes later from the same booth, had “waited in vain for over two hours for a second shot” in a queue at a private hospital in Salt Lake. Dilip Kumar Dutta, 71, a voter at Calcutta Boys’ School in the Chowringhee constituency, was set to get his second jab on Friday but was far from happy. “Several of my friends have not yet received the first dose. People who have are scrambling for the second dose,” he said. “In Bengal, politicians have flown in from Delhi and held rally after rally, which helped spread the virus. To keep up with the competition, politicians from Bengal have done the same. This lack of application of mind during a health crisis, by those who are supposed to provide leadership, is quite upsetting,” said Dutta. Case count Bengal on Thursday recorded 17,403 new infections, 89 deaths and 12,885 recoveries. The number of active cases has risen to 1.1 lakh. Of the 89 deaths, 23 were reported from Calcutta and 21 from North 24-Parganas, the two worst-hit districts in the state. While Calcutta recorded 3,901 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 3,912.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-69
30-04-2021||Calcutta||Lockdown and vaccine weighed heavily on voters across trading hubs of Calcutta||The fear of a sudden lockdown because of the ongoing surge in Covid cases and loss of business and employment as a consequence weighed heavily on voters across the trading hubs of Calcutta as they cast their vote on Thursday. Many were apprehensive of a lockdown immediately after the declaration of the election results “to make up for the mismanagement” of Covid-19 across the country. Traders after traders in Burrabazar said how a sudden lockdown, like the one imposed in March 2020, could land their already troubled business in greater jeopardy. There were some whose business had been reduced to a third of what it had been and their concerns about unrealised dues and wasted stocks were widespread. These traders were not the only ones worried about a complete shutdown to contain the disease. Younger Calcuttans were scared, too. Pramod Chirania, 50, had gone to cast his vote at a polling booth on Shivtalla Street in Burrabazar. He said his biggest worry was not who would come to power but the possibility of a sudden lockdown. Chirania deals in iron spares. “My business is a third of what it used to be. I am yet to offset the losses incurred last year because of the lockdown. Now, if a fresh lockdown is imposed, it would leave us in a greater mess,” he said. Kaushik Jhawar, who cast his vote at a booth off Kalakar Street in Burrabazar, looks after his family’s wholesale business in blankets. He said the fear of a sudden lockdown had him extremely worried. “This time last year, the lockdown was barely a month old. It came as a bolt from the blue and by the time the curbs were relaxed in phases, our business had taken a massive hit,” said the 25-year-old. The fear of a sudden lockdown stems from the fact that the health infrastructure has collapsed across the country. Many fear a desperate central government could impose a second lockdown to contain the spread of the virus, even if it amounted to putting “common people” in financial distress. Jhawar said how a planned lockdown “at least allows us to adjust pending payments and regulate procurement”. “A sudden lockdown will not allow this and that will be a double blow because we have yet to recover from last year’s lockdown-induced losses,” said Jhawar. If traders from Burrabazar are losing their sleep over fears of loss of business, many young Calcuttans have their heart in their mouth because a sudden lockdown might make them jobless for a second time in less than a year. Sudipto Dey, 30, a voter in the Chowringhee Assembly constituency, used to work at a tea manufacturing company in Dalhousie. He was among the five who lost their jobs months after the lockdown was announced in March last year. “I somehow secured a job four months later. Now there is a possibility of a second lockdown because the Union government has messed up the Covid-19 situation. I am fearing yet another job loss if a second lockdown is indeed announced,” said Dey, a resident of Biswanath Matilal Lane in Bowbazar. He was accompanied by his niece Pallabi Dey and her mother Rumki. Rumki, 40, who works in the telemarketing section of a publishing house, said she too feared for her job if a second lockdown was imposed. At Calcutta Girls’ School, in the Chowringhee constituency, Amit Ghosh turned up to vote wearing a black T-shirt that had the words “Paisa Nei (Don’t have money)” written on it. Metro asked the 43-year-old, who looks after a mobile accessory company’s sales in eastern India, whether the words on his T-shirt reflected his thought. He said: “The words encapsulate the mess that we all are in. I had suffered a 60 per cent cut on my CTC (cost to company) because of the lockdown last year. Now, if a fresh lockdown has to be imposed as a result of the mishandling of the Covid-19 situation by the Union government, I am sure I will lose my job. If the company could not sell its products, it would not earn revenue and would lay us off,” said Ghosh. “I just shudder to think what lies ahead. This government had a year’s time to prepare the infrastructure, but did nothing and invited the crisis.” The fear of a lockdown and the resultant impact troubled Samiran Ghosh, who cast his vote at Calcutta Deaf and Dumb School in Rajabazar, in the Beleghata constituency. He used to work at a private company but lost his job during the lockdown. Ghosh, who used to get a salary of Rs 10,000 as an accountant’s assistant, now delivers medicines from wholesale shops in Bagree Market to retail outlets. “I had exhausted my savings. I searched desperately for a back-office job in the city but found none…. We are suffering because of our government,” said Ghosh, who stays near Machhua with his wife and parents. Pictures by Pradip Sanyal, Bishwarup Dutta and Sanat Kr Sinha||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-69
