31-01-2022||Editorials||Economic survey: What it reveals||Over the years, the economic survey has grown into a slightly self-indulgent exercise, sometimes airing radical ideas that are unlikely to ever be adopted. It has also, perhaps as a result, become unwieldy, spanning two volumes. There’s good news on both fronts in the economic survey for 2021-22, which gives the radical ideas a miss, and restricts itself to one volume. Its core message on the state of the economy is what has been evident in the macro numbers and high-frequency indicators for some time — and something that has also been borne out in projections for the Indian economy from multilateral agencies such as the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). This is simply that the Indian economy has put behind it the effects of the pandemic, and that it will grow by 8-8.5% in 2022-23. That number is conservative when compared to IMF’s projection of 9%, but coming on the back of this year’s 9.2% (as reaffirmed by the survey; IMF’s is 9% again), it means that India will continue to remain the fastest-growing major economy in the world.
31-01-2022||Editorials||Myanmar: Forge a fresh approach||A year ago, Myanmar’s military junta — unner-ved by the National League for Democracy’s strengthening grip on power as reflected in the party’s victory in the 2020 election — effected a coup d’état that set in motion events that increased instability around one of India’s most strategic regions. The leadership under Min Aung Hlaing, head of Myanmar’s military, since has given no sign that it will ease its grip on power, despite earning international opprobrium. Under the military’s extension of emergency, a return to any form of democracy — even the hybrid variety seen during the uneasy sharing of power between Aung San Suu Kyi and the junta — is unlikely before 2023. In the meantime, the military has brutally crushed popular protests, even as Myanmar was ravaged by Covid-19 and the people grappled with soaring inflation and rising food prices. Western threats of sanctions have not moved the junta and the attempt by the Association of Southeast Asian Nations to mediate has run aground .
