14-11-2021||Today's||Recognising the role of tribal communities in Indian Independence||The government has declared November 15 as Janajatiya Gaurav Divas, to honour the contribution of the tribal community to the nation. It also happens to be the birth anniversary of the great tribal leader, Birsa Munda, whose role in the freedom struggle changed the course of modern India’s history. He mobilised the tribal community against the British, forcing them to introduce laws protecting the land rights of tribals. In his all-too-short life — he died in Ranchi jail at the age of 25 — he brought about seminal changes in the lives of tribals across the country.Week-long celebrations will begin today to mark the memory of the great unsung tribal heroes who sacrificed their lives for the country; without them, the commemoration of 75 years of Independence this year would not be complete.It was well before the freedom struggle of 1857 that the Janjatis and their leaders rose in revolt against the colonial forces. Across India, tribals ranging from the Santhals, Kol, Ho, Pahadia, Munda, Oraon, Chero, Lepcha, Bhutia, and the Bhuyan tribes in the east, the Khasi, Naga, Ahom, Meamaria, Abor, Nyishi, Jaintia, Garo, Mizo, Singhpo, Kuki and Lushai in the Northeast, the Padyagars, Kurichya, Beda, Gonds and Great Andamanese in the south, the Halba, Kol, Muriya, Koi in central India and the Dang Bhil, Mair, Naika, Koli, Mina and Dubla in the west, kept up sustained and ferocious attacks on the British.India is unique in that it has more than 700 tribal communities. These communities have enriched the country’s cultural heritage, through their exquisite art and craft. They have played a leading role in the promotion, protection and conservation of the environment through their traditional practices; with their vast repository of traditional knowledge, they have been the torch-bearers of sustainable development. Recognising the importance of tribals and their role in nation-building, the Constitution made special provisions for the protection of tribal culture and the development of Scheduled Tribes.The entire forest ecosystem, including water bodies, is the mainstay of the tribal economy. The British disrupted this and created a class of zamindars (landlords) and gave them rights over land in tribal territories. This reduced the tribals to mere tenants in their own lands. This exploitation fuelled the resentment which led to violent eruptions in the tribal revolutionary movements.These movements threw up inspirational leaders. Among them were Tilka Majhi, Tikendrajit Singh, Veer Surendra Sai, Telanga Kharia, Veer Narayan Singh, Sidhu, Kanu Murmu, Rupchand Konwar and Laxman Naik. One of the most charismatic was Birsa Munda, from the Munda community in present-day Jharkhand. He organised and led the tribal movement, giving a call for Ulgulan (revolt) to the tribals. The young Birsa also wanted to reform tribal society and urged it to shun superstition and witchcraft. Such was his charisma that tribal communities referred to him as “Bhagwan”.Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi has always acknowledged the invaluable contributions of the tribal communities to the freedom struggle. This is why, in his Independence Day Speech on August 15, 2016, he spoke of building dedicated museums in various parts of the country in memory of tribal freedom fighters. The ministry of tribal affairs is constructing these in collaboration with various state governments. The first museum to be completed is the Birsa Munda Freedom Fighter Museum at Ranchi which will be inaugurated by the PM on Monday.We cannot also forget the contributions of tribal women to the freedom movement. The names Rani Gaidinliu, Phulo, Jhano Murmu, Helen Lepcha and Putali Maya Tamang, will live on our collective memory for generations to come.During the coming week, we have planned a range of activities from tribal dance festivals, craft melas, painting competitions, felicitating tribal achievers, workshops, blood donation camps, and events to pay homage to the tribal freedom fighters. These are being organised across states and Union Territories as a mark of respect to these great sons and daughters of India. Their lives will continue to inspire Indians for all time to come. Arjun Munda is minister of tribal affairsThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/recognising-the-role-of-tribal-communities-in-indian-independence-101636898590636.html
14-11-2021||Today's||How should India remember Jawaharlal Nehru?||November 14 marked the 132nd birth anniversary of Jawaharlal Nehru, and, on the day, there was a section of the Indian public who took to Twitter to mock him. How should India remember Nehru?Let’s go back to August 1947 — a catastrophic time in India. Partition had claimed hundreds of thousands of lives, millions were forced to flee their homes; friends and neighbours had turned against each other. The treasury was in a shambles, and a large and diverse country did not have the peace, fraternity or resources to reconstruct itself.When Nehru gave his famous tryst with destiny speech on the eve of Independence, it was not clear what this destiny held in store for India.As independent India’s first prime minister, Nehru’s had onerous responsibilities. He had to deal with communal violence; the princely states were bargaining with the Indian Union, people’s basic needs had to be met. When Nehru completed his first term, there were glimmers of hope that India would achieve its potential.We had inherited a 0.72% growth rate from the British. This had climbed to 3.6% in five years. The dream of a unified India had taken permanent shape. Nehru realised that India could only go forward if it adopted a scientific approach. At a time when there were not enough roads or trains, he laid the foundations for space and nuclear institutions. In the field of education and medicine, the Indian Institutes of Technology and the All India Institute of Medical Sciences were set up. All this in a country which began Independence with a 12% literacy rate.It was to give India its rightful place in the world that Nehru, along with Yugoslavia’s Josip Broz Tito and Eygpt’s Gamel Abdel Nasser, conceptualised the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM). It did not espouse the radical communism that the erstwhile Soviet Union had adopted but it stood against the rampant capitalism of the United States. NAM countries called themselves the Third World. Nehru, whose popularity transcended geographical boundaries, was among the leaders of newly independent countries of the time.Did this make him over-confident? Was this the reason he believed in the slogan “Hindi-Chini bhai-bhai” when dealing with China? The ignominious defeat of 1962 exposed his naiveté to some extent.This was not the only mistake Nehru made. He failed to correctly assess the situation in Jammu and Kashmir. It was a gross error to promise a plebiscite in Kashmir. The situation, which worsened after the arrest of Sheikh Abdullah, has not returned to normal to date. However, Nehru later publicly admitted that Sheikh Abdullah’s arrest was a wrong decision and, in this, he displayed his ability to own up to his misjudgment and accept criticism.On enacting the Hindu Code Bill, his critics were vocal that he should not have forgotten the minorities. Was he the only one to blame? It should not be forgotten that the Congress was a party of strong leaders at that time. Nehru often faced challenges from within the cabinet as well as in party forums. There was a discord between him and Purushottam Das Tandon, a resident of his city, Allahabad (now Prayagraj). Tandon had become president of the Congress without his consent and was later forced to step down by Nehru. In protest against his policies, Shyama Prasad Mookherjee also resigned from the cabinet and founded the Bharatiya Jana Sangh from which today’s Bharatiya Janata Party eventually emerged. What if Mookerjee had not left the Congress?Nehru’s differences with Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and Govind Vallabh Pant were well known. Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar, a member of his cabinet, also parted ways later. The Congress of that time was a democratic party in the true sense and Nehru was the first among equals. He was the leader of his party, but not the last word. That pernicious trend started with Indira Gandhi.Inspite of this, Nehru considered himself accountable to all Indians. It is said that he once went to Kanpur during an election campaign where a person at a public meeting told Nehru that he had given a ticket to a corrupt person. He listened, and answered that he may have made a mistake in giving the ticket but expressed confidence that the person who had made the assertion would not make the mistake of voting for a dishonest person.Perhaps, it was to clean up politics that he established grassroots democracy. Today, millions have been elected from more than 2.5 lakh panchayats, several of them being women and Dalits. This is a unique experiment in empowering people at the grassroots through democratic methods. The India fashioned in large part by Nehru has never seen a military coup, as witnessed in our neighbouring country on several occasions.We cannot assess Nehru through the prism of contemporary events. We can only get a true picture if we take into account the events of his time. This is something his critics often forget.Shashi Shekhar is editor-in-chief, Hindustan The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/how-should-india-remember-jawaharlal-nehru-101636895170329.html
14-11-2021||Today's||Is the India-China conflict intractable?||A senior Indian official recently told a visiting foreign counterpart that India’s relations with China were “irretrievably broken”. A trifle exaggerated, but the statement does reflect the mindset in New Delhi these days.
14-11-2021||Today's||Climate and Us | In Glasgow, as expectations rise, negotiations remain stuck||Will the Glasgow climate conference go down in history as the meeting that managed to save humanity from the catastrophic climate crisis? For now, this seems a bit unlikely because the Global north and south remain extremely divided over a number of important issues — how can the 1.5 degree goal be kept alive; the definition and nature of climate finance; how will rich nations compensate the poor for losses due to extreme climate events such as deadly cyclones and floods or slow onset events such as sea level rise. So many countries have so many redlines over so many issues that it now seems like the Glasgow outcome will be some sort of a compromise, which will pay lip service to each of these issues, but remain weak on the details.Keeping 1.5 degrees in sight would mean not just working out implementation strategies of existing pledges but also improving on these pledges very soon. The recent pledges by countries at the COP26 has, for the first time, given the world a shot at keeping global warming to under 2 degree C, according to three new scientific analyses.“#COP26 climate pledges mean Glasgow is getting closer to Paris! New @IEA analysis shows that fully achieving all net zero pledges to date & the Global Methane Pledge by those who signed it would limit global warming to 1.8 C. A big step forward, but much more needed!” tweeted Faith Birol, executive director of International Energy Agency on November 4. One of the key concerns for developing countries is whether bridging this gap in ambition will be equitable and whether the developed world will come forward to support emerging economies with climate finance and new technologies to implement their pledges.In Glasgow, a Scottish family is hosting me at their home. Hotels and Airbnbs were either fully booked or quoting astronomical tariffs during the COP26 dates; so I had requested a friend to help me find an accommodation. She put me in touch with an 82-year-old lady who is passionate about politics and the environment. Her daughter, a public interest environmental lawyer, and son, a sculptor, invited me to stay with them. The family is so concerned and excited about COP26 that they are tracking every deal closely. Each dinner is filled with discussions about climate politics and whether there will be justice for vulnerable countries with very low carbon footprints. The daughter has been attending all climate protests in the city during the past week and hopes Greta Thunberg is heard. COP26 is a personal, emotive moment for them. There are many more such Scottish families who are hosting activists, delegates during the climate talks, one of the ways to ensure representation of people from different ethnic, social and economic backgrounds.On Saturday, tens of thousands of activists, scientists and concerned citizens took to the streets all over United Kingdom calling for justice and action to stop the catastrophic climate crisis. Some activist-scientists in Glasgow chained themselves to draw attention.But the negotiations seem far removed from the urgency being demanded by activists. HT reported on Saturday that several red lines exist on key elements of negotiations. The developed countries have not agreed to any independent review of the delivery of $100 billion. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) is keeping accounts of that fund. The developing countries have said OECD has been too generous and partial in its accounting of the money so they want a review. “The donors (developed countries) of course are deeply uncomfortable about such a review and number crunching. This I think will remain a red line,” said a senior official from the European Union delegation.Indian officials have said talks will breakdown if there is no resolution on climate finance, both a review of promised $100 billion and decision on a new, fairer and higher finance goal for the post-2025 period. There is no agreement on the nature of finance either — will it be concessional grant based? Or will private capital being invested be counted as climate finance? “We have made it clear that we don’t consider commercial finance to be climate finance. It has to be concessional, and grant based. They are not agreeing to review also. Most of our nationally determined contributions (NDCs) are conditional on long term finance. I think if there is no agreement on finance, the COP process will weaken in coming years and countries will do whatever they can according to their circumstances,” said a senior official of the Indian delegation in Glasgow.The negotiations seem cut off from public angst outside. The heads of states have left after making their pledges during the first week. The coming week is when difficult knots will have to be untangled and processes laid down. There will be loss of trust and disappointment among people if the Glasgow outcome doesn’t capture the urgency of the crisis.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/climate-and-us-in-glasgow-as-expectations-rise-negotiations-remain-stuck-101636348207495.html
