25-11-2021||Today's||Our Constitution: A sacred document||India is the largest functioning democracy in the world by size; its pluralistic character and democratic values have stood the test of time. Democratic traditions and tenets have remained an integral part of the glorious legacy of Indian civilisation. The virtues of equality, tolerance, and peaceful coexistence have been an intrinsic part of our society for centuries. Democracy is deeply rooted in our socio-political conscience. Our freedom struggle was a mass movement based on the doctrines of truth and non-violence. Our freedom fighters dreamt of a free and prosperous India and an inclusive society based on social and economic justice. After a long-drawn-out struggle, we gained Independence and their collective vision guided us. Post-Independence, when our founding fathers framed the Constitution, they incorporated in it the cardinal values of liberty, equality, fraternity, and justice. Given the size and diversity of the country, it was an enormous task to frame the sacred document, which would guide the nation on the path of unity and prosperity while preserving its democratic framework. The drafters had three primary goals: Safeguarding the unity and integrity of the nation; establishing the principles of liberty, equality and fraternity among the people; and laying the groundwork for institutions focused on paving the way for economic and social equality. With their prudence, wisdom, conviction and deep association with the people, our founding fathers were not only successful in drafting a modern and enlightened contract between the State and its citizens but bequeathed us a Constitution, which, while retaining an inviolable core, is at the same time flexible enough to adjust to the requirements of changing times. We, as a nation, have faced numerous challenges of a diverse nature, but our Constitution has helped us to successfully surmount these. It not only establishes the rule of law in the country, but also serves to distribute powers between the Union and the states, strengthens democratic Institutions, and empowers the most vulnerable and marginalised. The success of India’s parliamentary democracy rests on the robust edifice and institutional framework that the Constitution lays down. November 26 holds a special significance for us as a nation, as this was the day in 1949 on which our Constituent Assembly adopted the Constitution, running into 90,000 words. In 2015, on the occasion of 125th birth anniversary of BR Ambedkar, chairman of the Drafting Committee of Constitution, the Union Government declared November 26 as Samvidhan Divas or Constitution Day.The most distinctive feature of the Constitution is its timeless ideals enshrined in a resilient framework. It is not merely an intangible ideal, but a living document. The Indian Constitution has enabled us to establish social, economic democracy and political democracy. It has been the most powerful instrument of social and economic change. Our Constitution has been responding to the changing hopes, aspirations and circumstances, always evolving with time. Our parliamentary democracy has grown from strength to strength in the past 72 years. As we look back at our journey spanning seven decades, we feel proud for not only having upheld the Constitution, but also for having revitalised and strengthened its democratic tenor. People have always been at the centre of our constitutional, democratic polity and India is seen as a shining example of a vibrant and pluralistic culture flourishing in an ever-evolving parliamentary system. Our governance is focused on building an inclusive and prosperous State as envisaged in the preamble to the Constitution, an approach that has helped empower common people as confident citizens of a proud nation, not just passive observers or mere beneficiaries. It goes to the credit of our constitutional governance structure and the credibility that it enjoys that after each of the 17 general elections and scores of state elections, the transition of power has always been smooth and seamless. Each election has only served to further strengthen our democracy and reinforced people’s faith in our Constitution. Our Constitution lays down the road map for the process of nation-building, but it is up to us as citizens to decide the pace. It is up to us to show our true commitment to our constitutional values by contributing to the huge endeavours of governments to reach the benefits of social, economic and political development to those at the lowest rung of the society. Each of us will have to understand our Charter of Duties laid down in the Constitution, which provides for a unique balance between rights and duties. After 75 years of Independence, it is time to reaffirm our commitment to our fundamental duties. As we celebrate “Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav”, it is time for us to introspect on how we can contribute to the process of nation-building so that our nation can be a major player in the global economy with an inclusive and egalitarian society. I have no doubt that the Constitution of India will be our guide, friend and philosopher in this task.Our Constitution is a sacred document and everyone should be fully committed to its ideals. It imposes a sacred duty upon all the organs of State to be sensitive to the hopes and aspirations of the citizen. For the smooth functioning of our parliamentary system, it is important for each of the three organs of the State — the judiciary, legislature and executive — to work within the ambit of the constitutional mandate without infringing on each other’s powers and in close coordination with, and due respect for the others.On the sacrosanct occasion of “Samvidhan Divas”, let us recommit ourselves to the goals of our freedom movement and the ideals, dreams and visions of our founding fathers and resolve to fulfill them. Om Birla is Speaker, Lok Sabha||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/our-constitution-a-sacred-document-101637853090888.html
25-11-2021||Today's||Ambedkar’s constitutionalism speaks to contemporary times||Constitution Day offers us an opportunity to examine BR Ambedkar’s broader conception of constitutionalism, which can be traced from his writings, speeches, social movements, and public and political engagement over four decades.
25-11-2021||Today's||Ensuring clean energy with people’s participation||Today, the world is rapidly embracing clean energy. An increasing number of governments are renegotiating their dependence on fossil fuels to meet their energy needs through clean energy. Madhya Pradesh (MP) is one of the first states to pioneer solar energy production in India. Our commitment towards ushering in a clean future has been driven by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s mantra of “Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas, Sabka Prayas”. This mantra drives the idea of Jan Bhagidari, people’s participation, for change, which will be crucial in ushering in a green future, powered by solar energy.India is taking great strides towards achieving its ambitious target of about 500 Gigawatt (GW) of installed renewable energy capacity by 2030. Out of this, the contribution of solar energy is expected to be around 280 GW, or 60%.In order to reach this target, we must make this a people’s movement at all levels. We cannot forget that our efforts to reach the goal of a billion vaccinations were also driven by the spirit of Jan Bhagidaari. I believe that energy consciousness will come only when energy-saving becomes a part of our daily existence. Hence, I have pioneered the world’s largest energy literacy programme, Urja Saksharta Abhiyan (USHA), to build an energy-conscious society. Under USHA, we will reach out to students, homemakers, businesspeople, farmers, and others sections of society.As a next step in our aim to engage the public, we have reached out to our farmer brothers and sisters to take this movement to the grassroots. Hence, under the PM-KUSUM Yojana, we are helping our farmers set-up solar power generation units on their lands at subsidised rates. This will also provide them an additional source of income.We have also been taking technology-focused measures to put MP on the map as the leading producer of solar power. Our efforts have increased the contribution of clean energy to 25% of MP’s current installed power capacity of 21,700 MW. This is a ten-fold increase from 2012. Our aim is to become number one in the production of solar energy and build a strong clean energy future, under our Atmanirbhar Madhya Pradesh Roadmap 2023.On Thursday, we have successfully executed the Rewa Solar Power Project. This project has become a model for many other states. It is one of the world’s largest single-site solar projects, generating 750 MW of electricity per day at its full capacity. We have achieved a minimum tariff of ₹2.97/unit, which is considerably less than the tariff received from other concurrent projects. This has also proved that alternative energy can be produced cheaply if executed with a strong political will, efficient implementation, and the spirit of Jan Bhagidari.Our success in tapping solar energy, in a state that receives over 300 days of sunshine, has empowered our will to apply our past learning to future projects. Consequently, we are aggressively setting up solar energy parks in other districts such as Neemuch, Shajapur, Agar, Morena, Chhatarpur and Sagar as well, with a combined capacity of 4,500 MW, at a construction cost of ₹18,000 crore. However, in its first phase, we have initiated the construction of the 1,500 MW Agar-Shajapur-Neemuch Solar Power Project, at a cost of ₹5,250 crore. We will continue our winning streak by getting a low power tariff of ₹2.14/unit in this project, too.We will supply this low-priced electricity generated through the National Grid Connectivity to the Indian Railways in eight states, besides the Delhi Metro. These solar parks will be operational at full capacity by March 2023 and boost our dream of building an Atmanirbhar MP.These solar parks will also help state power companies save about ₹7,600 crore during the project period. It will provide indirect employment to about 7,500 people during project construction, and direct employment to 1,800 locals after operationalisation. Besides economic and power benefits, this project will prevent CO2 emissions of up to three million tonnes annually. This is equivalent to planting 52 million adult trees.We are employing international best practices in solar power production from countries such as Germany, South Korea and Norway to increase Madhya Pradesh’s footprint in the renewable energy sector. In this direction, we have initiated construction of the world’s largest floating solar park in Omkareshwar on the Narmada River. It is expected to produce 600 MW of renewable energy, at a construction cost of about ₹3,000 crore.Madhya Pradesh will continue to explore new ways of tapping into this eternal source of energy. We will leave no stone unturned to bring the life-giving power of Suryadev to the doorstep of every citizen of India and make India an energy-conscious and truly Atmanirbhar nation by 2030.Shivraj Singh Chouhan is the chief minister of Madhya PradeshThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/ensuring-clean-energy-with-people-s-participation-101637829147525.html
