29-11-2021||Editorials||A new deal for agriculture||The contentious farm laws were repealed by both Houses of Parliament on Monday. Their repeal may be a victory for farmers and Opposition parties — but only to the extent that the three laws pushed through by the government, and on which the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party expended a great deal of political capital, have been withdrawn. This is undoubtedly a setback for the government, but it is important to understand that the scrapping of the laws does not leave farmers any better off. The agrarian crisis in the country continues. The unremunerative nature of farming has seen once-dominant landholding agrarian communities take to the streets demanding quotas in admission to educational institutions and in government jobs. Indian agriculture also remains uncompetitive, and the minimum support price (MSP) regime has wreaked havoc with cropping patterns and destroyed water tables.
29-11-2021||Editorials||Pollution: Away from an NCR-centric policy||An HT analysis of satellite data from NASA shows a troubling picture. The aerosol optical depth (AOD)-based measure of pollution — suspended particles or aerosols prevent light from travelling to the surface, something that shows up in satellite images — indicates that parts of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar are far more polluted than the Delhi-National Capital Region (NCR). Almost all of north India, which is what the satellite captures, has seen a significant increase in absolute pollution levels in the last decade.
29-11-2021||Editorials||The onset of the winter session||The winter session of Parliament commences on Monday in the backdrop of a series of significant political events, as well as in the run-up to a series of politically consequential state elections. On one hand, the government has decided to pilot the repeal of the farm laws — a key source of discord between the treasury and Opposition benches for over a year. This opens up room for cooperation. But, on the other hand, before the repeal, there was the tragedy in Lakhimpur Kheri, which will prompt the Opposition to seek the resignation of the minister of state for home, especially given the upcoming polls in Uttar Pradesh. The fact that protests haven’t ended yet, farm groups continue to make a push for legislation on minimum support price, and the future of agriculture will remain a key issue in the Punjab elections, means that there will also be political competition to come across as more sensitive to the interests of farmers.
29-11-2021||Editorials||Nepal, Bangladesh graduate from LDCs||By 2026, Bangladesh, Nepal and Laos will graduate from being least developed countries (LDCs) to developing countries. Graduating from LDC is an outcome of an elaborate process involving stakeholders within the United Nations (UN) and respective national governments, and is based on an assessment of a country’s income levels, human assets index, and economic and environmental vulnerabilities. Having LDC status has advantages in terms of development aid. But countries aspire to move to the next stage of the development hierarchy, and signal to the world that they have robust political and economic institutions.
