11-01-2021||Today's||In India’s lower judiciary, the absence of in-group bias||Much of the debate around judicial fairness in Indian courts has focused on Supreme Court or high court judges. The expansive lower judiciary, comprising more than 7,000 district, sessions, and subordinate courts, has largely been missing from this ongoing debate.To fill this gap, we examined data on over six million court cases filed under India’s criminal codes between 2010–2018 across the country. Women represent 48% of the population, but only 28% of lower court judges. Similarly, India’s 200 million Muslims represent 14% of the population, but only 7% of lower court judges. We wanted to test whether these disparities lead to worse judicial outcomes for women and for Muslims. Measuring bias in criminal proceedings is not straightforward. It is not sufficient to look at conviction rates for different social groups, because other inequalities may result in differential outcomes. For example, it is hardly surprising, and not evidence of bias against men, that only 23% of individuals charged under the penal code are women.Instead, we applied a statistical test that has uncovered judicial bias in courts in several other countries. We asked whether women or Muslim defendants on average get different decisions on their cases, depending on whether their assigned judge is a man or a non-Muslim. This test is credible, because neither defendants nor prosecutors in the judicial system have much control over the demography of the judge who hears a case. In fact, the legal system explicitly prohibits the practice of shopping for judges, noting that it “must be crushed with a heavy hand”.This allowed us to compare two defendants who are alike in every way — of the same gender and religion, charged under the same section of the penal code, in the same month, with cases heard in the same district court — whose only difference is that one had her case heard by a female judge and the other by a male judge.There is evidence from around the world that judges discriminate in favour of litigants who share their identity. For example, in Israeli courts, Arabs whose cases are heard in front of Arab judges get more favourable decisions than Arabs whose cases come before Jewish judges. In the United States, women are more likely to win sexual discrimination lawsuits when their cases are heard by female judges.We expected to find the same kind of bias in India’s district courts. Our own prior research shows that Muslim men are worse off than Dalits and Adivasis in terms of upward economic mobility. The 2006 Sachar committee reported that Indian Muslims fare worse on every human development indicator, are over-policed, and are often killed in botched police encounters. Given a climate of prejudice, we had reason to suspect bias in judicial decisions.To our surprise, across six million criminal cases, we found virtually no evidence of in-group bias among judges on either gender or religion. Male defendants did not get better outcomes when they were assigned to male judges, nor did female judges favour women. Equally, the judicial outcomes of Muslims were virtually identical whether their cases were assigned to Muslim or to non-Muslim judges. We found similar results whether we looked at case outcomes (such as acquittal or conviction), or at case processes, like delay.We did find some evidence that male judges are more lenient overall than their female colleagues. But this is not evidence of bias, because male and female defendants get equally lenient treatment from male judges.Our study is just one step toward building a body of evidence on the performance of the Indian judicial system. We found an absence of in-group bias in one context, but it does not rule out other forms of bias in the legal system as a whole. We did not have data to study in-group bias along caste or socio-economic lines. We also cannot rule out unequal treatment of Muslims or women in the system as a whole. Our study does not provide any reason to doubt the existence of widespread unfair treatment in other domains.However, our research is optimistic about lower court judges, at least with regard to this important form of bias. If district and lower court judges display impartiality toward defendant identity in their rulings, they should be celebrated for it, even as other problems are rightly condemned.Similar studies need to be done on police and prosecutor behaviour, and on outcomes in other courts. Our research was only possible because of the laudable efforts of the courts to make data on cases publicly available. The government should make available detailed microdata on all the other stages of the criminal justice process, such as police stops and arrests. If justice is served fairly, there should be nothing to fear from transparency. In the words of the great American jurist Louis Brandeis, “Sunlight is said to be the best of disinfectants; electric light the most efficient policeman.”Sam Asher (assistant professor of economics at Johns Hopkins University) and Paul Novosad (associate professor of economics at Dartmouth College) are the founders of Development Data Lab, where Aditi Bhowmick is a research associateThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-india-s-lower-judiciary-the-absence-of-in-group-bias-101610378365396.html
11-01-2021||Today's||Listen to the voice of protesting farmers||The protesting farmers want to be heard. For years, governments have neglected the agricultural sector, failing to recognise the abysmal conditions under which a majority of our farmers work. The ongoing protests must be understood in the backdrop of the levels of poverty they face.Approximately 55% of the total workforce in India was employed in agriculture and allied sectors (2011 Census). This has declined to 42.5%, according to the Periodic Labour Force Survey 2018-19. The Economic Survey 2019-20 states that the share of agriculture and allied sectors in national income has also declined to 16.5%. Though the average size of an agricultural holding was around one hectare in 2015-16, small and marginal farmers who hold less than two hectares of land constitute 86% of the total holdings. Only 1% of farmers hold more than 10 hectares of land. The average monthly income of an agricultural household in India is estimated at about ₹6,500. It varies from approximately ₹18,000 in Punjab to ₹3,500 in Bihar. Small and marginal farming households earned less than ₹2,500 from agriculture. It is little wonder that 52% of all agricultural households in India are indebted — 64% of marginal farmers, with holdings of less than one hectare, and 18%, who hold between one to two hectares, are in debt. What this data suggests is that agriculture is not only unremunerative, but is deeply linked to levels of poverty in rural India. A National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) survey also found that families of small and marginal farmers spent ₹6,750 per month on daily expenses while their incomes may have been much less.Since farming has become unremunerative, farmers have little surplus to deal with contingencies, even in a relatively good year. In most other years, they are forced to borrow from local moneylenders to meet major expenses such as a family marriage, a medical emergency or education. This is above the regular loans they take to buy fertilisers, seeds and other inputs.Let us look at another data point. The average outstanding loan of a farming household is just over ₹1,00,000. Most loans, which account for this debt, are from non-institutional sources at exorbitant interest rates ranging from 24% to 36%. Since the sanctioning of loans by institutions is a lengthy process, involving demand for collateral security, farmers are driven to non-institutional sources resulting in extreme indebtedness. This also explains the number of suicides by farmers — in 2019 alone, the number was 10,281.Unlike the corporate sector, the farming community doesn’t have the clout to influence government. Industry and other sectors of the economy seek exemptions, waivers and incentives while farmers are only seeking Minimum Support Prices (MSP). Even that price doesn’t cater to their sustenance as 94% of the farmers are deprived of the benefits of MSPs. Of over 140 million farmers, only 8.7 million benefit from it. In states such as Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Karnataka, none of the farmers knew about MSPs before the sowing season, according to a NITI Aayog report. Punjab and Haryana, however, are the biggest beneficiaries. In fact, 85% of the wheat procured in India in 2019-20 came from the three states — Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana, which is why Punjab’s farmers are so concerned about their livelihood. The protesting farmers are seeking an assurance on MSPs for all crops until markets become sufficiently competitive. The government must continue with the policy of declaring MSPs of various crops well before the sowing season. Further, MSPs should be linked to inflation so that farmers know much revision will take place going forward.While our government is keen on liberalising the agricultural sector, most governments around the world have subsidised it. The reason why previous governments have encouraged the continuation of MSPs is because procurement by Food Corporation of India (FCI) at MSPs, mostly wheat and paddy, was for distribution at subsidised prices for food security. Though farmers are given a declared price for their output, their input costs of water, power, fertiliser and seeds are subsidised. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and European Union countries, plus 12 key emerging economies, provide over $700 billion a year to support the agricultural sector. The Indian government is trying to do the reverse by not providing for a security net for the largest workforce in the country unlike the developed countries where 2% of the population or less is involved in agriculture. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s promise of an MSP by providing the farmers the entire cost of the production plus 50% of the profit based on MS Swaminathan’s recommendations has, to date, not been honoured. The irrigation projects promised by the Bharatiya Janata Party in its 2014 manifesto have not been realised. The crop insurance scheme has turned out to be a flop and the Operation Greens project to create better storage facilities has stalled. While farmers from Punjab and Haryana along with others are protesting, sugarcane farmers from UP too have not been paid their dues. They are also ready to take this protest further.The State needs to take notice of the disquiet within the largest workforce in this country. The Supreme Court’s advice that the laws be put on hold should be welcomed by the government. If the government chooses not to listen, this may cost it the 2024 election.Kapil Sibal is a former Union minister, senior advocate and a senior Congress leader The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/listen-to-the-voice-of-protesting-farmers-101610375726357.html
11-01-2021||Today's||Tracing the roots of an American brand of extremism||In September 2020, the director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Christopher A Wray, warned that the most pressing threat facing the United States (US) was from anti-government and far-Right groups. The security breach on Capitol Hill in Washington DC last week revealed the dangers of these movements to America’s democratic traditions. There are many far-Right ecosystems in the US, but recently the likes of QAnon, Boogaloo Boys and Proud Boys, among others, have become the driving examples of quasi-cult like movements developed on conspiracy theories and ideologies, often beginning their lives online.QAnon is an internet conspiracy theory that has its cult-like followers believe that Donald Trump is leading a war against a cabal of Satan-worshipping paedophiles in government, business and media. Q, the anonymous leader of the movement, claims to be a top-level military official who is intimately familiar with the deviousness of this “deep state”. No matter how bizarre QAnon beliefs may sound, reportedly at least 24 US congressional candidates had pledged allegiance to Q and Trump even deemed these followers to be people “who love our country”. Such words of encouragement from the president allowed these fringe ideologies to gain mainstream appeal.Unlike QAnon, the Boogaloo Boys have an alternative take on an alternative reality. The origin of this movement is murky, further complicated by the fact that it has both white supremacist and libertarian factions. Named after a breakdancing movie from the 1980s, it’s a loosely organised Right-leaning movement with members that favour gun rights, oppose police brutality and fantasise about a second Civil War in America. This movement left online chat rooms and caused real world damage after police officers in California and guards at the Oakland courthouse were killed, compelling people to consider the group recognised by their Hawaiian floral shirts to be a legitimate terror threat.Despite ideological differences, both movements have commonalities. They prey on white male grievances and the dissatisfaction with the so-called elite. Moreover, both groups gained a following on 4Chan, an online image board which equips users with anonymity and freedom to operate without checks and balances. So, for QAnon, it meant an avenue to spread fake news on the lines that 9/11 was a hoax or that Ronald Reagan was shot in 1981 on the deep state’s orders. Similarly, the Boogaloo Boys were able to freely discuss their desire for more guns, civil unrest and undermining the US government’s authority. While online platforms such as 4Chan do not cause these movements, they have enabled and sustained them.These movements also rely on mobilising support against a common enemy, using fake news and unsubstantiated rumours to widen divides between “Us” and “Them”. QAnon manages spreading such misinformation through “Q drops” — the name given to the cryptic messages posted by Q. For example, last year, Q posted a picture of an unnamed island chain and soon after, QAnon followers took this post as proof that the picture was taken on Air Force One and went on to claim that Q must be travelling with Trump.To the outside world, “Q drops” may seem bizarre and illogical but, to QAnon adherents, these cryptic and misleading messages are like sermons. Q’s followers have acted on this by inciting offline violence. Instances such as an armed standoff at Hoover Dam, breaking into the Canadian prime minister’s residence and an infamous shoot-out at a pizza parlour are all products of followers believing or misinterpreting the fictional narrative put out in QAnon chat rooms.With the attack on Capitol Hill by Trump supporters, some of whom wore QAnon shirts and brandished confederate flags, the far-Right’s threat to American liberal democracy is more visible than ever. Trump’s ambivalence towards such groups have emboldened them and with these groups now being increasingly cornered as social media platforms banned Trump and his ecosystem, the threat of Right-wing extremism may assume a different form but will persist.Kabir Taneja is fellow and Prithvi Iyer is research assistant, Strategic Studies Programme, Observer Research Foundation The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/tracing-the-roots-of-an-american-brand-of-extremism-101610375125564.html
11-01-2021||Today's||It is time for some prose||On Monday, a Supreme Court bench, led by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, reprimanded the executive for failing to manage the farm protests, and suggested it would stay the implementation of the laws. During the proceedings, Justice Bobde emphasised that he was worried about the possibility of an incident leading to a breach of peace, the presence of the elderly and women at the site of the protests in times of the pandemic and in winter, and told the law officers representing the government that the executive got enough time but had been unable to resolve the strike. In an ideal setting, law-making is entirely within the purview of the legislature and managing the law and order consequences of legislations falls within the domain of the executive. Unless the constitutionality of the law is being determined — and the court did not get into the merits of the law at this stage — the judiciary should, once again, in an ideal setting, not concern itself with the protests against legislation. But the farm protests have presented an unusual, even extraordinary situation, where political negotiations haven’t delivered an outcome and the possibility of a breach in peace is indeed real. The court’s suggestion of a committee to examine the laws and listen to all stakeholders, in this backdrop, offers all sides a mechanism to step back from their stated positions — and renegotiate. This should not be seen either as a victory or a loss by any side. For the government, this provides much-needed breathing space and allows it to remedy the error of not engaging in adequate consultation before the passage of the law. It is also a lesson that when laws go through legislative scrutiny, even if there are disagreements about it, the legitimacy of the new framework is more widely accepted. The farm unions must recognise that the protests have helped establish their concerns on the national stage and a new mechanism is being created to address their concerns. They should call off the current form of protests, and engage constructively with the new committee. While it is said that you campaign in poetry and govern in prose, movements too happen in poetry, but negotiations happen in prose. It is time for both sides to negotiate now with an open spirit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/it-is-time-for-some-prose-101610373757544.html
11-01-2021||Today's||In Sydney, when a draw was a win||There’s that old joke about Test cricket. “How can two teams play a game over five days and still not have a winner?” A common rejoinder: “Because sometimes a draw is better than a win.” At the Sydney Cricket Ground on January 11, India made that pithy saying come alive in its full, combative, turbulent and beguiling glory. Everything was stacked against Ajinkya Rahane’s team at the beginning of this match — Australia’s facility with their home conditions; the absence of regular captain and the team’s most explosive batsman, Virat Kohli; and not one, not two, but three frontline bowlers absent with injuries and replaced by a debutant, and another who made his debut in the previous match of the tour. There was more agony through the match — a dislocated thumb for Ravindra Jadeja after being hit by a Mitchell Starc delivery and India’s most successful bowler in the first innings could not bowl at all in the second; Rishabh Pant, hit on the elbow by a Pat Cummins delivery, could not take the field for Australia’s second innings; Hanuma Vihari had pulled a hamstring and was barely able to run. So, when Australia set a bruised and battered India a target of 407, the hosts may have expected a thumping win. Instead they got a fiery, belligerent innings from Pant who shrugged off his injury; Cheteshwar Pujara’s absolute calm and class; and a nail-biting lesson in survival from Ravichander Ashwin and a limping Hanuma Vihari. Ashwin and Vihari faced 258 balls from one of the finest bowling attacks in recent memory. Jadeja sat padded up for hours, his hand strapped, needing help even to peel a banana, but ready to join the battle. There was grit and fight in spades. A match was saved. It was a draw that was better than many wins.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-sydney-when-a-draw-was-a-win-101610368825135.html
