16-01-2021||Today's||In India, the story of Covid-19 vaccines||Remember the date: January 16, 2021.This is the day India launched its Covid-19 vaccination drive, embarking on what should be the last phase of its fight against the coronavirus disease.That India got to this point in a little over 10 months since the first local Covid-19 cases emerged is an achievement that needs to be recognised, appreciated and cheered. That it did so with one locally made version of a vaccine developed by a multinational company and a university, and a locally developed one, makes the achievement even more significant.Sure, the regulatory approval granted to Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech, without studies proving its efficacy, was a break from established protocol and surprising. We know that the vaccine is safe; we just don’t have enough data on its efficacy. It will come in a few weeks, but we do not have it now; and the regulator did not have it when it approved the vaccine. Hope should not be part of scientific processes.It would have been appropriate for the regulator and the government to admit as much and say that the vaccine was being approved, without knowing its efficacy, simply because these are unprecedented times, and unprecedented times call for unprecedented measures. That would have been enough for many people (including Chanakya).Instead, the government tied itself up in knots trying to justify its decision, and the debate rapidly degenerated, as almost every debate does these days, into one along politically polarised lines. Covaxin may be extremely effective; we just don’t have the data to establish this. It doesn’t matter that it was developed in India; the argument would have been the same had it been developed on Mars.And sure, the fact that people cannot choose which vaccine they get is a bit of a downer — especially since those getting a shot of Covaxin have to sign a consent form acknowledging that the efficacy of the vaccine is unknown.Still, the launch of the vaccination drive is significant – and definitely merits celebration.Israel, the Wall Street Journal reported, is already seeing a decline in infection rates two weeks after people received the first shot of the two-dose vaccine. Thanks to a happy confluence of factors, which are not particularly clear at this point in time, India’s vaccination drive has been launched at a time when the weekly average of cases in the country at a seven-month low.On Friday, January 15, India’s seven-day average of cases was 15,876, a number last seen on June 26 last year. The seven-day average of deaths on January 15 was 186, a number last seen on May 29. Cases are low, as are deaths; the vaccination drive has been launched; and over the next six months, around 300 million people will be vaccinated. The feared second wave, which ravaged the United States (which had now been further savaged by a third) and Europe, may well not happen in India.India shouldn’t have a problem with vaccination drives. It has an immunisation programme that covers more people than similar ones in other countries, although the Covid-19 vaccination drive is clearly many times larger. This is simply because it has experience of managing exercises involving a large of number of people — such as the general elections.There are bound to be glitches — a power breakdown that ruins some doses; delays in the vaccine reaching some remote corners of the country; at least, some jumping of queues. But this is an exercise that India will manage well, perhaps a lot better than the US and the United Kingdom (UK) have. If all goes well, a month from now, the country could well have more people who have received at least one dose of the vaccine than any other country.But even as it is important that the Centre and states micromanage every aspect of the drive to vaccinate 300 million people, the health ministry has to start planning for what lies beyond — the task of vaccinating the country’s entire population.To do this, it needs to focus on three areas, all aimed at increasing supply of vaccines and maximising their administration – for this is a disease where no one is safe till everyone is safe.One, India’s health ministry and regulator need to work on identifying and approving other vaccines. For instance, it has now emerged that Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine,— like Covaxin, this too was initially under a cloud, although in its case, some efficacy data was available — is very effective in combating the virus. Dr Reddy’s Laboratories is carrying out clinical trials of this vaccine, and Hetero Drugs has signed an agreement to locally manufacture 100 million doses of the vaccine. Is there a way to expedite their availability? The regulator could also consider automatically approving any vaccine approved in the US, the European Union (EU) or the UK (this isn’t ideal; but nor was Covaxin’s rushed approval).Two, the government needs to take a call, if not now, then at least by the middle of February, on open-market availability of the vaccines. Sure, every vaccine sold will have to be tracked, but this is easily done by making minor edits to the dashboards and information systems already in place. Making enough doses of the vaccine available in the open market by June, if not earlier, will help.Three, the government should also make it possible for institutions and organisations to launch vaccination drives for their students, employees, or members by defining the protocols for sourcing, financing (for instance, can corporate social responsibility funds be used?) and administering vaccines.India is off to a good start, but it now needs to plan ahead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-india-the-story-of-covid-19-vaccines-101610804809663.html
16-01-2021||Today's||Making privacy a mainstream debate||In the wee hours of a rather cold Delhi winter morning, I received a phone call from my rather anxious 83-year-old uncle. He asked, “What should I do? I just accepted the new WhatsApp terms without reading too much into it. How can I withdraw it now? WhatsApp has been my only means to communicate with my kids in US. What do I do if they shift to Telegram? What happens to my data on WhatsApp?”This was not an isolated conversation, indicating that we are at a potentially seminal moment of consumer understanding of privacy and what it entails.Since its inception, WhatsApp has claimed security and privacy as its core DNA. With its new “take-it-or-leave-it” policy, Whatsapp essentially threatened users of deleting their accounts, unless they accept the new terms before May. The earlier deadline was February 8, but was deferred. Consumers are now recognising that there is a price attached to the service.Since 2016, WhatsApp has been sharing data with Facebook, with the caveat that users could opt out by manually editing their settings within 30 days. So, this new policy is not about WhatsApp sharing more data with Facebook than it already did until now. It is, rather, about Facebook leveraging user data and engagement on WhatsApp to build a platform where businesses can start sharing and selling products and services to WhatsApp users. None of this is a surprise. Facebook’s acquisition was always with an intent to monetise WhatsApp for its data.WhatsApp, with its new “take-it-or leave-it” privacy policy, may not have anticipated the severe consumer backlash against it. Consumers often miss reading the rather small fine print of the terms of the services. However, the fact that the new terms are mandatory made all the difference.Telegram and Signal are the two platforms that consumers are embracing, with installs flying off the charts for both of them. Telegram offers extensive features such as larger groups, heavy files, and unlimited cloud storage along with end-to-end encrypted secret chats. Signal, on the other hand, is a relatively new name for most consumers in India. It offers a simple UX and some basic features with default end-to-end encryption. As network effects shape the future of messaging and communications apps, the question of which of the platforms emerges as a sustainable alternative needs to be seen.If you are still on the fence, and contemplating what to do next if you are on WhatsApp, here is my answer. Over the short-term, nothing much has changed. WhatsApp remains secure. WhatsApp remains end-to-end encrypted. And it will continue to share data as it has been doing all along. However, all of this is immaterial if users keep shifting to other apps before May. You need to be on the same platform where most of your peers, business partners, and most importantly, your loved ones are.If you take a long-term view, the future will never be the same from here on for WhatsApp. The messaging service has now moved into a different trajectory — one focused on monetisation. It will now find it tough to regain or retain user trust. While messages remain secure and encrypted, as Facebook seeks to build tighter cross-platform integration across its ecosystem, the user data on WhatsApp could fall prey to it through data-sharing, or, for instance, targeted and precise advertising. There is no assurance that there will not be any further changes to the terms of use going forward. It all boils down to whether one is WhatsApp’s consumer or rather its product offering.The conversation around WhatsApp policy has moved beyond just those engaged in the world of tech policy and privacy. When consumers, like my 83-year-old uncle, seek to grasp and work out the issues around what privacy means and entails, you know change is in the air.Prabhu Ram heads the Industry Intelligence Group (IIG) at CyberMedia ResearchThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/making-privacy-a-mainstream-debate-101610804390043.html
16-01-2021||Today's||Budget 2021: Balance economics with politics||With the budget just over two weeks away, economist after economist is calling on finance minister (FM) Nirmala Sitharaman to spend, spend and spend. The renowned 20th-century economist, John Maynard Keynes, whose economic theory is being quoted in justification of government spending, once said: “No part of man’s nature or his institutions can be outside an economist’s regard”. There must be a question mark on whether the economists offering advice to the finance minister have taken into account politics, so very much part of the nature of most Indians.The basic problem that the FM faces is to reinvigorate the economy after the Covid-19 setback. To achieve this, she is being urged to revive demand by spending more. But where is the money for spending to come from? As I see it, every answer to that question has worrying political consequences for the government.One suggestion being offered by economists is to cash in public assets by privatising them. But there is bound to be opposition to this because it will be seen as selling out to the corporate sector. If there is one thing which the farmer protest has demonstrated, it is a deep-seated distrust of the corporate sector, one might say hostility to it. Hostility to the corporate sector goes far beyond farmers. Of the many jibes Rahul Gandhi has hurled at the Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi, the only one which has hit home is his “suit-boot sarkar” one. It led the PM to realise the political consequences of his government being too closely identified with business interests.Privatisation is a particularly easy policy for an opposition to attack because it can be likened to “selling off the family silver”, as the former British PM Harold Macmillan did in his famous attack on Margaret Thatcher’s privatisation drive. This, he saw as the consequence of “modern economists having decided there is no difference between capital and income”. Macmillan was alleging that privatisation was profligacy, spending capital rather than earning income.Another method for the FM to find the money to spend, being suggested by economists, is to be less cautious about the fiscal deficit and borrow to spend on productive investments. They do not accept that this would necessarily be unduly inflationary. With private investment and consumption low, they believe the government can spend more without creating excess demand and inflation. But the FM may still be held back by the traditional fear of politicians of inflation. Indira Gandhi believed voter anger over inflation was a major reason for her coming back to power in the 1980 general election. She made the high price of that essential component of Indian cuisine, the humble onion, the symbol of inflation. This government showed its sensitivity to the price of onions by banning their export last year.Then, of course, there is the standard remedy for a government short of funds — raising taxes. Raising personal tax would be unpopular with the Bharatiya Janata Party’s middle-class voters. When corporate leaders met the FM, they advised her to reduce income tax so that taxpayers would have more money to spend and, thereby, create demand.When Sitharaman weighs up the short-term political consequences of following the advice she is receiving, I’m sure she will be aware of the longer-term political consequence of getting the arithmetic wrong. The indications coming from this very early stage of recovery are ominous. Capital and profits are growing, wages are not, nor is employment. The incomes poorer Indians have lost have not been recovered. The more prosperous have sustained their incomes and grown their savings. Unless this trend is corrected, India will become an even more unequal country and that could lead to politically disastrous social unrest.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/budget-2021-balance-economics-with-politics-101610804029394.html
16-01-2021||Today's||Where the State should step back||Modern governments have a distressing tendency to morph into nanny states. Members of Parliament and ministers, whose educational qualifications are often negligible or questionable, presume to possess the wisdom to decide for the rest of us what we can or cannot do. Two areas where this is most irksome and least justified is the age at which we can legally smoke and drink.We’re considered adult enough to vote at 18 but no government in India permits smoking at that age. Only six out of 37 states and Union Territories (UTs) allow you to drink at 18. In Punjab, Haryana, Maharashtra and the UTs of Delhi and Chandigarh, you have to wait till you’re 25. Maharashtra, just to be different, permits light beer — whatever that may be — at 21. For Kerala, the legal age is 23. For the rest, it is 21.Now the national government proposes to tamper with the age at which we can legally smoke. In 2003, it was set at 18. But the draft Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products (Prohibition of Advertisement and Regulation of Trade and Commerce, Production, Supply and Distribution) Amendment Bill 2020 seeks to raise it to 21. The only hope this won’t happen lies in the fact the health ministry is seeking public responses to the proposed change. So here’s mine.Don’t do it! It’s not an area where governments know better and certainly not an issue on which you should decide for each of us.I can understand bans on smoking in areas or circumstances where, inevitably or unavoidably, others who are not smoking get affected. So outlawing smoking in public places such as hotels, restaurants, cinema halls and bars is something we have accepted. But when an adult smokes on his own, or in the company of others who have no objection, the government has no business to intervene.After reaching adulthood, if I wish to slowly poison myself to death by smoking — or if others around me wish to do the same by inhaling my cigarette fumes — we have a moral right to do so. There’s a limit to how far governments can legitimately protect us from undesirable habits.Remember each time politicians try to do so, they diminish our individuality. In fact, they infantilise us. The presumption that governments know better is not just arrogance, it’s also hypocritical and often untrue.For instance, beedis are taxed very differently to cigarettes on the grounds they are smoked by poorer Indians. But look at what the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government did in its first budget of July 2014 — cigarette excise was increased in the range of 11 to 72%, while that on beedis was left untouched.If cigarettes are so bad for one’s health it justifies a sextupling of their excise, why not ban them altogether? That would be the rational thing to do. But the government didn’t because it would have lost a huge amount of revenue. On the other hand, eight times more people smoke beedis. Yet, if you don’t increase the excise on them, aren’t you saying you don’t care about the health of beedi smokers? On the grounds that they’re poor, it would seem the government is less concerned if they smoke themselves to death.This points to a second problem with the government’s tinkering with the rules of cigarette smoking. You often discover its misplaced moral concern is vitiated by a hidden avarice to protect the exchequer’s revenue. The 2014 budget was a perfect illustration. Nanny’s determination to protect us from ourselves stops when it becomes too expensive to do so.Now I’m not saying other governments are different or better. But as an Indian citizen, I have a right to tell my own to stop being silly. There’s an awful lot Narendra Modi and his ministers have to worry about before barring 18-year-olds from smoking. And, anyway, most self-respecting 18-year-olds will ignore them. It’s foolish to create laws you can neither morally justify nor credibly enforce.Karan Thapar is the author of Devil’s Advocate: The Untold StoryThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/where-the-state-should-step-back-101610803549941.html
