17-01-2021||Today's||India must lead in regulating Big Tech||It’s obvious now. The internet, once the promised land of free and open interactions for all, is now controlled by a few gigantic technology companies — often referred to as Big Tech. These companies include Facebook, Apple, Amazon, Netflix, Google, Microsoft, Paypal, and some others.Efforts to rein in the fast-growing power of these platforms has waxed and waned over the last few years. As a result, we have allowed media and economic power to be consolidated stealthily into the hands of a few Big Tech firms. But recent events in the United States (US), when these same companies shut down a sitting US president, without due process, have alerted us to their unchecked power.We are all ardent users of Big Tech goods and services. Big Tech companies provide citizens powerful platforms to transact, express themselves, seek out information, and consume entertainment. Social media has democratised communications, weakening the power of traditional media gatekeepers and breaking the hold of prima donna editors who long held unchallenged power to influence public opinion. Big Tech has brought us doorstep delivery of an extraordinary range of goods, services, and entertainment. It would be no exaggeration to say that it is Big Tech that enabled us to conduct our lives near-normally through the Covid-19 pandemic. In fact, modern life would not be possible without Big Tech.While providing us these benefits, Big Tech has also been accumulating vast, unregulated powers. For instance, social media platforms have the power to shape narratives and, therefore, incite public behaviour. When used by bad actors, social media platforms become a dangerous force multiplier for fomenting hate and violence. Conversely, these platforms also have the power to silence opinions by playing the role of censor and publisher. But this power is firmly in the hands of Big Tech barons with no corresponding accountability and compliance requirements.Similarly, e-commerce platforms have the ability to make or break millions of small merchants. Their pricing and promotion decisions can be managed subtly to favour some merchants and their own private label products. Once platforms start certain promotional schemes, their financial clout and consumer knowledge make it impossible for other retailers to compete. Big Tech companies have also been avid acquirers of smaller, fast-growing companies — thereby snuffing out competition before it gets a chance to establish itself.Big Tech firms have acquired extraordinary amounts of data on individuals. How we browse, what goods we covet, where we shop, what shows we watch, what music we listen to, where we travel, who our friends are, who we follow — all this information is now sitting in vast server farms around the world. At a click, Big Tech barons can summon up this information and sell it to whoever they want. Moreover, this transaction happens outside the country beyond the reach of our tax authorities. So Big Tech takes full advantage of a country’s prosperity yet makes limited tax contributions.As Big Tech has become pervasive, its conduct has to be evaluated across multiple dimensions. First, are markets contestable and fair? Big Tech often engages in competitive practices that require detailed scrutiny by the Competition Commission of India. These practices include tying or bundling different products and services together, acquisition of competitors, predatory pricing, and exclusive arrangements with the trade. Second, how do we best tax these digital services? Economic activity that is based in India should be taxed appropriately in terms of transactions, income, and other earnings. Third, what is the best way to protect data? We need to ensure that data is appropriately localised and that individuals are provided full privacy protection. The joint parliamentary committee working on the data protection bill is evaluating all these issues.Finally, we need to evaluate how to enable the right to free speech on social media platforms as per Article 19 in the Constitution of India. Note that our Constitution has clearly defined free speech and the limits that can be put on that right to free speech. The takedown policies, community standards or algorithms of all platforms must be compliant with and not go beyond Article 19(2) exceptions. Moreover, this standard has to be equitably applied as per Article 14. In effect, by applying these principles, platforms have become publishers.Our current legal and technical framework has to evolve to regulate all these emerging Big Tech powers. Our framework must be integrated, flexible, and dynamic to stay ahead of fast-evolving technologies and competitive conduct. We will need to ensure that we close gaps across laws such as the Telegraph Act, the TRAI Act, the Information Technology Act, IT intermediary guidelines, the proposed Data Protection Act, various competition laws and rules, and the Indian Penal code (to deal properly with issues such as defamation). We are the world’s largest democracy and will soon be the largest digital nation. We cannot allow foreign powers to manipulate narratives and distort public opinion. Technology-driven economic activity will soon be close to a fifth of our economy. China has already fractured the internet to build up its national strength. Therefore, it is imperative that we take the lead globally in regulating Big Tech. We must also harmonise our regulatory framework with the US and the European Union. India will then emerge as a true leader, a Vishwa Guru.Jayant Sinha is a Lok Sabha MP from Jharkhand. Rajeev Chandrasekhar is a Rajya Sabha MP from KarnatakaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/india-must-lead-in-regulating-big-tech-101610890203218.html
17-01-2021||Today's||Washington’s return to the Paris climate accord is a significant step. Build on it||United States (US) President-elect Joe Biden will begin his term on Wednesday by signing executive orders to return the country to the Paris Climate Agreement (PCA). In a memo, Mr Biden’s chief of staff, Ron Klain, noted that the US is facing “four overlapping and compounding crises; the Covid-19 crisis, the resulting economic crisis, the climate crisis, and a racial equity crisis,” which “demand urgent action”. The Biden administration’s decision to return to PCA (the US issued a formal exit notice on November 4, 2019, which took effect on November 4, 2020) reverses one of the most controversial — and damaging — decisions of Mr Biden’s predecessor, Donald Trump, a climate sceptic. In the run-up to the election, Mr Biden had promised that one of his priorities would be to build a more resilient, sustainable economy — one that will put the US on an irreversible path to achieve net-zero emissions, economy-wide, by no later than 2050, and also lead an effort to get every major country to ramp up the ambition of their domestic climate targets.The 2015 Paris agreement is the first truly legally binding global treaty to limit global warming to well below 2, preferably to 1.5 degrees Celsius, compared to pre-industrial levels. Mr Trump’s decision to withdraw the US, one of the world’s largest economies and emitters, cast a shadow on the deal because the US has a historical responsibility to not just reduce its own emissions but also provide financial resources to developing countries to deal with the crisis, their adaptation requirements and green technology. In 2020, the coronavirus pandemic elbowed out the climate crisis from the global agenda, but, at the same time, it underlined the urgent need to take stronger measures to offset the debilitating impact of the climate crisis on the environment and humans. The return of the US to the accord (and the arrival of the vaccines to deal with the pandemic) will hopefully help the world reset its focus on the crisis. With Mr Biden in the saddle and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s commitment to the issue — India has done well on its Paris commitments — the US must support India on mitigation, capacity-building in renewable energy, financing, data-sharing, Indian Ocean monitoring, and phasing out hydroflu-orocarbons. A green partnership between two of the world’s biggest economies is not just critical for both nations, but can also become a template for the world to “build back better” after the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/washingtons-return-to-the-paris-climate-accord-is-a-significant-step-build-on-it-101610890146334.html
17-01-2021||Today's||What the farm stir can learn from Gandhi||The consensus reached after the ninth round of talks between the protesting farmers and the government was that they would meet again on January 19. Neither party is willing to move the needle an inch despite various related agreements being hammered out. Meanwhile, the Supreme Court has postponed the implementation of the three contentious laws. Both sides have adopted different strategies to gain the upper hand. The government hopes that it can hold out till the farmers give up. The farmers’ organisations, meanwhile, are exploring various ways to engage the agitators. A huge tractor rally has now been planned for Republic Day on January 26. The farmers hope to keep up the pressure on the government this way, but this is not a solution. We can only hope that this prolonged agitation does not spiral into some sort of turbulence. This protest has been unique in that thousands of agitators are present at the four entry points to the capital and seem steadfast in their conviction that these laws must be repealed. They have held fast for more than 50 days now. They have weathered unseasonal rains and the bitter winter so far. It is difficult to manage such a diverse and large crowd but the farmers seem resolute.However, during the course of the agitation so far, some organisations have made attempts to hijack the movement. Some objectionable posters were put up and some provocative speeches made. But the farmers’ leaders identified these interlopers and neutralised them swiftly. The protest has brought together people from different religions and various socio-economic and cultural backgrounds in a harmonious blend. The farmers’ organisations say that more than 75 people have died at the dharna sites so far. Normally such tragedies cause people to lose heart, but this has not been the case here. Some farmers have reportedly died by suicide but this has not been glorified in order to prevent this becoming a trend. Religion has been a unifying factor in this protest, which explains why a mobile gurudwara has been set up at the Singhu border. The police and security forces have displayed sensitivity in keeping a respectful distance from religious places during their operations. When the Guru Granth Sahib is placed on a site, it is considered holy and this has been a rallying point for the agitators.A sizeable number of women and children are also present at the site of the protests. This has attracted a lot of media attention. The farmers’ leaders have also been careful not to disturb normal life in surrounding villages and volunteers have been deployed in full force to ensure that the peace is kept. This has earned the movement public support. If the crowds had been unruly, the government could well have gained the advantage. These are commendable achievements, but is this enough?Every agitation has a window of effectiveness. As the struggle gets prolonged, people’s goodwill decreases. Mahatma Gandhi, who pioneered the non-violent movement in India, was astute enough to judge the duration of an agitation. He managed to keep his demands and issues alive despite stepping back at the right time. The farmers must learn from his example. Perhaps the absence of a single leader or organisation is the reason that this has not happened so far. Farmers’ organisations should also consider the fact that such a prolonged agitation affects surrounding industries and hinders mobility on the highways. All these have a detrimental effect on the lives and livelihoods of people. They may persist with the demand for the continuation of the minimum support price (MSP), but they should not forget that despite this system, more than one lakh farmers have died by suicide in the last 10 years. Every day, between 2,000 to 2,500 farmers are forced to leave their villages to seek employment elsewhere. If the current system was so effective, then the situation in our rural areas would not be so dire. Every system needs to be upgraded and amended in keeping with the changing times. Today, if farmers feel compelled to leave their villages because agriculture is unremunerative, then surely this suggests that agrarian reforms are necessary. Such reforms are bound to be contentious which is why the Constitution gives people the right to protest. The farmers have done so in a constructive way so far, but now they have to consider finding a middle path. The government must walk the extra mile to convince farmers of its good intentions. It should not allow this agitation to spin out of control. Remember the railway strike of May 1974. It led to Indira Gandhi feeling cornered enough to impose the Emergency. This is not likely to happen again but such prolonged displays of dissatisfaction could well end in chaos. The government must now act decisively to make a sincere effort to break the deadlock and the farmers must be receptive to well-intentioned proposals to resolve this issue. Shashi Shekhar is editor-in-chief, HindustanThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/what-the-farm-stir-can-learn-from-gandhi-101610889963569.html
17-01-2021||Today's||Building a stronger scientific ecosystem to fight future crises||The year 2020 was marked by challenges posed by Covid-19, and the pivotal role science played in responding to these challenges. India has been at the forefront of the global fight against Covid-19 to deliver innovative solutions at scale not just for itself, but also the world. The learnings and successes from the year, such as ramping up indigenous testing capacities and collaborating across sectors and communities for innovation and development, have helped us build a stronger ecosystem to fight health crises in the future. During the initial days of the outbreak, it was unimaginable that in less than 12 months we would have a vaccine ready for use. However, India’s scientific community delivered. India began its vaccination drive on January 16. We have been the world’s foremost producer of vaccines, contributing to the immunisation of about 60% of the world’s children; our success in developing vaccines for Covid-19 has further strengthened our reputation as a global leader in the field even as six to eight other candidates are in advanced stages of development.In March 2020, when widespread testing began, India was reliant on imported kits. With supply chain disruptions and a global demand for diagnostic kits, it was important for us to develop indigenous capacity for their production. The challenge was taken up by start-ups and researchers and within 60 days, RT-PCR kits were developed. Today, we have over 100 indigenously manufactured antibody, antigen and other novel technology-based diagnostics in the market.As part of the effort to address the shortage of critical healthcare technologies and move towards self-sufficiency, the DBT-AMTZ COMManD (Covid Medtech Manufacturing Development) Consortia was formed. Among its successful initiatives was building India’s first I-Lab (infectious disease diagnostic lab), a mobile testing facility to conduct testing. The state-of-the-art facility was made in a record time of eight days. In addition to the kits, it was also important for us to be self-reliant when it came to the components, reagents, and resources across the product development chain. For this purpose, the National Biomedical Resource Indigenisation Consortium was launched by the department of biotechnology and Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council. The objective was to provide a platform to build indigenous biomedical resources towards a self-reliant biotech ecosystem. Today there are more than 30 reagent manufacturers who are collectively delivering indigenous components.To support India’s scientific and medical community for the development of vaccines and other solutions during the pandemic, the government created a strong ecosystem — setting up 11 clinical trial sites; creating five Covid-specific bio-repositories; a network of bioassay and immunogenicity study laboratories; developing animal challenge models; shared infrastructure for virus characterisation, sequencing and culture; notification of guidelines for specimen-sharing for research purposes; and putting in place a rapid response regulatory framework to ensure transparency and efficiency without compromising on the quality of data. Today, we are developing vaccines for the world, exporting diagnostic kits, and looking at building and strengthening clinical trial capacities in our neighbouring countries.The department of biotechnology in the ministry of science and technology — working with its 16 autonomous research institutes, its large network of research laboratories, its vibrant start-up ecosystem across the bio-incubators and other institutes, and Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council — created a strong Covid Research Consortia, which will now pave the path to move beyond Covid-19. To advocate the importance of prevention, preparedness and partnership against epidemics, the first-ever International Day of Epidemic Preparedness was held on December 27 by the United Nations. The year 2020 put a spotlight on the capability, resilience and adaptability of the Indian scientific ecosystem. In 2021, we are confident of having a much stronger science-based response to any challenge we may face in the future.Renu Swarup is secretary, department of biotechnology, Government of IndiaThe views expressed are personal Renu Swarup is secretary, department of biotechnology in Government of IndiaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/building-a-stronger-scientific-ecosystem-to-fight-future-crises-101610889608096.html
