24-01-2021||Today's||How I erred on Biden and Blinken||I have to admit sometimes I am my own worst enemy. I turn my silly nose up at opportunities that others would grab with both hands. Well, as Joe Biden settles into the White House, I can’t but regret two that I foolishly threw away. Or, to be more honest, failed to capitalise on. Had I done so this might have been a very different column.I met Biden in July 2013, but didn’t take sufficient interest in the man. At the time, he was Obama’s vice-president and visiting India. Hamid Ansari, our vice-president, hosted a dinner at Hyderabad House to which I was invited. For most people, this would have been an opportunity to get to know someone who was, at the time, just a heartbeat away from the American presidency. Foolishly, I had different ideas.Shortly after I arrived, Ansari offered to introduce me to the American vice-president. But Biden was surrounded by people and I was hesitant largely because I wasn’t sure what to say. I had also spotted someone else among the guests and was keen to talk to him. Bizarrely, that took precedence. So, today, instead of being able to claim Joe and I are buddies, I’m the guy who wouldn’t go up and shake his hand. Everyone else did, but I stuck to the other end of the room chatting with another fool like me.Unfortunately, this is not the end of my collection of sorry stories. In December 2015, I was offered an interview with Antony Blinken. At the time, he was Barack Obama’s deputy secretary of state. Today he’s Biden’s secretary of state. Fortunately, I didn’t say no. But, once again, I didn’t take Blinken as seriously as I should have.It was a 30-minute interview and Blinken was truly engaging. Alas, I only realised that when I saw it again last week. Five years ago, it felt like another interview with an American official I would never meet again and probably never hear of as well.Well, the conclusion I’m hinting at is obvious and I’m pretty certain you’ve already worked it out for yourself. Journalists often lack judgement. We aren’t talent-spotters — at least I’m not — and we often fail to sniff out who’s likely to rise to the top. Here were two occasions when good fortune was in my grasp but it slipped through my fingers. Worst of all, I wasn’t even aware that was happening.Actually, my error with Blinken was even worse. He was in a tearing rush and I had stretched the interview way beyond the 20 minutes his minders had stipulated. I could see they were displeased. Blinken, on the other hand, seemed to have enjoyed it. I don’t remember his precise words but he was fairly emphatic in saying I should stay in touch. It sounded as if he meant it. But I never found out because I didn’t bother to make the effort.So, once again, I can’t claim I know the new secretary of state. Our meeting was more like ships passing in the night. We went our different ways. As Longfellow, who coined the phrase in 1863, put it: “On the ocean of life, we pass and speak one another, only a look and a voice, then darkness again and a silence.”Never have I regretted my silence more. For a man who makes a career out of talking, can go on interminably and interrupt others frequently, isn’t it odd that on two occasions, which I should have known would not repeat themselves, I missed out on God-given opportunities because I felt I had nothing to say? I guess that could be an appropriate sentiment to inscribe on my tombstone: “He was never short of a word except when it mattered. Then he was tongue-tied.” Ah well, if I get to meet Joe Biden and Antony Blinken again I’ll have a lot to say!Karan Thapar is the author of Devil’s Advocate: The Untold Story The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/how-i-erred-on-biden-and-blinken-101611406011549.html
24-01-2021||Today's||Focusing on women with disabilities||The Covid-19 pandemic has sharpened the focus on the vulnerabilities faced by many sections of the population, especially women. But among these groups, women living with disabilities — there are 11.8 million in India — face a particularly challenging situation. Two civil society organisations, Rising Flame and Sightsavers, undertook a study of women with disabilities during the pandemic and found that those with sight and hearing impairments faced serious obstacles to accessing information, education, food and other basic amenities not to mention psychological support.Many with sight disabilities were not able to access the Aarogya Setu app as it does not factor in their requirements. Those with locomotor disabilities were not able to visit stores to access food and the virus acted as an impediment to getting delivery of essential services. Many payment apps are not accessible to the visually challenged and many online courses too are not tailored to their needs.While work from home could be to the advantage of women with disabilities, there are several challenges in being able to access video calls and voice calls and, of course, there is lack of connectivity in many areas. The pandemic has also curtailed the possibilities of many disabled women being able to get physical and psychological support. Social distancing and fear of the virus has led to many of them losing whatever little physical support they had in the form of attendants.Government schemes, which have been a lifeline for so many women in these trying times, must be responsive to the needs of women with disabilities. For a start, the government could use its robust grassroots systems with its health workers to create awareness in families about the need to not compromise on health and education for women with disabilities.Skill development, one of the flagship programmes of the government, should include courses and training specifically for women who are disabled in consultation with them. Some of these women should be inducted into local decision-making bodies so that they can participate in processes, which build their skills.In India, many women in general and those with disabilities in particular have to face poverty, poor health conditions, little or no income, lower education levels and isolation. With resources being scarce, women usually get the short end of the stick, more so if they suffer from some form of disability. Trapped at home, they are also vulnerable to abuse and face barriers in being able to register a complaint with the police or bring this to the notice of a civil society organisation. In many cases, fearing abandonment or further isolation, they chose to keep quiet.The government and non-governmental organisations can intervene to help. One, set up a functioning telephone network, accessible to women with disabilities so that they can convey their needs to a relevant person in the local governance system. Two, create a database of those with disabilities and their medical needs. A noteworthy effort is a video made with relevant information by the office of the Commissioner for Disabilities.Women with disabilities have been on the margins for far too long. The pandemic has been particularly cruel to them but also offers an opportunity to enable them to become more independent and productive if the government makes a concerted effort.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/focusing-on-women-with-disabilities-101611405410818.html
