30-01-2021||Today's||Communicating correct knowledge of leprosy is key to early detection and treatment||Mahatma Gandhi, India’s “Father of the Nation,” dreamed of realising a world free of leprosy and the stigma and discrimination it causes. In 2005, India achieved something considered impossible at the time: It attained the World Health Organization’s (WHO) target for eliminating leprosy as a public health problem. This achievement garnered praise around the world as an “Indian miracle”. Now, under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Government of India has set an ambitious goal of zero leprosy and zero discrimination by 2030 and is actively pursuing it. I have travelled the world as the WHO’s Goodwill Ambassador for Leprosy Elimination and seen the measures being taken by different countries, but no country is more committed to resolving the issue of leprosy than India. Once again, I would like to pay tribute to its efforts. According to the most recent global update from WHO, India reported an annual total of 114,451 new cases in 2019, the highest of any country and accounting for 56% of the global total. Leprosy is a curable disease. The drugs that cure leprosy are available free. Once a patient starts a course of treatment he or she is no longer infectious. Early symptoms are often painless, however, and this may cause people to delay seeking treatment, and this can later lead to disability. Early detection and prompt treatment are thus important both to prevent disability as well as to stop transmitting the disease to others. In recent years, the Indian government has been stepping up its work against leprosy. In particular, the annual number of new patients with visible disabilities (grade-2 disabilities) at the time of diagnosis has almost halved compared to 2015. This can be said to be a result of the government’s efforts to promote early detection. Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) play a major role in early detection. ASHA take great pride in their work of visiting houses, checking on people’s health, looking for signs of leprosy, and connecting people with health centers if infection is suspected. Last year, in cooperation with the ministry of health & family welfare and WHO, The Nippon Foundation and the Sasakawa Health Foundation produced a flipchart to assist ASHA in their work The flipchart helps ASHA to communicate correct knowledge of leprosy to households in an easy-to-understand manner and explain the importance of early treatment. Distribution of the flipchart has already been completed in Gujarat, Orissa and Chhattisgarh, and there are plans to distribute it in West Bengal, Bihar and Jharkhand by 2022.Last year, I attended an event to present flipcharts to ASHA in Gujarat. I was impressed by their reaction: They said the flipchart will help them carry out their work more effectively and were keen to make use of it. The ministry of health has produced a video that shows in an easy-to-understand way how to use the flipchart. I hope that the video will be shared with all 800,000 ASHA across India and that the flipchart will contribute to the early detection of leprosy. January 30 is a special and important day for the people of India. To realise the “Leprosy-free India” that Mahatma Gandhi dreamed of, I hope that it will a day for everyone to deepen their understanding of leprosy. Yohei Sasakawa is chairman, Nippon Foundation and WHO Goodwill Ambassador for Leprosy Elimination and Recipient Gandhi Peace Prize 2018 The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/communicating-correct-knowledge-of-leprosy-is-key-to-early-detection-and-treatment-101612006341322.html
30-01-2021||Today's||US must take a call on terror-haven Pakistan||Ahmed Omar Saeed Sheikh will not be the first terrorist to walk free in Pakistan. But his acquittal, on Thursday, by the Supreme Court on charges of kidnapping and beheading American journalist Daniel Pearl was curiously timed, just days after President Joe Biden, a Democrat, took office. White House press secretary, Jen Psaki, expressed “outrage”, and secretary of state Antony Blinken said the acquittal was an “affront to terrorism victims everywhere”. Both of them, and the department of justice before them, offered to take over the case and prosecute Sheikh in the United States (US). This was first proposed by the administration led by President Donald Trump, a Republican, in December when a lower court had overturned Sheikh’s conviction.There is bipartisan support, therefore, for extraditing Sheikh to the US, and the time may have come for the Biden administration to make the call. An acquittal of this kind by the highest court in the land could have been explained away perhaps as the cost, no matter how odious, of having an independent judiciary, in any other country. In Pakistan, Sheikh’s acquittal is yet another evidence of the country’s tight embrace of terrorism. The US knows that well, on a bipartisan basis. The Trump White House had “strongly condemned” the release of Hafiz Saeed, the Lashkar-e-Taiba founder and mastermind of the 2008 Mumbai terrorist attacks, in 2017, and threatened “repercussions” if he was not rearrested immediately. He wasn’t. Islamabad had chosen, instead, to forfeit nearly $2 billion in security aid as ordered by Trump in a punitive action next month.But in a brazen display of how counterterrorism works in Pakistan, Saeed was thrown behind bars on the eve of Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s July 2019 visit to Washington DC for a summit meeting with Trump. But then, seemingly struck by remorse, Pakistan begged the United Nations Security Council several weeks later to unfreeze Saeed’s bank account so he could withdraw, wait for it, his government pension. Clearly, Pakistan cannot deal with terrorism, just as America’s neighbours Colombia and Mexico couldn’t do so, when they had struggled to stop the supply of narcotics into the US, overwhelmed by drug cartels that had taken over their governments and judiciary. The fearless drug lords came to fear eventually when the most potent tool was deployed by the US against them, with the acquiescence of their governments — extradition to the US, to be tried and sentenced to spend the rest of their lives in high-security prisons.Pablo Escobar, the Medellin cartel kingpin, who was killed by police eventually, had resisted extradition to the US through a nationwide campaign of terror and destruction. Joaquin Guzman, the Mexican drug lord better known as El Chapo, who had escaped from prison twice, couldn’t fight extradition eventually and is now serving a life sentence at a super-maximum-security prison in Colorado. Pakistan has continued to coddle terrorists. The new US administration will have to make tough choices.yashwant.raj@hindustantimes.com The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/us-must-take-a-call-on-terror-haven-pakistan-101611932609209.html
30-01-2021||Today's||As LAC becomes the new LoC, India’s challenge deepens||The New Year has got off to a bumpy start as far as the already tense and uneasy India-China relationship is concerned. Even as troops from both sides are in proximate and prickly contact in the Ladakh region since the middle of 2020, January 2021 has been punctuated by a series of developments that pose a complex set of challenges to the two Asian giants.The ninth round of talks between the military commanders from both sides, held on January 24, has remained inconclusive. But the silver lining is that even if there was no breakthrough, there has been no breakdown as regards the dialogue process. This is even more relevant given that there were reports of skirmishes in the Sikkim region on January 20. Earlier in the month, media reports referred to the Chinese having constructed a new village a few kilometres across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) over the last year, thereby altering the demographic patterns in transgression of protocols agreed to in 2005.To aggravate the territoriality issue further, China asserted, on January 21, that its construction of a village near LAC in the eastern sector was “beyond reproach” because Beijing had “never recognised” Arunachal Pradesh. In summary, the contested territoriality issue is now no longer confined to Ladakh in the western sector, but has moved eastwards with areas in Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh being brought into simmer mode.Reviewing the troubled bilateral relationship in a holistic manner, one could argue that India’s approach since Galwan seeks to convey a message of political resolve — that the Narendra Modi government will not be the first to blink — with a visible signal that restraint is still at play. The fact that the Indian military could wrest a minor but significant tactical advantage in the Ladakh region after being initially “surprised” has given Delhi that additional leverage, which has enhanced its resolve to stay firm and seek a return to the pre-Galwan status quo position. Two signals from Delhi merit scrutiny. The Republic Day gallantry awards included a Mahavir Chakra (the second-highest award) to Colonel Santosh Babu, the commanding officer of the Bihar regiment who, along with 20 other soldiers, was killed by People’s Liberation Army (PLA) troops in the Galwan scuffle. The citation for Babu notes that “his column faced stiff resistance from the adversary who attacked using lethal and sharp weapons along with heavy stone pelting from adjoining heights” and avoids any reference to China or PLA by name. In other places, the choice of word is ”enemy”. One can conjecture that this is a case of Delhi signalling an olive branch in an elliptical manner.Lest the Modi government be accused of appeasement in not naming the adversary/enemy, external affairs minister (EAM) S Jaishankar’s remarks, on January 28, at a thinktank event, are instructive. Reviewing the entire trajectory of the India-China ties from Delhi’s perspective, EAM reiterated what he has said in the past — namely that Galwan has profoundly disturbed the relationship and that in relation to LAC “any attempt to unilaterally change the status quo is completely unacceptable”. He added, “Significantly, to date, we have yet to receive a credible explanation for the change in China’s stance or reasons for massing of troops in the border areas.”China, which chose to tie a “knot” in a relationship that was relatively stable since 1993, has to decide on how it wants to frame the relationship with India — but for now, the tactical scenario is bleak. With LAC now becoming troubled in both west and east, from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh (the tri-junction with Bhutan having already been aggravated), the focus for the Indian military in monitoring PLA and deterring where required will be the higher priority. In short, LAC will acquire the sheen of the Line of Control (LoC) with Pakistan. And this will dilute the reserve strength and assets that India has maintained till now, when the annual operational tasking prioritised the western neighbour.The severe constraints imposed by the pandemic will be unveiled soon, when the Union Budget is presented. Delhi’s challenge will be to provide adequate funds for the deployment of troops along LAC for an extended period. Long-term planning must go beyond urgent procurement of some inventory items and focus on enhancing India’s neglected trans-border military capabilities in an astute manner. Apart from air and naval power, India needs to invest in the new domain of new technologies that extend from cyberwarfare to artificial intelligence and spectrum domination in a selective manner. This plea has been made often but in vain.Jaishankar’s speech is an important diplomatic punctuation in placing markers and identifying the preferred template for the bilateral relationship as being predicated on “the three mutuals —mutual respect, mutual sensitivity and mutual interests”. The resonance with the Nehruvian era (Panchsheel) is palpable. And the abiding lesson is that diplomacy and political resolve, however refined, acquire appropriate efficacy only when backed by credible composite national capability, both economic and military. The Covid-19-scarred budget will play a role in framing India’s long-term China policy.Commodore (retired) C Uday Bhaskar is the director of Society for Policy Studies The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/as-lac-becomes-the-new-loc-india-s-challenge-deepens-101611931699672.html
30-01-2021||Today's||Budget 2021 mantra: Spend and empower states||There is one, and only one, metric on which the forthcoming Union Budget should be assessed — the roadmap it offers for reversing the widening structural inequality in the economy, sharply visible in the direction that India’s post-lockdown economic recovery is taking. By all indicators, economic activity in the formal economy is nearing pre-pandemic levels, the sensex is booming, and the National Statistics Office (NSO) advance estimate of a 7.7% contraction is, ironically, an optimistic prognosis compared to a few months ago. However, the dynamics of recovery are sobering. Large listed companies have experienced a 50% (year-on-year) growth in profits, fuelled by cost restructuring and pent-up demand of households in the top income deciles. Small listed firms, informal firms and the bulk of India’s workers, however, are yet to recover from the Covid-19 shock. In fact, large firms have profited partly, as economist Pranjul Bhandari has pointed out, at the cost of small firms whose ability to respond to lockdown-imposed logistical and supply constraints was limited, thus resulting in a shift in spending toward large firms. And as Bhandari points out, smaller firms have experienced higher cuts in staff costs. The consequences of this large firm, profit-led recovery on the labour market is visible and worrying.According to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) data, in December 2020, India had 14.7 million fewer jobs than in 2019-20. This headline number masks structural shifts in employment patterns. First, employment is increasingly informal. Analysis of CMIE data by Amit Basole and co-authors from the Azim Premji University highlight that 40% of salaried workers and 42% daily wage workers moved into self-employment in August 2020, a pattern that persisted into December 2020. Most of India cannot afford the luxury of unemployment. This mostly informal, subsistence level shift to self-employment is a direct result of a lack of employment opportunities. Second, employment recovery is marked by gender differences, with female employment taking a serious hit. Seventy-three per cent of men who lost employment in April found employment and stayed employed till December 2020, while only 23% of women stayed employed till December. Third, as evidenced by several surveys including CMIE, wages have fallen significantly below pre-lockdown levels. More starkly, Basole and his co-authors estimate that the bottom 10% of India’s households lost 30 percentage points more of their income than the top 10% in the first six months of the pandemic. The writing is on the wall. The economic devastation caused by the lockdown has been disproportionately and inequitably borne by the poor and vulnerable. The government’s stubborn refusal to loosen its purse strings and provide support (rather than expand, government expenditure contracted, picking up only in November 2020), and instead rely on monetary policy levers, has meant that structural inequalities have only widened. As finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman unveils her budget, she confronts an economy scarred by increased informality in the labour market, a shrunken micro, small and medium enterprises sector, and economic activity moving to large firms who are incentivised to generate profits rather than employment. Current patterns suggest that growth in FY 22 risks being labour-displacing rather than labour-absorbing. Reversing this trend is both a moral imperative and good economic sense — after all, if purchasing power remains low for the bulk of the economy, demand will collapse.The only direction for the budget to move in, therefore, is to prioritise employment generation and social security for the vulnerable through increased spending. Significantly expanding the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme budget; making the public distribution system demand-driven; and allocating funds for expanded urban social security (leaving states to decide whether this should take the form of cash, employment or insurance) are urgent and necessary expenditures. In addition, the budget should ensure that curtailed expenditure in FY 21 for key welfare schemes — nutrition, education, housing — are fulfilled. There is little room in a budget to address the many structural failures that have led us to the current employment crisis but signalling a long- term policy vision will be a welcome step.Several interlocutors have called for increased infrastructure expenditure as a critical instrument both for reviving private investment and providing employment. But should the infrastructure push be fuelled by the Centre or states? States have been at the frontlines of the Covid-19 battle, with their revenue streams battered by the pandemic and the Centre’s insistence on increased market borrowing rather than fiscal support to meet their expenditure needs. In response, as a recent CRISIL ratings report has highlighted, states are likely to significantly cut capital expenditure or resort to off-budget borrowings. There is, thus, a strong case for empowering states with requisite fiscal support to lead the infrastructure push. This would mean honouring tax devolution commitments made to states, something that the Centre has failed to do throughout the 14th Finance Commission period, and providing states with supplementary Covid-19 grants particularly if, as is widely speculated, the 15th Finance Commission reduces tax devolution to states. Finally, a budget being presented against the backdrop of Covid-19 will necessarily have to make provisions for India’s broken health system. Increased allocations are indeed welcome and necessary, but the Centre will be well-placed to remember that health is a state subject. To the extent that the budget is a policy document, it should lay out a broad direction and outcomes backed with finacial outlays, leaving states to chart their own course.Spend and empower states — this should be the mantra for India’s post-Covid-19 budget.Yamini Aiyar is president and chief executive of the Centre for Policy Research The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/budget-2021-mantra-spend-and-empower-states-101611931582598.html
