31-01-2021||Today's||What Union Budget 2021-22 has to tackle||On Monday, the finance minister (FM) will rise to present the budget. By the time she finishes, we should have a clear idea of how she proposes to tackle the problems the economy faces.The only thing is, many of us don’t have a clear idea of what those problems are. A lot has been written by learned authorities, but not being economists, it isn’t easy to follow. So let me attempt a simple account of the state of the economy.Nilesh Shah, a member of the Prime Minister’s Economic Advisory Council, says, “The worst is firmly behind us.” This is because the Goods and Services Tax (GST) collections, foreign exchange reserves and power consumption are at an all-time high while passenger vehicle sales, railway freight and the PMI index indicate strong recovery.This also explains why the FM believes the economy is experiencing a V-shaped recovery.Montek Singh Ahluwalia, former deputy chairman of the Planning Commission, disagrees. He says the formal sector could be recovering in a V-shape but not the whole economy. The letter K is a better symbol – some sectors are reviving rapidly, others are in dire straits.However, both agree on the areas of concern. The first is employment. The Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy says, in December, employment was down by 14.7 million and the unemployment rate was 9.1%.Meanwhile, the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) shows that 100 million people availed of this scheme up to January 10, an increase of 21% over last year. So, both in urban and rural India, the employment situation, which improved over the summer months, has deteriorated.A second concern is the financial sector. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI)’s latest Financial Stability report says non-performing assets (NPAs) could shoot up to 13.5% by September 2021, compared to 7.5% a year earlier. More worryingly, NPAs of public sector banks could increase to 16.2% from 9.7%. Ahluwalia has congratulated RBI for its honesty. Shah says the NPA resolution won’t be easy.Let’s now come to sectors which bore the brunt of the lockdown and need special attention: Micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), which constitute 30% of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and 45% of manufacturing; construction, which is the second biggest employer; and practically everything to do with tourism and hospitality. Together, this is a substantial section of the economy.However, because we have little to do with MSMEs and have stopped visiting hotels and restaurants, we don’t appreciate their suffering. But, say both Ahluwalia and Shah, some MSMEs may not be revivable. Any attempt to do so would amount to throwing good money after bad.So, not surprisingly, consumption and investment are well below pre-Covid-19 levels. The former was the cause of a demand-led crisis. Now Pronab Sen, former chief statistician, fears the latter could create an investment-led crisis next financial year.One other issue as we await the budget. How should the FM raise the money for the measures she announces? Some fear the return of the wealth tax. The super-rich are apprehensive of income tax increases. However, Nilesh Shah has suggested innovative ways of avoiding both that could still raise substantial sums.He has proposed a gold amnesty scheme, monetisation of government-controlled assets such as enemy property and surplus land, strategic disinvestment of public sector units, and legalising betting and gambling. Two of these deserve special attention.Shah says $373 billion of gold has been imported in the last 20 years. If you add what’s come illegally, the total is, perhaps, half a trillion. The World Gold Council estimates household gold could be 25,000 tonnes worth $2 trillion. Much of this is undeclared. So if the government announces a gold amnesty, it could tap hundreds of billions of dollars.Second, as custodian, the government controls ₹1 lakh crore of what’s called enemy property. These are assets of people who’ve migrated to Pakistan. Pakistan sold off its enemy property 49 years ago, India has still to do so. Now is the time, says Shah.I’ll stop here. Of course, you’ll still need experts to determine whether the FM has done the right thing or gone far enough. But that’s another subject.Karan Thapar is the author of Devil’s Advocate: The Untold StoryThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/what-union-budget-2021-22-has-to-tackle-101612015521212.html
31-01-2021||Today's||What the Union Budget needs to get right||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s problem is the same as that of the Indian cricket team’s captain — everyone seems to think they know what needs to be done; worse, everyone is convinced they can do a better job than the incumbent. There have been a spate of if-I-were-the-finance-minister pieces published already, and more will follow after Sitharaman presents the Union Budget for 2021-22 on February 1, accompanied by that annual (and juvenile) exercise of a bunch of worthies lining up to rate the budget out of 10.The context of this Union Budget is like no other. Not even 1991 was like this (and India’s macroeconomic vitals are far healthier now than they were back then). The economy was already (and consistently) slowing ahead of the pandemic — for both structural and cyclical reasons. Then came the pandemic, the lockdown (68 days long) enforced to slow its spread, and the gradual (but faster than expected) return to normalcy of most business activities, although the damage on small firms, those employed in the informal sector, and many businesses in the service sector has been severe.The International Monetary Fund expects the Indian economy to grow at 11.5% in 2021-22 and 6.8% the year after, by far the fastest for an economy of this size. The 11.5% growth translates into a 2.9% growth over 2019-20, and while some analysts say this means there’s no reason for cheer, the speed of the Indian economy’s return to normal has been staggering. The Economic Survey’s own estimate is almost the same — 11%. This is a classic V-shaped recovery, but there are issues.Sure, the corporate sector appears to have bounced back (if one were to consider profitability), but this has come on the back of lower costs, usually achieved through layoffs or salary cuts. Sure, the stock markets are booming on the back of excess liquidity in global markets, of a magnitude not seen for at least a decade-and-a-half, but there are few jobs being created. And sure, several high-frequency indicators are in the green, highlighting an ongoing sequential recovery, but there are questions about its sustainability. Just as there are questions about investment and consumption, and credit and demand.Interestingly, there is growing convergence, if not complete agreement, on five things about the Union Budget.The first is that the government should continue with its expansionary fiscal stance in the budget (which the Economic Survey also emphasises). Put otherwise, it should spend, and spend liberally. Sure, some of the spending will have to be on productive assets such as infrastructure, but from the short-term perspective, some of it should also focus on alleviating the significant economic distress in which some people (and companies) find themselves.There is a fiscal responsibility law, which the government is expected to follow, but the circumstances are unique enough for this law to be held in abeyance for, say, two years. Just remember that Indonesia monetised some of its deficit in mid-2020 as part of its effort to manage the economy during the pandemic. The move, had it come a few years back, would have been roundly criticised by everyone. In 2020, it barely caused a ripple in global financial circles — and that, only because of a school of thought that this could be a road other developing economies could take. Chanakya isn’t enough of an economic heretic to suggest India do the same, but the country can definitely go as far as simply not worrying about its mandated deficit targets (which it will anyway miss).The second is that as the economy comes out of the crisis of 2020, the finance minister would do well to ensure the strength and stability of the financial sector. The Economic Survey has called for an asset quality review, especially because of the regulatory forbearance banks were allowed in a pandemic year — something that essentially allowed them to maintain low provisions against what were basically impaired assets. It was similar regulatory forbearance (in the early 2010s) that resulted in ongoing non-performing assets (NPA) or bad loans crisis. India doesn’t just need an asset quality review; it also needs to consider creating a bad bank, an idea it has flirted with in the past, but one whose time has perhaps come.The third is for the budget to make a higher allocation to health in general, and Covid-19 vaccines in particular. The latter is perhaps the best stimulus the government could provide the economy. After all, at least some of the problems that beset the economy currently have nothing to do with the economy (and everything to do with the pandemic). The sudden health crisis India encountered last year showed up the inadequacy of the country’s public health infrastructure. The Economic Survey makes a pitch for taking up India’s health spending from the current 1% to 2.5-3%.The fourth is for the budget to do enough to revive demand — a problem even before the pandemic, and an even more pressing one now. According to the Economic Survey, the sharp recovery in the second half of the year was powered mainly by a rise in government consumption. Private consumption is expected to contract by 0.6% in the second half, although this is an improvement over the almost 19% contraction seen in the first half.And the fifth is for the budget to come up with a growth formula that is built around jobs. There is now enough data to show that a significant number of jobs were lost during the pandemic, and that some of those still in jobs have seen a fall in incomes, with the poor affected disproportionately by both.The important thing to remember as we prepare for Budget 2021-22 is that things could have been worse, much worse. But whether they get even better from here depends on what happens on February 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/what-the-union-budget-needs-to-get-right-101612014861120.html
31-01-2021||Today's||Budget 2021: Overcome poverty, battle inequality||In my last column, I wrote about the possible danger of an economic recovery which enriches the rich and impoverishes the poor. Now, it seems that the Covid-19 pandemic has already created that situation. The international aid agency, Oxfam, has published a report with the telling title The Inequality Virus. According to the global report, during the pandemic, “over two million people have died and hundreds of millions of people are being forced into poverty while many of the richest — individuals and corporations — are flourishing”.The report quotes the telling description of the secretary-general of the United Nations, Antonio Guterres, of the global crisis we face. He said, “While we are floating in the same sea it’s clear that some are in super yachts while others are clinging to drifting debris.” In India, while the wealth of billionaires was increasing by 35% during the lockdown, 122 million citizens were losing their jobs.The Oxfam report blames neoliberal economics for inequality, and points out that even Klaus Schwab, executive chairman of the World Economic Forum, whose Davos meeting is the place to be seen for the world’s richest and most influential people, has said: “We must move on from neo-liberalism in the post-Covid era.” The jobs lost in the informal sector amounted to 75%. Handloom weavers and other craftspeople are among the most economically fragile communities in that sector.Five years ago, I visited a weaver centre near Barabanki in Uttar Pradesh. At that time, the weavers, while by no means prosperous, were being helped by a non-governmental organisation to increase their income to establish digital ways of marketing their cloth by cutting out middlemen.Before writing this column, I contacted Utkarsh, the coordinator of the centre, to find out how the weavers had fared during the lockdown. He replied, “They were pushed to extreme distress”. Because lockdown was imposed so suddenly, they had no time to prepare themselves for it. They were waiting for the government to tell them what to do. Even when the government distributed rations, they were only given to migrant workers who had returned home. There were no orders from master weavers, so they had no income and instead had to borrow money from them. The supply line of cotton from Surat was cut. That was not restored for four months. So, now, they are in debt and it will be difficult to pay off those debts because the demand for their cloth has not fully recovered.Despite being a major source of employment, the handloom and handicrafts have been sectors most neglected by the government in the era of neoliberal economists. During this crisis, the textile ministry has also wound up the All India Handloom and Handicrafts Board, though this was done in the name of minimum government, maximum governance.The Oxfam report on inequality included another surprising voice calling for global economics to change. The Financial Times is one of the world’s most influential economic and business newspapers. It is quoted in the report as calling for “radical reforms to reverse the prevailing policy direction of the last four decades”, the period dominated by neoliberal economics.When India became independent, the leaders of the Congress saw overcoming poverty as their top priority and so they turned to socialism. Even now, India is committed constitutionally to socialism, but the commitment was made in 1976 by Indira Gandhi’s Emergency government which was flouting the Constitution. Indira Gandhi’s socialism gave that creed a bad name. It wouldn’t be right to go back to that socialism. Circumstances have changed so much that it wouldn’t be right to go back into Nehruvian socialism either. But it would be right to go back to socialism’s commitment to equality, and to reform India’s economy so that overcoming poverty once again becomes the top priority.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/budget-2021-overcome-poverty-battle-inequality-101612014621187.html
