03-07-2021||Kuldip BhatiaLudhiana||Farmers, SAD protest against govt, PSPCL for power crisis||The Punjab Government and the management of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) are under fire from various quarters for the dismal power scenario prevailing in the state, that too when the paddy sowing season is at its peak. The situation has been further compounded by restrictions (compulsory weekly offs) on industry and unscheduled power cuts being imposed on urban feeders in the state to meet the gap between demand and availability of power.Keep ACs off at MC offices: CommissionerAmid the state reeling under unscheduled power cuts, the official working time in all MC offices will be 8 am to 2 pm from July 2 to July 10, MC Commissioner said. He has also ordered to keep the air-conditioners off at all MC offices during these hours.Akali Dal workers, led by district president Ranjit Singh Dhillon, along with activists of their new ally, the Bahujan Samaj Party, held a protest against power shortage and persistent hike in prices of petrol, diesel and LPG at Jagraon Bridge. At the same time, activists of the BKU-Ekta Ugrahan held a protest at Mini-Secretariat and submitted a memorandum to the Punjab Government through the Additional Deputy Commissioner demanding uninterrupted power supply for paddy sowing and rollback of the hike in prices of petrol and diesel.Speaking at the protest, senior Akali Dal leaders Maheshinder Singh Grewal, Hira Singh Gabria and Ranjit Singh Dhillon lambasted the Congress government for gross mismanagement in the power sector which has now created an unprecedented crisis, both for the industry and business which are already reeling under adverse effects of prolonged lockdown due to pandemic, and the agriculture sector which is in the midst of peak paddy sowing season.Akali leaders charged the Congress government with turning a power-surplus state into power-starved state with the people forced to pay the penalty for blunders and inefficiency of the government in making foolproof arrangements for the anticipated demand of electricity during this particular season.Sadhu Singh Panjeta and Sudagar Singh Ghudani, president and general secretary, respectively, of the BKU-Ekta Ugrahan, charged the government with allowing the oil marketing companies and big business houses to systematically loot the people by persistently jacking up prices of petrol and diesel. “To make the matters worse, farmers are not getting promised an eight-hour supply due to unscheduled cuts and tripping of supply due to overload,” said the BKU leaders.The farmers’ body demanded that if the government could not assure uninterrupted power supply to farmers for paddy sowing, it ought to compensate the farmers for extra expenditure incurred on diesel to run the tubewells.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/farmers-sad-protest-against-govt-pspcl-for-power-crisis-277593
03-07-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana achieves only 56% daily vaccination target||Ludhiana, biggest and most populated district, which has been leading the state in Covid vaccination by crossing over 1.15-million mark, has achieved only 56 per cent of the total inoculation target so far, the government has confirmed.Ludhiana has ranked fifth in Punjab as far as the achievement of average daily target in the ongoing vaccination driveis concerned, the official figures have revealed.According to the data analysed by the Health and Family Welfare Department, which is available with The Tribune, Ludhiana’s average daily inoculation target was fixed at 28,122, against which 15,748 persons have been jabbed on an average every day so far, which accounts for 56 per cent of the fixed target.The target of each district was fixed as per the population and especially the target categories included in the ongoing vaccination drive.Except six districts, all other 16 districts in the state could not even touch the half-way mark of achieving the 50 per cent target.While one district achieved between 40 and 50 per cent target, six between 30 and 40 per cent, four between 20 and 30 per cent, four between 20 and 30 per cent, and one district could not even cross 5 per cent target.While Ropar tops the state with the maximum of 90 per cent achievement by giving shots to 5,318 persons daily on an average against the target of 5,939, Hoshiarpur stands second with 85 per cent achievement by vaccinating 12,447 persons daily against the target of 14,591.Mohali ranked third with 68 per cent achievement by inoculating 5,322 persons every day against the target of 7,782, while Jalandhar and Kapurthala shared the fourth slot with 62 per cent achievement each by giving jabs to 11,718 against target of 18,871 and 4,391 against target of 7,132 daily, respectively.Rest all other districts were behind Ludhiana and they included Pathankot, which achieved 43 per cent target by vaccinating 2,280 persons daily against the target of 5,278, followed by Amritsar 39 per cent by inoculating 7,645 against target of 19,810, Tarn Taran 37 per cent with 3,143 jabs daily against target of 8,568, Fatehgarh Sahib 35 per cent with 1,758 against 5,039, Faridkot 32 per cent with 1,620 against 5,085, Patiala and Moga 31 per cent each with 4,791 against 15,242, and 2,702 against 8,602, respectively, Ferozepur 26 per cent with 1,968 against 7,599, Nawanshahr 23 per cent with 1,309 against 5,654, Barnala and Gurdaspur 22 per cent each with 1,130 against 5,059 and 2,959 against 13,639, respectively, Bathinda 18 per cent with 2,058 against 11,463, Sangrur 17 per cent with 2,298 against 13,922, Fazilka and Muktsar 16 per cent each with 1,214 against 7,480 and 1,166 against 7,272, respectivrly, and Mansa remained the laggard with just 5 per cent achievement by giving shots to only 325 persons daily on an average against the target of 6,422.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-achieves-only-56-daily-vaccination-target-277595
03-07-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana MC's storm water drainage project misses deadline||Municipal Corporation’s storm water drainage project on Old GT Road near Clock Tower missed the deadline as the work has not been completed even after 40 days of starting the project. Officials had earlier claimed the work would be completed by June 30.The construction work related to road gullies was still pending while the uneven road surface is causing inconvenience to commuters. The area around newly constructed manhole slabs at Reikhy Cinema Chowk and other points is barricaded to prevent any damage to the slabs.No preparedness for rainy days aheadIn view of the rainy days, no steps have been taken to avoid muddy/slippery conditions on the stretch that was dug for the installation of pipes. At present, the road is unlevelled. After rainfall last month, cave-ins had occurred at many points on the road.Flying plumes of dust due to the passing of vehicles on the stretch keep annoying the commuters and shopkeepers. There are heaps of soil at different points on the stretch.Moreover, in view of rainy days, no steps have been taken to avoid muddy/slippery conditions on the stretch that was dug for the installation of pipes. At present, the road is unlevelled. After rainfall last month, cave-ins had occurred at many points on the road. “Chances of more cave-ins can’t be ignored on the stretch if required steps are not taken. The civic body should get the project completed at the earliest,” said a shopkeeper.A commuter, Rajdeep Singh, said: “A portion of the road near Reikhy Cinema Chowk was still barricaded today. Another major problem is that the road surface has not been levelled after laying drainage pipes underground.”Notably, the MC had to install the storm water drainage pipes on a stretch between Rekhi Cinema Chowk and an old nullah (drain) near Bhadaur House under the project.Some pipes were still lying in the open at Reikhy Cinema Chowk. However, officials said the pipes had already been laid.The MC’s Sub-divisional officer Sandeep Sharma said almost all project works had been done while road gullies’’ work would be completed by tomorrow. Slabs had been constructed but these need to get dried for around 10 more days.If barricading around newly constructed slabs was removed, the slabs could get damaged with the passing of heavy vehicles, he said.Sharma said the storm water drainage line, which was connected with the drain, had been made functional and the rainwater would get drained out through the line.The road reconstruction work has to be done by the MC’s B&R branch. Superintending Engineer of the B&R branch Teerath Bansal said they had asked the O&M branch to instruct the project contractor to refill the soil from where the road portion was dug up for installation of pipes and level the stretch surface too. He said: “If any road settlement appears during rainy days, steps would be taken to refill the soil. However, the stretch would be recarpeted only after the rainy season.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-mcs-storm-water-drainage-project-misses-deadline-277597
03-07-2021||Ludhiana||Basti Jodhewal resident held for rape attempt on 5-yr-old girl||A man has been arrested for his attempt to rape a five-year-old girl in Tibba here. The accused has been identified as Mohd Ajajul Ansari, a resident of Basti Jodhewal.The victim’s mother has filed a complaint that her daughter left home yesterday afternoon saying that she was going to her aunt’s house in the same locality. “Later in the evening, when my daughter did not reach home, I went to my sister’s house and was told that she had already left,” she said.The woman said she then approached the police to file a missing complaint and along with her husband, started searching for her daughter. Someone from the locality then informed them that they had seen Mohd Ajajul taking their daughter towards Tibba road on his motorcycle.“Going towards Tibba road, we saw that some people had gathered near New Company Bagh and had cornered Ajajul after he was caught red handed while attempting to rape my daughter. He had taken the girl on the pretext of buying some eatables for her,” the complainant alleged. Investigation officer ASI Tarsem Singh of the Tibba police station said the accused had been booked under Section 376 of the IPC and under the POCSO Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/basti-jodhewal-resident-held-for-rape-attempt-on-5-yr-old-girl-277599
03-07-2021||Ludhiana||No death, 12 test Covid +ve in Ludhiana||Today 12 persons tested positive for Covid, while no death due to the virus was reported in the district. There were 306 active patients and the recovery rate has gone to 97.25 per cent, while the case fatality rate now is 2.40 per cent. Till now 84,605 patients have recovered in the district. Level-II beds in Civil Hospital decreasedWith decrease in the Covid cases, the occupancy in the level-II facility at Civil Hospital has decreased considerably. The beds earmarked for this level has been decreased. Earlier there were 55 beds, which have now been decreased to 24. In the level-III facility there were 16 beds and they remain the same as earlier.A total of 14 patients, including 12 from Ludhiana, tested positive for Covid in the last 24 hours. Till date, a total of 17,37,819 samples have been taken, out of which reports of 17,37,819 samples have been received. As many as 16,39,311 samples were found negative. The total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 86,997, while 11,511 patients belong to other districts/states. The total number of persons who lost their lives to the disease is 2,086 from Ludhiana and 1,040 from other districts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/no-death-12-test-covid-ve-in-ludhiana-277600
03-07-2021||Ludhiana||Ministerial staff continue protest against 6th Pay Commission||In opposition of the 6th Pay Commission report released by the state government, members of the Punjab State Ministerial Services Union (PSMSU) staged a protest outside the Ludhiana DC office on Friday. They have been on strike for the past 11 days against the commission report.Seeking amendments in the report, the staff is demanding a hike in their pay scale and allowances and restoration of the old pension scheme.Meanwhile, the visitors to various government offices once again returned empty handed as the employees were not working.Amit Arora, a senior member of the PSMSU, said a delegation of the union had met the committee of IAS officials formed by the government. “The committee officials have assured that our demands will be kept before the committee of ministers. They have also assured us of a meeting with the ministers soon,” he said.Sunil Kumar, finance secretary of the union, said, “We will not withdraw our struggle without getting the Pay Commission report amended.”Union members Sandeep Bhambak and Rakesh Kumar said the old pension scheme was very important for the future of the new employees. With the restoration of the old pension scheme, the money would remain in the exchequer of the government, while the money deducted under the new pension scheme was invested in the stock market, which was benefitting only the corporate houses. Therefore, the old pension scheme was very important to fix the exchequer of the government and keep the money of the employees secure, they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ministerial-staff-continue-protest-against-6th-pay-commission-277601
03-07-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana Civil Hospital doctors strike work for 2nd day, patients hassled||Patients visiting the Civil Hospital here today faced a tough time as doctors were on strike for the second consecutive day. The doctors are protesting against the recommendations of the 6th Pay Commission to de-link Non-Practising Allowance (NPA) from the basic pay. Today, the doctors also protested the shifting of Dr Gurmail Anki, president of the Punjab Civil Medical Services Association (PCMSA), Bathinda, to Fazilka.The work at the OPD and Surgeries Department, and making of disability certificates remained suspended today. Dr Rohit Rampal, from PCMSA, Civil Hospital, said they had been left with no other option but to adopt the path of protest. “We have been working really hard since the outbreak of the pandemic but this is how the government has rewarded us, by cutting down our salaries. We are helpless in this situation,” he said.Meanwhile, it was the patients who bore the brunt of the strike.“I am diabetic and need follow up after every few months. I came to the hospital yesterday as well as today but have not been attended to. How can the doctors strike work when the life of so many people depends upon them?I don’t know whether they will be working tomorrow or not,” said Ram Parkash, a patient visiting the medicine OPD. Sunder Lal, who had come to schedule his gallstone removal surgery, said he had been visiting the hospital for the past few days but was unable to get an appointment. “On some days I feel extreme pain due to the gallstone and the doctor has advised me surgery. But I am unable to meet the surgeons to decide upon a date for the procedure,” he said.Another patient visiting the OPD said, “Last week too the doctors were on strike and today, when I re-visited the hospital, they are protesting again.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-civil-hospital-doctors-strike-work-for-2nd-day-patients-hassled-277602
03-07-2021||Ludhiana||Two held for cheating bid||Bakery sealed for violationsLudhiana: Food Safety officers, under the supervision of Dr Rajesh Garg, inspected and sealed a bakery manufacturing unit, Dimpy Bakery, located at Punjabi Bagh, Salem Tabri. The officers said operations were being carried out at the bakery without mandatory licences. The food was allegedly being prepared from expired raw materials and expired stock measuring one quital was seized. The premises have been sealed. Besides, the team has taken four samples, including colours being used in preparation of cakes, filling cream, neutral glaze and dry cake, etc for further testing, they said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-held-for-cheating-bid-277603
03-07-2021||Kuldip BhatiaLudhiana||Ludhiana: Environmentalists protest over industrial park at Mattewara village||To draw the state government attention to the protection of Sutlej floodplains and protected forest in Mattewara village, a peaceful protest was held by environmentalists under the banner of Public Action Committee (PAC) at the office of the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA).Activists of different NGOs such as Naroa Punjab Manch, Ludhiana Cares Ladies Society, Council of Engineers (CoE), RBS Roots, Meri Ma Boli Punjabi, Initiators of Change, Anti-Corruption Federation of India, Vigilant Citizens’ Forum, Better World Campaign and many other bodies took part in the protest.In a representation to the GLADA chief administrator, the protesters demanded demarcation/zoning of floodplains of Satlej in villages Garhi Fazal, Salempur and Sekhowal adjoining to protected forests of Mattewara village before proceeding further for development of modern industrial park. The PAC maintained that the agitation would be intensified in future, if GLADA failed to follow the directions of the National Green Tribunal in this regard.Dr Amandeep Singh Bains of RBS Roots, an NGO, and Jaskirat Singh, Naroa Punjab Manch, said Sutlej was the sole drinking water source for the entire South Punjab as well as eight districts of Rajasthan and was already severely polluted due to existing industries in Ludhiana.“Punjab has the dubious distinction of being the state with lowest forest cover in the country (with Haryana) at only 3.5 percent of the geographical area under forests which is even lesser than Rajasthan. Despite that the government is going to develop an industrial park in 1,000 acres of land located adjoining to Dhussi Bandh of Sutlej and protected forests of Mattewara village,” they remarked.Kapil Arora (CoE) and activist Kuldeep Singh Khaira said even after the GLADA authorities had received copy of orders of the NGT from the office of the chief secretary but still the body had failed to initiate steps to protect the floodplains. “It is very well known fact that as per guidelines issued by National Disaster Management Authority in 2008, the defence installations, industries, commercial centres and other buildings should be located in such a fashion that they are above the levels corresponding to a 100 year frequency or the maximum observed flood levels,” they said.The PAC activists asserted that any construction in the floodplains of Sutlej was against the environment as it would not only damage the riverine system but also result into flash floods in the region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-environmentalists-protest-over-industrial-park-at-mattewara-village-277604
03-07-2021||Our CorrespondentDoraha||13 stolen bikes recovered by Doraha police||The  claimed to have recovered 13 stolen bikes in the past four days.Police personnel under the command of DSP, Payal, Hardeep Singh Cheema and SHO, Doraha, Vijay Kumar arrested Gurpreet Singh Guri, a resident of Jaspalon village in Khanna, from Satnam Nagar in Doraha with a bike without a number plate.Upon interrogation, the suspect confessed that he had committed thefts with the assistance of two of his accomplices identified as Rupinder Singh Lovely and Sukhdev Singh.The police had arrested Lovely the same day. In police custody, both further told the police that they have stolen a total of 13 bikes till date and sold them at cheaper rates.The police later recovered the stolen bikes. Police officials said efforts were on to nab the third accused Sukhdev Singh as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/13-stolen-bikes-recovered-by-doraha-police-277605
03-07-2021||Mahesh SharmaMandi Ahmedgarh/Raikot||Akalis stage protest at PSPCL offices at Pohir village, Raikot||Activists of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), led by former legislator Iqbal Singh Jhoondan organised a dharna in front of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) office at Pohir village and Balwinder Singh Sandhu, in charge, Raikot Halqa, led protestors at PSPCL office in Raikot against unscheduled power cuts in the state.Protesters alleged that the state government had failed to provide adequate and uninterrupted supply of electricity to consumers.Officials at Ahmedgarh PSPCL lodged a complaint against protestors, labelling their protest as an alleged attack on the house of an SDO and City Complaint office.Referring to protests at various places at Ahmedgarh City, Jhoondan said, “Though we don’t recommend violence against any government officials, residents have every right to protest against inefficiency and mismanagement of the department to provide basic amenities to the public.”Ludhiana District president, SAD (Youth Wing), Prabhjot Singh Dhaliwal said the protestors led by Sandhu had lodged a complaint at office of DSP Sukhnaj Singh against Executive Engineer, Raikot, Gurpreet Mohinder Singh Sidhu for disconnecting supply to the venue of dharna near his office. Dhaliwal regretted that instead of redressing grievances of residents the authorities were using pressure tactics to diffuse the agitation.However, the Raikot Executive Engineer maintained that the officials had disconnected an illegal connection installed by protestors at compound of his office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/akalis-stage-protest-at-pspcl-offices-at-pohir-village-raikot-277606
03-07-2021||Our CorrespondentDoraha||Jalandhar villager arrested with pistol, 16 cartridges by Doraha police||The Doraha police have arrested a resident of Talwandi Madho village in Shahkot, Jalandhar, and recovered a countrymade pistol, magazines and live cartridges from his possession.SHO, Doraha, Vijay Kumar said Harwinderpal Singh Mathu was arrested by the police and a countrymade pistol, two magazines and 16 cartridges were recovered from him during the search. The police had set up naka near Rajwant Hospital from where the accused was apprehended on suspicion and recoveries were made during the search.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/jalandhar-villager-arrested-with-pistol-16-cartridges-by-doraha-police-277607
03-07-2021||Doraha||Villagers hold rally against erratic power supply||Villagers from 26 villages today participated in a protest against erratic power supply in the state. The villagers alleged that the PSPCL as well as the state government had backtracked from their promises, leaving the farmers in the lurch. The villagers raised their voice against the poor power supply in front of the DC’s office in Ludhiana. Earlier, they burnt the effigy of the government in their respective villages.Saudagar Singh Ghudani, who led the protesters from Doraha, said it is total failure on the part of the government. “Instead of helping out the farmers in the hour of crisis, the government has started complicating the problems. The farmers are already under stress and the government has added to their woes,” he added.“The farming community has been ignored by successive governments. The situation was the same during Akalis and is no better now. Each day a farmer dies due to debt. We have been demanding regular supply so that we may sow paddy smoothly but the PSPCL department cares the least. We have to sit on dharna regularly at different villages but to no avail,” he rued. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/villagers-hold-rally-against-erratic-power-supply-277608
03-07-2021||Ludhiana||Treat kids with neurological disorder without delay: Doctors||Neurological disorders in children occur when something is abnormal in the brain, nervous system or muscle cells. These disorders can vary from epilepsy to migraine headaches to tic or movement disorders and more. Children are either born with the disorder, such as spina bifida or hydrocephalus (fluid in the brain), or they acquire the disorder later in life as a result of a traumatic injury or serious infection.Watch out for these Warning signsSpeaking on the problem of neurological disorders in the children, Dr Jatinder Goraya, Associate Professor, Department of Paediatrics, Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), said many people still believed in the myth that neurological problems existed only in adults.“There are numerous cases where children, too, suffer from neurological disorders and parents, in order to avoid medical consultation, try to cure the disease by going to religious places or seeking intervention of spiritual godmen,” he added.Sharing a case, Dr Goraya stated that around two years back, a couple had brought their 12-year-old son to DMCH after he experienced mild fits while getting ready for school. The child was referred to Dr Goraya.“While it is hard to know when to seek specialised medical care for your child, our paediatric experts recommend a quick evaluation by your child’s doctor if your child is showing a decline in developmental milestones. Early diagnosis and intervention is important. If your child’s normal behaviour has changed dramatically, call their paediatrician for an evaluation,” said Dr Goraya.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/treat-kids-with-neurological-disorder-without-delay-doctors-277610
03-07-2021||Ludhiana||Sports Journalists’ Day celebrated at Guru Nanak Stadium in Ludhiana||The Punjab Sports Journalists Association and Khed Maidan Bolda Hai jointly organised a function at Guru Nanak Stadium here on Friday to celebrate International Sports Journalists’ Day.Prabhjot Singh, former Chief of Bureau of The Tribune and prominent sports journalist, Inderjeet Verma, veteran photo journalist, and Surinder Singh Sodhi, former hockey Olympian, were honoured. Prabhjot Singh was given the “Honour of Sports Journalists” award, while Surinder Singh was presented with the “Punjab Da Maan” award. Inderjeet Verma was honoured with the “Life Time Achievement” award. They were presented with ‘siropas’ and citations.An upcoming and talented hockey player, Manav Chahal, was felicitated on this occasion. He was given a bicycle by the organisers.Jagroop Singh Jarkhar, chief organiser, thanked the guests and prominent personalities, present there. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sports-journalists-day-celebrated-at-guru-nanak-stadium-in-ludhiana-277611
03-07-2021||Ludhiana||Webinar on Guru Arjan Dev by Khalsa College for Women, Sidhwan Khurd||GHG Khalsa CollegeGHG Khalsa College of Education, Gurusar Sadhar, organised a seven-day long faculty development programme on “Quality assessment and enhancement in higher education in the light of new framework of NAAC”. Dr Pargat Singh Garcha told participants the aim of the programme and said it would help present opportunities and challenges in the direction of quality improvement and sustenance in higher education as per the new framework of the NAAC. TNSWebinar on pharmaceutical sciencesSchool of Pharmacy of Desh Bhagat University, in collaboration with the Association of Pharmaceutical Teachers of India, Punjab chapter, organised a webinar on “Emerging trends in pharmaceutical sciences: From research to revenue”. Around 100 participants from across the country participated in the webinar. Chancellor Dr Zora Singh congratulated the department for the initiative. TNSRidhi shines with 94.4% in BCom resultsArya College Girls Section students excelled in B.Com first semester results. Ridhi bagged the first position in the college by getting 604/640 marks (94.4 per cent) while Lakshita Gupta has stood second with 581/640 (90.7 per cent) and Sakshi Rana is third with 579/640 marks (90.5 per cent). Satisha Sharma secretary ACMC and Dr Savita Uppal, principal, Arya College, praised the students. TNSDD Jain CollegeStudents of Devki Devi Jain Memorial College for Women brought laurels to the college by performing well in the examination of B.Com first semester results. Komal Sharma got the first position in the college by securing 90.48 per cent marks, Anjali got the second position in the college by securing 90.18 per cent marks, Kunica Goyal got the third position in college by securing 90 per cent marks. Sukhdev Raj Jain, Chairman, College Managing Committee, congratulated the teachers and students. TNSRamgarhia Girls CollegeStudents of Ramgarhia Girls College gave an outstanding performance in the exams of B.Com (Semester I), conducted by Panjab University, Chandigarh. Aarzoo clinched first position in college by scoring 86.09 per cent marks. Komal got second position in college with 85.63 per cent marks and Prerna Mishra got third position in college with 84.22 per cent marks. TNSSchool NotesTashmeen wins singing contestTashmeen Kaur of XII-A (medical) in Kundan Vidya Mandir School, Ludhiana, stood first in the Virtual Online Singing Contest- 2021, organised by Pruthviraj Theatres, Pune Maharashtra. Tashmeen mesmerised the audience with her melodious and soulful voice. The results were announced live on Facebook on June 29. She won a trophy and a certificate along with a cash prize of Rs 10,000 in the under-18 girls’ category. The school principal, Navita Puri, congratulated her and wished her success in every walk of life. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/webinar-on-guru-arjan-dev-by-khalsa-college-for-women-sidhwan-khurd-277612
03-07-2021||Ludhiana||Fake call centre busted in Mohali, 10 detained||Taking the investigation into the fake call centre case further, the Ludhiana police today busted another fake call centre running from a residential building in Kharar, near Mohali.Although the police are mum about the development as they would hold a press conference in the matter tomorrow, sources privy to the development confirmed that the call centre was being run by the same gang that was running another centre at the Pakhowal road here. Sources said around 10 persons had been rounded up from the Mohali call centre and computers and other electronic equipment had been seized.They said Lakhan Abrol, the main suspect, had spread the roots of the fake call centre business across the country. So, there was a possibility that apart from these two centres, Abrol’s aides were running such centres in other parts of the country too.Sources said the police had also identified the kingpin facilitating hawala transactions in the UK, the US and India. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/fake-call-centre-busted-in-mohali-10-detained-277362
