04-07-2021||Ludhiana||Woman tries to commit suicide, names 12 in note||A woman attempted suicide by consuming some poisonous substance at Bhai Manna Singh Nagar here on Friday evening.She had written a suicide note in which she held a police inspector and a councillor among 12 persons responsible for taking the extreme step.The victim's brother, Navdeep, said his sister had some property dispute and she was about to get the possession of the property but a police inspector and a councillor, along with some other persons, was not letting her get it.He demanded that the Commissioner of Police appoint a senior officer to probe the case and take appropriate action against the guilty. The woman's kin visited the Commissioner in his office today and submitted a memorandum to seek immediate action against the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/woman-tries-to-commit-suicide-names-12-in-note-278040
04-07-2021||Ludhiana||Clear dues of sewer men, officials told||Punjab State Safai Karamchari Commission, Chairman, Geja Ram Valmiki held a review meeting with officials of the administration and the Municipal Council in Jagraon. He directed the executive officer of the council to disburse salaries to 27 sewer men on DC rate from April 9, 2021, and clear all dues. They were getting only Rs 2,400 which was increased by the government. The chairman also discussed whether Covid guidelines of the government are being followed strictly in the meeting or not. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/clear-dues-of-sewer-men-officials-told-278039
04-07-2021||Ludhiana||Nandan tops college with 95.47% marks||Gobindgarh Public CollegeStudents of Gobindgarh Public College, Alour, Khanna, performed well in BCom and BBA 1st semester results. Principal Dr Neena Seth Pajni said in B.Com 1st Semester, Tanu got first position in the college with 92.65 per cent marks. Lakshita Arora secured the second position with 92.03 per cent marks. Jyoti Yadav with 90.93 per cent marks got third position in college. In, BBA (1st Semester), Reshabh Saini with 87.45 per cent marks got first position in college. Navneet Kaur with 86.55 per cent marks got second position in college. Nirmalpreet Kaur and Dipanshu Verma with 85.64 per cent marks got third position in college.TNSWebinar on Maharaja Ranjit SinghThe Gujranwala Khalsa Educational Council organised an international webinar on “Maharaja Ranjit Singh: The Ruler of Punjab” to commemorate the 182nd death anniversary of the first Maharaja of the Sikh Empire. Fakir Sayed Saifuddin, the descendant of Fakir Aziz-ud-din, the Foreign Minister of Maharaja Ranjit Singh and Director of Fakir Khana Museum, Pakistan, delivered the inaugural address. The resource persons of the day were Dr Varinderpal Singh, Principal Soil Scientist, Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, Gurinder Singh Mann, Director, Sikh Museum, UK, and Prof. Radha Sharma, Former Chairman, Maharaja Ranjit Singh Chair & Head, Department of History, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar. TNSStudents shine in MA resultsStudents of Ramgarhia Girls College excelled in MA (Punjabi) IIIrd semester results conducted by Panjab University. Gagandeep Kaur stood first in the college by acquiring 75.5 per cent marks, Kirandeep Kaur stood second in college by gaining 73.75 per cent marks and Parmeet Kaur got third position in college with 73.5 per cent marks. The Officiating Principal, Dr Rajeshwarpal Kaur, congratulated Jaspaul Kaur, HOD Punjabi, the staff members and the students of the PG Department of Arts.TNSPartap College students felicitatedStudents of Partap College of Education, Ludhiana, who had participated in IV International Vocal Competition organised by Kazan Federal University, Kazan, Russia were presented award of honour. Prof Balwant Singh, Director, Partap College, appreciated students for their outstanding performance. The event was earlier held in commemoration of renowned singer Galiya Kaybitskaya on her 115th birth anniversary. TNSAlumni meet organisedGulzar Group of Institutes organised online alumni meet to walk down the memory lane and relive golden college days. The event was inaugurated with a welcome address by Executive Director GGI Gurkirat Singh. He applauded the achievements of the alumni in different spheres of life.TNSTree plantation drive heldThe environment club (NSS unit) of Gobindgarh Public College, Alour, Khanna, in association with State Bank of India, Mandi Gobindgarh, organised a tree plantation drive on the campus today. Raj Goyal, president, Gobindgarh Educational and Social Welfare Trust, was the chief guest. Over 90 trees of different verities were planted in and around the campus. TNSWebinar on NEP-2020The Department of Education in collaboration with the IQAC, KCW, Sidhwan Khurd, organised an one-day webinar on “NEP-2020: Digitidation for Ensuring Equitable & Quality Education”. The resource person of the webinar was Prof Jatinder Grover, professor, Panjab University, Chandigarh. TNSPlastic Bag-Free Day observedDoraha: Green Grove Public school observed Plastic Bag-Free Day and organised a plethora of virtual activities to mark the day. Students from nursery to Class XII shared speeches, PowerPoint presentations, choreographies and posters related to the day. Karsimar, Samiksha, Sahilpreet Kaur and Avneet were appreciated for their valuable presentations. JPS Jolly, president, said use of plastic should be stopped at any cost to save Earth. Chairperson Satinderjeet kaur Jolly, vice president Navera Jolly and principal Suzy George congratulated the winners and participants. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/nandan-tops-college-with-95-47-marks-278038
04-07-2021||Manav Mander||Mothers under stress due to online classes, says expert||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 3The transition from physical classes to online learning has been quite stressful for both students and their parents, especially mothers. Many are complaining of psychological problems being faced by them amid pandemic.Mothers are facing extra responsibilities of engaging their children, especially younger ones, during online classes apart from daily household chores. The balance between household tasks, family responsibilities and self-care have been disturbed further adding to their distress.“Many mothers are showing symptoms of psychological disturbances such as sadness, frustration, irritability, hyper-sensitivity, apprehensions, helplessness, exhaustion, sleep and appetite disturbances, weight loss, headache, body-ache, gastro-urinary symptoms etc. It also becomes the precursor of strained interpersonal, marital and familial relationships,” said city based-psychiatrist Dr Rajeev Gupta.Adding further, Rohini Singh, a homemaker, said she has been struggling hard to cope with the challenge.“It has been really difficult to manage the things with kids studying from home and it is taking a mental toll on me. Now, I have to manage their classes and school work also which earlier was taken care by their teachers. Logging on their classes on time and making sure they finish their notes on time and then there is homework. Things become difficult when there is lock down and house helpers don’t come. I am taking therapy sessions to overcome the bouts of depression I am facing,” she said.Not able to cope? try these steps||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mothers-under-stress-due-to-online-classes-says-expert-277975
04-07-2021||---||Suvidha centre inaugurated||Ludhiana, July 3 Punjab Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu inaugurated a suvidha centre at Balloke village in Gill Assembly Constituency, here today. The centre would provide benefits of all state government welfare schemes to the residents of the Gill constituency. Ashu said dedicated staff had been deputed at the centre to guide residents and ensure that their documents and files were complete.  Gill MLA Kuldeep Singh Vaid said people would be able to avail benefits of 62 services free of cost, for which they had to visit government offices earlier. Three more such centres would be started soon, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/suvidha-centre-inaugurated-277976
04-07-2021||Ludhiana||Cricket trials to be held today||Trials to select cricket probables (senior) will be held at GRD Global Education Institute, Hambran Road, on July 4. Anupam Kumaria, honorary general secretary, Ludhiana District Cricket Association (LDCA), said selected players would be enrolled with the regional coaching centre (RCC) being run at the same venue under the aegis of the Punjab Cricket Association. The selected players would undergo physical training and cricket skill upgrade under the guidance and supervision of LDCA-appointed trainers and coaches. The selection process would commence at 10 am and would be free of cost, Kumaria added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cricket-trials-to-be-held-today-277961
04-07-2021||Harshraj Singh||Ludhiana civic body yet to start fogging in city||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 3Amid the arrival of the rainy season, larvae of aedes aegypti mosquitoes that can spread dengue have been found at some locations during the past two weeks, as per the sources in the Health Department, but the Municipal Corporation is yet to start the fogging drive to control the breeding of mosquitoes in the city.The residents want that the MC must display its plan and fogging schedule for the prevention of dengue and other vector-borne diseases in 95 wards of the city on its web portal and at MC offices.The residents of different areas had blamed the MC for not conducting fogging timely in their respective areas in the past years too.A member of the Ludhiana West Grievances Redressal Committee, Satish Thaman, said, “The MC should make a proper plan for the prevention of vector-borne diseases and it must upload the plan and fogging schedule on its website. This information should also be displayed at all MC offices. All required arrangements for the prevention of dengue and other vector-borne diseases must be made timely.”Thaman said, “The MC should pay a special focus on avoiding water accumulation on the roads and parks during the rainy days so that mosquitoes don’t breed in stagnant water. The Health Department and MC should conduct awareness drives for the prevention of the diseases.”The Health Department had found larvae of aedes aegypti mosquitoes that can spread dengue in June last year also but the MC had started fogging later in July 2020.A former councillor, Inder Aggarwal, said, “There is no information when the fogging will be started by the Ludhiana MC this year. During the tenure of the last MC House, the fogging drive used to start from May in the city but it is being delayed now. The mosquitoes have already started breeding. Even the fogging has not been started in sensitive areas of the city. Covid-19 has already hit the city. Now, required arrangements should be made for the prevention of dengue and other diseases too. The MC must ensure availability of a required number of big fogging machines, fuel and insecticide so that fogging must be done properly in all areas of every ward in the city.”Some Opposition councillors had last year complained that whenever the MC sends a big fogging machine, all areas in any ward can’t be covered in one go. The MC has only 14 big fogging machines for 95 wards, while the officials said a small fogging machine is available with every councillor in each ward. Health Officer, MC, Dr Vipul Malhotra said the fogging will be started later this month.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said they have made all required arrangements for fogging.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-civic-body-yet-to-start-fogging-in-city-277962
04-07-2021||Ludhiana||Adopt water-saving methods for paddy crop, farmers told||120 Kisan Club members attend monthly webinarLudhiana: As many as 120 farmer members of the PAU Kisan Club attended the monthly webinar organised under the guidance of Dr JS Mahal, Director of Extension Education, today. Dr TS Riar, Additional Director Communication and Programme Associate Director, urged the farmers to remain in contact with the university experts for the technical expertise and guidance on various crops. Dr Amarjit Singh, Senior Extension Specialist (Plant Pathology), dwelt upon the management of root knot nematode, foot rot, sheath blight and false smut in vegetables, basmati and cotton. Dr Singh further said the infestation of root knot nematode to fields can be prevented by certain preventive and sanitation measures. Dr KS Suri, Senior Entomologist, called upon the farmers to adopt integrated disease and pest management approaches so as to reduce the use of harmful pesticides as well as produce export compliant basmati. Dr Guriqbal Singh, Senior Agronomist (Pulses Section), said in view of the growing demand for pulses, there is a need to increase the area under this crop. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/adopt-water-saving-methods-for-paddy-crop-farmers-told-277963
04-07-2021||---||Vardhman vaccinates over 90% staff||Ludhiana, July 3Vardhman Textiles has conducted vaccination drives at the doorstep for its employees and their family members.Covering over 90 per cent of its staffers, the organisation has inoculated 6,059 employees in Punjab, 7,564 in Himachal Pradesh and 7,999 in Madhya Pradesh so far. The employees in the age group of 45-60 were vaccinated during the initial phase and inoculation of those above 18 years of age began as soon as the government approved of it, Vice-Chairperson and Joint Managing Director, Vardhman Textiles, Suchita Oswal Jain, said here on Friday.She said the organisation has also funded the vaccination of transgender and differently abled people at Hero DMC Heart Institute in Ludhiana, besides setting up a Level-III Covid care unit for extremely critical patients at Christian Medical College and Hospital in the city. A makeshift hospital of 100 beds was developed in Baddi and Solan of Himachal Pradesh and financial contribution for Covid care centre was made.Vardhman provided medical equipment to prominent hospitals in the region, Jain disclosed. With the goal to facilitate the treatment of economically weaker section, the organisation provided Rs 30 lakh to the PGIMER in Chandigarh and Rs 25 lakh to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital in Ludhiana. A sum of Rs 1 crore was provided to the Himachal Pradesh Disaster Management Authority for Covid relief and rehabilitation activities.“In these pressing times, our organisation stands in solidarity with the nation. Every possible measure is being taken to support the fight against Covid and the welfare of our employees and their family members. People should support the administration and come forward to fight out the Covid pandemic. Our organisation is also actively supporting the administration by carrying out awareness drives for safety protocols and vaccination. We need to work together to stop the spread of the virus,” she added.Continuing its humanitarian efforts, the group has provided healthcare workers and administration with PPE kits across three states — Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. Over 6,000 units of personal protective equipment worth Rs 34 lakh were handed over to charitable hospitals in Baddi, Budhni in Madhya Pradesh and Ludhiana, Jain detailed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/vardhman-vaccinates-over-90-staff-277964
04-07-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Knitwear industry pins hopes on buyer-seller meet||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 3The Ludhiana Woollens Manufacturing Association is all set to hold a three-day buyer seller meet from July 5. The knitwear manufacturers are targeting business of over Rs 5,000 crore in the upcoming season through this meet, for which the necessary NOCs have already been taken.Sanju Dhir, chairman, and Darshan Dawar, president of the association, said that NOCs, as per Covid norms, have taken from the Commissionerate of Police and the district administration offices.The highlightsDhir said a lot of caution would be taken this time. There would be no lunch or dinner for the buyers and no gathering at one place. All six floors of the hotel venue, with approximately 124 rooms, have been booked to display the products. As many as 124 knitwear manufacturers from the city will showcase their products in separate rooms so as to avoid crowding.“We expect a good marriage season ahead and are hoping that the third wave is not severe. We expect a good business as buyers from Kolkotta, Haryana, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Delhi have expressed interest in attending the exhibition. We have placed seven persons (not part of the hotel staff), to ensure that all are wearing masks, their hands are properly sanitised and proper distancing is maintained. Apart from this, many conditions have been laid by the administration, which we will adhere to fully,” Dhir said.The manufacturers will be displaying a variety of woollens, including cardigans, jackets, mufflers, sweaters, coats etc and hope that the coming season will make up for the losses faced due to the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/knitwear-industry-pins-hopes-on-buyer-seller-meet-277965
04-07-2021||Ludhiana||Addl Director General visits NCC unit||Maj Gen JS Sandhu, AVSM, Additional Director General, National Cadet Corps, Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh, visited 1 Pb Remount and Veterinary SQN NCC, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Ludhiana.  He was on his maiden visit to the Ludhiana Group where he visited the R & V Unit. He was accompanied by Brigadier SP Singh, Group Commander of the Ludhiana group. He was received by Col SK Bhardwaj, Officer Commanding of 1 Pb R & V SQN NCC and was introduced to the whole staff of the Unit. He inspected the horse stables, training area and functioning of the NCC Unit and was all praise of the proper maintenance and upkeep of the unit. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/addl-director-general-visits-ncc-unit-277966
04-07-2021||Ludhiana||Plants damaged while dismantling divider: AAP||An AAP leader has blamed the MC for damaging some plants while dismantling a divider on the Jodhewal Basti market road here. Chander Pal, AAP leader, said the divider was also in a good condition but it was dismantled. “No attention was paid to secure the plants when the divider was being dismantled. About seven-eight plants were damaged,” he said. Executive Engineer, MC, Surinder Singh said the divider was already damaged due to which they are now renovating it. “No plant was damaged during the dismantling of the divider. Some plants had already got damaged in the past. Now, we will plant more saplings on the renovated divider,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/plants-damaged-while-dismantling-divider-aap-277967
04-07-2021||---||Society alleges police inaction||Ludhiana, July 3 The Shashtri Young Welfare Society today alleged police inaction in an incident in which an attempt was made to damage the statue of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. Chairman of the society Ajay Walia while addressing mediapersons said a few days ago, some miscreants had damaged the statue of the former PM in Daresi. Despite submitting a complaint to the police, no FIR was being registered by them. He said if a case was not registered in the next 24 hours, the society would move court to seek justice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/society-alleges-police-inaction-277968
04-07-2021||Nitin Jain||Ludhiana records lowest positivity rate of 0.11%||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 3Ludhiana, which continues to remain the safest district in Punjab, has recorded lowest-ever positivity rate, a key indicator of virus surge, of 0.11 per cent on Friday when only 12 of the total 11,006 tested persons turned positive for Covid.However, the hit rate went up slightly to 0.25 per cent on Saturday when 26 of the total 10,384 tests were reported positive here.The safe trend has been persisting for the past almost a month when the district made a remarkable turnaround by recording the daily positivity rate even below 1 per cent.The development holds significance as Ludhiana had earlier assumed the dubious distinction of being the worst-hit district with the maximum number of daily Covid cases and deaths till May.If it was mayhem in May when the second Covid wave had rapidly slid into a devastating crisis with the health facilities unbearably falling short, oxygen supplies running low and many dying even without seeing a doctor, June gave a sigh of relief with the signs of gradual retreat and impact of deadly virus plateauing and the safe trend continues in July when the hit rate further dipped to as low as 0.11 per cent, which was lowest-ever, on Friday.The data compiled by the Health and Family Welfare Department, a copy of which is with The Tribune, revealed that Ludhiana’s average daily Covid positivity rate remained second lowest at 0.4 per cent in the state last week. While the district’s average daily positivity rate was almost half than the state’s average of 0.7 per cent, it was six-times less than Mohali’s hit rate of 2.5 per cent, which continues to be highest in the state from June 22 to 28.The safe state of Ludhiana continued in the current week as well with the district’s daily Covid positivity rate further dropping to 0.25 per cent on June 29, before plummeting to 0.15 per cent on June 30, 0.18 per cent on July 1, and touching a record low of 0.11 per cent on July 2.Barring a single day when the positivity rate had crossed 1 per cent mark and touched 1.19 per cent on June 11, the number of Covid positive patients in the district had constantly been keeping below 1 per cent of the total tests conducted daily for the past almost a month, the data analysed by the district administration has showed.The hit rate dipped below 1 per cent on June 8 when the district had reported 0.93 per cent virus positive cases and it further decreased to 0.84 per cent on June 9, slightly going up to 0.92 per cent on June 10, and again decreasing to 0.83 per cent on June 12.Since June 13, the district’s daily positive rate has been continuously dropping from 0.97 per cent to 0.53 per cent on June 14, 0.62 per cent on June 15, 0.39 per cent on June 16, 0.6 per cent on June 17, 0.63 per cent on June 18, 0.43 per cent on June 19, 0.32 per cent on June 20, 0.2 per cent on June 21, 0.32 per cent on June 22, 0.45 per cent on June 23, 0.36 per cent on June 24, 0.4 per cent on June 25, 0.3 per cent on June 26 and 27, 0.39 per cent on June 28, 0.25 per cent on June 29, 0.15 per cent on June 30, 0.18 per cent on July 1 and record low of 0.11 per cent on July 2.This U-turn was all the more significant as the daily positivity rate has dropped by a whopping 19.46 per cent from the highest-ever 19.57 per cent in past two months. The district had touched its peak of virus surge on May 2.The daily hit rate has been plummeting constantly since the last week of May.Ludhiana’s positivity rate had started at a high of 18.92 per cent on the first day of May and further rising and touching its peak of 19.57 per cent on May 2.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-records-lowest-positivity-rate-of-0-11-277969
04-07-2021||---||Ludhiana tops state, administers 82,677 vaccine doses in a day||Ludhiana, July 3In a rare distinction, Ludhiana district has secured the top position in the state in the mega vaccination drive by administering highest-ever 82,677 Covid-19 vaccine doses to eligible beneficiaries.Hailing the efforts of healthcare workers and social, religious organisations in achieve this goal, Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma said: “This rare feat will further motivate our teams to continue with the same zeal and passion.”The DC said as many as 308 vaccination camps were held across the district where health teams administered the doses throughout the day.He said it was the need of the hour to vaccinate people on a war footing to build herd immunity to combat the third wave by sending teams in every nook and corner of the district.He said vaccination was being done on a large scale in Ludhiana and the administration was in an action mode to further strengthen the protection system against Covid-19.The Deputy Commissioner said: “Vaccination was the most effective weapon against this invisible enemy and now, it was our responsibility to come forward for taking jab.”He also appealed to people to come forward for the vaccination in huge numbers and encouraged youths and their parents for the same.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-tops-state-administers-82-677-vaccine-doses-in-a-day-277970
04-07-2021||---||26 test positive for Covid in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, July 3 Today 26 persons tested positive for Covid, while no death due to the virus was reported in the district. The recovery rate has now gone to 97.28 per cent, while the case fatality rate now is 2.40 per cent. Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said under the Mission Fateh of the Punjab Government, the number of Covid-19 patients getting cured in the district is increasing with each passing day. Today there were 282 active patients in the district. Today 34 patients — 26 from Ludhiana district and eight from other states/districts — tested positive for Covid. Till date, a total of 17,48,203 samples have been taken, out of which reports of 17,48,198 have been received. As many as 16,49,656 samples were found negative, while reports of five samples are pending. Now, the total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 87,023, while 11,519 patients belong to other districts/states. The total number of Covid patients who lost their lives are 2,086 from Ludhiana and 1,041 from other districts. Today 10,384 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing and their results are expected shortly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/26-test-positive-for-covid-in-ludhiana-277971
04-07-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Machines, stock gutted at tyre manufacturing unit||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 3A major fire broke out at a tyre manufacturing unit, Hindustan Tyre Company, on RK Road near Oswal Hospital early this morning. No loss of lives was reported in the incident.The fire broke out around 3.45 am. Guards on duty noticed smoke billowing out of the ground floor of the factory and immediately informed security officer Madan Lal.The officer said he then reached the spot and informed the fire brigade.Factory has been lying shut since ThursdaySecurity officer Madan Lal said the tyre factory had been lying shut since Thursday due to the power shutdown imposed by the government. “Only guards were present inside and they tried to douse the flames with fire extinguishers but could not,” he said.A short circuit in electricity cables seemed to be the cause of the fire. Initially, a labourer tried to douse the flames on the ground floor with the available extinguishers but it soon spread to the first floor. The blaze turned so huge that a shed also collapsed.“The ground floor housed machinery while the finished stock of tyres was kept on the first floor for dispatching. Several machines and a stock of tyres was reduced to ashes,” Madan Lal stated.Navrang Singh, sub fire officer, said the factory did not have an NOC or the required fire safety arrangements. Had the factory made proper arrangements, guards present there could have doused the flame at the first instance, he said.It took about 70 fire tenders to douse the flame in almost 10 hours.Another fire at Kirpal Nagar hosiery unitAnother fire incident was reported from a double-storey hosiery unit at Kirpal Nagar around 6 am on Saturday. A huge stock of hosiery goods and some machinery was gutted. Firemen had to raze the walls of an adjoining building to enter the unit to start rescue operation because the main gate of the factory was ablaze. The fire was controlled in two hours.Fire brigade deputes full staff for rescue operationsSince two back-to-back incidents were reported in the industrial hub, the Fire Brigade had to struggle to douse flames at the two locations simultaneously. The staff on night duty could not leave the spot, despite the day-duty staff joining the rescue operation at both the sites. Assistant Divisional Fire Officer Swarn Chand said the entire staff was at work at both the sites.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/machines-stock-gutted-at-tyre-manufacturing-unit-277972
04-07-2021||---||Bodies oppose acquisition of gurdwara land for widening of road||Ludhiana, July 3Opposing the GLADA’s proposal to acquire land of a gurdwara of Ayali Kalan for the widening of a road, some organisations have raised their voice against the plan. The organisations blamed GLADA for benefiting colonisers/promoters of a colony by making a proposal to acquire the land. Now, a boundary wall is being constructed to secure the gurdwara land.The manager of the committee of ‘Gurdwara Thara Sahib Patshahi Chevin’ at Ayali Kalan, Bhag Singh, said the gurdwara land would not be given for the widening of the road.He said the construction of a boundary wall of the gurdwara land was underway.In 2020, the then SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal had written to the Punjab Chief Minister, demanding that the land not be acquired. In May 2021, SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur has also written to the Chief Minister that it came to their notice that GLADA wants to benefit a land promoter by acquiring the land belonging to the gurdwara at Ayali Kalan village. In the letter, the SGPC chief stated that permission could not be granted for acquiring the land.Taranjit Singh Nimana of Bhai Ghaniya Ji Mission Sewa Society has also alleged that GLADA wants to provide the benefit of crores of rupees to the coloniser/promoter of a colony by acquiring the land of the gurdwara at low rates.He alleged that the land mafia backed by some politicians had also kept an eye on the land of the gurdwara.“At present, the road is not 60 feet wide but the construction of a shopping complex has also been allowed, thereby violating the norms,” he alleged.Amarjit Singh Tikka, chairman of the Punjab Medium Industries Development, said: “I will request to the Chief Minister to order a probe into the matter as GLADA wants to benefit promoters of a colony. The gurdwara land should not be acquired at any cost.”GLADA Chief Administrator PS Gill said the road, which was to be widened, was declared 100 feet wide in the Master Plan in 2012. “The external development charges have been deposited by a colony, requesting to construct 60 feet road as of now. At present, the road is about 20 feet wide. A proposal to acquire the required land on both sides of the road is under process,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bodies-oppose-acquisition-of-gurdwara-land-for-widening-of-road-277973
04-07-2021||---||Five gangsters arrested for planning robbery||Ludhiana, July 3 The city police claimed to have busted a gang of robbers and arrested five of its members. They were planning to commit a dacoity but their timely arrest foiled the plan. Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) SS Dhindsa and ADCP Sameer Verma addressed a press meet regarding the matter. The accused have been identified as Tarun Kumar Lucky (26), a shoe seller and resident of Gagandeep Colony, Maninder Singh (22), a saloon owner from Dharamkot, Vishal Singh (20) a Class XI student from Muktsar, Balwinder Singh (22), a photographer from Jagraon, and Tarsem Singh (23) an electrician from Samrala. The police also recovered two Honda City cars, two Mahindra Bolero vehicles, a motorcycle, 85 rolls of yarn, and some sharp weapons from them. The DCP said a tip-off was received that a gang was planning to commit a major robbery in some factory and they were sitting on an empty plot at Fagla village. Accordingly, the police conducted a raid and nabbed the accused. The DCP said when the police conducted a raid, some of the accused fled the spot. They were identified as Gaggi, Lember, Kalu, Gora and Vicky, all residents of Jagraon, Lalli of Kakowal, and Mulla of the Tibba road area. The ADCP said Tarun was the kingpin of the gang and he was already facing 13 cases of loot and theft registered at various police stations of Ludhiana.  With the arrest of these gang members, 11 cases of thefts reported in the industrial hub were solved.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/five-gangsters-arrested-for-planning-robbery-277974
04-07-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||11 ‘linked’ to fake call centre case nabbed in Mohali, Delhi||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 3The ongoing probe by the Ludhiana police in connection with the fake call centre scam has led to the arrest of 11 more persons. The arrests were made by multiple teams of the Cyber Cell and CIA-1 Ludhiana during raids in Mohali and New Delhi.Of these, nine were apprehended from a rented apartment in Kharar (Mohali), all from Gujarat, and included four key suspects Pratik, Peenak, Dhruv Mehta and Jigar. They were also running a fake call centre from their premises. The police also recovered 11 laptops, an iPad, 18 mobile phones, a Toyota Fortuner car, Rs 1 lakh cash and gold ornaments.Additional DCP (Crime) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti, who busted the scam, said a similar modus operandi was being used at the Mohali-based fake call centre as well, whereby the suspects, posing as tax/insurance authorities, used to call unsuspecting citizens in other countries and committed financial frauds.The victims were asked to transfer money to bank accounts in their respective countries. The money was further transferred to India through hawala channels or cryptocurrency. Bitcoin wallets of the suspects were being confiscated and frozen.The ADCP said raids were conducted in the Chattarpur area of New Delhi, from where suspect Vaibhav Gupta was apprehended. He was the technical backbone of the module, providing software, server, call dialler, calling minute, troubleshooting support, etc. to the Ludhiana-based module.Gupta used to receive regular monthly payments for his services. “Since a majority of the payments by the suspects was made and received through hawala channels, raids were conducted in Ludhiana, leading to the arrest of Sachin Patel, hailing from Gujarat, from the Sham Nagar area and Rs 27 lakh in hawala money was recovered,” said ADCP Bhatti.Investigations in the case suggested the accused had bought multiple flats in posh localities of Ahmedabad from the proceeds of crime.Part of Ludhiana module||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/11-linked-to-fake-call-centre-case-nabbed-in-mohali-delhi-277924
