05-07-2021||Open House||Open House: Getting high not cool, embrace life for real pleasure||Every year, June 26 is celebrated as World Drug Day but we still have a long way to go to save India’s youth from the menace. Mere seminars, campaigns or slogans are not enough. To combat rampant drug abuse, the youth has to be sensitised on the harmful effects and its repercussions. Primary prevention with the help of schools/colleges, family-based programmes, different sports and nukkad nataks could prove beneficial. The government must take strict action and make stringent laws to reduce production and distribution of illicit and synthetic drugs. But above all, each one of us should pledge to help and make each other aware of its repercussions to save the youth, the future of this country.Dr Navdeep KaurTeenagers vulnerable, must be protectedDrugs often spoil the lives of impressionable teenagers. In spite of the best efforts of the authorities, the menace goes unabated in our state and the country at large. Parents must be extra cautious and watch the activities of their grown-up wards very minutely and also see what type of company they keep. Teachers, elders and media have their own role to play in making children aware about this evil. Hostel wardens should also be very strict. The police must give exemplary punishment to drug peddlers.Dr Sunil ChopraOPEN HOUSE QUESTIONEven as Ludhiana continues to lead the state in ongoing Covid vaccination drive by crossing the 1.2-million mark, the district is still far away from achieving the target. What should be done to vaccinate each and every eligible individual?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to ludhiana.feedback@gmail.comCollective efforts neededThe first step to control the use of drugs by youth can be to educate them about its ill-effects. Once they get addicted, the youth go to various lengths to sustain the habit, including stealing. Education programmes against drug addiction must be started at school level itself, followed by college. It is at these ages that the youth pick up such habits. Once mature, they start distinguishing between right and wrong. The assistance of teaching faculty can be availed to make such education programmes a success. Such initiatives must also be taken up in different municipal zones during evening hours, where parents can be invited and educated about ways to keep their wards away from drugs. These educational meetings must be organised in groups of villages as well because the menace is present there too. Also, more drug de-addiction centres must be started. The staff members of such institutions can also educate youth against drug abuse. Action must also be taken to stop illicit trade of drugs. Those involved in this trade must be severely punished, not only with fine but with sentencing. For this, the help of local police must be sought. Further, there must be a strict watch on the borders to stop smuggling of drugs from abroad.Gautam DevSupply chain must be snappedIn order to free the society of drugs, the need is to contain both the demand as well as supply of such substances. Campaigns help in bringing down the demand by creating awareness but to eradicate this menace completely, smuggling must be stopped. For that, there is a need for greater synergy among special task force, police and intelligence wing. A good example is that of the 97 villages in Sangrur where no case of smuggling has been reported for the past five years as residents are cooperating with the police, informing them of smuggling bids and the police are able to take timely and strict action against the offenders.Medha BatraSmall steps, big changesTo rid the country of drug menace, we need to first rid it of corruption. Though a lot of effort has been put in, there is no end to drug supply. As sincere citizens, if we notice some illegal practice among our friends or in parties, we must raise our voice against it. Such small efforts can bring about a large change in society. Also, authorities need to be stricter against these crimes. More stringent laws and heavier fines need to be imposed while repeat offenders should be sentenced. The government can also help the addicts by providing them free healthcare.Simarjot KaurParents should spend time with childrenThe drug menace needs to be strictly handled in Punjab. Ludhiana has become the hot spot of drug peddlers. Many youth have lost their lives so far. The administration and the civic body must join hands to tackle the challenge. The problem has become more serious in cities where there are nuclear families with both the parents working. Parents are providing them every kind of luxury but fail to give them quality time. Parents need to give their children emotional and mental support. The children feel neglected at this tender age. When they feel any kind of stress or anxiety, they find solace in. Soon, it becomes their habit and they find it difficult to leave it. So, parents should be vigilant enough to identify the problem at the outset and help them out with their support and love.Sangeeta JainStop politicising the issue, punish guiltyIt is unfortunate that the government has failed to control the drug menace and illicit trade so far. It shows lack of sincere efforts on its part. Every party play a blame game to accuse other party. In fact our aim has been to achieve the high percentage of votes and win election. All these issues are raised near the assembly elections. After the results these issues are forgotten. The menace need not be politicised, this is our common problem.JBS NandaReduce demand of drugsThe most important effort to reduce drug trade is to reduce the demand. Teenagers who easily fall prey to drugs should be regularly counselled about the fatal effects of drugs. Drug dealers should be fined heavily and punished accordingly. A confidential drug control cell should be launched at local levels including students, teachers, and employees etc. to check the illicit activities going on in the city.Amarpreet KaurTime to join hands in fightThe rampant drug abuse in Punjab is destroying a generation of youth of the state. India needs its youth to contribute towards nation-building. To get rid of this menace, the focus must be to reduce demand and cut off supplies. The municipal councillor, sarpanches and the politicians must work in tandem. To reduce the drug demand, parents, teachers and community leaders have to play a big role. Holistic treatment centres should be set up. The government needs to create skill training programmes to generate employment, encourage sports and other activities. The colleges and social organisations should frequently organise anti-drug awareness programmes. The government should be strict to enforce the existing law and hang a few drug dealers which would deter others not to deal with such menace and jail all those who use/misuse such drugs and rehabilitate a few cases for all others to aspire to get out of such menace of drugs. The supply lines need to be choked. The judiciary too can play a vital role in expediting drug cases and punish the guilty in a stringent manner.RS SEMBHITake help of NGOsIn Punjab, the problem of drug addiction is a very serious problem as our young generation is involved in it. One hand we rarely lose our youngsters and on the other hand parents are sending their wards in other countries due to this fear. To overcome the problem of drug addiction, the government must take the help of some NGOs and must award those organisations which are working to limit this drug addiction and spreading awareness among youngsters. At village and ward level the government must form committees to identify drug addicts and send them to de-addiction centres. The government must organise more job meals and give loans to youngsters to start small businesses. In schools, colleges and universities there must be a chapter on the bad or ill effects of drug addictions so that kids and youngsters must be able to know the bad effects of drugs and intoxicants. The police and other government officials must raid on the areas where the possibility of trade of drugs is carried out.Farzana KhanUrge drug addicts to join rehabilitation centresDrug abuse one of the most troublesome issues of our society. Many promises have also been made on several occasions to resolve it, but the problem remains the same. The nexus of drugs works at various levels. Hence, in order to free society from ruinous effects of drugs, different departments need to work in tandem by taking drastic measures. To begin with, they should cut the supply chain of drugs. Then, they should arrest the people synchronising the drug nexus taking no notice of their influence or status. They should also coordinate with various NGOs working to stimulate drug addicts to join rehabilitation centres. For an effective change, the authorities should comprehend and acknowledge the factors responsible for drug consumption.Rishika KritiEstablish de-addiction centres in cityTo making drug free society, the first step should be that our elders shall be far away from drugs such as heroin, LSD, morphine, mescaline, psilocybin etc., because the children would get habits from their parents. The second step should be for drug free society that the drug abuse chapter would added as compulsory subject to the school education so that children learned the detrimental effects of drugs at younger age. The third step should be that parents or elders must guide and aware their children about drug addiction. There should be de-addiction centre in each city. If we should follow all of the above mentioned steps, definitely illegal drug trafficking and drug addiction can be abolished properly.Adish SoodEnsure independence of Police DepartmentConsumption and illegal trading of drugs is being openly done in the city. Every time, during election, political parties promise to eradicate the menace but nothing has been done so far. It is even noted that political parties and even police authorities despite knowing each and every detail are doing nothing to save the youth and society from the clutches of this menace. The problem can easily be curbed if government and police authorities discharge their duties with due diligence and care. Political parties should stop interfering in the working of the Police Department. Even we should come forward and report the matters which come in our knowledge.Ritu PriyaCreate job opportunities for youngstersThe problem of drug addiction in Punjab is aggravating day by day. There is not a single village and city of the state Punjab which is free from drug menace. Irrespective of so many efforts of the government and different NGOs this problem has not faded away from society. In schools and colleges so many young boys and girls are in the grip of drug addiction. Parents should teach their children about the bad effects of intoxicants and other harmful drugs. The government should promote games and other recreational activities to involve youth in villages. Create more job opportunities for youth to involve them to earn. There must be one lecture daily in schools and colleges about the ill-effect of drug addiction. There must be exemplary punishment for those who are involved in the business of drugs.Dr Mohd Saleem FarooquiSocial media influencers should spread awarenessMany steps can be taken to free the society from drugs. The foremost step should be permanent ban on under the counter selling of drugs. The laws on drugs should be made more stringent and penalties should be made more severe.Social media influencers should spread awareness about drug-abuse. Our government should learn from other countries about the strict laws against possession of drugs. The children, right from the beginning of their school life should be made well aware of the complication of drug abuse. Parents in a companionable way should tell their little ones about drug abuse. Proper checking of the vehicles should be done near the borders. More and more NGOs should come forward and start campaigns against drugs.Ekamjot SinghHold counselling session for addictsThere is a saying that an idle mind is a devil’s workshop. When after getting first class degrees also, the youth are not able to get good jobs to fulfil their dreams and aspirations, it is obvious that they will go off the track. So, first of all the youth should be given jobs according to their calibre. The youth who are already a prey to drugs should be guided and counselled by trained counsellors. The rehabilitation centres for drug addicts need to come up with concrete plan on how to tackle the menace. The government needs to be strict against the suppliers and drug peddlers. Only the collaborative efforts of the general public, government and the victims themselves can bring these addicts to the mainstream.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/open-house-getting-high-not-cool-embrace-life-for-real-pleasure-278480
05-07-2021||---||33 cricket probables selected||Sports CorrespondentLudhiana, July 4As many as 33 cricket probables (senior) were selected during the trials conducted by the Ludhiana District Cricket Association (LDCA) at GRD Global Education Institute on Hambran Road here on Sunday.Anupam Kumaria, honorary general secretary, LDCA, said the selected probables would be registered with the regional coaching centre (RCC) being run at the same venue under the aegis of the Punjab Cricket Association.He released a list of the selected players who would undergo physical training and skill upgrade under the guidance and supervision of association-appointed trainers and coaches. The Ludhiana district senior team would also be finalised from these players, who would take part in the Punjab State Inter-District Cricket Championship.The names of the selected players are: Nehal Wadhera, Tikshan Tangri, Gurjot Singh, Jaish Jain, Karan Bhati, Sunny Pandey, Arjun Puri, Tanroop Saini, Davinder Sidhu, Dipin Chitkara, Vaibhav Kalra, Gitansh Khera, Hartejasvi, Baltej Singh, Deepak Bansal, Pradeep Grewal, Harshit Takkar, Vikram, Randeep Gill, Namish, Kabir, Yogjit Singh, Sukhjinder Singh, Gurmehar Singh, Lovepreet Singh, Abhimanyu, Rajat Patel, Sarthak Lekhi, Bhavish Sethi, Rajveer Singh, Satnam Singh, Kashish Pasneja and Krishan Alang.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/33-cricket-probables-selected-278463
05-07-2021||Manav Mander||Eateries thrown open, but don’t let guard down||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 4With restaurants opening up and restrictions being lifted, experts say special attention needs to be paid towards hygiene and preventive measures to contain the spread of Covid-19 again. Restaurants in containment zones shall remain closed while those outside such zones would be allowed to open up.Civil Surgeon Dr Kiran Gill said restaurants/sweet shops needed to follow the standard operating procedures (SOPs) on measures to contain the spread of Covid-19.“The staff and patrons must follow the simple public health measures that are to be followed to reduce the risk of Covid-19,” Dr Gill stated.District Health Officer Dr Rajesh Garg said restaurants should make seating arrangements in such a way that adequate social distancing is maintained. Also, people not more than 50 per cent of the seating capacity should be permitted on the premises.Govt directives to restaurantsEncourage home delivery and monitor body temperature of delivery personnel.Ensure availability of hand sanitiser and regular cleaning of frequently touched areas.Do not allow staff or visitors without face covers/masks and ensure social distancing. Visitors not more than 50% of capacity to be allowed inside.“It is advisable to use disposable menus and instead of cloth napkins, use of good quality disposable paper napkins must be encouraged. Even during buffet service, social distancing should be followed by staff as well as visitors,” Dr Garg added.As per government guidelines, all restaurants shall encourage takeaways instead of dine-in. Also, the food delivery personnel should leave the packet at the customer’s door and not hand it over to the customer.Also, the eateries are required to screen the home delivery staff thermally before deliveries.The premises should also have mandatory hand hygiene (sanitiser dispenser) and thermal screening provisions at the entrance while all staff and visitors should be allowed entry only with face cover/masks. Also, the face cover/masks have to be worn at all times inside the restaurant.The eating joints are also required to ensure proper crowd management in parking lots and outside the premises, duly following social distancing norms. The joints must also ensure cleaning and regular disinfection of frequently touched surfaces.The gaming arcades/children play areas (wherever applicable) shall remain closed, as per the guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/eateries-thrown-open-but-dont-let-guard-down-278461
05-07-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Ludhiana industry at loss due to power cuts||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 4The industrial houses in the city are facing huge production losses, all thanks to the PSPCL directive of three-day power cuts. Already reeling under recession due to Covid-19, lockdown and labour crises, the industry insiders maintained that they would not be able to face the blow of the power lockdown.Charanjit Vishkarma of Vishkarma Industries said industrialists were sitting at home in absence of power as it was certainly not viable to run the units on generators due to the rising fuel prices.Gurmeet Singh Kular, president of FICO, said the industry had still not revived from the losses faced due to Covid lockdowns. “The government should procure more electricity and fulfil the demand of the industry,” said Kular.Badish Jindal, president of FOPSIA, said three-day cut in power supply was a blow to the manufacturers and the units could not be run like this.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-industry-at-loss-due-to-power-cuts-278460
05-07-2021||Ludhiana||Drive against high-beam lights in Ludhiana||The Ludhiana traffic police have launched a special drive against the use of high-beam lights. The purpose of the drive is to encourage safe driving and to prevent road mishaps.Joint Commissioner of Police Deepak Pareek said Varunjit Singh, ACP (Traffic), had been directed to challan vehicles using high-beam lights during night. During one such drive on the Ferozepur road on Saturday night, 35 vehicles, including cars, buses etc, were challaned.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/drive-against-high-beam-lights-in-ludhiana-278448
05-07-2021||---||Five cell phones seized from Ludhiana central jail inmates||Ludhiana, July 4A surprise checking conducted by officials at the Ludhiana central jail here on Saturday led to the recovery of five mobile phones and 33 sachets of chewable tobacco.The Jail Department has lodged a FIR against six inmates in this regard. They have been identified as Amarjit Singh, Bhushan Gill, Lakhbir Singh, Makky, Ajay Kumar and Balwinder Singh.Assistant Superintendent Harminder Singh said the department conducted surprise checks from time to time to prevent the entry and use of items banned on the premises.He said after registering a report in the present case, the Jail Department had also started a probe to establish if any jail officials had helped the inmates facilitate the delivery of such banned items into the jail.A few days ago, head warden Ravinder Singh was nabbed by jail officials and two packets of chewable tobacco and 70 gram drug powder was recovered from him.A case under various sections of the Prison Act has been registered against the jail inmates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/five-cell-phones-seized-from-ludhiana-central-jail-inmates-278443
05-07-2021||Harshraj Singh||Despite loss of lives, pedestrians’ safety ignored in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 4Sher Singh (85), a resident of New Janta Nagar, received multiple injuries in a road mishap recently. He was crossing a busy stretch near the PSPCL office on Gill Road, Ludhiana, where no zebra crossing or pedestrian traffic signal is available.Everyday, many pedestrians can be seen trying to cross busy city roads, putting their lives in danger in the absence of zebra crossings. A number of pedestrians have lost their lives in various mishaps but no concrete steps have been taken so far to avoid such incidents.Sher Singh, president of the Environmental & Welfare Association, has demanded that the authorities ensure safety of pedestrians. There were no footpaths in a majority of the city while zebra crossings too were missing from most of the roads.“About a week ago, I was crossing the road when a two-wheeler rammed into me. I received a fracture on my wrist and injuries on other parts of the body. There was a divider where the mishap took place but no zebra crossing was available for pedestrians. Even the facility of pedestrian traffic lights was not there,” Sher Singh said.Many pedestrians face inconvenience while crossing the busy Link Road outside the Ludhiana bus stand too. In the absence of any foot-over bridge or underpass, they are forced to jump the divider.Pertinently, zebra crossings have been marked only at a few roads in the city while most of these have already faded. Also, some zebra crossings were drawn in the wrong manner in the past as dividers were causing obstructions. Thus, the pedestrians were forced to jump or walk along dividers to cross the road. The MC had corrected some of the zebra crossings but others were left uncorrected.Also, the height of some traffic islands is too high, causing inconveniences to the pedestrians. Advertisement hoardings, booths and other structures on footpaths and traffic islands at various locations are also a cause of worry.Rajat Sood, a businessman, said: “The MC must take required steps to ensure the safety of pedestrians on a priority basis. Zebra crossings and traffic signals should be installed and advertisements unipoles, hoardings, booths and other structures should be removed from footpaths and traffic islands. Moreover, the traffic police should keep a check on the speed of vehicles to avoid mishaps.”Meanwhile, a resident of Aman Nagar near Jalandhar Bypass said, “We have raised a demand for a foot-over bridge many times, as it is difficult to cross the national highway stretch, but in vain. Some fatal mishaps have also taken place there.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/despite-loss-of-lives-pedestrians-safety-ignored-in-ludhiana-278435
05-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Minister oversees removal of drain encroachments in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, July 4Punjab Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu oversaw the removal of encroachments on the seasonal rain drain near Panj Peer Road in Ward Number 78 today. With this, the water logging problems of the main Panj Peer Road and some 15 localities in the vicinity would get solved.Accompanied by Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and senior MC officials, Ashu also inspected the cleaning of the main sewer lines in Maharishi Valmiki Nagar, to be carried out at a total cost of Rs 59 lakh.The minister said due to encroachments by some dairy owners on the seasonal drain, rainwater was not able to end up in the Budha Nullah, resulting in water logging on Panj Peer Road and in surrounding localities. “Now, encroachments have been removed with the efforts of officials from MC as well as the Irrigation and Drainage departments,” he said.Ashu claimed that close to 15,000 residents of Mandeep Nagar, New Surya Vihar, Mehar Singh Colony, Chand Colony, Radhe Sham Colony, Corporation Colony, Mayur Vihar, Sukhdev Enclave, Amrit Colony, Haibowal Dairy Complex Block B and several others would be directly benefitted.Earlier, interacting with residents of Maharishi Valmiki Nagar, Rajguru Nagar, Goodwill Park in B block of Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar and other localities, he assured that all their issues would be resolved on priority basis. Congress leaders Sunil Kapor, Sunil Datt, Inderjit Indi and MC Superintendent Engineer Ravinder Garg accompanied Ashu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/minister-oversees-removal-of-drain-encroachments-in-ludhiana-278432
05-07-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Fake currency gang members committed 26 frauds in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 4As the police arrested three members of a gang indulging in duping people by exchanging their fake currency notes with real ones of the victims recently, their interrogation revealed that the gang had roots in the entire state and it had committed 35 fraud incidents in Punjab and Ambala with the same modus operandi in the past around two years.The three gang members were arrested while committing a fraud outside Allahabad Bank at the Jamalpur chowk where they had lured a brother-sister duo to take Rs 1.5 lakh and give them only Rs 25,000 on Friday. Only two currency notes put on the upper and lower side of the bundle were real and the rest were either fake notes or white papers but they convinced them that they were carrying real currency notes.The arrested members were identified as Ram Saroop of Gobindsar Shimlapuri mohalla, Taranjit Singh of SAS Nagar mohalla, near Military camp, and Ram Darsh of Dhandari Khurd. Other gang members, Ranjan of Dhandari Khurd and Amit of Puneet Nagar, are yet to be arrested.ADCP-IV Rupinder Kaur Sran said: “The gang had been active in the city for the past few years but this time its members had been apprehended after they committed their first crime in Ludhiana. The police would bust the entire gang by arresting its two remaining members so that people are not duped of their hard-earned money.The trio were arrested by the team of Jamalpur police station SHO Kulwant Malhi. Earlier, the gang was headed by Ram Saroop. He was operating with Ranjan and Amit. Later, Ranjan and Amit were declared proclaimed offenders by the courts of Ambala and Khanna, said the ADCP.“Afterwards, Ram Saroop formed a new group with Taranjeet and Ram Darsh. They got bail from a jail in December 2020. Interestingly, the gang have committed around 35 such fraud incidents, including 12 in Ludhiana, nine in Ambala, seven each in Khanna and Gobindgarh,” said the ADCP.The ADCP advised people not to fall for any luring offers made by such miscreants. “These miscreants are mainly present outside banks and sometimes they reach public places to target migrants. They offer people more money in return for less amount. Our police team will now roam around banks in civvies to keep a tab over such fraudsters,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/fake-currency-gang-members-committed-26-frauds-in-punjab-278431
05-07-2021||---||GLADA Estate: 35 residential plots, 3 SCO sites open for allotment again||Kuldip BhatiaLudhiana, July 4The Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) has come out with yet another offer for sale of 35 free-holding residential plots and three SCO sites in its under-development colony GLADA Estate on the 80-feet-wide Sua Road (behind Keys Hotel) here. The residential plots, measuring 100 square yard each, are open for allotment through draw of lots while the shop-cum-office (SCO) sites, with area of 138 square yard each, are to be sold through e-auction. The scheme, both for submission of application for allotmentof residential plots and bidding for SCOs, would close on July 7, 2021.Contrary to its high hopes of selling residential plots and commercial sites in the much touted new colony, GLADAhas been rather unlucky because even after three offers, the responsefrom the buyers has been lukewarm.Ever since GLADA Estate colony was launched in June last year, three offers have been made – twice in March and April this year— in which a total of 123 plots were sold while only six of the nine SCO sites foundbuyers. Being a self-financing residential scheme, poor response from buyers is now draining GLADA resources in terms of carrying out internal development works in the colony.As per the offer document, out of the 35 residential plots for sale, five were reserved for economically weaker sections (EWS), who would have to pay the price of Rs 26,100 per square yard as against Rs 29,000 per square yard being charged from applicants in the general category. Similarly, the reserve price for SCOs has been fixed at Rs 87,000 per square yard.Applicants for residential plots would have to pay 10 per cent of the total cost of plot as earnest money with the application and eligibility fee for taking part in the e-bidding for SCO sites.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/glada-estate-35-residential-plots-3-sco-sites-open-for-allotment-again-278430
05-07-2021||---||13 fresh cases of Covid-19 in Ludhiana district||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 4Today, 13 persons tested positive for Covid-19 while no death was reported in the district.Today 10,177 samples were taken in Ludhiana district and the recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 97.31 per cent while the case fatality rate is 2.40 per cent.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said under “Mission Fateh” of the Punjab Government, the number of Covid patients getting cured in Ludhiana district was increasing with each passing day.He said at present, there were 255 active patients in the district.A total of 19 patients (13 new patients from Ludhiana district and six from other states/districts) have tested positive in the past 24 hours. Till date, a total of 17,58,380 samples have been taken, of which reports of 17,58,380 samples have been received. Of these, 16,59,819 samples were found negative. The total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 87,036, while 11,525 patients belong to other districts/states. The total number of persons who lost their lives include 2,086 persons from Ludhiana and 1,041 from other districts.He said whenever the district administration or the Health Department, Ludhiana, finds out about any positive or suspected Covid patient, their samples were sent for testing. As many as, 10,177 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results were expected shortly.The Deputy Commissionerappealed to residents to adhere to all Covid safety protocols of the state government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/13-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-in-ludhiana-district-278429
05-07-2021||---||Nepalese servants flee with cash, valuables from house in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 4A Nepalese couple, employed a month ago as domestic helps by a businessman family in Model Town, decamped with cash and valuables worth lakhs of rupees on Saturday night. Before committing the crime, the duo served elderly couple Hari Singh (79), his wife Gursharan Kaur (76) and four other servants food laced with sedatives.The accused had also reportedly called two of their accomplices (a man and a woman) to commit the crime. They had switched off CCTV cameras installed at the house before committing the crime. However, the couple, Anil Bahadur and his wife Sushmita, and two of their accomplices were captured in the CCTV cameras installed in nearby houses which show all four going out of the house at around 10 pm on Saturday night.Elderly couple, 4 servants under treatmentAfter the incident came to fore this morning, the police reached the spot and shifted the elderly couple and four servants to a hospital where their condition was now stated to be stable.After the incident came to fore this morning, the police reached the spot and shifted the elderly couple and four servants to a hospital where their condition was now stated to be stable.The house is owned by industrialist Gurmeet Singh, who owns Jassal Forgings near Ramgarh. Other family members of the couple had gone to Dehradun and the duo was alone at home.Later, ADCP Sameer Verma, ACP Jatinder Singh and Model Town SHO Inderjit Singh, along with a forensic team and a dog squad, reached the spot.Four servants who are under treatment at the hospital are Rumila (19), Suman (16), Khema Nand (50), and Swaran Singh (60).The incident came to light this morning when a gurdwara priest came to the house and found the couple and the four servants lying unconcsious. Afterwards, he raised an alarm and called local residents and the police.Though the police are yet to reveal the exact value of valuables and cash, unconfirmed sources said the accused had decamped with around Rs 40 lakh in cash and jewellery.Sources said the Nepalese couple was employed by the family through some agency and the police were in touch with the agent to get the exact whereabouts of the suspects. However, his cell phone was switched off since the duo left the house.The ADCP said the police had got clues about the two servants and they would be nabbed soon. A case had been registered against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/nepalese-servants-flee-with-cash-valuables-from-house-in-ludhiana-278428
