06-07-2021||Ludhiana||Woman nabs snatcher at Jawahar Nagar Market in Ludhiana||An alert woman caught hold of a snatcher’s Activa scooter while he was fleeing after snatching her daughter’s purse in the crowded Jawahar Nagar Market on Sunday. The snatcher, identified as Sachin Sharma, a resident of Sant Nagar in Ghumar Mandi, was overpowered by the passers-by as both Sunita Ghai and her daughter Tania, residents of Shaheed Karnail Singh Nagar, raised an alarm. The accused was later handed over to police and was booked under Sections 379-B(2)/511 of the IPC.In another incident, the police nabbed Mohammed Asif, a resident of Punjabi Bagh, and recovered four snatched mobile phone handsets and a stolen Honda motorcycle (PB-10BU-6842). The accused has been charged under Sections 379/379-B/411 of the IPC. The police said on a tip off, the accused was intercepted at a naka near T-Point of Sanjay Gandhi Colony while riding a stolen motorcycle. He was on his way to sell snatched mobile phones. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/woman-nabs-snatcher-at-jawahar-nagar-market-in-ludhiana-278886
06-07-2021||Nitin Jain||IRS Tanya Bains made highest arrests of GST fraudsters in country||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 5A 2016-batch Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officer of the Central Goods and Service Tax (CGST) Commissionerate in Ludhiana has been credited with making the highest number of arrests in the GST fraud cases in the country.This young woman Deputy Commissioner of the anti-evasion wing, Tanya Bains, has arrested 18 fraudsters in six cases of fake invoices worth Rs 1599.91 crore in which the state exchequer had suffered a loss of Rs 191.94 crore.Acknowledging her exceptional contribution and promotion of excellence in the GST-related matters, she was awarded the commendation certificate by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman recently. She was the only officer from the entire Chandigarh zone, comprising Chandigarh, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir, who was honoured on the fourth GST Day.It was in November 2020, when, as per the directions of the Central Board of Indirect Taxes & Customs (CBIC) Chairman, the CGST DC had launched a special drive against fake invoices. She detected fake invoices worth Rs 1599.91 crore in six cases, wherein Rs 191.94 crore of fake ITC (input tax credit) was claimed. In these six cases, 18 persons, including a Chartered Accountant, were arrested.Besides unearthing fake invoice cases, she built cases relating to misclassification, e-way bill, including smuggled imported cigarettes case, fraudulent claims of ITC cases where parties availed more ITC. A total of Rs 201.98 crore of duty evasion was detected, of which Rs 33.26 crore was recovered.She argued the case against India’s former Attorney General and former Solicitor General of India Mukul Rohtagi, resulting in the High Court order wherein interim relief was denied to the petitioner. This was a landmark judgment against grant of interim relief to fraudsters under GST laws having pan India ramifications.She not only laid emphasis on her informer building sources, data gathering and analysis through BIFA (Business intelligence and fraud analytics) and NETRA (Network exploration tool for revenue augmentation) tools, e-way bill portal, but also defended the cases in the Supreme and High Courts.Her efforts led to revenue recovery of Rs 33.26 crore in these cases.She prepared the prosecution in a bogus billing case worth Rs 158 crore, in which six persons, including a Chartered Accountant and the mastermind, were arrested.It was the first prosecution filed by the Deputy Commissioner in the entire zone in the bogus billing cases.“She never hesitates in leading from the front even at odd hours and does not let gender become an obstruction to the execution of her official duties,” recalls one of her senior colleagues.In one such operation, Tanya led the search team, consisting of 16 male staffers, from Ludhiana to Noida late in the night. The operation began early next morning and lasted for about 16 hours in Noida and culminated in the arrest of the mastermind, who was responsible for running a fake invoice racket worth Rs 158 crore. A recovery of Rs 2 crore was also made in this case.Being the nodal officer for e-way bill data analysis in the zone, she led her team during late hours in the evening to intercept a container carrying wrongly declared goods. Rs 45.82 lakh was recovered in this case.She was also the nodal officer in-charge for NETRA tool and was proficient at BIFA tool.Besides, her data mining skills had helped in expediting the process of analysis of supply chain in the refund claims, following which fraudulent refunds of over Rs 2 crore had been prevented from being sanctioned.The CGST DC also launched the digitisation of all live cases, resulting in expeditious disposal of issues even during Covid restrictions. So far, 10,000 pages have been digitised in the ongoing investigations.“Her contribution has led to significant GST revenue collection, fraud deterrence and fresh contours in the legal landscape of GST in the country,” the department noted, while acknowledging her services.Awarded commendation certificate recentlyAcknowledging her exceptional contribution and promotion of excellence in the GST-related matters, Deputy Commissioner of the anti-evasion wing, Tanya Bains, was awarded the commendation certificate by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman recently.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/irs-tanya-bains-made-highest-arrests-of-gst-fraudsters-in-country-278887
06-07-2021||---||Residents protest erratic water supply in Ludhiana's Ward 31||Ludhiana, July 5 As the Municipal Corporation failed to resolve the issue of water scarcity in various parts of Ward 31, residents staged a protest against the authorities at the MC’s Zone C office today. They gave a warning that if water supply was not restored, they would be forced to gherao the MC Commissioner’s residence in days to come. The residents complained that they had been suffering due to the erratic water supply for the past two-three months but civic body officials had failed to pay any heed to their grievances. Residents of Gagan Nagar, Guru Nanak Nagar, Ajit Singh Colony and Maya Singh Nagar took part in the protest. Many people living in affected areas are from economically weaker sections. The protesters accused the MC officials of ignoring problems of poor people. Rajesh Mishra of Gagan Nagar said people were facing a lot of issues during this scorching summer season in the absence of water supply. “The MC has left people to die without water. It is difficult for us to make arrangements for water. Despite our repeated complaints, the MC has failed to resolve the matter. When we held a protest today, the officials claimed that the two defunct tube wells be made functional soon”, he alleged. A protesting woman said: “We need water for drinking, cooking, bathing, washing and other purposes. But there is no water supply in the area for a long time. We were forced to hold a protest today as the MC officials had failed to listen to our grievances.” Notably, residents of some parts of ward 31 had raised the matter of erratic water supply last year too. The councillor concerned had earlier also blamed the civic body for not resolving the water issue in affected areas. Meanwhile, Superintending Engineer of the MC O&M branch Ravinder Garg could not be contacted for comments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/residents-protest-erratic-water-supply-in-ludhianas-ward-31-278888
06-07-2021||---||One succumbs, 11 positive in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, July 5 Today 11 persons tested positive for Covid, while one person lost his life due to the virus in the district. As many as 9,032 samples for Covid test were taken in Ludhiana district and the recovery rate of patients has reached at 97.35 per cent, while case fatality rate now is 2.40 per cent. There are 255 active patients in the district at present and 84,737 patients have recovered till now. A total of 13 patients — 11 from Ludhiana district and two from other states/districts — have tested positive for Covid in the last 24 hours. Till date, a total of 17,67,412 samples have been taken, out of which reports of 17,67,412 samples have been received. As many as 16,68,838 samples were found to be negative. The total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 87,047, while 11,527 patients belong to other districts/states. The total number of patients who lost their lives to the disease is 2,087 from Ludhiana and 1,041 from other districts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/one-succumbs-11-positive-in-ludhiana-district-278889
06-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Five persons booked in two fraud cases||Ludhiana, July 5On the basis of a complaint by Jaswinder Singh, a resident of Kohara Road, Sahnewal, four persons have been booked under Sections 420/465/467/468/471/120-B of the IPC for fraud. The accused, identified as Rajan Kumar, a resident of Mohalla Tandona, Payal; Brij Mohan of Lalton Kalan; Sharanjit Singh, a resident of Janta Nagar; and Keshav of Ward No 5, Payal; had reportedly fabricated documents to mislead court and obtain a stay order on Jaswinder’s land.He had lodged a complaint stating that the accused persons had hatched a criminal conspiracy under which the date of purchase of stamp papers was tempered with and a forged agreement in back date was prepared in respect of 4 kanal 7 marla land owned by his company. On the basis of this forged agreement, the accused persons had obtained a stay order on the land. The police were investigating the matter.In another case of fraud and cheating, the police have booked Sandeep Darauch Bhardwaj, a resident of Indra Colony, Joshian Mohalla, Phagwara, under Sections 420 of the IPC on the complaint of Kuldeep Singh, a resident of Azad Nagar in Shimpalpuri. The complainant said the accused had promised to get his son recruited as an SP in Haryana. Between March 2018 and November 2019, he had taken a total amount of Rs 20.30 lakh through bank transfers in his account with Phagwara branch of Dena Bank but did not secure a job for his son.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/five-persons-booked-in-two-fraud-cases-278890
06-07-2021||Harshraj Singh||Sewers continue to overflow on Giaspura road in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 5Even after the MC upgraded the sewerage system and then reconstructed the stretch, the sewers are overflowing badly on the main Giaspura road once again, leaving the commuters to face a harrowing time.The area residents and industrialists raised questions over the working of the MC due to sewer water accumulation on the stretch that links the Giaspura areas with the National Highway 44.The residents had hoped to heave a sigh of relief from the chronic problem of overflowing sewers when the sewerage system was upgraded but to no avail.Two-wheelers generally lose balance while passing through accumulated water on the stretch these days. There are many factories in the areas and workers are also forced to pass through the accumulated sewage to reach their workstations these days.An industrialist Upkar Singh Sahni, who is president of the Giaspura Industrial Welfare Association, said, “The MC had earlier upgraded the sewer line and the stretch was reconstructed on the Giaspura road. We had suffered for about nine months due to these works. Now, the sewers are overflowing once again on the road. When the sewerage system has been upgraded, why the problem has recurred?”Sahni said, “It is difficult to drive a car on the road due to water accumulation. Even the pedestrians are forced to walk through accumulated sewage. The sewer water accumulation may harm the recently constructed road too.”A factory worker at Giaspura said, “We are forced to walk through the accumulated sewer water in routine. My clothes get stained and shoe becomes wet. The chances of catching skin infection and other diseases remain high but nobody pay any attention.” The residents demanded that the civic body resolve the matter at the earliest.A senior AAP leader, Ahbaab Singh Grewal, raised the question that if the sewerage system has been upgraded, why the problem has occurred again? He said a probe should be conducted into the matter and the MC must take necessary steps to provide relief to the people at the earliest.Superintending Engineer, MC, Ravinder Garg could not be contacted for comments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sewers-continue-to-overflow-on-giaspura-road-in-ludhiana-278891
06-07-2021||Ludhiana||Three nabbed for looting Rs 1.03L from scrap dealer||The city police claimed to have arrested three persons involved in looting Rs 1.03 lakh from a scrap dealer in the Industrial Estate area, near Miller Ganj, after threatening the victim, Jatinder Nagpal, with a sharp-edged weapon on June 23 here.The accused have been identified as Arun Kumar of Dr Ambedkar Nagar, Model Town, Dharminder, alias Magga, of Basti Abdullapur and Inderjit Singh, alias Gora, of Mohalla Gobindsar, Shimlapuri.In his statement to the police, Jatinder had said on the morning of June 23 when he was about to open his shop, he saw two persons riding a silver motorcycle. Their faces were covered with cloth.“When I opened the shop and placed my bag containing cash underneath the AC, the duo returned and the one riding pillion asked me about Sunny, who, as per him, was employed at the shop. When I told them that no such person was working here, the duo barged into the shop and threatened me with a sword. The duo also sprinkled red chilly powder into my eyes and fled the spot after snatching the bag containing Rs 1.03 lakh,” said the scrap dealer.After registration of a case, the police had launched an investigation and on the basis of information provided by the victim, the police today arrested the trio. They already have a criminal background and cases registered against them were being probed.The police have seized a sword, a silver motorcycle without registration number, some fake vehicle number plates and Rs 20,000 in cash from them. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/three-nabbed-for-looting-rs-1-03l-from-scrap-dealer-278892
06-07-2021||Sports Correspondent
||Jarkhar academy pip Sangrur XI 5-4, claim hockey league trophy||Ludhiana, July 5 Mata Sahib Kaur Hockey Academy, Jarkhar, stamped its superiority by clinching the title of Mangal Singh Hockey League, that concluded at Nankana Sahib Public School, Rampur Chhana (Amargarh), in Sangrur district on Sunday. Six teams battled it out in the league during which matches were played on the astroturf. Players from Jarkhar Hockey Academy proved too good for their opponents and went on to lift the winners’ trophy. In the first encounter, Jarkhar Academy prevailed over Amloh XI 5-4. They then got the better of Amargarh XI 9-6, drew 3-3 against Kila Raipur XI and defeated Bhawanigarh XI 8-5. In the last fixture, Jarkhar Academy outperformed Sangrur XI 5-4 to emerge champions. Ravinder Singh Kala scored three goals while Jatinder Pal Singh and Lovejit Singh accounted for one goal each for the winning side whereas Sanjay Kumar and Sukhpreet Singh scored a brace each for the losing side. Jarkhar Academy received a cash prize of Rs 15,000, in addition to the trophy. Iqbal Singh, former MLA and secretary of Nankana Sahib Public School, gave away the prizes to the winners while Inderjit Singh, chief organiser of the league, thanked the participating teams and dignitaries present.  Narinder Pal Singh Sidhu, advocate Harkamal Singh and Jagroop Singh Jarkhar, chairman, president and chief organiser of Jarkhar Sports Festival committee, along with other office-bearers, namely Jagdeep Singh Kahlon, Narain Singh Grewal, Navtej Singh Teja, Yadvinder Singh Toor, sarpanch Balwinder Singh Mehmoodpura, Daljeet Singh and Mohna Jodha, congratulated the team players on their victory.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/jarkhar-academy-pip-sangrur-xi-5-4-claim-hockey-league-trophy-278893
06-07-2021||---||PAU webinar on cultivation of kharif crops||LUDHIANA, JULY 5The Department of Extension Education, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), organised a webinar on “Successful Cultivation of Kharif Crops”, under the guidance of Dr Kuldeep Singh, Head, Department of Extension Education. About 40 farmers from Siddhwan Bet block attended the webinar.Dr Tosh Garg, maize breeder, Department of Plant Breeding and Genetics, acquainted the farmers with the cultivation practices of maize hybrid PMH 13.Dr Sherajit Singh Mand, Agriculture Extension Officer, Siddhwan Bet, shared the experiences of farmers with respect to trials on direct seeded rice. The farmers also shared their experiences pertaining to hard crusts formed in DSR and rodent problem. Their queries were addressed by agronomist Dr Manpreet Singh.Dr Manmeet and Dr Lopamudra Mohapatra, PAU experts, shared the status of demonstrations laid in Siddhwan Bet block. “Diversification is the need of the hour and through such demonstrations, farmers can be made aware of the opportunities which they can avail by linking with the university,” Dr Manmeet added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pau-webinar-on-cultivation-of-kharif-crops-278894
06-07-2021||Ludhiana||Contractual workers seek  benefits||Contractual employees of the Civil Hospital here today protested outside the hospital campus demanding security and other benefits. One of the contractual hospital employees, Meena, recently died in a road accident. The protesting employees said the hospital authorities were not bothered to ask about the well being of her family or give any compensation to them. “Even the police are not taking action and the culprit has not been arrested so far. We demand justice for Meena and her family should also be given compensation,” said Sunny, a contractual employee. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/contractual-workers-seek-benefits-278895
06-07-2021||Harshraj Singh||Save Ludhiana's Bhai Chattar Singh Park, residents write to CM||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 5Residents of Harnam Nagar, Model Town, have opposed the MC’s decision to set up a waste compactor in the city’s prominent Bhai Chattar Singh Park.Now, members of the Harnam Nagar Residents Welfare Association have written to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh against the MC’s move. They appealed to the CM to save the park.They said Bhai Chattar Singh Park was the only park in their area where children usually play and elderly go for a walk. Thus, they don’t want to see any waste compactor be set up in the park. The residents said the compactor must be set up away from any residential area and market.A senior member of the association, Simran Panesar, who is also a school principal, said: “I am a resident of Harnam Nagar and there is only one park in the area for residents. Unfortunately, the MC is going to set up a static compactor there. When talks are held to make a ‘Swachh’ Ludhiana, why the compactor is being set up in the park. There is a need to improve the solid waste management system in the city, but the waste compactor should be set up outside the city and away from residential areas.”Another senior member and a retired bank official, Vijay Puri, said: “It is one of the oldest parks of the city but always ignored by successive governments. Parks are meant for the public not for setting up waste compactors. We request the Chief Minister that directions be issued to the authorities concerned not to set up any compactor in the park.”Advocate Kulbir Singh, who is the legal adviser of the association, said: “I want to give a suggestion that the MC must set up the waste compactor away from the residential area, instead of setting it up in the park.”When the civic body had started the work on a part of the park to set up the compactor recently, some activists had also opposed the decision. However, a senior officer of the MC B&R branch had then claimed that they had got an order from the NGT for setting up a compactor at the park.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/save-ludhianas-bhai-chattar-singh-park-residents-write-to-cm-278896
06-07-2021||---||Auto drivers’ union seeks redress of issues||Ludhiana, July 5 Members of Zila Auto-Rickshaw Sangharsh Committee have submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner (DC) Ludhiana, requesting him to take steps for early redress of the problems being faced by them. Om Parkash, president of the union, said the Ludhiana police recently launched a special drive to verify all auto-rickshaws by equipping them with a unique ID. They welcomed the move but the government had kept the condition of presenting some documents for obtaining the unique ID number. Also, the government should reduce the fee for obtaining the ID number sticker from Rs 150 to Rs 50. He said challans of auto rickshaw drivers were pending in the courts and the RTO office due to the lockdown. The government should hold a Lok Adalat so that drivers could pay the challan fee and get their documents back. Also, the challan fee should be reduced.  The union members further demanded that a camp be organised to make licences of auto drivers. The fines imposed for incomplete documents should also be waived off and drivers should be given a chance to get the documents completed. They had already suffered due to a hike in fuel and gas prices and some were not even in the condition to pay loan installments. The auto-rickshaw drivers rued that their counterpartes in Delhi were given a relief of Rs 5,000 twice but no such relief had been provided in Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/auto-drivers-union-seeks-redress-of-issues-278897
06-07-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Work withdrawn from senior engineer, inquiry ordered||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 5Principal Secretary, Science, Technology and Environment, Anurag Verma has withdrawn all work from Senior Environmental Engineer, Zonal Office-II, Ludhiana, Sandeep Behl and has issued orders that Behl will report at the head office, Patiala, till the time the an inquiry against him on corruption charges is conducted.There are serious “corruption” charges against Behl, framed by the Bahadurke Dyeing Association members. Highly placed sources inform that an affidavit along with a complaint has been submitted against Behl to the Chairman, PPCB, by members of the Bahadur Ke Textile and Knitwear Association. The members have submitted that the association is operating a common effluent treatment plant (CETP) at Bahadur Ke Road.In their complaint to the chairman, the members wrote that they were getting threats from the official that a good amount be given to him if the CETP was to be run smoothly and the amount was handed over to the driver of the official in May 2021. The members said they were forced to complain against the official as he had now asked for fixed monthly amount else he would take undue actions and disturb the CETP operations, alleged the members in the complaint.Taking cognisance of the complaint, Anurag Verma has marked an inquiry against the officer. Talking to The Tribune, Verma said corruption will never be tolerated in the department. Strict action will be taken against those found guilty of harassing industry for money.Meanwhile, Sandeep Behl said it is a deep-rooted conspiracy against him by one of the senior officials as his promotion as Chief Engineer is due. He said the complaint made against him has been withdrawn but if any orders are issued, he will cooperate fully in the inquiry. “I do not know the contents of the complaint but will boldly face it and will come clean,” said Behl.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/work-withdrawn-from-senior-engineer-inquiry-ordered-278898
06-07-2021||---||Cooler water at Ludhiana Civil Hospital not drinkable: Patient||Ludhiana, July 5A patient visiting Civil Hospital has complained about the deteriorating condition of water coolers on the hospital premises and also submitted a memorandum to the Senior Medical Officer in this regard. He has also complained about other problems being faced by the visiting patients.Sukrit Sharma, a thalassaemia patient, who regularly visits Civil Hospital for taking medicines, said most of the water coolers in Civil Hospital are not working and that which are working are in deplorable condition.“A few days back when I came to Civil Hospital to collect my medicine, I drank water from a water cooler and later my stomach got upset. I got the water at the Civil Hospital checked by a filter purity device and it showed the value of more than 400 TDS. The drinking water TDS should be around 50-150,” he said.He added that there are 12-15 toilets at Civil Hospital but only two-three are open and rest remain locked. Only wash basin is working and that too is in bad condition.“There is no proper security and patients and their family members often complain about thefts. Parking fee is more than the OPD slip charges,” he added.SMO, Amarjit Kaur said before the start of summers, she had got all the water coolers and taps repaired and made them functional.“There are two water coolers, the wires and pipes of which are regularly disconnected and cut by some miscreants. Regarding other complaints related to bathrooms and sewerage, for that, the renovation project has already sanctioned been and work has started. It will take five-six months for the project to complete and all the shortcomings will be removed. I will get the water of the cooler checked and take action accordingly,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cooler-water-at-ludhiana-civil-hospital-not-drinkable-patient-278899
06-07-2021||---||Protesting staff burn Punjab FM Manpreet Badal’s effigy over 6th Pay Commission report||Ludhiana, July 5 Members of Water Supply and Sanitation Employees Union, Punjab, on Monday staged a protest against Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal over the 6th Pay Commission report. The staff were protesting outside their office near Old Courts area in Ludhiana.  The employees also burnt an effigy of the minister. They said they were not satisfied with the Pay Commission report, which was an example of the anti-employee policies of the state government. Balbir Singh Sidhwan, president of the Ludhiana unit of the association, said there were many flaws in the report. The service rules made by the state government were also not in favour of employees.  The protesters demanded that the government make required amendments in the Pay Commission report and service rules to benefit the employees or face more agitation. Union leaders Kulwinder Singh, Sukkhjiwan Singh and Gurdwinder Singh Bajwa also took part in the protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/protesting-staff-burn-punjab-fm-manpreet-badals-effigy-over-6th-pay-commission-report-278900
06-07-2021||---||Ludhiana civic body discusses 178 resolutions||Ludhiana, July 5The Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) of the Municipal Corporation (MC) discussed 178 resolutions in the meeting held at the Mayor’s camp office on Monday.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said most of the resolutions that were approved in the meeting were related to work orders of development works to be carried out in different wards of the city.A file regarding carcass utilisation plant was also approved and the plant would be made operational soon, he said. The panel will discuss the remaining resolutions of the agenda on Tuesday. The panel is likely to take a decision on a third-party firm’s demand regarding a hike in the tipping fee for the lifting of garbage from secondary collection points tomorrow.Sandhu said a committee, which was formed to take a decision on the firm’s demand, would give its report tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-civic-body-discusses-178-resolutions-278901
06-07-2021||Students of SDP College for Women excelled in the BCom semester 2 results. Kashish bagged the first position in the college by securing 553/660 (83.78 per cent)||Students of SDP College for Women, Ludhiana, excel in BCom exams||VanaMahotsav celebratedVanamahotsav was organised on the Arya College premises as a part of Go green initiative of the Eco Club in collaboration with the IQAC. A tree plantation drive was undertaken on the occasion which was initiated by Satisha Sharma, Secretary, ACMC, and Principal Dr Savita Uppal. Saplings of air purifying trees with medicinal value were enthusiastically planted by students and staff followed by a pledge to preserve trees.Student selected judicial officerA student of LLM (Master of Laws) at CT University, Tina Malhotra, has been selected as a judicial officer in Himachal Pradesh, the university authorities stated. CT University Vice-Chancellor Dr Harsh Sadawarti and principal, School of Law, Dr Simranjeet Kaur Gill, congratulated the student.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/students-of-sdp-college-for-women-ludhiana-excel-in-bcom-exams-278902
06-07-2021||Ludhiana||Man nabbed for smuggling liquor||One arrested for bootleggingLudhiana: Ranjit Singh, a resident of Chaunta village, PS Koom Kalan, was arrested for bootlegging and booked under Sections 61/1/14 of the Excise Act. On a tip off, police conducted a raid at his house and uncovered a working still. Police said 25 litre ‘lahan’ (raw liquor) was seized from the accused. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-nabbed-for-smuggling-liquor-278903
