09-07-2021||Nitin Jain||AIIB sends $105 mn for 24x7 drinking water supply project in Ludhiana, Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 8Another financial support of $105 million has arrived for the much-awaited 24x7 canal-based surface drinking water supply project in Ludhiana and Amritsar, the government has confirmed.The Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) has approved the financial aid after an equal amount of $105 million was sanctioned by the World Bank (WB) recently.Both the international banks have approved their 35 per cent share each for the Punjab Municipal Services Improvement Project (PMSIP) to strengthen urban services in Ludhiana and Amritsar, the two largest cities in Punjab, while the state government will bear the rest $90 million, which accounted for 30 per cent, a senior government functionary told The Tribune on Thursday.The PMSIP is expected to cost US $300 million, of which the WB and AIIB share is 70 per cent, under which they have approved $210-million, while Punjab’s share is 30 per cent, amounting to $90-million.The project has been approved by the Union Ministry of Finance’s Department of Economic Affairs and posed to the WB and the AIIB for external financing.The Punjab Municipal Infrastructure Development Corporation (PMIDC) under the Local Government Department has initiated the PMSIP aimed at improving service delivery in Ludhiana and Amritsar by strengthening municipal governance finance and service delivery systems and capacities for this project with technical and financial support of the WB and AIIB.A major focus of the project will be on providing efficient water supply and sanitation services in Ludhiana and Amritsar, cities that are the engines of economic growth for the state. The improvement in the water supply will benefit more than three million people in 2025 and an estimated five million projected population in 2055. Industrial and commercial users would also benefit from the good quality reliable water supply.In Ludhiana, the project will cost Rs 1,942 crore, which will be spent for water treatment plant, transmission and storage, including Rs 700 crore for 10 years of operation and maintenance.The land for water treatment plant and other ancillaries is under acquisition and the same is also being reviewed at the level of the World Bank for conducting social and environmental studies.The site selection committee, headed by Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, has approved 54 acres of land at Bilga village in Ludhiana.The request for proposal (RFP) to engage contractors on design, build, operate and transfer (DBOT) basis has also been forwarded to the World Bank for approval, following which the tenders will be floated.In Amritsar, the project will cost Rs 1,156.2 crore, including Rs 686.2 crore for water treatment plant, transmission and storage, besides Rs 470 crore for operation and maintenance services.The land for the water treatment plant and other ancillaries has already been acquired.The work has been awarded for execution of a bulk water supply project, which will be completed in three years.Present statusPresently, Ludhiana and Amritsar draw their water by pumping out groundwater from hundreds of bore-wells dug up across the two cities. Pumping groundwater directly from these bore-wells leads to significant water loss and wastage as households are not incentivised to save. Studies have also revealed that Ludhiana’s groundwater is contaminated with nitrates and other heavy metals, while Amritsar district’s with arsenic.Future planThe project will shift water supply from rapidly depleting and highly contaminated groundwater sources, to a centralised treatment plant drawing water from local canals (surface water sources). This shift is likely to have significant health benefits, studies have shown.Funding patternThe project will finance all new raw water systems, water treatment plants, transmission systems, and reservoirs to supply clean water to cover entire cities under the DBOT contract. The DBOT operator will manage the operations and maintenance of these water supply systems under the direct supervision of the Municipal Corporations in the two cities through city-level water utilities.The project will also provide sub-grants to all the Municipal Corporations in Punjab to finance critical non-medical interventions that address impacts of the Covid crisis, and to improve their readiness to tackle disasters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/aiib-sends-105-mn-for-24x7-drinking-water-supply-project-in-ludhiana-amritsar-280386
09-07-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Farmers honk to show resentment||Ludhiana, July 8To express their resentment against the persistent rise in prices of petrol, diesel and LPG, farmers parked diesel and petrol-run vehicles on the highways today, stacked LPG cylinders and then sounded horns of the vehicles for eight minutes – from 12.00 noon to 12.08 PM. The protest was held at Kohara Chowk on the Ludhiana-Chandigarh Road, Ladhowal toll plaza on GT Road and near MBD Mall on Ferozepur Road here.Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary of BKU-Lakhowal, who led the protest at Kohara Chowk, said it was a symbolic protest by farmers and a wakeup call for the government to curb the general price rise and bring down the prices of petrol, diesel and LPG in particular. The income of farmers, workers, employees and common people had shrunk during the pandemic and to add to their misery,the government controlled oil companies had been persistently jacking up prices of petroleum products.Addressing the protesting farmers at Ladhowal toll plaza, BKU-Kadian president Harmeet Singh Kadian lambasted both the Centre and state governments for the rising oil prices. He said the hike in prices of diesel and petrol was a double whammy for the poor because firstly they paid directly for purchasing fuel at higher rates and then also bore the brunt of inflation due to increased cost of transportation of goods.Addressing activists of BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan), district general secretary Sudagar Singh Ghudani sounded a warning to the Modi-led NDA Government that the ruling dispensation would have to pay a heavy price for its anti-people and anti-farmer policies and also for giving a free hand to oil marketing companies to loot the people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/farmers-honk-to-show-resentment-280387
09-07-2021||---||Four held with illegal weapons||Ludhiana, July 8The crime wing of the city police has arrested four persons and recovered illegal weapons from their possession.The accused have been identified as Mohd Ahmed (21), a student of Bsc, and Abhinav Kumar (20), both from Bihar. They were working in the transportation department of By-Flower Technology Limited. The other accused are fruit seller Aditya alias Abhi (21) of Rishi Nagar and Satinder Singh alias Happy (31) of Hambran road, working at Mansa Hardware Store in Ghumar Mandi.The police have recovered two country-made pistols of .32 bore and six live cartridges from the accused.Additional DCP (Investigations) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti said acting on a tip-off, a raid was conducted at Y Block in Rishi Nagar from where the accused were nabbed.During investigations, it came to the fore that the accused were members of Ganja gang. Ahmed is already facing three cases of loot, attempt to murder and one under the Arms Act at different police stations in Bihar while Satinder is facing two different cases at Haibowal police station here, ADCP Bhatti stated.Further probe in the case is underway to inquire if the accused had planned any robbery or any other crime in the city, the ADCP added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/four-held-with-illegal-weapons-280388
09-07-2021||---||15 test positive for Covid in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, July 8 Today 15 persons tested positive for Covid, while no death due to the disease was reported in the district. The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 97.40 per cent. There are 177 active Covid patients in the district at present and 84,836 patients have recovered till now. A total of 23 patients — 15 from Ludhiana district and eight from other states/districts —tested positive in the last 24 hours. Till date, a total of 17,97,319 samples have been taken, of which 16,98,678 samples were found negative. The total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 87,100 and the total number of persons who lost their lives to the disease is 2,087. Today 10,064 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing. A total of 133 patients were sent for home isolation today, while 29 patients are admitted to government/private hospitals and five patients are on ventilator support.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/15-test-positive-for-covid-in-ludhiana-district-280389
09-07-2021||Ludhiana||6-year-old girl crushed under Ludhiana cop’s car||A six-year-old girl was crushed to death by a rashly driven car at Gopal Nagar on the Tibba road on Thursday evening. The vehicle was being driven by a policeman. The deceased has been identified as Devika. The girl belongs to a migrant family. As per information, the ASI was heading towards the Tibba police station where he was deployed.  The girl’s kin and residents gathered in a large numbers at Gopal Nagar and blocked a road, demanding immediate registration of a case against the ASI. The protesters alleged that the ASI was driving rashly due to which he failed to notice the girl who was crossing the road. No case was registered by the Tibba police against the ASI till the filing of this report.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/6-year-old-girl-crushed-under-ludhiana-cops-car-280390
09-07-2021||---||Check water samples from areas along Buddha Nullah, Ludhiana dist admn told||Ludhiana, July 8 Raising question over the quality of water being supplied by the Municipal Corporation (MC), an AAP leader has demanded from the district administration and the Civil Surgeon, Ludhiana, to give an order to collect water samples from areas along the Buddha Nullah in the Ludhiana North constituency. In his complaint, AAP leader Keemti Rawal said some people misuse water pressure pumps as they put water in pipes to run pumps properly due to which chances of water contamination remain high. He claimed that sewage was also getting mixed in water supply pipes due to which people were forced to drink contaminated water. Rawal also questioned over the quality of water supply pipes of the MC, Ludhiana. He said many of the pipes in areas such as Chandar Nagar were about 30 years old and these need to be replaced at the earliest. Rawal blamed the civic body for not ensuring chlorination of the water in a proper way. In his letter, he also raised the matter of garbage dumps along the Buddha Nullah. As highly polluted water was released in the Buddha Nullah, it also contaminates the ground water in nearby areas, he said. “Water supply bills are hiked but safe drinking water is yet to be ensured. I have requested the DC, Ludhiana, and the Civil Surgeon to do the needful for testing of water samples from areas under the Ludhiana North constituency and safe drinking water be supplied to residents,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/check-water-samples-from-areas-along-buddha-nullah-ludhiana-dist-admn-told-280392
09-07-2021||---||NGO Hindu Sikh Jagriti Sena burns effigies of PM Modi, CMs to protest inflation||Ludhiana, July 8 To mark their protest against inflation and frequent hike in fuel and LPG prices, members of Hindu Sikh Jagriti Sena, a city-based NGO, burnt posters of chief ministers of various states and the Prime Minister at Jagraon Bridge, Ludhiana. The protest was led by Parveen Dang, who said that all political parties running governments in different states should reduce their share of taxes instead of putting blame on each other for inflation in the country. He said, “Inflation is at its peak in the country. The prices of kitchen items, edible oil and petrol and diesel are skyrocketing. In the second term of the Modi government, the cost is increasing in the same way as in the second term of Manmohan Singh government. There is no control of governments on essential items. Thus, we burnt the effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal and chief ministers of various states of the country today.” Another member of the NGO said, “It is the responsibility of the governments to control inflation but they failed to perform their task. The ruling and opposition parties are fooling people by burning effigies of each other. Instead of exploiting the common man, the governments must take steps to reduce taxes and control the price hike.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ngo-hindu-sikh-jagriti-sena-burns-effigies-of-pm-modi-cms-to-protest-inflation-280393
09-07-2021||---||9 stolen bikes recovered, Doraha resident nabbed||Ludhiana, July 8The Police Division VIII have arrested a thief who had been stealing motorcycles from outside the Rakh Bagh here and recovered nine motorcycles from him. The accused has been identified as Baljinder Singh (24), a resident of Doraha.SHO Rajinder Singh said on June 29, Sunny of Pipal Chowk, Giaspura, had gone to Rakh Bagh but his bike was stolen from outside the park.Later during investigation, the police zeroed in on Baljinder. He works as a peon in the Cooperative Bank. Yesterday, acting on a tip-off, a naka was laid from where the accused was nabbed along with a stolen motorcycle.During his questioning, Baljinder confessed that he had stolen eight more motorcycles from Rakh Bagh in the recent past and the same were recovered by the police.The SHO said the accused used to roam around the park where people visit in large numbers during morning and evening hours. He carried a smart key to open the locks of the motorcycles.Further interrogation is on to recover more motorcycles which the accused had either sold to junk dealers or to some clients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/9-stolen-bikes-recovered-doraha-resident-nabbed-280394
09-07-2021||---||Mandi Ahmedgarh: Doctors to observe pen-down strike against 6th pay panel||Mandi Ahmedgarh, July 8Office-bearers of various outfits of doctors and paramedical staff at government hospitals have announced to go on pen-down and tool-down strike with immediate effect till their demand to reconsider recommendations of the Sixth Pay Commission was not accepted.Jasvir Singh, Karamjit Singh Kuka and Dr Jagjit Singh led activists of the Government Paramedical Health Employees Union, the Punjab State Pharmacy Officers Union and the Punjab Civil Medical Services Union, respectively during a protest rally held at Civil Hospital at Dehlon in the district.Speakers alleged that it was unfortunate that the state government had failed to recognise the role played by health workers during the pandemic.“Though we were expecting special facilities and perks in the Sixth Pay Commission, everyone was shocked to observe that the government has tried to disgrace our professions by adopting such formulae which in some cases are apprehended to cause reduction in net income,” said Karamjit Singh and Jasbir Singh.Dr Jagjit Singh regretted that the recommendation to delink the non-practicing allowance from basic salary, has not yet been reviewed though the government had announced to do so after doctors of the state proceeded on strike recently.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mandi-ahmedgarh-doctors-to-observe-pen-down-strike-against-6th-pay-panel-280395
09-07-2021||Our Correspondent
||PSPCL employees to adopt ‘work-to-rule’ till demands met||Mandi Ahmedgarh, July 8 Employees associated with different unions of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) have announced to adopt ‘work-to-rule’ till their demands are accepted and implemented besides reviewing the recommendations of the 6th Pay Commission. An announcement in this regard was made during the concluding session of the protest rally held under the banner of the coordination committee constituting representatives from Technical Services Union, PSPCL Pensioners Association and PSEB Employees Federation, led by Sukhcharanjit Sharma, Rajbir Singh, Hari Datt Sharma and Chaman Lal. Resumption of uninterrupted power supply to all categories of consumers, ban on contractor system, dissolution of power pacts with private power manufacturers, re-functioning of government thermal plants, payment of arrears, regularisation of temporary employees, concessional power for new retirees, besides reconsideration of  recommendations of sixth pay commission were cited among major demands. Speakers alleged that successive governments had failed to watch interests of both the employees and consumers of the corporation and had been trying to benefit private manufacturers through pacts causing huge financial burden on the government and consumers as well. Accusing the government and management of the PSPCL of showing unconcern to genuine demands of common people, speakers alleged that employees working on the frontline had to face the heat of agitations undertaken by all categories of consumers. Organisers announced to adopt work-to-rule, initially till July 31, which may be extended in case their demands are not accepted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pspcl-employees-to-adopt-work-to-rule-till-demands-met-280396
09-07-2021||---||Teachers burn state govt effigy||Ludhiana, July 8 Teachers, under the banner of Sanjha Adhiyapak Morcha, today burnt an effigy of the state government outside Meritorius School here. The protesters said despite several requests, state government had failed to regularise the teachers of meritorious schools. These were set up in the state in 2014 and the government had employed teachers on contractual basis. But even after so many years, the teachers of these schools had not been regularised. If the government failed to meet their demand, they would intensify the agitation, they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/teachers-burn-state-govt-effigy-280397
09-07-2021||Ludhiana||GADVASU dean gets fellowship||Prof Yashpal Singh Malik, Dean, College of Animal Biotechnology, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, has been conferred upon a prestigious fellowship by the Academy of Microbiological Sciences (AMSc).  Prof Malik has been appreciated for his outstanding contribution in several areas of microbiology of both fundamental and applied values. He is a highly decorated scientist in the field of animal biotechnology, working in the area of host-pathogen interaction, evolution and epidemiology of viruses. He has to his credit seven books and 227 scientific research articles in journals. He has been associated with many institutions, including managing committee member of World Society for Virology (USA). He is serving as secretary general of the Indian Virological Society and also representing India as a member in One Health Group in Federation of Asian Veterinary Association (FAVA) for 2021-2025. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gadvasu-dean-gets-fellowship-280398
09-07-2021||Ludhiana||Anirudh Tewari takes charge as Punjab Agricultural University VC||The Additional Chief Secretary (Development) and new Vice-Chancellor (VC) of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) Anirudh Tewari called upon experts to come up with a course for progressive farmers in the field of horticulture after joining as the VC today. During his visit to PAU today, he said, “Revolution never comes overnight, it takes time to build-up. Green Revolution took 20 years and involved a lot of hard work by farmers, PAU and extension department. We were the ones to introduce Consolidation of Land Holdings and that was a huge institutional reform.”Tewari said, “The entire focus of the research has been on productivity. But despite high productivity, we are unable to meet the returns, which farmers expect,” he observed.The Executive Councils of the PAU Employees Union (recognised) and PAU Teachers Association also welcomed Anirudh Tiwari on his formally joining as the Vice-Chancellor of the Punjab Agricultural University.Meanwhile, the district administration extended the heartiest welcome to the Anirudh Tewari. Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma along with Additional Deputy Commissioner (UD) Sandeep Kumar, Additional Deputy Commissioner (G) Rahul Chaba received Additional Chief Secretary at Sutton House, PAU.Workshop on horticultural crops organisedA research and extension specialists workshop on horticultural crops (Summers) was held at the PAU. Anirudh Tewari, Additional Chief Secretary (Development), Punjab and Vice-Chancellor, PAU, called upon the experts to come up with recommendations for the establishment of horticulture estates in the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/anirudh-tewari-takes-charge-as-punjab-agricultural-university-vc-280399
09-07-2021||Mandi Ahmedgarh||Drive to plant 1 lakh saplings launched||The Rotary District 3090 has launched a drive to plant one lakh saplings besides establishing 21 micro forests.The drive was launched by office-bearers of the local unit of the Rotary Club by planting 200 saplings of trees at public places and sides of link roads and highways in the region.Rotarian Ajay Jain presided over the inaugural function and SP Sofat, district chairman, tree plantation, was the chief guest.Secretary Bipan Sethi, convener of the event, said a drive to plant at least one lakh saplings and establish 21 micro-forests at various places in the RID 3090 was kicked off. As many as 200 saplings of fruiting and shade trees were planted at premises of educational institutes of the area and sides of Lehra Dhulkot Road, Pohir Road and Khera Road. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/drive-to-plant-1-lakh-saplings-launched-280400
09-07-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Industry in Ludhiana flays PSPCL's exemption to Amritsar textile units||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 8The industry in Ludhiana has questioned the move of the PSPCL to exempt the Amritsar textile industry from the ongoing power cuts.The textile industry in Amritsar has been considered as a ‘Continuous Process Industry’ and has been exempted from the mandatory weekly off.The Federation of Industrial & Commercial Organisation (FICO) has opposed this ‘partial behaviour’ of the government and PSPCL. They demanded that the PSPCL waive off the mandatory weekly off for the city textile industry. KK Seth, chairman, and Rajeev Jain, general secretary of FICO, said, “Why is the industry in Amritsar being exempted? We fail to understand such biased approach,” said Jain.Gurmeet Singh Kular, president of FICO, said “There are thousands of industrial units in Ludhiana belonging to various sectors. All are neglected, whereas the textile industry in Amritsar is allowed to operate. ”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/industry-in-ludhiana-flays-pspcls-exemption-to-amritsar-textile-units-280401
09-07-2021||Ludhiana||Water campers, lemon drinks distributed among traffic cops in Ludhiana||To provide a relief to traffic police personnel discharging duties in the scorching heat, senior traffic police officials today distributed various items among the former.JCP (Traffic) Deepak Pareek, along with the ACP (Traffic) Gurdev Singh distributed water campers, goggles, tissues and lemon drinks among the police personnel.“Our traffic cops are discharging duties in the scorching heat. To give them a relief, these items have been provided at every traffic police naka in the industrial hub. We will ensure that the traffic police will get fresh drinking water along with lemon drinks daily,” Pareek said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/water-campers-lemon-drinks-distributed-among-traffic-cops-in-ludhiana-280402
09-07-2021||Ludhiana||Students of Ludhiana's Arya College shine in academics||SDP CollegeStudents of the SDP College for Women excelled in the BCA Semester 1 examinations. College principal said Kumkum, Preeti and Ritika of BCA semester I of the college shared the seventh position in Panjab University by securing 377/400 (94.25 per cent marks). “Anjali and Srishti of BCA sem ester I together clinched the eighth position in the PU with 376/400 (94 per cent). Whereas Amandeep stood ninth in the PU by securing 375/400 (93.75 per cent marks) followed by Jyoti and Kriti who together bagged the tenth position in the PU with 374/400 (93.5 per cent,” the principal said.Guru Hargobind Khalsa CollegeStudents of Guru Hargobind Khalsa College, Gurusar Sadhar, Ludhiana, excelled in the examinations. Prof Jaswant Singh Goraya, principal of the college, said Gurpreet Kaur of MSc IT (Semester III) and Kirandeep Kaur of MSc Physics (semester III) brought laurels to the college by securing the eight position in the university examinations in their respective streams. The principal congratulated the students for their achievements and appreciated staff for their efforts.Ramgarhia Girls CollegeThe students of Ramgarhia Girls College excelled in the exams of BSc (Semester I). Lovepreet Kaur got the first position in the college by acquiring 91.3 per cent marks, Baldeep Kaur stood second in the college by bagging 90.6 per cent marks, Sakshi got the third position in the college with 88.9 per cent marks. Officiating principal Rajeshwarpal Kaur congratulated Jyoti Verma, head, department of science, staff members and students fo the achievements. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/students-of-ludhianas-arya-college-shine-in-academics-280404
09-07-2021||Ludhiana||Woman alleges blackmail, rape||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/woman-alleges-blackmail-rape-280405
09-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Sports kits to 25 clubs distributed in Doraha||Doraha, July 8Punjab Youth Development Board (PYDB) Chairman Sukhwinder Singh Bindra along with Payal MLA Lakhvir Singh Lakha today distributed sports kits among 25 youth clubs in the Payal subdivision.Speaking on the occasion, Bindra said the state government is committed to the progress of the youth of Punjab. He appealed to the youth to stay away from drugs and show maximum participation in sports.Bindra, while addressing the problems of the youth, said he would visit all districts of the state under the youth contact programme to encourage the youth towards sports. He added that the government was leaving no stone unturned to make Punjab a hub of sports in the country.Lakha exhorted the youth to participate actively in sporting activities. He said sportspersons are blessed with several qualities and one of them was that they develop team spirit during the game. He said sports play an active role in the overall development of the personality of students. They said by inculcating the sports activities among the youths, the drug menace can be wiped out completely from the state.Prominent among present on the occasion included Zila Parishad Chairman Yadwinder Singh Jandali, Malkeet Singh Goga, Sudarshan Kumar Sharma, Bant Singh and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sports-kits-to-25-clubs-distributed-in-doraha-280406
09-07-2021||Ludhiana||Swings installed for special kids at Kidwai Nagar's Shaheedi Park||In a unique initiative, the administration has got first-of-its-kind swings installed for special children at the local Shaheedi Park in Kidwai Nagar. Dedicating the swings to the special kids today, MLA Surinder Dawar and DC Varinder Kumar Sharma said the district had become first in the state to have specially designed swings for these kids. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/swings-installed-for-special-kids-at-kidwai-nagars-shaheedi-park-280420
