10-07-2021||Ludhiana||Two held with 570-gm heroin in Ludhiana||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-held-with-570-gm-heroin-in-ludhiana-280987
10-07-2021||Ludhiana||Poet Kuldeep Singh Kareer presents book to alma mater GGN Khalsa College||Kuldeep Singh Kareer, a 1968 graduate from the GGN Khalsa College, Ludhiana, presented an anthology of his Covid-period poems — ‘Natives Returning Homes’ — to his alma mater. Those present on the occasion were Dr SP Singh, president of college managing committee, Nakasdeep Panjkoha, a Punjabi writer from USA, Kuljeet Singh, college managing committee member, Dr Arvinder Singh Bhalla principal of the college, Prof Gurbhajan Gill, a former student and a former president of Punjabi Sahit Akademi, Manjeet Singh Chhabra, Director of GGNIMT, and teachers of the postgraduate Punjabi Department. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/poet-kuldeep-singh-kareer-presents-book-to-alma-mater-ggn-khalsa-college-280986
10-07-2021||Our Correspondent||LPG chambers installed at 2 crematoriums in Sahnewal||Sahnewal, July 9The Punjab Youth Development Board (PYDB) installed three LPG-operated cremation chambers in two cremation grounds falling under the Sahnewal subtehsil today.Addressing a press conference, PYDB Chairman Sukhwinder Singh Bindra along with Additional Deputy Commissioner (UD) Sandeep Kumar said these chambers cremate a body within an hour and three bodies can be cremated by using two LPG cylinders. He said the cremation through the chambers is not only cost-effective over the conventional wood-based crematorium but also saves time.He added that the eco-friendly chambers will help to stop deforestation and will save 40 lakh trees in a year. He also said around four quintal-woods usually require in a conventional system for cremating one body.Bindra expressed gratitude towards Umesh Munjal, Amol Munjal, Ankur Munjal from Highway Industry for donating Rs15 lakh for three chambers under the CSR initiative.Bindra claimed that the PYDB had organised 200 Covid vaccination camps and arranged 2,500 PPE kits.Prominent persons present on the occasion included Naveen Kumar, Ravinder Singh and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/lpg-chambers-installed-at-2-crematoriums-in-sahnewal-280985
10-07-2021||Ludhiana||Students excel in examinations||Students of D.El.Ed (2019-21) first-year at Partap College of Education, Ludhiana, exhibited excellent performance in their final examinations. Gurleen Kaur bagged the first position in the college with 85.91% marks. Sakhshi Sharma and Preeti bagged the second and third position with 85.30% and 84.87% marks, respectively. Director of the college Prof Balwant Singh and Principal Dr Manpreet Kaur congratulated the students, teachers and their parents for the success. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/students-excel-in-examinations-280984
10-07-2021||Manav Mander||Covid affecting kids’ psychological development: Experts||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 9Covid-19, consequent lockdowns and no classroom teaching or outdoor games since a year-and-a-half have proved to be a severe blow to the psychological development of children. As per experts, an increase in anxiety and depressive symptoms has been witnessed amo0ng children.During this period, parents need to be calm with their wards. They play an important role in keeping them healthy, both physically and mentally. So, parents should encourage their children to speak up if they are not feeling well or are worried due to the pandemic so that the former can help them.Dr Manu Sharma, consultant, Pediatrics and Neonatology, Max Hospital, said: “Children are also deprived of outdoor physical activities and playing time. Lack of such activities is leading to health issues such as obesity and future risk of metabolic syndrome. A peculiar rise in screen time and addiction to the Internet has also been observed among children. When these are coupled with inadequate parental surveillance, it exposes the child to an ocean of content that has positive and negative long-lasting impact”.In an attempt to stay connected with their peers, children spend a lot of time on social media. This, in particular, is responsible for increased incidences of cyberbullying. Reports directly relate it to increased anxiety, stress, low self-esteem and even suicidal tendencies in children, he added.City-based clinical psychologist Suresh Khanna said isolation and lockdowns have been specially challenging for children. As they are deprived of their friends, schoolmates and healthy school environment, one can see drastic behavioral changes in them.“Aggression and depression are on the rise in kids, especially in teens. Key signs observed are changes in eating and sleep patterns. Parents need to be watchful,” he said. Take care of mental health of children||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-affecting-kids-psychological-development-experts-280982
10-07-2021||---||Ludhiana DC kicks off plantation drive||Ludhiana, July 9Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma kick-started a plantation drive at Government College for Girls on Friday under Mission Tandarust Punjab. He was accompanied by Assistant Commissioner Harjinder Singh Bedi.The DC said the administration had already been running a campaign from July 1 to plant 4.25 lakh saplings at vacant places in urban and rural areas of Ludhiana. The plantation drive was a humble tribute to our great Gurus whose teachings showed us a way to preserve the environment. Major focus was being laid on planting traditional varieties of plants which were best suited for the environment of the state, he added.College Principal Dr Sukhwinder Kaur said 2,000 saplings would be planted in the week-long programme and every employee would ensure proper upkeep of the plants.District Forest Officer Harbhajan Singh was also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-dc-kicks-off-plantation-drive-280980
10-07-2021||---||Schoolteachers demand salary hike, threaten stir||Our CorrespondentMandi Ahmedgarh, July 9Members of the Punjab State Aided Schools Teachers and other Employees Union have threatened to launch an agitation if the demand to bring their pay on a par with government teachers in the proposed Sixth Pay Commission was not accepted.The review of payment of house rent, city compensatory allowance and medical allowance on a par with other state government employees and government teachers, were cited as major demands of the employees.Activists led by state executive member Ravinder Jit Puri alleged that the successive governments had failed to narrow the wide gap between salary and allowances of employees of aided schools and government school officials.They claimed that even employees of different aided schools were getting perks, including house rent and medical allowance. “The Education Department is preparing salaries of teachers and other employees of various schools by entitling them for house rent ranging between five per cent and 15 per cent,” said Puri lamenting that employees of the region were getting a meagre amount of Rs250 as medical allowance and were entitled for leave encashment.Majority of employees who were nearing retirement urged the government to review the pay commission report in such a way that the pension and retirement benefits are adequate to sustain a dignified life.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/schoolteachers-demand-salary-hike-threaten-stir-280979
10-07-2021||---||Doraha: Teachers suspend evaluation work, demand UGC pay scales||Lovleen BainsDoraha, July 9The Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers Organisations (PFUCTO) has suspended the evaluation of university examination and demanded immediate implementation of the University Grants Commission (UGC) pay scales and regulations.The federation gave an ultimatum to the state government to do the needful within two weeks failing which the university and college teachers will be forced to intensify the agitation.In a meeting held under the chairmanship of president Prof HS Kingra, Dr Jagwant Singh, general secretary, PFUCTO, said said they have been forced to start the agitation due to the failure of the government to keep its promise of implementation of the UGC pay scales along with pay scales of the 6th Punjab Pay Commission.He said Punjab is the only state which is yet to implement the UGC pay scales notified in November 2017 and the UGC regulations notified in 2018. It has also affected the implementation of the UGC pay scales in Punjab University, Colleges of union territory of Chandigarh and Himachal Pradesh which adopts the notification of Punjab Government,” Dr Jagwant added.Vinay Sophat, president, Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers Union (PCCTU), said as per the call given by the PFUCTO, the PCCTU has completely suspended the evaluation work to show resentment against the government and get their genuine demand implemented at the earliest. “It is a very sorry state of affairs. We are aware that the evaluation work, if suspended, shall affect the results of students but the government has forced us to resort to such a measure by backing away from its words,” he added.Kuldeep Batta, district president, PCCTU, too expressed that a total of 23 states have already implemented the UGC pay scales. Punjab has been left behind, this despite the fact that 50 per cent of the share has to be contributed by the centre government. Punjab government has literally ruined the future of the teaching community. The new contractual staff, despite being doctorates in their subjects, are forced to work on meagre salary for three years. No teacher shall evaluate the scripts till the government accepts our demands.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/doraha-teachers-suspend-evaluation-work-demand-ugc-pay-scales-280978
10-07-2021||Ludhiana||Man booked for rape||A Congress worker in Mullanpur Dakha has accused a man of raping her on the pretext of marriage.The accused, identified as Nirmal Singh Gopi, a resident of Rajoana Kalan, Sudhar, has been booked. One of his aides, Paramjit Singh of Toosa village near Sudhar, has also been booked on charges of criminal conspiracy. The complainant is a resident of Fatehgarh Sahib.Investigation officer ASI Jagdish Singh said raids were being conducted to nab the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-booked-for-rape-280977
10-07-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana MC demolishes illegal buildings||The Municipal Corporation on Friday demolished four illegal constructions on a school land, located at the back of Sarabha Nagar’s main market. Sources said the sheds were constructed for commercial purposes and were rented out. As per information, a person had also moved Punjab & Haryana High Court against the violations. The MC’s ATP, Madanjeet Singh Bedi, said the illegal constructions had been demolished. Meanwhile, the MC also demolished two illegal commercial halls on Churpur Road. Besides, the civic body also took action against a violation of building bylaws at Ghumar Mandi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-mc-demolishes-illegal-buildings-280975
10-07-2021||Harshraj Singh||Ludhiana MC team returns after studying waste management in Delhi, Bhiwadi||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 9After studying the works related to solid waste management in Delhi and Bhiwadi in Rajasthan, a team of the MC, led by Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, returned to Ludhiana today. After studying a waste-to-energy plant in Delhi, Sandhu expressed hope to improve the waste management in Ludhiana soon.The Mayor said they studied a plant in Delhi wherein 1800 MT of waste is converted into energy every day. He said, “The Delhi corporation has just provided 15 acres of land to the firm to run the plant wherein 21 MW electricity is generated from the waste daily. The plant has been running successfully for the past seven years.”Sandhu said, “Company officials said 90 per cent waste can be used to convert to energy. Our aim is to improve the solid waste management system in the city. We are visiting different cities just to study what model would be best for the Ludhiana city.”Secretary, MC, Jasdev Singh Sekhon said the Delhi MC has given the land to the firm on a no-profit no-loss basis. The company has spent money to set up the plant and purchase machinery to convert the waste into energy. The Delhi corporation just deliver the waste to the firm’s plant, he said.Around 1,100 MT waste is being generated daily in the city. Sekhon, who had also studied the solid waste management models in Chennai and Indore, said, “A waste to energy plant will be the best to deal with waste in our city. And, the Ludhiana Municipal Corporation will have to provide just a piece of land for the plant and the rest of all expenses will be borne by the selected firm after floating the tenders.”In Bhiwadi, the Ludhiana Municipal Corporation team visited TPS Company’s plant wherein the team members checked the manufacturing of the portable compactors, static compactors, suction machines, patchwork machines and sweeping machines.Senior Deputy Mayor Sham Sunder Malhotra, councillors Dr Jai Prakash, Om Prakash Ratda, Gurdeep Singh Neetu, Swarndeep Singh Chahal, Baljinder Singh Bunty and Harbhajan Singh Dang, SE Rajinder Singh, Health Officer Vipul Malhotra and Assistant Engineer Harpal Singh Aujla were part of the team.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-mc-team-returns-after-studying-waste-management-in-delhi-bhiwadi-280967
10-07-2021||---||Tipping fee hiked, but firm ‘fails’ to lift garbage in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 9Residents of Kashmir Nagar Road in the city are a harried lot due to the delayed lifting of garbage from the area. They said the Municipal Corporation (MC) had so far failed to improve the solid waste management system in the city.Though the Municipal Corporation’s F&CC has approved increasing the tipping fee given to a third-party firm for lifting of garbage from secondary waste collection points, the firm has failed to lift the garbage timely.Former councillor Inder Aggarwal has questioned as to why the tipping fee was being increased by 25 per cent when the company had failed to lift the garbage timely. The MC had hired the firm without floating tenders. Aggarwal also questioned why a fresh tender was not floated to hire a new firm as per the rules.“The open dumping of garbage on the road is an invitation to various diseases but the MC has failed to pay any attention to the matter. The garbage dump has made the lives of the area residents miserable. The foul smell emanating from the dump makes it difficult for people to cross the road. Moreover, the commuters are suffering in routine,” he said.“Without floating any tenders, the MC wants to continue services with the third-party firm. It indicates that the firm is being benefitted by the ruling party and MC officials in violation of the norms. If the MC fails to improve garbage lifting, we will launch an agitation,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/tipping-fee-hiked-but-firm-fails-to-lift-garbage-in-ludhiana-280953
10-07-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Cyber wing of Ludhiana police nabs 50 in 7 months||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 9The Ludhiana police today released the progress report of its cyber crime unit for the past seven months.Commissioner of Police (CP) Rakesh Agrawal stated that there was a drastic rise in cyber crimes, with the criminals using new and innovative methods to defraud people.“To deal with this upcoming threat, we have developed a dedicated cyber crime unit, equipped with the latest tools and highly trained personnel. The police have been receiving around 300-400 complaints every month since 2020,” Agrawal said.Sharing figures of the past seven months, he said 1,700 complaints pertaining to cyber crime were disposed of while 29 FIRs were registered in this regard. Around 50 persons were arrested in various cyber crime related cases.Apart from this, the cell had ensured recovery/refund of Rs 40.16 lakh to cyber fraud victims. The cell had been regularly using social media platforms, including Facebook, to sensitise the public about various types of crimes, including cyber bullying, blackmailing, OTP frauds, extortion, ATM frauds, credit card frauds, OLX frauds, Google search frauds, child pornography etc, the CP maintained.In December 2020, the cell had busted an inter-state gang of cyber criminals, who had carried out multiple online frauds using fake ID cards, bank accounts, Sim cards etc, leading to arrest of seven accused and recovery of Rs 5.45 lakh cash, 10 mobile phones, eight laptops and fake documents.Agrawal said special emphasis was being laid on cyber crimes against women, children and senior citizens, and their complaints were dealt on priority.He also urged the public not to share any kind of child pornography or pornographic videos of any kind, knowingly or unknowingly, on any social media platform.Meanwhile, Ludhiana residents were advised to not share their personal and financial information with anyone and update the privacy settings of their social media profiles to prevent its misuse.Busted fake call centre recentlyThe cyber cell of the Ludhiana police, led by Additional DCP (Crime) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti, had recently busted a multi-crore, pan-India fake call centre racket with the arrest of 37 persons. The call centre was being used to dupe residents of various countries, including the USA, UK and Canada, by posing as tax/ government officials of these countries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cyber-wing-of-ludhiana-police-nabs-50-in-7-months-280952
10-07-2021||Nitin Jain||Ludhiana: Rs 756-cr four-lane elevated highway nears completion||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 9A four-lane elevated highway in the city is nearing completion. This 12.95-km-long stretch between the busy Samrala chowk and Ludhiana municipal limits on the National Highway-95, costing Rs 756.27 crore, is targeted to be completed by August next year, the district administration has claimed.The development holds significance as the stretch, which is presently narrow, has assumed the distinction of a killer highway, snuffing out precious lives in major and minor accidents on a daily basis, due to high volume of vehicular traffic.Project reportSharing project details, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma told The Tribune here on Friday that the NH-95 section passing through the city is being constructed on the EPC (Engineering, Procurement and Construction) mode under the National Highways Development Project (NHDP) Phase IV.The elevated highway, connecting the Samrala chowk to the Ludhiana municipal limits till the Ferozepur road on the NH-5 in the city, will be six-lane from Bharat Nagar to municipal limits with two loops — one towards the railway station and another towards the ISBT.The project entails six ramps — three each at exit and entry points — and a flyover at the Cheema chowk with 320-metre length, which has already been completed and opened for traffic by the then NHAI Chairman, Sukhbir Singh Sandhu, here in February.The under-construction elevated highway will provide uninterrupted flow of traffic to several government offices, including Mini Secretariat, Commissioner of Police office, head post office and major business establishments.Even as the construction work on the project had commenced in October 2017, it could not be accelerated due to existing trees, electricity supply lines of 11, 66, and 220-KV and presence of sewer and water supply lines at several locations.After clearance of all hurdles coming in the way, the work on the project has finally picked up pace and is expected to be completed within the stipulated timeframe.While the Cheema chowk flyover was completed and opened to traffic five months ago, work from 9.5-km to 12.95-km, including two ramps on either side for exit and entry, will be completed by October.The work on the remaining portion of the project from Bharat Nagar to the canal will be completed by August next, added Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-rs-756-cr-four-lane-elevated-highway-nears-completion-280950
10-07-2021||---||Ludhiana district records lowest  cases in a day this year||Ludhiana, July 9Today eight persons tested positive for Covid, while one death was reported in the district. It is the lowest number of people testing positive in a day this year. The active cases have also dropped to less than 200. Today there were 161 active cases in the district.Total positive cases in the district have reached 87,108, while 2,088 patients have lost their lives so far. The recovery rate has gone to 97.42 per cent and there were 161active cases in the district.Today 25 patients were admitted to private/government hospitals and five were on ventilator support.A total of 18,05,956 samples have been taken, out of which 17,07,300 samples were found negative. Today samples of 8,637 people were collected.Civil Surgeon Dr Kiran Gill said the decreasing numbers should not be taken as a licence to move out freely. “Virus is very much here and people should adopt all necessary precautions and stay safe,” she said.Ayurvedic immunisation camp organisedKeeping the third wave in mind, an Ayurvedic immunisation camp was held by the District Ayurvedic Department at Government Ayurvedic Hospital, Model Gram. ‘Swarn Prashan’, an ancient health tonic, is given to children in the age group 0-16 years. This is the second such camp, first was held on June 14. The dose is repeated after 28 days.In-charge of Government Ayurvedic Hospital Dr Hemant Kumar, telling about the ‘Swarn Prashan’, said purified ash of gold is administered with fortified ghee prepared with herbal extracts and honey in liquid or semi-solid form.‘Swarn Prashan’ helps in increasing immunity, improves digestion, stamina, prevents common recurrent infections and helps nurturing early physical and mental development, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-district-records-lowest-cases-in-a-day-this-year-280926
