12-07-2021||Harshraj Singh||Basic amenities elude Ludhiana's Durga Colony residents||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 11Residents of a few streets of Durga Colony in ward no. 28 here are not only deprived of basic amenities but also forced to live under unsanitary conditions due to the apathy of the civic body.Before the Assembly and MC elections, candidates of political parties had made promises to ensure development if they win but nothing was done later. Officials and elected representatives failed to pay any heed to get issues resolved.A group of residents in February had written to the Municipal Corporation (MC) authorities to include two streets in the MC’s map so that they could get potable water supply, metalled streets and other amenities but their wait to avail these facilities was getting longer.At present, the situation is that sewers often overflows in the area due to which people are at a risk of catching diseases.A resident, Anil Kumar, said: “We have requested the MC and elected representatives to ensure the development of our area that falls under ward number 28. We have been paying taxes for the past 14 years but no development has been witnessed in the area. Many times, roads remain flooded with sewage and it is difficult to step out of our homes.”He said: “Despite our repeated appeals, no direct water supply has been ensured to us. Moreover, no steps have been taken to get streets constructed. There is no cleanliness. When we pay all the taxes, why are we being ignored by the civic body?”Another resident, Rakesh Sharma, said: “There is a myriad of problems but no efforts have been made by anybody to get the same resolved. The sewer system is there but it is not functioning properly. The stinking water remains accumulated outside shops and houses. The dilapidated condition of unmetalled roads is being ignored too for a long period. We want the government to ensure development of our area.”An AAP leader, Chander Pal, said residents had submitted an application to the civic body to get two streets included in the MC’s map but the process was being delayed. Even no steps had been taken to resolve issues being faced by them, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/basic-amenities-elude-ludhianas-durga-colony-residents-281859
12-07-2021||---||Ludhiana dist reports 24 fresh Covid infections||Ludhiana, July 11Today, 24 persons from Ludhiana tested positive for Covid while no death was reported in the district. There were 160 active cases.Total positive cases in the district have reached 87,145 while 2,088 have lost their lives so far. The recovery rate has gone to 97.42 per cent. Today, 24 patients were admitted to private and government hospitals and four were on ventilator support.A total of 18,24,349 samples have been taken, of which 17,25,641 were found negative. Today, samples of 10,172 persons were collected.Civil Surgeon Kiran Gill said now, that covid cases were going down, people should not adopt a callous approach.“They should adopt all necessary precautions and avoid going to crowded places so that we can continue to keep the Covid curve down,” Dr Gill said.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Sharma said: “Despite cases started to ebb, there was a greater need to be vigilant as the virus was still among us and we have to be cautious.”He asked people to continue to adopt a Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, including wearing masks, maintaining social distancing, and hand hygiene.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-dist-reports-24-fresh-covid-infections-281860
12-07-2021||---||2 booked for kidnapping, raping minor||Ludhiana, July 11 Two youth have been booked for kidnapping a 14-year-old girl from Chakohi village in Khanna district and later raping her at Amloh. The accused have been identified as Firoz and Salim, both residents of Amloh. The complainant, mother of the victim, said on July 9, the accused were seen roaming outside their house. They then kidnapped her daughter. “The boys took my daughter to Salim’s house where they raped her. Almost three hours later, my daughter returned home looking upset. When asked, she told me about the incident,” she said. Investigation officer Parvinder Kaur of the Khanna Sadar police station said a case under Section 376 of the IPC and under the POCSO Act has been registered against the accused and raids are being conducted to nab them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/2-booked-for-kidnapping-raping-minor-281861
12-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Engineers’ body serves notice on Ludhiana Improvement Trust Chairman||Ludhiana, July 11The Council of Engineers (CoE) through its president Kapil Arora has served a legal notice, a statutory requirement as per the NGT Act, 2010, on the Chairman of the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) for non-compliance of orders made by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in a petition against concretisation within one metre radius around trees by various government departments, including the LIT.It has been stated in the notice that as per the NGT orders, the departments concerned were responsible to prevent the damage of the root system of the trees by leaving open space of one metre around tree trunks wherever possible while construction of pavements or roads to facilitate percolation of water to the roots.“The open area should be levelled with earth or soil and grass may be planted wherever it is possible. The trees which are already concretised should be de-concretised manually without damaging their roots. Further, those trees which have died due to the concretisation should be replaced with suitable tree species,” said the directions issued by the NGT in the petition.Arora asserted that he personally visited the office of the LIT Chairman on March 15 and submitted a copy of the orders (dated March 10, 2021). However, the orders had not been implemented and interlocking tiles are continued to be fixed around trees at several places in the city without leaving one metre space around them.In the notice, the LIT has been charged with deliberately violating the directions of the NGT by continuing with the act of covering the tree bottom even after March 10 or March 15, 2021 – when orders of the NGT were submitted in the office of the LIT Chairman. It has also been pointed out that the way of rainwater to the trees was restricted by fixing roadside pavers around them.“As a result, many trees have already fallen due to damage done to their roots while digging around their base for fixing interlocking tiles and roots of many other trees have also been badly damaged during the process. By such an act, the LIT has not only wasted public money but has also severely damaged the environment, which is against provisions of the Environment Protection Act, 1986,” it alleged.Through the notice, the petitioner has called upon the LIT to take immediate steps within the next 10 days to comply with the NGT orders (dated March 10, 2021) in letter and in spirit, failing which the petitioner would be free to file appropriate proceedings for imposition of heavy penalty on you in the interest of justice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/engineers-body-serves-notice-on-ludhiana-improvement-trust-chairman-281862
12-07-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Industry terms concessions by PSPCL meagre, unviable||Ludhiana, July 11As the rains are still eluding the region and Talwandi Sabo Thermal Power Plant in the private sector has gone totally off the line, the power scenario in the state continues to be dismal. In a bid to relieve the power pangs of the large supply and power intensive industrial units, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has announced some relaxations in the restrictions currently imposed on the industrial sector with regard to consumption. However, these failed to meet the expectations of the stakeholders.In a PR circular (15/2021 dated July 10, 2021) PSPCL maintained that all general industry (LS) consumers being fed from category-1, 2 and 3 feeders across the state having sanctioned contract demand (SCD) up to 1,000 kVA shall restrict their load up to 10 per cent of their SCD or 50 KVA whichever is lower, from 8 AM on July 11 to 8 AM on July 15, except for relaxed limits on the date and time slots which would be different from zone to zone.In central zone, which comprises of Ludhiana and Mandi Gobindgarh, industrial units would be allowed to avail restricted limit of up to 100 kVA from 8 AM to 8 PM from July 11 to 14. It has been further stipulated that power regulatory measures in force from July 7 on all other categories of consumers, including LS (general) consumers having SCD of more than 1,000 kVA, stood extended from 8 AM on July 11 to 8 AM on July 15.“While fixed charges shall be levied on the consumers in proportion to the relaxed contract demand limit allowed during the given time slots, penalty on defaulting consumers who draw excess power than the specified limit specified shall be Rs 500 per KVA per time slot on maximum load used in excess to the restricted load,” says the circular.The industrial units, especially the arc furnace and induction units, however, term the concessions as too meager and completely unviable. “Irrespective of the restrictions imposed by PSPCL, we shall operate our units at full capacity from Monday (July 12) because the power crisis in the state has been created by sheer mismanagement of the power utility,” said a defiant induction furnace consumer.Meanwhile, the Talwandi Sabo Thermal Power Plant at Mansa, with a total generating capacity of 1,980 MW (three units of 660 MW each) had been rendered totally non-operational, further adding to the gravity of the situation. “The state is facing a gap of something like 1,000 to 1,500 MW between demand and availability, even after resorting to scheduled and unscheduled power cuts in urban and rural areas,” sources in the PSPCL said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/industry-terms-concessions-by-pspcl-meagre-unviable-281863
12-07-2021||Ludhiana||Special checking at Ludhiana railway station||The city police carried out a special checking drive at the city railway station on Sunday. Besides checking belongings of passengers, they were also frisked by police personnel.Police officials at the Kotwali police station, along with the railway police, conducted the checking. They said it was a kind of routine checking which was carried out by the police after a few weeks and the purpose of the same was to deter anti-social elements from resorting to any illegal activity at the railway station.The police also checked identity proofs of some passengers and those who could not produce any ID proof were let off only after they arranged the same. No illegal item was seized by the police during the checking. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/special-checking-at-ludhiana-railway-station-281864
12-07-2021||Shivani Bhakoo
||Power cuts: Industry blames PSPCL for poor planning||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, July 11 Already unable to cope up with the pathetic condition of power and resultant restrictions, the industry in the state suffered another shock as the power cuts have been extended till July 15.  Surprisingly, three major power plants of the state — Talwani Sabo, Ropar and Lehra Mohabbbat – have developed snag, rendering them either partially or fully non-operational.  Due to the prevailing condition of power, the industry is up in arms against the state government for not being fully prepared in advance, as the steep rise in demand, due to paddy sowing and extreme heat, is not a new phenomenon. The industry stakeholders feel they are facing huge financial losses due to the lapse on part of PSPCL officials. They have even requested the state government to sack senior officials accountable for this “criminal negligence”.  The industry — be it small, micro or mini – is registering protests against PSPCL on daily basis. Some are burning effigies of PSPCL officials concerned while others hold agitations to lodge protest.  All Industries and Trade Forum Associations  Senior members of the association, including Badish Jindal and Narendra Bhamra, said the state government had failed to provide power to the industries, due to which the industry in Ludhiana was facing production losses to the tune of over Rs 20,000 crore. The power shut down had affected 10,000 industries directly and two lakh industries indirectly, they said.  Chamber of Commercial and Industrial Undertaking Upkar Singh, president, and Pankaj Sharma, general secretary of CICU, said the industry was unable to operate under such circumstances and had suffered huge losses, both tangible and intangible. Production was on standstill and engineering, steel, forgings, casting, and reclamation units were losing orders. “The power board must to be panelised and it should not raise the bill for July and August to compensate industry,” Sharma said.  Janta Nagar Small Scale Industry Members said earlier, heavy penalty was imposed on them and now these prolonged power cuts had brought the local industry to a standstill. Jaswinder Thukral, president of the industry association, said they were regularly protesting the wrong penalties imposed and now they would further intensify the agitation against power offs. “Why should we suffer because of the faults of PSPCL?” Thukral asked.  United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Assn  DS Chawla, president of the association, said it was a total failure on part of planning by PSPCL officials. “Statistics show that nearly Rs 5,500 crore is to be paid by the state government in subsidy account of power given to the farmers and nearly Rs 2,225 crore is payable by the government departments to PSPCL. These Rs 7,500 crore should have been released to PSPCL to purchase the power and supply should be restored,” Chawla added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/power-cuts-industry-blames-pspcl-for-poor-planning-281865
12-07-2021||---||Reckless driving claims two lives in Ludhiana city||Ludhiana, July 11Reckless driving snuffed out two lives on city roads in the past two days.In the first incident, Harbhajan Singh of Sholey Patti village complained to the Ladhowal police that on July 8, he along with his relative Bhag Singh and the latter’s wife Darshan Kaur was heading towards the city on a motorcycle. When they reached near the toll barrier, a Mahindra Bolero (PB10HN 2477) rammed into the motorcycle.“All three of us were injured but Darshan Kaur had suffered serious injuries and she succumbed yesterday,” the complainant said. The deceased was a resident of Kapoor Singh Wala.Investigation officer ASI Sukhdev Singh said a case of reckless driving was registered against the accused driver, identified as Hardyal Singh, a resident of Hoshiarpur. He has been arrested.In another case, a woman pedestrian was killed in a hit-and-run case near Bombay Tyre chowk, Basti Jodhewal. Complainant Akash of Jaswant Nagar said on July 9, his mother Sunita was crossing the road when a rashly driven motorcycle rammed into her. She suffered head injuries and was rushed to a nearby hospital but she succumbed.Investigation officer ASI Umesh Kumar said some passersby noted the motorcycle’s number (PB10GL 2328) and the police would identify the accused after getting ownership details from the Transport Department. So far, a case of negligent driving was registered against the unknown bike driver.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/reckless-driving-claims-two-lives-in-ludhiana-city-281866
12-07-2021||---||Ludhiana's vet varsity launches digital repository||Ludhiana, July 11Dr Inderjeet Singh, Vice-Chancellor, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Ludhiana, launched a digital repository of the university, developed for codifying the records of scientific outcomes. The repository has been developed by Dr HS Banga, Registrar, and Dr JPS Gill, Director of Research, with technical assistance from information technology and library professionals.It has been customised to retrieve articles as per NAAS rating and impact factor, ie matrix required for compilation of reports involving data about university publication(s). The multimedia contents encompassing radio and TV talks delivered by the faculty of the university will also be preserved. The digital content available on the repository would be accessible to the fraternity, including faculty, students and researchers, for better comprehension of teaching and research activities. This would also help keep a record of publications in digital mode and for better accessibility. Training programmes have been organised by the Directorate of Human Resource Management of the university to acquaint the faculty with digital content uploading on this portal. In addition, a manual for helping faculty and other stakeholders to upload digital content on the repository has also been compiled and circulated in the university.The VC said the digital repository would expedite report writing and other administrative ventures involving use of data about faculty publications and their other activities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhianas-vet-varsity-launches-digital-repository-281867
12-07-2021||What should be done to vaccinate each and every eligible individual?||Ensure vax availablity, dispel myths to amplify coverage||The only way to get maximum people jabbed is to make it mandatory. Every institution must ask for vaccination certificate of at least the first dose from their respective employees and students. However, people themselves need to understand the importance of getting jabbed.Amarpreet KaurWell-planned strategy needed to cover allNo doubt, Punjab is leading other states as far as the administration of vaccine is concerned but still there is a long way to go. For this, the access of vaccination should be easier. These days when people are much aware about the importance of vaccination, even elderly have to run from pillar to post to get themselves vaccinated. People have to stand in long queues in this scorching heat. Vaccination camps should be arranged area-wise so that there should not be unnecessary chaos. A well-planned strategy with more facilities should be executed so that we can achieve the expected target.Sangeeta JainEnsure availability of vaccineTo vaccinate each and every eligible individual, we need to focus on two things: building trust of people in vaccine and to ensure adequate availability of vaccine doses. To build trust of people of middle-age group, the government needs to take help of religious institutions as people of these age group follows what their religious gurus say. To encourage and inspire youth to get vaccinated, need is to take help of celebrities of Punjabi film industry. Another important issue to address is to ensure adequate availability of vaccine doses. The government authorities should correctly estimate requirements and accordingly make arrangements.Poonam BatraDispel vaccine-related mythsAlthough the district has successfully administered Covid vaccines to over one million residents so far, we’re still far away from achieving the milestone of vaccinating the entire population. The awareness campaigns by the district administration should be based on the idea of collective responsibility — that it benefits all of us to get the jab. There is a need to dispel the myths and unfounded beliefs about the side-effects of Covid-19 vaccination in order to motivate people in far-flung areas to get the jab and protect themselves from the infection. The mantra of “Educate, encourage and incentivise” can be followed to ensure that nobody becomes a victim of panic and misinformation.Akash KumarLeaders, officials should set an exampleTo save the population from catching Covid infection, all attempts must be made to vaccinate as many people as possible. Covid-related myths should be busted. The local administrators and leaders must get themselves vaccinated in presence of the villagers so that they feel encouraged and get the vaccination. Another way that can be adopted is that the group photo of all those villagers who got vaccinated must be shown to others and these photos be repeatedly published in the local newspapers instead of the photos of some individuals getting vaccinated. Some element of punishment or incentive should be announced to encourage people to get vaccinated. All district people must be repeatedly reminded that at present, vaccination is the only remedy available to save individuals from Covid.Gautam DevIncrease inoculation centresThe third Covid wave is knocking at the door and with the kind of present vaccination speed, it will be inevitable. The goal of vaccination fixed by the government looks a bit stretched given the current rate of vaccination. To achieve the goal, all government departments should be involved in the drive. A special campaign be launched to inoculate all students above 18 years of age and the staffers, both administrative and academic, at the colleges in the region. Inoculation centres should be increased to boost the daily vaccination capacity. Campaign be also launched against vaccine hesitancy as the vaccines have been introduced after obtaining clearance from regulatory bodies based on the vaccine’s safety and efficacy. Greater effort is required in pandemic areas where acceptance will be higher. Allow companies/big industrial units to organise vaccinations for the workers for faster return to work. Also, vaccine camps need to be advertised vigorously through sign boards at important locations, through television, radio etc.RS SEMBHIAwareness, mass-scale vaccination neededIn spite of the best efforts of the government, the alluring target has not been achieved. While fixing the target for vaccination, complete assessment of our sources ought to be reviewed. The government must create awareness in the public. People should come ahead themselves considering it their duty. To create the right atmosphere, the government should hold seminars and lectures on vaccination. At this hour of crisis, comparison with countries such as the US should be avoided. The US is equal to our one state just like Bihar or UP. We must observe guidelines of the government.JBS NandaRaise awareness through webinar, newspaper, TVVaccination is necessary for all people at the time of pandemic. Door-to-door vaccination drive should be started so that every eligible person should be vaccinated. There should be vaccination awareness among citizens through webinar, radio, newspaper, television, etc. The administration should provide some treat or facilities for vaccinated people so that non-vaccinated people would come forward for vaccination. Such steps will help in increasing vaccination cover.Adish SoodTackle vaccine hesitancyHesitancy in taking jab is the main hurdle. To address the issue, the government should take into confidence all stakeholders such as religious leaders NGOs, political leaders of all parties, panch sarpanch, councillors. Along with this, print and electronic media be taken into confidence. They have general mass appeal and these methods can reduce vaccine hesitancy.Dr Sukhdev SharmaGetting vaccinated need of the hourEach one of us, as responsible citizens of our country, have to first and foremost take care of our health. Sarpanch, elders, councillors, youth leaders, and religious leaders should organise and motivate people to get themselves vaccinated. They can be given incentives in form of cash and kind. Broadcast and print media can play a greater role by spreading the information and motivating the public. Here, the educated too have a role to play. They have to set examples by motivating people right from their homes to outside by following the norms and getting vaccinated. If during elections the people can be motivated to vote, why not now, nothing is impossible.Dr Navdeep KaurSet up more camps, advertise themIt has been established now that only herd immunity developed through vaccination can save us from the havoc being wreaked by Covid-19.To vaccinate one and all in our district, more camps should be organised throughout the city. The vaccination schedule and sites of camps should be profusely advertised beforehand. If possible, door-to-door vaccination should be undertaken with the help of mobile vans too. Those who are still not interested in getting inoculated should be punished.Dr Sunil ChopraTarget youth in colleges, varsitiesTo cover every eligible candidate, the civil hospital, under the supervision of the Chief Medical Officer (CMO), must form teams at micro level. Officials from the Municipal Corporation must be pressed into service to get a ward-wise list prepared so that it becomes easy for doctors and other medical staff to vaccinate eligible candidates. The government must provide the vaccination to each and every student above the age of 18 in colleges and universities under the care of their parents. Lists must be prepared at each college and university and students and other eligible people must be informed well in time to take the vaccination.Farzana KhanMake jab must for travelThere are many steps that need to be taken to inoculate each and every eligible person. People, especially in socially neglected and backward areas, should be made well aware of the benefits of getting vaccinated. Freebies can be given to those who get vaccinated in rural areas. Children should encourage their parents to get jabbed. Restaurants should provide meals only after checking the vaccination certificate of their customers. Teachers should tell their students about its benefits. Vaccination can also be provided at doorsteps. Drive-through inoculation sites should be opened. Schools and colleges can also make arrangements to provide the shots to their staff and students. Travel by public transport should be allowed only if the passenger is vaccinated. More social media campaigns should be started to spread awareness about the vaccine.Ekamjot SinghTake help of ASHA workersLudhiana is ahead of other cities in Punjab in regard to vaccination. But still, each citizen has not been covered, irrespective of various camps organised for the purpose. The government should appoint some ASHA workers, along with medical officers, for door-to-door vaccination campaign, such as the campaign of pulse polio and voter’s card. With the help of the Municipal Corporation, the CMO must form teams to give vaccination to each eligible person at their doorsteps. In each street, list of eligible people must be prepared. People must come forward to cooperate with doctors and other paramedical staff in this drive so that no eligible candidate is left without vaccination.Dr Mohd Saleem FarooquiDoctors should come forward to remove doubtsAlthough many residents of the city have already got jabbed, many are still remaining. Being responsible residents, it is our prime duty to come forward and help the government in this process. Some people are questioning the vaccination’s safety. Doctors should come forward to dispel myths and remove doubts. Also, government authorities should organise more camps so that more people can be covered under the campaign. Even people of slum areas should be made aware about the drive. The time is tough, but we all have to take steps to ensure each other’s safety. It is not only the duty of the government but that of every individual to control the spread of the virus.Shilpa SharmaStart door-to-door campaign in cityThe government must make arrangements for door-to-door vaccination service, like in the case of polio drops for children, so that every eligible individual must be covered. Some people are not taking the shot because of the prevailing myths and misconceptions and these should be dispelled by authorities. Senior and super senior citizens must be on priority list. Employers of various organisations and institutions must ensure that their employees are vaccinated. Proper records must be maintained by them. These are the ways through which 100% vaccination can be achieved.Ritu PriyaHold vax camps at bus stands, rly stationsPublic places like the bus stands and railway stations can be used to vaccinate a good number of people daily. The main problem of the vaccination drive is to inoculate the poor. The poor people cannot leave their petty businesses/jobs to get vaccinated. So, a special drive to vaccinate at or near their workplace is the need of the hour. If possible door-to-door vaccination must be carried out for such people. In addition to it, more vaccination camps should be organised in slum areas. A small number of people are still hesitant for the jabs. Such people should be counselled and convinced to take the vaccination.Bir Devinder Singh BediOPEN HOUSE QUESTIONThe delayed monsoon has led to power and water crisis. With the demand of both essential commodities touching their peak, the supply has dwindled considerably in the recent past. To cope up with the widening gap between demand and supply, all industries have been forced to shut their operations for the past few days. Already reeling under heavy losses due to the Covid pandemic for the past over a year, the industry has been further pushed to the brink due to forced shutdown. How can the industry survive in such conditions? Suggestions in not over 70 words can be sent to ludhiana.feedback@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ensure-vax-availablity-dispel-myths-to-amplify-coverage-281961
12-07-2021||Ludhiana||Punjab Agricultural University organises training course on rainwater harvesting||The Skill Development Centre, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), organised a two-day training course on “Rainwater Harvesting and Irrigation Methods for Water Saving.” A total of 61 farmers and farm women participated in the course held under the aegis of the Directorate of Extension Education. Dr Kuldeep Singh, Associate Director (Skill Development), said in view of groundwater depletion, conservation of water is need of the hour. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/punjab-agricultural-university-organises-training-course-on-rainwater-harvesting-281962
12-07-2021||Ludhiana||MBD Group celebrates founder’s day||Last year during lockdown, the group launched the AASOKA mobile app which makes available to students high quality study material in the form of e-books, audio lessons, video lessons and online assessments and assignments that help them focus on studies in a constructive and interesting manner.Also, the ALTS (Aasoka learning and teaching solutions) was developed for schools, which is a cloud-based platform catering to all academic, administrative, learning and teaching needs of schools with curriculums of the CBSE, ICSE/ISC and various state boards. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mbd-group-celebrates-founders-day-281963
