13-07-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||SAD protests, seeks arrest of MLA Bains in rape case||Ludhiana, July 12The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) held a massive protest in front of the office of the Commissioner of Police here demanding the immediate arrest of Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) leader Simarjit Singh Bains against whom a case of rape was registered today.Will intensify protest if MLA not held by tuesdayThe SAD announced that in case LIP leader Simarjit Singh Bains is not arrested by Tuesday it will intensify its agitation by organising a ‘gherao’ of the residence of Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, who, it maintained has been protecting the LIP leader for more than seven months.The party announced that in case Bains was not arrested by tomorrow it would intensify its agitation by organising a ‘gherao’ of the residence of Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, who, it maintained had been protecting the LIP leader for more than seven months.Senior party leaders, including Maheshinder Singh Grewal, Sharanjit Singh Dhillon and Hira Singh Gabria, demanded that the Vidhan Sabha membership of Bains should also be annulled.Stating that truth had prevailed and the law won, Grewal said the case had proved that the women were not safe in the Congress government. “Goons like Simarjit Bains target and sexually exploit women but the Congress government fails to take action against them because they enjoyed the patronage of Ashu,” he said.He said similarly the Ludhiana police had also violated the guidelines of the Supreme Court, which had stipulated that a case should be registered in a complaint of rape within 72 hours, besides stating that the trial in high-profile cases of rape should be completed in three months. He sought explanation from the Ludhiana police as to what investigation it had conducted in the case since the last seven months and why it had not proceeded against the LIP leader for so long.Former minister and SAD leader Sharanjit Dhillon appreciated the role of prominent lawyer and SAD leader Harish Rai Dhanda for his efforts in bringing the LIP leader to book. Dhanda, who also represents the victim, said he would take the case to its logical conclusion. “We will also take up the issue of destruction of vital evidence by the Ludhiana police”.Among others present at the occasion were Ranjit Singh Dhillon, Manpreet Singh Ayali, Darshan Singh Shivalik, Amarjit Singh Chawla, Gurcharan Singh Grewal, Harbhajan Singh Dang, Vijay Danav and Harcharan Singh Golwaria.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sad-protests-seeks-arrest-of-mla-bains-in-rape-case-282323
13-07-2021||---||Rain brings relief, leaves few areas flooded||Ludhiana, July 12 As the rain lashed the city on Monday, city residents got a relief from the scorching heat. Meanwhile, waterlogging was witnessed in some areas of the city. There are reports of water accumulation near Police Colony Chowk on Chandigarh Road. Besides, waterlogging for a short time was also witnessed near Scooter Market, Abdulapur Basti and some other areas of the city. Notably, residents in the Chandigarh Road area had been complaining about waterlogging problem for a long time but a project for installation of stormwater drainage system is yet to see the light of day. Premjeet Singh, a resident of Chandigarh Road, said water was accumulated on the road after rain this afternoon. “As vehicles used to pass from the main highway, water enters our house. We had contacted the ward number 15 councillor to do the needful for the removal of water but to no avail. We have raised the matter many times but no action was taken to get the problem resolved till date,” he said. The storm water drainage system is unavailable in about 89 per cent areas of the city. MC’s Superintending Engineer Rajinder Singh said there were no complaints of waterlogging in any part of the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rain-brings-relief-leaves-few-areas-flooded-282324
13-07-2021||Ludhiana||Two dead, 24 test positive||Today 24 persons tested positive for Covid, while two deaths due to the disease were reported in the district. There was a hike of 12 cases as there were 172 active cases in the district today, while yesterday the number was 160. Total positive cases in the district have reached 87,169, while 2,090 have lost their lives to the disease so far. The recovery rate yesterday was 97.42 per,cent, while today it was 97.41 per,cent. Today 23 patients were admitted to private/government hospitals and five patients were on ventilator support. A total of 18,32,558 samples have been taken till now, out of which 17,33,826 samples were found negative. Today samples of 82,09 people were collected. Till now 99,972 persons have been home quarantined and today 150 were sent for home isolation in the district. Deputy Commissioner Varinder Sharma said: “I request people to continue observing Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, including wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and hand hygiene.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-dead-24-test-positive-282325
13-07-2021||Harshraj Singh||MC plans to fill vacant posts on outsourcing basis||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 12As the Municipal Corporation’s House meeting is going to be held on Wednesday after a gap of over three months, the House members would take decisions on the agenda for 29 resolutions.Proposal to ban single-use plasticA resolution will be presented before the Municipal Corporation House to issue a notification regarding the ban on single-use plastic. For participation in the Safai Mitra Suraksha Challenge 2021-22, the civic body needs to issue a notification to ban single-use plastic in the city.The MC is struggling with shortage of staff as vacant posts are not being filled for a long time. Now, it is considering to fill the posts on an outsourcing basis.There are 124 sanctioned posts of inspector, of which 104 are lying vacant. Of the 423 posts of clerk, 157 are filled and 266 are lying vacant.Besides, posts of engineer in B&R and other branches are also lying vacant. In the upcoming House meeting, resolutions to fill the vacant posts on an outsourcing basis will be presented before the House members.LIT coloniesThe civic body is planning to take over Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) colonies while the House members would take a decision in this regard too. If the House gives permission, the MC would collect water supply and sewerage charges from the LIT colonies, including Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Maharishi Valmiki Nagar, Rajguru Nagar and Sant Ishar Singh Nagar.According to information, the MC is also going to bring a resolution regarding the proposed amendment in the layout plan of 7.33-acre Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar on Lodhi Club Road, here, as it is planning to designate a portion of the parking site for a fuel station on the road.Other resolutionsThe House would take a decision to impose a compoundable fee on stationed commercial vehicles and rehri-phari in various zones under the corporation. A resolution to allow the change of land use of dairy complexes is said to be presented before the House members too. The MC has planned to shift the dairies out of the city limits.Another resolution to provide jobs to the kin of deceased employees on compassionate grounds will also be discussed during the meeting.The House will also announce its decision to issue a no-objection certificate for some MC colonies for the implementation of a scheme under the Punjab Slum Dwellers (Proprietary Rights) Act, 2020. The state government will give land rights to slum dwellers in these colonies.Opposition councillors may also raise issues such as water supply and sewer tariff, solid waste management and others during the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mc-plans-to-fill-vacant-posts-on-outsourcing-basis-282326
13-07-2021||Ludhiana||Two arrested with stolen two-wheelers||The police have arrested two persons and recovered two stolen scooters from their possession in separate incidents. In another incident, thieves broke into a house in the city and decamped with jewellery and valuables. Saurav Sehgal, a resident of Near Ganesh Mandir in Janakpuri, was intercepted at a naka near Raikhy Cinema on Sunday on a tip-off that the accused was involved in several cases of mobile snatchings and theft of two-wheelers. He was riding a stolen TVS Jupiter scooter (bearing registration no. PB 91B 3471). A case has been registered. The police have arrested another person, Harjit Singh of Shimlapuri, in Fatehgarh Mohalla on Sunday when he was going towards Clock Tower Chowk on a stolen Honda Activa scooter (bearing registration no. PB 10DX 8159). He has been booked under Sections 379 and 411 of the IPC. Jewellery stolen from house A house in Ishar Nagar was burgled on the intervening night of July 9 and 10 and miscreants fled with gold jewellery and other valuables. In a complaint lodged with the police, Amanadeep Kaur, a resident of Bhagat Enclave in Ishar Nagar, said thieves broke into the house when the family was asleep and took away gold and silver jewellery along with two mobile phone handsets. A case has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-arrested-with-stolen-two-wheelers-282327
13-07-2021||Nitin Jain||Dist continues to have lowest positivity rate||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 12Ludhiana, which has been credited with making a remarkable turnaround from being the worst-hit to the safest district in the state, continues to remain on the top with the lowest Covid positivity rate, a key indicator of virus surge, in Punjab, the government has confirmed.The largest district with maximum population of over 3.5 million recorded an average hit rate of 0.2 per cent in the first week of July, which was half than the state’s average positivity rate of 0.4 per cent between July 2 and 8, the official figures have revealed.This was the lowest-ever number of virus patients reported in the district during 24 hours so far. The safe trend has been persisting for the past over a month when the district had made a remarkable turnaround by recording the daily positivity rate even below 1 per cent.The development holds significance as Ludhiana had earlier assumed the dubious distinction of being the worst-hit district with the maximum number of daily Covid cases and deaths till May.If it was mayhem in May when the second Covid wave had rapidly slid into a devastating crisis with the health facilities unbearably falling short, oxygen supplies running low and many dying even without seeing a doctor, June had given a sigh of relief with the signs of gradual retreat and impact of the deadly virus plateauing and the safe trend continues in July when the hit rate further dipped to as low as 0.2 per cent, which was lowest-ever, last week.This U-turn was all the more significant as the daily positivity rate has dropped by a whopping 19.55 per cent from the highest-ever ratio of 19.57 per cent in the past almost two months. The district had touched its peak of virus surge on May 2.The daily hit rate has been plummeting constantly since the last week of May.Ludhiana’s positivity rate had started at a high of 18.92 per cent on the first day of May, further rising and touching its peak of 19.57 per cent on May 2.The data analysed by the Health and Family Welfare Department, a copy of which is with The Tribune, showed that Fazilka and Ferozepur have left behind Mohali and have emerged the worst-hit districts in the state with the maximum hit rate of 1.1 per cent each in the past week.Among other districts, Mohali and Bathinda stood second with 1 per cent hit rate each, followed by Mansa 0.9 per cent, Faridkot 0.8, Moga and Amritsar 0.7 each, Patiala and Pathankot 0.6 each, Hoshiarpur, Tarn Taran and Kapurthala 0.5 each, Barnala and Fatehgarh Sahib 0.4 each, Jalandhar, Ropar, Nawanshahr, Gurdaspur and Sangrur 0.3 each, and Muktsar shared the top position with Ludhiana by registering the lowest positivity rate of 0.2 per cent.The compilation of average positivity rate in June also put Ludhiana as the safest district with the lowest figure of 0.8 per cent virus cases, which were 55.55 per cent less than the state’s average cases of 1.8 per cent from June 1 to 30.In June, Mohali remained the worst-hit district with the state’s highest hit rate of 4.6 per cent, followed by Ferozepur 4 per cent, Fazilka 3.5, Bathinda 3.3, Mansa 2.8, Moga 2.5, Ropar and Hoshiarpur 2.3 each, Faridkot 2.2, Amritsar 2, Barnala and Patiala 1.9 each, Pathankot 1.8, Muktsar 1.7, Kapurthala 1.6, Jalandhar and Fatehgarh Sahib 1.5 each, Tarn Taran 1.4, Sangrur and Gurdaspur 1.1 each, and Nawanshahr registered the second lowest positivity rate of 0.9 per cent last month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dist-continues-to-have-lowest-positivity-rate-282328
13-07-2021||Manav Mander||Doctors start 3-day strike, patients bear the brunt||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 12Doctors at the Ludhiana Civil Hospital started a three-day strike against the recommendations of the Sixth Pay Commission today.The OPD and In-house Patient Department, work related to Unique Disability Identification, Ayushman Bharat Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana and elective surgeries remained suspended at the Civil Hospital as doctors protested the delinking of Non Practise Allowance (NPA) from basic pay. No webinar, video conference and online consultation were held today. Only emergency services were kept out of strike.“Initially NPA @25 per cent was part of pay for the calculation of all allowances. Now, with the implementation of the 6th Pay Commission, NPA has been delinked from pay and reduced to 20 per cent, which means it has been fixed now and no other allowances will be calculated on NPA. It will remarkably effect the net salary of all government doctors, be it allopathic, ayurvedic, homeopathic or veterinary,” said Dr Avinash Jindal from the Punjab Civil Medical Services Association (PCMSA).Employees of the Animal Husbandry Department were also on strike and raised slogans against the government. Dr Chatinder Singh Rai from the department said instead of giving them bonus for working hard amidst the pandemic, their salaries had been cut. Employees also burnt copies of the 6th Pay Commission report.Meanwhile, it was the patients who were left high and dry because of the strike.“It is people like us, who cannot afford costly treatment, that are affected due to such strikes. The doctors are on strike every other day, where will patients go?” said Amrik Singh, who had come for medical consultation for his mother.Another patient from Janta Nagar said she was suffering from stomach pain and had come to see a doctor. “Upon reaching here I came to know that doctors were on strike. I took leave from my workplace to come and I cannot get leave every day. Now, I will buy over-the-counter medicine from the chemist as I cannot afford consultation fee of a private doctor. Why are poor patients like us made to suffer? Doctors should protest in groups so that the work flow in hospitals is not affected. It is only patients who are suffering due to the strike,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/doctors-start-3-day-strike-patients-bear-the-brunt-282392
13-07-2021||---||New ADC takes charge||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 12After assuming the office of Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) (Urban Development) in Ludhiana, IAS officer Sandeep Kumar on Monday said the mushrooming of illegal colonies would not be allowed in the district. His office would also keep strict vigil to check emergence of such colonies outside the MC limits.As per the directions of the state government, the power to demolish such colonies, which was earlier vested with GLADA, had now been given to his office and he would take strict action against any such colony or building coming up in the jurisdiction, he maintained.Kumar said a complaint cell would also be set up to register and maintain all complaints received telephonically or in writing.His was a new post, created by the Punjab Government to further boost the efficiency of Urban Local Bodies in the state, he said, and asked the officers/employees to perform their duties with utmost dedication and hard work, besides ensuring transparency and timely delivery of services to people.Kumar, who was earlier posted as ADC (Development) here, said he would accord top priority to further implement the state policies/ schemes regarding urban areas in a better and effective manner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/new-adc-takes-charge-282393
13-07-2021||Ludhiana||Congress leader holds protest at DMCH||High drama was witnessed at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) as Congress leader Kamaljit Singh Karwal, along with a large number of supporters, protested on the premises. He alleged that the authorities had refused to treat a serious patient as the family was unable to deposit the hospital charges.An 18-year-old girl from Model Town, who had attempted suicide, was admitted to DMCH in serious condition.Karwal alleged that the girl belongs to a poor family and they could not afford the huge amount of charges.“The family had already deposited Rs 1 lakh but the hospital asked them to deposit Rs 3 lakh more. From where will they bring such a huge amount and in case they are unable to, that does not mean that the hospital can refuse to treat the patient,” Karwal said. He said if anything happened to the girl, they would lite her prey in front of the hospital.Later, Dr Sandeep Sharma, Medical Superintendent of DMCH, said the hospital always came forward to help poor patients. “I have assured them that the hospital will extend a helping hand in this case as well. Treatment of no patient is stopped for the want of bill payment. They should not have gathered inside the hospital in Covid times as there is always a fear of infection,” said Dr Sharma.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/congress-leader-holds-protest-at-dmch-282394
13-07-2021||---||Harjinder wins men’s TT title||Sports CorrespondentLudhiana, July 12Harjinder Singh got the better of Manmeet Singh to clinch the title in the men’s singles category in the 3rd Ludhiana Veterans Table Tennis Competition that concluded at Aspire TT Academy, Model Town, here on Monday.In the final, Harjinder survived some anxious moments against his opponent before coming out triumphant in three sets 11-9, 13-11 and 11-7.Earlier, in the semifinals, Harjinder outperformed Munish 11-8, 9-11, 11-5 and 11-7, while Manmeet beat Ramakant in straight sets 11-6, 11-4 and 11-9 to seal berths in the final.In the team championship, Ludhiana contingent outplayed Himachal squad to lift the winners’ trophy whereas in the lucky doubles’ group, Manmeet Singh and Munish outplayed Alkesh and Jaspal Singh 11-8, 11-7 and 11-9 to annex the title.Jaspal Singh, former table tennis coach with the Sports Authority of India gave away prizes to the position holders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/harjinder-wins-mens-tt-title-282395
13-07-2021||---||AAP protests against erratic power supply||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 12The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) staged a protest against the Capt Amarinder Singh-led government over power cuts.AAP youth wing president and MLA Meet Hayer while targeting the state government said people of the state were suffering due to the erratic power supply despite the fact that they were paying more for electricity than the rest of the country.Hayer said earlier costly power deals initiated by the SAD-BJP government with private companies had forced people of the state to pay exorbitant electricity bills. But now, power cuts had made life difficult for them.AAP MLA from Garhshankar, Jai Kishan Singh Rori, accompanied Hayer and other party workers to the dharna site outside the DC office.He said due to erratic power supply, farmers had to purchase expensive diesel for operating generator to irrigate their crop. The state government should also impose penalty on power companies to get rid of unannounced power cuts.During the dharna, a large number of party workers from Ludhiana district as well as across the state were present. AAP state vice-president Anil Thakur, assistant secretary Amandeep Singh Mohi and Rajinderpal Kaur Chhina were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/aap-protests-against-erratic-power-supply-282396
13-07-2021||---||BKU to submit memos to non-BJP MPs of state||Our CorrespondentLudhiana, July 12Bharti Kisan Union (BKU) Kadian would submit memoranda to all non-BJP members of Parliament (MPs) from the state on July 17 to seek their support for revocation of farm-related Acts of the Central Government in the upcoming monsoon session of Parliament as well as provision of legislative support to the minimum support price (MSP).Addressing a meeting of the state committee here today, BKU president Harmeet Singh Kadian said party functionaries would meet the Congress, SAD and AAP MPs at their respective constituencies to urge them to raise their voice in support of agitating farmers and to make the government accept all pending demands, including revocation of three farm Acts and legislative measures, to ensure continuation of the MSP.He said as per the decision of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders, each organisation of farmers participating in the ongoing agitation would send a five-member jatha of farmers from July 22 onwards during the monsoon session of Parliament which would convene their own mini-parliament to discuss all farmer-related issues and expose the anti-farmer stand of the Narendra Modi-led Centre.“Accordingly, a five-member jatha of farmers from the BKU will reach Parliament from Ludhiana (on July 22), Muktsar (July 23), Mansa (July 26), Faridkot (July 27), Moga (July 28), Jalandhar (July 29), Kapurthala (July 30), Hoshiarpur (Aug 2), Fazilka (Aug 3), Ferozepur (Aug 4), Barnala (Aug 6), Tarn Taran (Aug 9), Sangrur (Aug 10), Bathinda (Aug 11), Fatehgarh Sahib (Aug 12) and from Ropar (on Aug 13),” Kadian announced.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bku-to-submit-memos-to-non-bjp-mps-of-state-282397
13-07-2021||---||UP govt lures local industry with 24x7 power, sops||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 12A delegation of industrialists from Ludhiana, under the leadership of Gurmeet Singh Kular, president of Federation of Industrial & Commercial Organisation (FICO), and TR Mishra, chairman of Federation of Dying Factories Association, met Yogi Adityanath, Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh, who called up the industrialists to invest in UP.Yogi assured uninterrupted 24*7 power to the industry and peaceful environment with law and order fully maintained. Further, he said UP was part of the Eastern Corridor, which would ensure cheap and easy movement of goods.Arvind Kumar, Additional Chief Secretary, Infrastructure & Industrial Development (IID), Uttar Pradesh, told the delegation that the state government would provide fully developed industrial area near the junction points of the Yamuna Expressway for easy access to the expressway, that too at very reasonable prices of around Rs 5,000 per square yard, with all basic amenities for industry. Moreover, India’s largest airport was under construction at Jewar in western Uttar Pradesh.Neena Sharma, IID Secretary, explained various fiscal benefits on state portion of GST to be provided under the ‘Invest UP’ campaign.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/up-govt-lures-local-industry-with-24x7-power-sops-282398
13-07-2021||Ludhiana||Vet university commemorates fish farmers’ day||The College of Fisheries (COF), Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), celebrated National Fish Farmers’ Day (NFFD) virtually to acclaim fish farmers for their contribution to the national economy and food/nutritional security, making India the second largest fish producer of the world.The NFFD is commemorated every year to salute Indian scientists Dr Hiralal Chaudhri, also known as ‘Father of Induced Breeding’, and Dr KH Alikunhi, for gifting the world the induced fish breeding technology and lifting Indian aquaculture with ‘Blue Revolution’.The event constituted of two sessions, where students delivered speeches, made posters and recited poems to acknowledge their contribution towards the Indian economy. In the farmer’s session, a video documentary was shared with over 100 participants. Fish farmers shared their experiential journey into aquaculture. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/vet-university-commemorates-fish-farmers-day-282399
13-07-2021||---||Pensioners flay govt for anti-employee policies||Our CorrespondentDoraha, July 12The Government Pensioners Association held a meeting at KK Kaushal Memorial Bhawan here under the presidentship of Pawan Kumar Kaushal and rejected the anti-pensioner and anti-employee recommendations of Sixth Pay Commission furthered by the Cabinet sub-committee report. The report has in fact confused the pensioners who have to adopt multiple formula for the fixation of revised pension. Now, the government has constituted an officers committee and cabinet subcommittee only to linger implementation of the pay commission report.The meeting also condemned the government proposal to reduce the allowances as per recommendation of the pay commission. The medical allowance recommended by the pay commission was Rs1,000 per month but the Cabinet reduced it to Rs500. Moreover, the compassionate allowance and conveyance allowance too has been reduced. Further the non-practicing allowance of the doctors has been reduced from 25 per cent to 20 per cent and delinked from DA.The meeting formed a six member committee to negotiate with other organisations for forming a joint front against the anti-people, anti-employee and anti-pensioner policies of the state and the Central Government. The meeting took a serious note of rise in petro and other essential commodities prices of daily use and criticised the policies of BJP-led Central government. The pensioners appealed to the government to withdraw the three farm laws. Pawan Kumar Kaushal, Gurdial Dalal, Ranjit Singh Tiwana, Kamaljit Singh Doraha and Satinder Pal Singh also addressed the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pensioners-flay-govt-for-anti-employee-policies-282400
13-07-2021||A webinar on “Process and outcome evaluation of agricultural development programmes” was jointly organised by the Directorate of Extension Education||Webinar on evaluation of agricultural development||Training course on landscape designingThe Skill Development Centre organised a two-day online training course on “Landscape designing and planting material” for in-service candidates. A total of 23 agriculture and horticulture officers, scientists from PAU and its Krishi Vigyan Kendras attended the course. Dr Kuldeep Singh, Associate Director (Skill Development), said landscaping was a creative profession skilled in strategic planning, delivery and management. Dr Kiran Grover, principal extension scientist (food and nutrition) and course coordinator, highlighted that awareness among people for clean and aesthetic environment had resulted in the development of landscape gardening, beautifying public places and interiorscaping. Dr Ranjit Singh, assistant professor (floriculture) and technical coordinator, made the participants aware of the importance and scope of landscaping in today’s urbanised environment.92 undergraduate students attend virtual fitness campThe Directorate of Students’ Welfare organised an online National Sports Organisation (NSO) camp for undergraduate students of the university for the year 2019-20. As many as 92 NSO trainees from all constituent colleges of PAU attended the camp. The camp was organised to build up good immunity among students during pandemic, to break down the inactivity of the body organs by exercises in daily routine and to widen the horizons of the students on the significance of fitness, exercise, nutrition, physical education and sports. Dr Ravinder Kaur Dhaliwal, Director Students’ Welfare, was the chief guest during the closing ceremony of the camp. She congratulated the students and the organising committee for making the camp a success. She emphasised the importance of regular exercise. She said that learning physical exercises help the individual to remain focused and work with more energy. To fulfil the objective, two sessions (morning and evening) were conducted daily during the camp. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/webinar-on-evaluation-of-agricultural-development-282401
13-07-2021||CT University and Vedant Publications and Educational Services jointly organised an e-conference on “Interrogating the Idea of Development||E-conference on development||Faculty development programmeThe IQAC of GHG Institute of Law for Women, Sidhwan Khurd, organised a one-day faculty development programme. Principal SK Nayak welcomed the resource person, Dr Shipra Gupta, associate professor, Department of Law Panjab University Chandigarh. She presented PPT on plagiarism which is a serious ethical issue in research. Plagiarism is the process of using other person’s ideas and presenting it as their own, she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/e-conference-on-development-282402
