14-07-2021||Anil Datt||Former teammates remember their association with cricketer Yashpal Sharma||Ludhiana, July 13The news of former Indian cricketer from Ludhiana, Yashpal Sharma’s death came as shock to sports lovers here. City cricketers Satish Mangal and Arun Passi, who had played along with Yashpal, were short of words to express their grief over the untimely death of their former teammate.Satish and Arun who played for Punjab team under Yashpal Sharma were shocked to learn demise of one of the heroes of India’s World Cup triumph in 1983.Yashpal died of cardiac arrest this morning at his residence in New Delhi. He is survived by wife, two daughters and a son.Yashpal (66) was born on August 11, 1954. He studied here at Arya Senior Secondary School, Sabzi Mandi, and then at the SCD Government College for Boys. He played cricket during 1970s and 80s.He played Ranji Trophy for Punjab, Haryana and Railways. He gave a stupendous performance in the domestic cricket.He got recruited as a probationary officer in the State Bank of India on the basis of his outstanding achievement. However, he resigned from the bank as senior manager so that he could concentrate towards the development of cricket.Yash hogged limelight when he scored 173 runs in the Duleep Trophy to help North Zone emerge victorius against the South Zone that had spin trio of Chandersekhar, Venkataraghavan and Erapalli Prasanna.Yashpal donned national colour when he made Test debut against England in 1979 and went on to play 37 matches between1979-83. He played his last Test in 1983 against West Indies.He also represented India in 43 ODIs and played a pivotal role, emerging second highest run getter in the 1983 World Cup wherein India stunned the mighty West Indies to record title victory. Yashpal scored match-winning 60 runs in semi-finals against England.Yashpal, former national selector, commentator and panel expert used to visit Ludhiana at regular intervals.“I talked to Yash bhaji over phone only last night. He appeared fit and fine as usual. It was unbelievable that he was no more,” said Arun Passi.Expressing grief over Yashpal’s demise, Satish Mangal said he was known for his politeness and gutsy attitude. He was a multi-faceted being a fine middle order batsman of substance, an agile fielder, national selector, umpire and coach as well, said Satish.Satish, Arun and Vinod Chitkara, former honorary general secretary, LDCA, mourned the death of former international cricketer from Ludhiana and conveyed condolences to the aggrieved family.Pall of gloom descends on his Ram Nagar houseCricket fans, family friends and relatives descended on Yashpal Sharma’s house at Ram Nagar, Civil Lines near Lakkar Bridge. His elder brother Bal Krishan Sharma along with other family members remained busy throughout day to attend the visitors. He was unable to come to terms when any mourner recalled Yashpal’s association with the city and how he worked hard to carve a niche for himself and brought fame to the family as well as the country.another report on p2||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/former-teammates-remember-their-association-with-cricketer-yashpal-sharma-282668
14-07-2021||Rajneesh Lakhanpal||Two get life term for killing woman accused of sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib||Ludhiana, July 13Five years later, two youths, Jaspreet Singh, alias Nihal Singh, of Ranjit Nagar, Patiala, and Gurpreet Singh, alias Khalsa, aka Baba, resident of Amargarh, Sangrur, accused of killing a woman, Balwinder Kaur (47), of Ghawaddi village, facing accusations of desecrating Guru Granth Sahib, have been sentenced to undergo rigorous life imprisonment.The murder took place outside Gurdwara Alamgir Sahib at Alamgir in July 2016. The duo were ordered to pay a fine of Rs 1,35,000 each. Half of the recovered amount would be paid to the victim family as compensation.Delivering the verdict, the court held that the prosecution has successfully proved the charges levelled against the accused. The court turned down the plea of leniency raised by the convicts that they are unmarried and have old parents.Divulging details, Additional Public Prosecutor SS Haider said one of their accomplices Harbans Singh of Nabha has been sentenced to undergo a three-year jail term under the Arms Act.Whereas seven accused, namely Gurvinder Singh, Jagjit Singh of Sangrur, Amritpal Singh of Barnala, Swaranjit Singh, Goldy of Patiala, Kulwant Singh of Kurukshetra and Darshan Singh of Ludhiana, have been acquitted.Balwinder Kaur was arrested for allegedly desecrating Guru Granth Sahib on October 19, 2015. After about two months she was released on bail.A case under Sections 302 and 34 of the IPC and Sections 25 and 27 of the Arms Act was registered at the Dehlon police station on July 26, 2016, following the statement of Ranjodh Singh, son of deceased Balwinder Kaur.He had stated to the police that the prime accused called her mother outside the gurdwara on the pretext of helping them and shot her dead.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-get-life-term-for-killing-woman-accused-of-sacrilege-of-guru-granth-sahib-282669
14-07-2021||---||Youth booked for raping minor cousin||Ludhiana, July 13 The police have booked a youth on the charge of repeatedly raping his minor cousin. The incident came to light on Monday when the accused started blackmailing the girl. The accused has been identified as Sourav Bindra. The victim told the police that both families (her and the accused’s family) were living together in a joint family set up in the same house. “My cousin had been sexually exploiting me for the past over one year and threatened me with dire consequences if I disclosed the matter to anyone. Yesterday when the accused again attempted to rape me I objected and raised the alarm,” the victim alleged. The victim’s family said the accused had raped girl many a times in the past one year and he must face the strict law. Sub-Inspector Kamaldeep Kaur said a case of rape under Section 376 of the IPC and under Section 6 of the POCSO Act had been registered against the accused and efforts were on to nab him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/youth-booked-for-raping-minor-cousin-282670
14-07-2021||---||Thieves decamp with gold, cash from house||Ludhiana, July 13A major theft incident reported in Jagraon where thieves targeted a house and decamped with gold and cash worth lakhs.Complainant Gurminder Singh, a resident of Kothe Baggu village, said on the intervening night of July 10 and 11, he had gone to water his fields. His wife and son were sleeping in the courtyard.“When I returned home in the wee hours, I was shocked to see that the door of our main room was lying opened and the entire room was lying ransacked. Even the almirah where cash and gold were kept was also found open,” the house owner said.Gurminder said when they checked the missing valuables, they found that thieves decamped with 19 tolas of gold ornaments, and Rs 8,000 in cash. The value of stolen goods could be in several lakhs. A case has been registered, the investigation officer said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/thieves-decamp-with-gold-cash-from-house-282671
14-07-2021||---||16 test positive for Covid in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, July 13Today 16 persons tested positive for Covid, while no death was reported in the district. There were 162 active patients in the district. The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients now is 97.42 per cent.A total of 19 patients — 16 from Ludhiana district and three from other states/districts — tested positive in the last 24 hours. Today 23 patients were admitted to various hospitals in the district.Till date, a total of 18,42,295 samples have been taken, out of which reports of 18,42,295 samples have been received. As many as 17,43,544 samples were found negative.The total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 87,185, while 11,566 patients belong to other districts/states. The total number of persons who lost their lives is 2,090 from Ludhiana and 1,044 from other districts.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Sharma the samples of 9,737 suspected Covid patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/16-test-positive-for-covid-in-ludhiana-282673
14-07-2021||Nitin Jain||CMC-Ludhiana study: Dip in Covid cases to continue in July||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 13The present declining trend of Covid cases will continue to persist till later this month, a study by Christian Medical College (CMC) in Ludhiana has predicted.Experts have suggested that Ludhiana, among six districts, including Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Ferozepur and Ropar, still need to be kept under strict vigilance.The future projections of virus spread made by the epidemiology and biostatistics unit of the Department of Community Medicine at the CMC, a copy of which is available with The Tribune, revealed that the safe trend in all the 22 districts of Punjab will continue at least till July 22.“The trend is that cases will continue to decrease and the districts which require more vigilance are Ludhiana, Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Ferozepur and Ropar,” the experts have opined, while analysing the virus data available till July 7.However, the state government has prepared a surveillance strategy while anticipating the third possible wave.The multi-pronged strategy was drafted keeping in view the potential drivers of the possible third wave.The potential drivers include change in public behaviour after the end of the second wave; seasonal changes as more transmission is suggested in winter season due to increased contacts indoors, decreased ventilation and increased susceptibility to respiratory infections; re-infection due to the waning of immunity; and viral mutations, which lead to new and more transmissible and more fatal variants of Covid as one case each of Delta Plus variant has been reported from Ludhiana and Patiala recently.As per the strategy, warning signals of the third wave will be sounded by dividing districts into three different risk levels and accordingly Covid restrictions will be imposed to break the virus transmission. The three risk levels identified will revolve around control, alert and response strategy.Devising a special testing strategy, the government proposed to revise the present minimum testing as per the evolving situation.The revised restrictions devised to thwart the possible next wave comprised strict measures, including curfew, if positivity rate goes past 10 per cent and hospital bed occupancy increases more than 30 per cent; weekend and evening lockdown besides office attendance restrictions if hit rate touches between 5 and 10 per cent and bed occupancy remains between 21 and 30 per cent; closure of schools, colleges and restrictions on gatherings and closure of spaces meant for indoor public activities when the positivity rate goes between 2 and 5 per cent and bed occupancy remains between 15 and 20 per cent; strict enforcement of wearing masks and local containment zones for the situation where hit rate remains between 1 and 2 per cent and bed occupancy less than 15 per cent; and IEC for social distancing will continue aggressively even if the positivity rate remains less than 1 per cent.The strategy entails to compute the rise in virus surge for smaller areas beginning from ward and village levels and going up to block, town and city levels.While restrictions will be put in place in localised areas wherever the Covid cases will rise, the local lockdown will go beyond micro-containment and containment to area-wise restrictions on mobility and gathering in the affected areas, the government strategy entailed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cmc-ludhiana-study-dip-in-covid-cases-to-continue-in-july-282674
14-07-2021||Harshraj Singh||Residents oppose inauguration of civic body’s carcass utilisation plant near Noorpur Bet||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 13Residents of four villages opposed the inauguration of the MC’s carcass utilisation plant at Rasulpur village near Noorpur Bet in Ludhiana today.Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, along with Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, was supposed to inaugurate the project in the presence of MC officials this evening.As soon as residents of villages learned about the event, they gathered at the spot to hold a protest. Members of a farmers’ union also reached the spot to oppose the project. Following the protest, the Mayor and MC officials were forced to return without inaugurating the project.A former sarpanch of Rasulpur, Balvir Singh, said they had been opposing the MC’s plan to set up a carcass utilisation plan for the past four years.He said when the project work was started over a year ago, they had also opposed it. But officials had then made false claims that the MC was just installing a plant for preparing feed for poultry birds.He said: “When we came to know that Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu is coming to inaugurate the carcass utilisation plant, we made announcements in villages to gather to hold a protest. Residents of four villages had gathered to mark their protest today.”He said, “One house is located just at a distance of about 70 feet from the carcass plant while the groundwater is just 25 feet deep in the area. There are high chances that the civic body will pollute the groundwater. The land where the plant has been set up is for agricultural purposes. The MC had not obtained any no-objection certificate from the panchayat concerned and the PPCB. The residents have already moved the NGT against the plant in the village.”Another resident said: “If the plant is made functional, the villagers will be forced to suffer a lot. Kisan union members have extended support to us against the Municipal Corporation project in the village.”Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said when he and the Municipal Commissioner had reached the site, the villagers held a protest. However, he claimed that the Cabinet Minister was not present on the spot.He said: “The the minister, Bharat Bhushan Ashu, was informed not to reach the spot due to protest.”Sandhu claimed that the villagers had earlier lost a case in the Punjab and Haryana High Court.He claimed that the civic body had fulfilled the required norms to set up the plant.The plant has been built at the cost of around Rs 7.98 crore under Ludhiana Smart City Limited. Earlier, in the absence of any such plant, dead animals were being disposed of at a ‘Hadda Rodi’ near the Sutlej for a long time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/residents-oppose-inauguration-of-civic-bodys-carcass-utilisation-plant-near-noorpur-bet-282675
14-07-2021||Manav Mander
||Patients suffer as docs’ protest enters Day 2||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, July 13 The protest by doctors against recommendations of the 6th Pay Commission today entered its second day. The medical fraternity is protesting against the recommendations of the Sixth Pay Commission for delinking of the non-practicing allowance (NPA) from the basic pay. The OPD/In-house Patient Department and works related  to Unique Disability Identification, Ayushman Bharat Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana and elective surgeries remained suspended at the Civil Hospital here today. Webinar, videoconferencing and online consultations were not held today. Only emergency services were provided to patients. Dr Rohit Rampal from the Punjab Civil Medical Services Association said this was least expected from the state government when doctors were working beyond their capacity due to the pandemic situation. “What to talk about honouring us, instead, the government has slashed our existing salaries,” he said. Meanwhile, veterinary services throughout the state and at Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) hospital remained suspended in response to the protest call given by various state veterinary and medical associations. The GADVASU Teachers’ Association (GADVASUTA) and the Punjab State Veterinary Officers’ Association held a sit-in protest at the GADVASU hospital today in which a large number of teachers from the university along with state veterinary Officers participated. Teachers of GADVASU also boycotted the examinations, teaching and farm services. The teacher’s association expressed dismay over the state government’s move to reduce the NPA of veterinarians, medicos and allied professionals from 25 to 20 per cent along with delinking it from basic pay structure. Dr Ashwani Kumar, GADVASUTA president, said veterinarians were serving the poorest of poor livestock farmers and were directly working for the uplift of rural economy and the government’s move to delink the NPA to be a part of salary for calculation of other allowances and post-retirement pensionary benefits was highly condemnable. “Keeping in view the proactive role of veterinarians during the ongoing pandemic, which involve selfless rendering of services without caring for one’s own life, this disheartening move of the government is a cruel joke and exposes anti-farmer, anti-rural and anti-employee mindset of the state government,” he said. Copies of the pay panel report were also burnt by the protesters. Patients have been suffering due to the strike and medical services were badly hit in the government sector. Some patients who came to the hospital for the second consecutive day had to return due to the strike. “I didn’t knew that doctors will be on strike today also. Yesterday, I returned as there were no services and today when I came, I was told that doctors were on strike today also. When I asked about tomorrow, I came to know that tomorrow also the OPD will be closed. I fail to understand how can the government allow the doctors to strike as it is an essential service,” said Shankar Parsad, a patient. A pet owner had come from Sangrur to consult for his dog and upon reaching here he came to know that the doctors were on strike. “I had come all the way from Sangrur and a big amount of petrol was consumed while travelling. I was aware that the doctors were on strike but I did not know that veterinarians too were holding protest,” said Dilpreet Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/patients-suffer-as-docs-protest-enters-day-2-282676
14-07-2021||---||Check corruption in Ludhiana MC, demands Congress leader Parminder Mehta||Ludhiana, July 13A Congress leader and former councillor, Parminder Mehta, has demanded from the state government to take necessary steps for the elimination of alleged corruption in the Municipal Corporation (MC), Ludhiana.While addressing a press conference, along with his aides, on Tuesday, Mehta said the civic body had failed to act against mushrooming illegal constructions in the city.He alleged that the MC had also failed to take action in various scams while the parking contractor at the multilevel parking lot was fleecing visitors under the nose of MC officials.The Congress leader said no action had been taken in a fuel scam till date. He also raised questions over the working of the Finance and Contract Committee of the MC.He said people were facing a lot of harassment due to the digging of roads for the installation of drainage and sewer pipes during the rainy season. He also blamed some MC officials for allegedly fixing the commission fee in ongoing projects. On the other hand, honest officers of the civic body was being ignored, he alleged.Mehta alleged that some officials had been exploiting safai karamcharis and sewer men, adding that open garbage dumps across the city were crying for attention.He said: “I demand from the Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to look into the working of the corporation and take action against officials who failed to perform their duties.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/check-corruption-in-ludhiana-mc-demands-congress-leader-parminder-mehta-282677
14-07-2021||---||Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu reviews development projects in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, July 13Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Tuesday reviewed the progress of Ludhiana’s various development projects.While presiding over a meeting in Chandigarh, the Cabinet Minister directed officials to expedite the execution of the development projects, including new athletics track in Guru Nanak Stadium, installation of Bio-Gas plant in Haibowal Dairy Complex, rejuvenation of Buddha Nullah and status of the solid waste management system.The minister said the work on these projects would be completed soon to ensure that city residents were benefitted from them. Senior officials of various departments, Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal were among those others present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/minister-bharat-bhushan-ashu-reviews-development-projects-in-ludhiana-282678
14-07-2021||Sports Correspondent||Sports bodies observe two-minute silence on ’83 World Cup hero Yashpal Sharma’s death||Ludhiana, July 13Office-bearers of the District Basketball Association (DBA) and Ludhiana District Cricket Association (LDCA), besides coaches, expressed grief over the death of former Indian cricketer Yashpal Sharma. They remembered him as a great player who was an inspiration to many players from this region of the country.A prayer meeting was organised at Guru Nanak Stadium during which the DBA members, players and coaches observed two-minute silence to pay tributes to the departed soul. Teja Singh Dhaliwal, Yurinder Singh Hayer, Vijay Chopra, Balkar Singh Brar and Sumesh Chadha besides coaches Davinder Singh Dhindsa, Rajinder Singh, Brij Bihari, Saloni, Ravinder and Richu Sharma were among others present there.Similarly, the LDCA paid tributes to Yashpal Sharma who began his cricketing career from Ludhiana city. Before the coaching session at SRS Government Polytechnic College ground, Rishi Nagar, the executive committee members of the body, coaches and players observed silence to pay regards.Former Ranji player Satish Mangal, president of the LDCA, Rajesh Puri, Ankur Kakkar, Harmeet Singh and coach Charanjit Singh Saini recalled Yash’s achievements during his illustrious career.Meanwhile, the Alumni Association of SCD Government College also expressed shock at the demise of Yashpal Sharma who made the alumni and alma mater proud by his excellence by playing cricket at international level.Prinicpal Manjit Singh Sandhu, Col. Pardeep Sharma, Jagjit Singh Sidhu, Amarjit Singh Sandhu, Prij Bhushan Goyal, Prof Ashok Sharma, Mohinder Singh Grewal, KB Singh, Onkar Singh, Ashok Dheer and advocate VK Gupta recalled Yash’s dedication and discipline in the rigorous training, he did the college grounds in his formative years. They expressed sympathies with the bereaved family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sports-bodies-observe-two-minute-silence-on-83-world-cup-hero-yashpal-sharmas-death-282679
14-07-2021||Ludhiana||Women cricket trials today||Trials to select women cricketers (U-19 and senior) will be organised by the Ludhiana District Cricket Association (LDCA) at the Satguru Ram Singh Government Polytechnic College for Women ground, Rishi Nagar, here, on July 14.  Players born on or after September 1, 2002, can take part in the selection trials in the U-19 category while there would be no age bar in the senior section. The trials for U-19 would commence at 3 pm and for senior section, at 4 pm.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/women-cricket-trials-today-282680
14-07-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Hit by outages, Ludhiana bizmen turn to UP||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 13Industrialists from Ludhiana who had gone to Uttar Pradesh to meet the Chief Minister and other top officials have claimed that a list of over 50 industries, which have shown interest in investing in the state, has been handed over to the UP Government.50 units interestedAt a meeting with the UP Chief Minister, industrialists submitted a list of over 50 industries interested in investing in the state. In return, they got details of land available, sops, including 24-hour power supplyThese industries include yarn, steel parts, dyeing units, cycle parts, textile, etc. The UP Government has reportedly mentioned about the land available for Punjab industries in different districts.TR Mishra, chairman, Federation of Dyeing Factories Association, who headed the delegation, said: “The UP Government has promised to provide many sops — 24-hour uninterrupted power supply within a week of submitting documents, all NOCs under single window, cheap labour, no visit by inspectors, etc.”They have reportedly been provided a list of the chunk of land available for setting up units near Jamuna Expressway, Mathura, Old Allahabad, Gorakhpur, entire area of Purvanchal express from Gorakhpur to Mau, Bundelkhand, etc. “In Punjab, there has been no industrial revolution. The industry can’t be ignored, which provides huge revenue to the state, labour to lakhs of people, etc,” said Mishra, hoping that big and medium units from Ludhiana will soon start expanding base in UP.A top bureaucrat said: “At 12 per cent, UP has the maximum cognizable crime (2017) in the country. With such high crime rate, how can you invest massively in the state? In Punjab, the crime rate is just 1.4 per cent. The industry here is disturbed just because of power situation, which will improve in the next few days.”In the past four years, Punjab has received 2,900 proposals worth over Rs 91,000 crore investment. Of the 2,900 project proposals received by the state in the past four years, more than 50 per cent have already started commercial operations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/hit-by-outages-ludhiana-bizmen-turn-to-up-282810
14-07-2021||Pradeep Magazine||Gritty Ludhiana batsman Yashpal Sharma who shone at 1983 World Cup||Yashpal Sharma, who died after suffering a heart attack on Tuesday, was a firm, resolute, stubborn character. He was groomed in the crucible of India’s First-Class cricket, where most players spent their playing lives striving to be noticed. It is never easy to forge ahead, especially if you are playing for a state which is languishing somewhere at the bottom of the Ranji Trophy Championship.His best knocksYashpal played for Punjab in the 1970s, when many more talented and ambitious players from the state would migrate to Delhi for greater exposure and recognition. The boy from Punjab and India’s hosiery hub, Ludhiana, chose a lonely path, accepting the challenge of carving out a successful career without abandoning his home turf.The Ranji Trophy and Duleep Trophy consumed all his attention, where his batting flourished with a consistency that was difficult for the selectors to ignore. Soon enough, an India call came and he was on the flight to Pakistan in 1978, though a Test debut eluded him there. He was the backdoor boy who needed to prove himself, which he finally did on the tour of England in 1979. It was a tour on which his batting reflected all those gritty qualities needed to survive in a world that does not look kindly upon those who are not born to rule.He would address journalists of his age as ‘veerey’ (‘brother’ in Punjabi), and always remind them that playing for India is no mean feat, especially if you have to look over your shoulder all the time. Maybe it was hard for him to fit and melt into a mould that may have given his career the foundation and longevity which it eventually lacked.It was not that Yashpal was always a sticky batsman lacking in aggression or innovation. Far from it. It is just that we may have chosen to ignore in our memory some of his more adventurous displays. We remember and celebrate the 1983 World Cup win but forget that Yashpal was one of its key architects, with second-most runs in the team after Kapil Dev.He scored runs in all crucial games, be the opening game against West Indies or the semifinal against England. We remember the catch that Kapil Dev took running backwards to dismiss Viv Richards in the final but forget the audacious flick off a Bob Willis yorker over square-leg for a six by Yashpal in the semifinals. It was a breathtaking stroke.That shot was not an aberration as in a One-day match held in Jalandhar against England, he had smacked Ian Botham for a crucial six in the penultimate over as India romped to an unlikely win. His running between the wickets was exceptional and on the field he was a dashing mover, among the very best outfielders India has had.It is hard to imagine Yash being no more, snatched away so suddenly by death at age 66. He was a proud cricketer and a memory of his, which shows how much he valued playing for the country, has stayed with me. It is from the time when he was hoping to make a comeback: “Yashpal, 37 Tests,” that is how he would always introduce himself.Also read: A fine cricketer, and much more||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gritty-ludhiana-batsman-yashpal-sharma-who-shone-at-1983-world-cup-282807
