15-07-2021||Ludhiana||Two booked  in fraud case||The police have booked two persons, Gurpreet Kaur and Jatinder Singh, both employees of Capri Global Company in Feroze Gandhi Market here, on the charge of cheating a woman. In her complaint to the police, Meera Devi of New Durga Colony, alleged that on the promise of getting her a bank loan the accused took 16 cheques and Rs13,000 as first instalment even though no bank loan was sanctioned in her name. She said the accused had also made attempts to grab her property on the basis of forged power of attorney. The police have registered a case. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-booked-in-fraud-case-283549
15-07-2021||Ludhiana||Two minor girls go missing from Ludhiana||The father of thirteen and half year old girl, who went missing from Harwinder Nagar locality, in his complaint to the police said the girl had gone away without telling anything about her whereabouts. He suspected that Dhanne Bahadur, a resident of the same locality, was behind the abduction of the girl. The police have booked the suspect under Sections 363 and 366-A of the IPC.In another case, a 14-year-old girl was reported missing from Bajra Colony. Mother of the girl in her complaint to the police said that she and her husband had gone to work on Monday. “When we came back at around 6 pm, the girl was not at home,” said the mother, adding that on making inquiry they had learnt that Sunny, a resident of Bajra village, was behind elopement of the girl on the promise of marrying her. The police have registered a case under Sections 363 and 366-A of the IPC and started investigation. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-minor-girls-go-missing-from-ludhiana-283548
15-07-2021||---||Doctors, vets protest on third day of strike over cut in NPA||Ludhiana, July 14Disappointed over the government’s evasive policy on the issue of the non-practicing allowance (NPA), medical and veterinary doctors held protests on the last day of their strike in the district.During the three-day strike, all types of OPDs and other activities, except emergency, medico/vetro legal and Covid duty, were boycotted.The Joint Government Doctors Coordination Committee (JGDCC) had given the call of a three-day strike to mark their protest against the Sixth Pay Commission recommendations on the delinking of the non-practicing allowance (NPA) from the basic pay and for other demands.Dr Rohit Rampal at the Civil Hospital said they observed the strike today also and OPD services remained off. He, however, said the emergency services were performed as normal. The members of the Punjab State Nurses Association, Ludhiana district, also protested against the recommendations of the pay commission at the Civil Hospital today.Meanwhile, the veterinary officers held a rally at the Veterinary Polyclinic on Gill Road to express their protest against the Sixth Pay Commission. They also carried out a protest march till Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College.Retired Deputy Directors of the Animal Husbandry Department, Senior Veterinary Officers and many others participated in the protest rally. Addressing the gathering, former Deputy Directors Dr VK Jindal, Dr Charanjit Singh Pandher, Dr Malkit Singh Deol, Dr Gurcharan Singh Toor, Dr Inderjit Singh Arora and Punjab State Veterinary Officers Association leader Dr Darshan Kheri and others criticised the government for going back on its promise.They warned the government that if the wrong policy is not revoked, the entire medical and veterinary doctors of Punjab would be forced to go on strike for an indefinite period.Medical and veterinary doctors have been fighting against the government’s decision regarding the reduction in the NPA since June 25, but the government has failed to hear their voice, they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/doctors-vets-protest-on-third-day-of-strike-over-cut-in-npa-283525
15-07-2021||Our Correspondent
||7 drug peddlers held, 155-gm heroin seized||Mandi Ahmedgarh, July 14 Seven drug peddlers were arrested on Tuesday during joint raids conducted by personnel of the Anti-Narcotic Cell of the district and 155 gm of heroin was recovered from their possession. Drug money worth Rs 37,200, a Verna car, a scooter without number plate and equipment used in weighing and packaging of the contraband were also seized from the peddlers.  The accused were identified as Shahid Noni of Ismail Basti, Malerkotla; Mohammad Feroze and Umar (both of Kushal Basti, Malerkotla); Mohammad Sehjad Kaka of Mohalla Kasayian Wala, Kila Rehmat Garh, Malerkotla; Supinder Singh Shenty of Tolewal village; Mohammad Akhtar of Mohalla Langdi Bhumsi, Malerkotla; and Imran Khan Sunny of Mode Gram Colony, Imamgarh Road, Malerkotla. The accused were booked in two separate cases under Sections 21/61/85 of the NDPS Act, at Sadar Ahmedgarh and Amargarh Police Station.  Gagandeep Singh, in charge of District Narcotic Cell, Malerkotla, said 30 gm of heroin, an electronic weighing scale and an Activa scooter (without number) was recovered from the possession of three persons nabbed on Tuesday evening. The accused were later identified as Shahid, Mohammad Feroze and Umar, who have been booked under Sections 21/61/85 of the NDPS Act at Amargarh Police Station.  Earlier, Mohammad Sehjad Kaka, Supinder Singh Shenty, Mohammad Akhtar and Imran Khan Sunny were held and 125 gram of heroin, Rs 30,100 and a Verna car was recovered from their possession. However, the origin of supplies of the contraband is yet to be ascertained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/7-drug-peddlers-held-155-gm-heroin-seized-283526
15-07-2021||Legal Correspondent
||Seminar on welfare schemes for sexual assault victims||Ludhiana, July 14 The District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) organised a seminar at Police Lines here to sensitise women police officers handling help desks at different police stations about the various welfare schemes relating to victims of sexual harassment, under the supervision of its secretary-cum-CJM PS Kaleka. Kaleka said the Legal Services Authorities Act had provision of free legal service to any woman irrespective of her income or vocation. He apprised participants about the NALSA’s compensation scheme for women victims/survivors of sexual assault or other crimes-2018, Punjab Victim Compensation Scheme 2017 and different provisions of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Kaleka said the Constitution provides respect and dignity to every woman. Several provisions and laws had been made to safeguard their interests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/seminar-on-welfare-schemes-for-sexual-assault-victims-283527
15-07-2021||Mandi Ahmedgarh||Activists join hands to protect environment||Activists of various organisations vowed to join hands with a movement launched by Gurmat Sewa Society and Nirmal Ashram Jandali Khurd to check environmental degradation. An oath was taken in response to an appeal made by organisers during the concluding session of the seminar held as part of the 400th birth anniversary celebrations of Guru Teg Bahadur at Kutia Nirmal Ashram Jandali Bridge. Giani Gagan Deep Singh Nirmaley presided over the concluding session of the seminar and Dr Parkamal Preet Singh was the chief guest.  A booklet titled ‘Balihari Kudrat Vasia’, penned down by  Gagan Deep   was released on the occasion. The organisers distributed saplings of fruiting and shade trees and bags of organic manure among the audience. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/activists-join-hands-to-protect-environment-283528
15-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Cong MLA Lakhvir Singh Lakha holds cycle rally from Payal to Doraha to protest petro price hike||Doraha, July 14The Congress party organised a bicycle rally from Payal to Doraha in protest against the hike in petroleum prices. Payal MLA Lakhvir Singh Lakha inaugurated the rally and covered the distance from Payal to Doraha on a bicycle, along with party leaders and workers.Lakha said the Narendra Modi government was protecting the interests of corporates by letting the petroleum companies increase the prices at their will. “The continued increase in the prices of diesel and petrol has exposed the pro-corporate sector face of the NDA government. The common man is unable to understand their crooked policies and are forced to suffer,” he said.“We shall fight under the leadership and command of our party leader Rahul Gandhi for those who have been suffering just because they are the citizens of a country where a dictatorial regime prevails and decisions are taken to please a few, ignoring the majority completely. The rise in oil and gas prices has made life miserable for the people suffering from unemployment, inflation and starvation. The prices of all kinds of daily necessities have gone up. The price hike is nothing but granting undue benefit to the companies at the cost of the common man,” he said.The MLA demanded an immediate rollback of the increase in oil and gas prices in order to provide relief to the common man. “If the government fails to come to the rescue of the people, especially at a time when they are already passing through the worst phase due to the pandemic, the day would not be far when all would be on roads to express their resentment and oppose all unjustified declarations. Our agitation shall be intensified in the near future if the government doesn’t roll back the hike for the cause of the general public,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cong-mla-lakhvir-singh-lakha-holds-cycle-rally-from-payal-to-doraha-to-protest-petro-price-hike-283529
15-07-2021||---||PAU holds stakeholders’ meet for strengthening extension linkages||Ludhiana, July 14 The Department of Extension Education, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), organised a ‘Stakeholders’ meet for strengthening extension linkages’ under the guidance of Dr Kuldeep Singh, head, Department of Extension Education, who has been continuously working to strengthen linkages with farmers and line departments. Over 50 participants, including agriculture officers, agriculture development officers and secretaries of agricultural cooperative societies (ACS) from different blocks of Ludhiana district and PAU scientists attended the meet. The Director of Extension Education, Dr JS Mahal, was the chief guest, while Additional Director, Communication, Dr TS Riar, was the guest of honour. Dr Mahal appreciated the efforts made by the department to strengthen linkages of the university with the line departments. He stressed upon the need of increasing coordination with the line departments to accelerate the pace of the extension work. He motivated the Department of Extension Education to come up with novel extension methodologies to boost the adoption of farm information and technologies among farmers. Dr Riar underlined the need to make the PAU farm literature approachable to every farmer of the state Dr Kuldeep acquainted the stakeholders with various extension activities of the department that were carried out successfully with the cooperation of the Department of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare. He appreciated the scientists and the department officials for working dedicatedly in timely supply of the seed of the PAU recommended paddy varieties in different blocks of Ludhiana district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pau-holds-stakeholders-meet-for-strengthening-extension-linkages-283530
15-07-2021|| Ludhiana||Schoolchildren plant saplings for green cover||A group of 15 students has come together to make the environment neat and clean. These students belong to different schools of the city and they have named their group “Indian Green Warriors”. They collect empty plastic bottles, cut these from the middle and plant a sapling.  Vaibhav Kapoor, a student of Sacred Heart School, BRS Nagar, said the group collectively makes efforts to save the environment. Saplings have been planted at Rakh Bagh and near the Mini Secretariat. In the coming days, these will be planted at some more congested places in the city, he said.  —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/schoolchildren-plant-saplings-for-green-cover-283531
15-07-2021||---||Don’t force staff to accept pay panel report: Union||Ludhiana, July 14 Coming in support of the various state-level unions protesting against the Sixth Pay Commission recommendations, members of the Municipal Employees Sangharsh Committee gave a memorandum to the Mayor and MC Commissioner and requested them not to force any employee to accept the recommendations. The union members alleged that the MC employees are being forcefully asked to sign an option form to accept the amended pay scales by the Sixth Pay Commission. They appealed to the Mayor and Commissioner not to force any employee to sign such forms. President of the committee Jasdev Singh Sekhon said they had conducted an emergency meeting yesterday in this regard. He said, “The employees of various government departments have been opposing the recommendations of the Sixth Pay Commission report. Thus the Municipal Employees Sangharsh Committee also refuse to accept the recommendations of the pay commission and extend its support to the unions of various departments.” Meanwhile, the committee members also announced to observe a pen-down strike from 9 am to 12 pm on July 15 to support various state-level unions protesting against the recommendations of the pay commission report.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dont-force-staff-to-accept-pay-panel-report-union-283532
15-07-2021||Harshraj Singh||No signs, barricading at sites of ongoing projects in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 14Commuters are a harried lot these days due to the ongoing sewer work to lay new pipes near Luxmi Cinema and JMD Mall on Brown Road, Ludhiana. Like other projects, no traffic diversion or project plan boards have been displayed at this project site too.Four-wheeler drivers are unable to take the road as a portion is blocked and unlevelled near Luxmi Cinema, while two-wheeler riders face inconvenience in crossing the area.Road near Clock Tower still unlevelledAfter installing stormwater drainage pipes on old GT Road near Clock Tower, the MC is yet to ensure levelling of the road surface. As a result, commuters continue to face inconveniences. The civic body had earlier asked the contractor concerned to ensure levelling of the road.Interestingly, a caution board regarding the ongoing sewer work has been displayed by Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Board (PWSSB) near the mall but the work is actually being conducted by MC Ludhiana through a contractor.A local businessman said, “No diversion plan has been displayed on the stretch that also leads to a major hospital. The road portion is blocked due to which cars are unable to move ahead. Though there are other routes but traffic diversion plan must be displayed for the convenience of commuters. The project must be completed timely.”It is a common scene in the city that boards cautioning about an ongoing project or traffic diversion plans are generally not displayed at the project sites and the commuters are left to suffer. Moreover, no barricading has been done along the portion that was dug up for the sewer related work.MC executive engineer Pardeep Saluja said the old sewer lines had got damaged due to which new lines were being laid. The work to install the sewer pipes was earlier going on in the internal streets of Gwala Mohalla for the past one month and now work under the same project was being carried out on the main road from near JMD Mall to Karimpura Chowk.“We are expecting to get the remaining work completed within the next 10 days. I had asked the officials concerned to ensure barricading,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/no-signs-barricading-at-sites-of-ongoing-projects-in-ludhiana-283533
15-07-2021||---||Covid cases dip to five, no death in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, July 14As many as five fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in Ludhiana district today.These include three patients with influenza-like illness who visited the Flu Corner and a patient who visited the OPD and a health care worker.Civil Surgeon Kiran Gill said a total of 13 patients, including five from Ludhiana district and eight from other states or districts, have tested positive in the past 24 hours.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said at present, there were 154 active patients in the district.He said till date, a total of 18,52,304 samples had been taken, the reports of which had been received. Of these, 17,53,540 were found negative. Now, the total number of patients related to Ludhiana was 87,190, while 11,574 patients belong to other districts or states.He said so far, 2,090 persons from Ludhiana and 1,044 from other districts lost their lives to Covid.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma emphasised that only vaccination and Covid-apt behaviour would protect people from the third wave.Addressing city residents in his weekly Facebook live session on the official page of the DPRO, Ludhiana, the Deputy Commissioner said if people keep following Covid-appropriate behaviour and get the vaccine, then the third wave would not have any impact on their lives.Thanking residents for making the district first in the highest vaccination coverage in the state as nearly 13.50 lakh have been vaccinated, the DC said people must get the jab whenever it arrives here as it was critical to break the transmission chain of the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-cases-dip-to-five-no-death-in-ludhiana-283524
15-07-2021||Nitin Jain||Ludhiana’s 7,626 per lakh population fully inoculated, 39,927 partially||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 14Ludhiana, which has been leading the state with the maximum vaccination coverage against Covid, is still way behind several other districts when it comes to the achievement in per lakh population, the government has confirmed. However, the district is way ahead than the state’s average.While Ludhiana has fully vaccinated with both vaccine doses 7,626 per lakh population and ranks sixth in the state, the district’s 39,927 per lakh people have been partially inoculated with a single shot, which was fourth highest in the state, the official figures have revealed.In both the categories, Ludhiana’s performance is much better than Punjab’s average of 5,677 per lakh population in fully vaccinated and 32,156 per lakh people in the partially inoculated segment.Till Wednesday, the district has administered 13,59,337 jabs to the eligible beneficiaries, which is the highest mark in the state.The data analysed by the Health and Family Welfare Department, which is available with The Tribune, showed that Mohali topped the state in both categories with 10,905 per lakh population fully vaccinated with both vaccine doses and 78,577 per lakh people partially inoculated with the first shot.In fully vaccinated category, Gurdaspur ranked second with 8,820 per lakh coverage, followed by Hoshairpur 8,342, Pathankot 7,813, Jalandhar 7,775, Nawanshahr 6,961, Faridkot 5,800, Amritsar 5,704, Kapurthala 5,136, Patiala 4,725, Ropar 4,066, Bathinda 3,846, Barnala 3,645, Tarn Taran 3,415, Fatehgarh Sahib 3,383, Moga 3,220, Muktsar 3,202, Fazilka 3,030, Ferozepur 2,940, Sangrur 2,625 and Mansa remained the laggard with the lowest coverage of 1,916 per lakh people with both jabs.In the partially inoculated segment, Hoshiarpur stood second with 47,761 per lakh coverage, followed by Jalandhar 40,466, Pathankot 38,086, Ropar 36,477, Nawanshahr 36,231, Gurdaspur 32,921, Kapurthala 31,334, Patiala 30,756, Faridkot 27,940, Amritsar 26,764, Fatehgarh Sahib 26,456, Moga 24,284, Muktsar 24,193, Tarn Taran 23,720, Barnala 22,979, Bathinda 22,001, Ferozepur 18,889, Fazilka 18,531, Sangrur 17,766 and Mansa remained the laggard with the minimum coverage of 16,453 per lakh population with a single shot.Meanwhile, the state’s vaccine inventory revealed that Punjab received 71,47,430 doses of Covishield and 10,03,160 shots of Covaxin till July 9.The category-wise vaccination figures showed that 2,12,831 healthcare workers were given first jab, 1,27,821 both shots; 11,36,483 frontline workers first and 2,69,714 both; 35,28,342 people above 45 years of age given first dose, 8,77,819 both; and 20,85,279 persons between 18 and 44 years of age administered first shot and 37,583 both jabs in the state.As per the vaccine allocation for July, Punjab will get from the Centre 21,12,070 more doses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhianas-7-626-per-lakh-population-fully-inoculated-39-927-partially-283519
15-07-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||SAD leaders lay siege to minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu’s house, seek arrest of MLA Bains||Ludhiana, July 14The police had a tough time handling SAD leaders and workers who laid a siege to the residence of Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, demanding immediate arrest of LIP president and Atam Nagar MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains after he was booked in a rape case.Accusing the police of using brute force against and manhandling senior party leaders, former minister Maheshinder Singh Grewal alleged that the police had behaved in an unwarranted manner while dealing with the protesters. “The police arrangement to stop the protesting SAD activists outside the minister’s residence was so heavy as if we were launching an attack on Ashu’s house rather than holding a peaceful protest in support of a genuine and just demand,” Grewal said.Cops accused of manhandling party leadersAccusing the police of using brute force against and manhandling senior party leaders, former minister Maheshinder Singh Grewal alleged that the police had behaved in an unwarranted manner while dealing with the protesters.However, police officials denied using force against the protesters. “We had put up barricades to prevent anyone entering the residence of the minister. Some of the protesters were pushed back when they were making attempts to cross over the barricades,” a police official said.Grewal, former ministers Sharanjit Singh Dhillon, Hira Singh Gabria, former MLA Harish Rai Dhanda, district president Ranjit Singh Dhillon, former mayor HS Gohalwaria and a few other leaders alleged that they were roughed up.After a prolonged battle of wits between the police force and the protesters, several senior leaders were loaded in a bus to ferry them to the Sarabha Nagar police station. But one of the tyres of the police bus was deflated by someone and the protesters were asked to disembark. They were then taken to nearby police stations and let off after a while.The SAD leaders asserted that the rape victim, a 40-year-old widow, had lodged a complaint against Simarjeet Singh Bains about seven months ago but under instructions from the ruling Congress government, and specifically Cabinet Minister Ashu, the police had failed to act on the complaint. It was only after a local court issued directions to the police that an FIR was lodged on July 10, 2021.“Even now, the police are treating this sensitive matter with kid gloves, against all legal norms and directions of the Apex Court, as there has been no apparent attempt to arrest Bains,” an Akali leader said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sad-leaders-lay-siege-to-minister-bharat-bhushan-ashus-house-seek-arrest-of-mla-bains-283520
15-07-2021||Harshraj Singh||Issues of illegal colonies, poor road works raised in Ludhiana MC House||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 14In the MC’s House meeting, held after a gap of over three months on Wednesday, a number of councillors raised questions over the MC’s building branch for ignoring the mushrooming illegal colonies and constructions in the city.Some councillors accused the officials concerned of turning a blind eye towards the violations. Councillor from Ward 31 Sonia Sharma said she has been raising the matter of illegal colonies for more than the past two years but no action has been taken against such colonies. She said the water supply connections have been allowed in such colonies due to which the people in other parts of the ward are forced to face erratic water supply problems. “If no action is taken, I would be forced to hold protests,” she added.Jaspal Singh Giaspura from Ward 30 said about 40 illegal colonies have come up in his and nearby wards but the MC’s building branch failed to act against the violations. He also said 25 showrooms and several houses have been constructed in a new illegal colony as the officials failed to pay any heed to the violation.A few councillors also raised matters of illegal constructions and encroachments in their respective wards. Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal have given instructions to MTP SS Bindra to act against the illegal colonies and other violations. Sabharwal has also directed the O&M officials not to issue any new water supply connection in illegal colonies.Poor quality worksLeader of Opposition Harbhajan Singh Dang said no work to patch potholes in roads has been conducted in the areas under his ward. He also questioned over the role of a senior officer of the B&R branch. Meanwhile, arguments were exchanged between the Mayor and Dang over the issue.Councillor Jaspal Singh Giaspura highlighted the matter regarding poor quality of road construction/carpeting work in Ward 30. In the meeting, several councillors blamed the contractors concerned for delaying the projects in their respective wards. They demanded that the MC must blacklist such erring contractors. Meanwhile, a few councillors suggested that the MC should not release payment to contractors without getting a satisfactory certificate from the councillor concerned.Ban single-use plasticThe MC House has given its nod to issue a notification regarding the ban on single-use plastic. For participation in the Safai Mitra Suraksha Challenge 2021-22, the MC needs to issue a notification to ban single-use plastic in the city.CLU at dairy complexesThe House members have given their nod to allow the change of land use (CLU) at the dairy complexes on Haibowal Road and Tajpur Road. Notably, the dairies, which have been polluting the Buddha Nullah for years, are yet to be shifted outside the city limit.Nod to other resolutionsThe MC House has given a nod to a proposed amendment to the layout plan of 7.33-acres Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar on Lodhi Club Road, Ludhiana, to designate a parking site portion for a fuel station. The House members have given a nod to a resolution regarding maintenance and collection of water supply and sewer charges from LIT colonies.The MC House members have given their nod to recruitment of engineers and other employees on the outsource basis in different branches of the civic body.The members have also approved a resolution for issuing a no-objection certificate to some MC colonies for the implementation of a scheme under the Punjab Slum Dwellers (Proprietary Rights) Act, 2020. On the demand of councillor from Ward 2 Gurmail Singh Jajji, the House has given nod to name Bhadurke Road as Shaheed Bhagat Singh Road.Other issuesA number of councillors expressed dissatisfaction over the working of a private firm that is handling the LED streetlights project in the city. The Mayor has asked to call an all-party meeting for further action. The issues related to stray cattle and dogs were also raised by some councillors.Meanwhile, the Mayor announced exemption for the houses up to 125 sq yards from levy of the water supply and sewer charges. However, no resolution was presented before the House members in this regard. Even no discussion was conducted on hiked water and sewer tariffs by the Opposition councillors.The Opposition and other councillors did not raise any issue related to the status of the solid waste management system in the city. A councillor demanded that the councillor’s salary /allowances should be increased to Rs50,000 per month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/issues-of-illegal-colonies-poor-road-works-raised-in-ludhiana-mc-house-283521
15-07-2021||Legal Correspondent||Man gets 15-yr jail for sexually assaulting minor||Ludhiana, July 14The Court of Additional Sessions Judge Ashish Abrol has sentenced Babu Ram (52 years) of Barnala to 15 years in jail on the charges of brutal sexual assault on a seven-year-old girl in the Sudhar area in March 2017. A compensation of Rs 2 lakh was also awarded to the victim.Pronouncing the verdict, the court held that the prosecution had successfully brought home charges levelled against the accused. The court also declined the plea of leniency raised by the convict, with the observation that the accused had committed an henious crime.Additional public prosecutor Raman Deep Kaur Gill said a case against the accused was registered on the charges of kidnapping and under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) Act on April 13, 2017, following the statement of the father of the victim.The complainant had stated to the police that her eldest daughter, who was studying in LKG went missing. After some hours, some passers-by found the girl in a bad condition near some fields and took her to Sudhar Hospital. She was first referred to the Civil Hospital and later, to the PGI. Luckily, she survived. Later, on the basis of the CCTV camera footage, the police traced the accused and produced a charge sheet against him.During the trial, the accused pleaded innocence. But after appreciating the evidence on record, the court found him guilty and sentenced accordingly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-gets-15-yr-jail-for-sexually-assaulting-minor-283522
15-07-2021||Our Correspondent||9 nabbed; stolen car, bikes, mobile phones recovered||Ludhiana, July 14In their ongoing drive against thieves, snatchers and burglars, the Ludhiana police arrested nine persons from different parts of the city on Tuesday. A stolen car, two motorcycles, two LCDs and two mobile handsets have been recovered from them.Three persons, Mandeep Singh, a resident of Bulara village, Gurmukh Singh, a resident of Majri village, and Baljinder Singh, a resident of Shimlapuri, were nabbed by a police patrol party near Kwality Chowk on Gill Road while they were roaming in a stolen Alto car bearing fake registration number (PB-11AG-5255). The accused were booked under sections 379/411/473 of the IPC. The police later traced the actual number of the stolen vehicle to PB-22G-8261.In another incident, three two-wheeler thieves were arrested from Gill Road. Rohit Kumar, a resident of New Aman Nagar, Mandeep Singh, a resident of Daba Colony, and Ajay Shukla, a resident of Gurpartap Nagar, have been booked under Sections 379/411 of the IPC. Police said the trio was held on the basis of a tip-off and a stolen Hero Splendour motorcycle (PB-10HJ-4769) was recovered from them.Two burglars, identified as Sukhjot Singh, a resident of Jodhan village, and Kamal Kumar, a resident of Dugri Phase II, were also arrested from Near B-7 Chowk on Pakhowal Road while the duo were going towards the city on a stolen Bajaj Discover motorcycle (PB-10CB-1427) to sell two stolen LCDs. The police seized the stolen motorcycle and LCDs and the accused were booked under Sections 453/380/411 of the IPC.In another incident, the police held a mobile snatcher from near the Canal Bridge on Barewal Road. Suraj Pal, a resident of Salem Tabri, was then frisked and two stolen Vivo mobile handsets were recovered from him. A case under Section 379/411 of the IPC has been registered in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/9-nabbed-stolen-car-bikes-mobile-phones-recovered-283523
