17-07-2021||Harshraj Singh||Act against illegal constructions or face action: Ludhiana MC chief to officials||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 16Days after opposition councillors raised the issue of illegal colonies and constructions in the Municipal Corporation’s House meeting, MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal on Friday gave strict instructions to building branch officials to act against all such violations in the city or face action.He has directed Joint Commissioner Kulpreet Singh, who is looking after the building branch, to make a survey report within three days and then ensure immediate action against all illegal colonies and buildings as per law. He also recommended the officials to lodge an FIR if anyone creates obstruction in the MC action against violations.‘Display project info boards in seven days’As the officials concernedfailed to get project information boards displayed at various sites where development works are underway, the MC Commissioner pulled them up during the meeting. He directed them to display the project information boards within seven days. They have also been directed to check the quality of the ongoing works.The MC chief conducted the meeting today with officials of various branches, including building branch, health, O&M and B&R branches of the civic body, at the Zone A office today.Mushrooming of illegal buildings and constructions remained a major issue for a long time. The role of MC’s building branch always remained under the scanner but no concrete action was taken against the officials concerned. Thousands of commercial activities are also going on in residential areas under the nose of the building branch.Ensure cleanliness in citySabharwal has given instructions to zonal commissioners and officials concerned to ensure cleanliness across the city. Officials have been asked to make sure door-to-door collection of waste and segregation of the same.He gave instructions to the officials to ensure the cleanliness of Buddha Nullah banks and intensify the drive to issue challans against persons littering the drain. He also questioned some officials for issuing a low number of challans against the violators during the past six months.Sanitary inspectors would visit areas located near the Buddha nullah and make sure that garbage must be lifted from all properties. The officials have also been directed to check and take strict action against some factories, releasing waste into the nullah through illegal outlets. The Commissioner may conduct an inspection of the drain on Monday.As the officials concerned failed to get project information boards displayed at various sites where development works are underway, the MC Commissioner pulled them up during the meeting. He directed them to display the project information boards within seven days. They have also been directed to check the quality of the ongoing works.Notably, the MC Commissioner had in October 2020 ordered officers that the boards at all project sites should be affixed with details of the project plan, names of contractor, officer concerned along with the date of commencement and deadline of the project work. The MC will launch a plantation drive in the city during the ongoing rainy season. Sabharwal has formed a team to identify vacant sites across the city.“We will soon carry out the plantation drive at identified sites,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/act-against-illegal-constructions-or-face-action-ludhiana-mc-chief-to-officials-284335
17-07-2021||---||Eight Covid +ve, no death in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, July 16 Today, eight persons tested positive for Covid while no death was reported in the district. Under the ‘Mission Fateh’ the number of Covid-19 patients getting cured in the district is increasing with each passing day and 84,975 patients have recovered so far. At present, the recovery rate is 97.43 per cent. There are 148 active patients in the district. Till date, a total of 18,71,753 samples have been taken, of which 17,72,957 samples were found negative. The total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 87,214. The total number of persons who lost their lives are 2,091. Today, 31 patients were admitted to various hospitals and one patient was on ventilator support. On Friday, 109 persons were home quarantined. Whenever the district administration and the Health Department, Ludhiana, finds out about any positive or suspected Covid-19 person, their samples were immediately sent for testing. As many as 9,435 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly. Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to residents to adhere to all Covid-19 safety guidelines issued by the state government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/eight-covid-ve-no-death-in-ludhiana-284336
17-07-2021||Ludhiana||Cyclist crushed to death under truck wheels on Ferozepur road||A 50-year-old cycle-borne man was crushed to death under a truck on the Ferozepur road, near Grandwalk Mall, this morning. The victim was identified as Ajay Kumar of Badewal. The truck hit cycle from the rear as its driver was driving rashly.After the incident, people caught driver and handed him over to the police. A case of negligent driving was registered against the driver.In another incident, 19-year-old Jobanpreet Singh, a resident of Mandiani village, near Dakha, died and his friend suffered serious injuries after a speeding and rashly driven Bolero (registration number PB10GK4690) hit their motorcycle.Complainant Gurmukh Singh said he along with his friend Jobanpreet was going on motorcycle to a soap factory where they used to work. When they reached near Dakha, a rashly driven Bolero hit their motorcycle from behind. Both suffered serious injuries.The police said some passers-by rushed them to hospital where Jobanpreet died and Gurmukh, who suffered serious injuries, was undergoing treatment. Later, the police identified Bolero driver as Mahinderpal, alias Lala, of Jujhar Nagar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cyclist-crushed-to-death-under-truck-wheels-on-ferozepur-road-284337
17-07-2021||Ludhiana||17-year-old girl ends life in Sundar Nagar, friend booked||In a tragic incident, a 17-year-old girl allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself from the ceiling fan at her house in Sundar Nagar.She took the extreme step after her boyfriend refused to marry her.The Daba police have registered an abetment to suicide case against Lakhbir Singh, a resident of Sappa Wala Mandir, here.The complainant, the girl’s mother, said Lakhbir was having an affair with her daughter and he had also promised to marry her. For the past few days, Lakhbir had not been talking to her due to which she was depressed.“On July 15, when I had asked my daughter the reason behind her depression, she stated that her boyfriend has refused to marry her. Hence, she wants to end her life. Later in the evening, she went to her room and committed suicide,” the deceased’s mother alleged.Investigating officer ASI Ranjit Singh said after recording the statement of the deceased’s mother, a case of abetment to suicide was registered against Lakhbir and raids were being conducted to nab him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/17-year-old-girl-ends-life-in-sundar-nagar-friend-booked-284338
17-07-2021||Nitin Jain||Ludhiana records lowest rapid antigen test positivity rate||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 16Ludhiana, which has also been leading the state in conducting the highest Covid tests, has recorded the lowest positivity rate in the rapid antigen tests (RAT) and the fifth lowest in the RT-PCR tests conducted during the past month, the government has confirmed.The district’s RAT positivity rate was recorded lowest at 0.3 per cent, which was almost one-third than the state’s average of 1 per cent, while the RT-PCR positivity rate was 1.7 per cent, which was 32 per cent less than the state’s average of 2.5 per cent in June, the official figures have revealed.Ludhiana, which had made a remarkable turnaround from being the worst-hit to the safest district in the state, had recorded the overall lowest hit rate of 0.8 per cent in June, which was 55.55 per cent less than the state’s average positivity rate of 1.8 per cent. The district’s positivity rate had further dropped drastically to touch a new record low of 0.2 per cent in the first week of July, which was half than the state’s average of 0.4 per cent.The data analysed by the Health and Family Welfare Department, which is available with The Tribune, showed that 62 per cent of the total Covid tests conducted in Ludhiana during June were RAT, which was 11 per cent higher than the state’s average of 51 per cent RAT tests conducted last month.While Ludhiana ranked fifth in conducting the RAT tests, Muktsar topped the state with a maximum of 80 per cent RAT tests, followed by Moga 76 per cent, Ferozepur and Fazilka 66 per cent each.Among other districts, Kapurthala conducted 59 per cent RAT tests, Faridkot 58, Patiala 57, Amritsar 54, Bathinda 52, Fatehgarh Sahib and Barnala 51 per cent each, Sangrur 47, Jalandhar 45, Gurdaspur 42, Mansa 35, Pathankot 34, Tarn Taran and Hoshiarpur 33 per cent each, Nawanshahr 29, and Mohali conducted the minimum of 26 per cent RAT tests in the state last month.On the RAT positivity rate front, Bathinda topped the state with the maximum of 3.3 per cent RAT tests turning positive, followed by Ferozepur 2.6, Fazilka, Moga, and Mansa 2 per cent each, Faridkot 1.9, Pathankot 1.8, Tarn Taran 1.6, Muktsar and Barnala 1.5 per cent each, Mohali 1.2, Jalandhar, Patiala, and Ropar 1 per cent each, Hoshiarpur and Gurdaspur 0.9 per cent each, Fatehgarh Sahib, Kapurthala, Nawanshahr, and Sangrur 0.7 per cent each, while Amritsar shared the lowest RAT positivity rate of 0.3 per cent with Ludhiana in the state last month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-records-lowest-rapid-antigen-test-positivity-rate-284340
17-07-2021||Manav Mander||Doctors continue protest, hold parallel OPDs||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 16Doctors continued their protest against the recommendations of the Sixth Pay Commission today. Parallel OPDs were also held today by medical and veterinary doctors while other services like online consultation, elective surgeries, video conferences, webinars, unique disability identification camps, work related to Ayushman Bharat Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana, meetings and office work were boycotted.No wheelchair at hospitalIn the absence of any wheelchair, a physically challenged person was seen crawling at the Civil Hospital. It is a common sight at the hospital as wheelchairs and stretchers are usually not available. When the second Covid wave was at peak, no stretcher was available for days altogether. Patients were carried inside the hospital in bedsheets by their family members.Dr Rohit Rampal from the Punjab Civil Medical Services Association (PCMSA) said parallel OPDs would be held tomorrow also. In case no decision regarding their demands was taken by Sunday then from Monday onwards they would go on an indefinite strike and hold dharna in Chandigarh, he added.Chattinder Singh, district president of the Punjab State Veterinary Association, said they continued parallel OPDs throughout the state today.Doctors today also met Member Parliament (MP) Ravneet Bittu during a meeting at the Mini Secretariat today. They submitted a memorandum regarding the Sixth Pay Commission to the MP.Meanwhile, huge rush was witnessed at the Civil Hospital today. People were seen jostling with each other amidst pandemic.People were also seen siting on floor in the sweltering conditions and waiting for their turn to meet doctors. “Sometimes doctors are on strike and sometimes they are seeing patients outside their office. I don’t know what their demands are, but the government should listen to them. On one side farmers are protesting and now doctors have started their agitation. Why has government turned deaf ear towards its own people,” said Himmat Singh, a visitor at the Civil Hospital.Another patient rued that people were suffering and nobody was here to listen to them. Doctors are protesting against the government’s move to reduce their and veterinarians, medicos and allied professionals non-practicing allowance (NPA) from 25 to 20 per cent along with de-linking it from basic pay.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/doctors-continue-protest-hold-parallel-opds-284341
17-07-2021||Harshraj Singh||Recarpet Ludhiana city roads only after removing old layer: Councillors||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 16With unplanned and repeated recarpeting of roads being done without scrapping the old bituminous concrete layer, the plinth level of a number of houses is now below the road surface in various parts of the city.Councillor Parvinder Singh Lapran raised this issue, a major concern for many residents, during the MC’s House meeting at Guru Nanak Dev Bhawan, Ludhiana, recently.Whenever it rains, the rainwater flows into these houses, which were once located above the road surface level. The residents have complained multiple times in this regard but the Municipal Corporation (MC) has “ignored the matter”.Councillor from Ward No. 48, Lapran said the residents complained about the rising road level as the old layer was not dismantled before laying the new bituminous layer.Expressing concern over the issue, he demanded that the MC House bring a resolution that all roads must be recarpeted only after removing the old layer so that the residents do not face any inconvenience.A number of affected people have also been forced to get their houses reconstructed as the level of road outside their house was raised with repeated recarpeting in the past years. Besides, several people were forced to raise the level of the roof of their house illegally.Satish Thaman, a member of the Ludhiana West Grievances Redressal Committee, said, “I had earlier written to the Department of Local Government in this regard but no action has been taken till date.”“Moreover, the level of manholes in many areas was not corrected after the roads were re-carpeted. Now, those manholes are giving an open invitation to mishaps. All roads should be re-carpeted only after scrapping the old layer(s),” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/recarpet-ludhiana-city-roads-only-after-removing-old-layer-councillors-284342
17-07-2021||---||Glitches continue to hit income tax portal functioning||Ludhiana, July 16 Income tax  (I-T) returns for 2021-22 cannot be filed through any software or directly by uploading JASON file because its functionality has not been enabled at the Income Tax Department portal.  Due to this, people at large, who are applying for/renewal of bank loans, tenders of various organisations and visas for going abroad are facing lot of problems. Tax professionals today gathered here and discussed such problems faced by them due to the I-T portal issue.  Jasminder Singh and Rajiv Sharma, president and vice-president of the District Taxation Bar Association, respectively, said, “The validation errors in the I-T return filing utility are not being resolved.”  “Returns for 2021-22, which are uploaded through utility available at the e-filing site, are not e-verified by Aadhaar number or any other OTP. The department has still not issued Schema (Electronic forms) of the I-T return, including ITR-2, ITR-3, ITR-5, ITR-6 ITR-7, even after the beginning of new financial year,” they added. The electronic forms 3CA-3CD and 3CB-3CD for audit u/s 44AB of the Income Tax Act, 1961, are are not available at the portal,” they said. “Many I-T returns for assessment year 2020-21 are not being processed. Due to this I-T refunds are pending with the department even after six months of filing returns. So, assesses are facing liquidity issues,” said I-T professional. “The speed of uploading replies/submissions at e-proceeding portal is slow. Sometimes replies uploaded do not reflect at the I-T portal,” they added.  “Assesses are not able to download receipts of any forms already uploaded at the I-T site. Besides, taxpayers not able to access their old records. Also, there are other anomalies in past tax records,” they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/glitches-continue-to-hit-income-tax-portal-functioning-284344
17-07-2021||Ludhiana||Will go by Cong high command’s decision: Ravneet Bittu||Member of Parliament Ravneet Bittu commenting upon the speculation over the appointment of Navjot Singh Sidhu as Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief said that the decision of the high command would be accepted by all.“A committee was formed and we have already put forward our view point. The party has taken view of nearly 200 leaders and now everything is up to the high command. We all are with Capt Amarinder Singh. Person doesn’t matter, what matters is the party and the decision of the high command. Rest depends upon the person who assumes the post and how he handles the affairs,” he said.About the much talked about meeting before the appointment that was said to be chaired by Capt Amarinder Singh yesterday, Bittu said he was in Chandigarh that day and no such meeting was called by Amarinder Sing, but in fact it was Navjot Singh Sidhu and Sukhjinder Randhawa who got together and held a meeting.“The party high command is like parents. The children have put forward their view point but the final decision will be theirs. The ball is now in the court of party high command. We have said what we wanted to say and now it is their turn to take the final decision, ” Bittu said. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/will-go-by-cong-high-commands-decision-ravneet-bittu-284345
17-07-2021||---||MP Ravneet Bittu directs officials to expedite devp works||Ludhiana, July 16Member of Parliament (MP) Ravneet Singh Bittu on Friday directed the officials to expedite ongoing development works in Ludhiana so that maximum number of people could be benefitted from them. He also lauded the officials of Punjab Education Department for topping the performance grading index in the country.Ravneet Singh Bittu, who is also chairman of the District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee, was presiding over the committee’s meeting to review various state and Central Government sponsored schemes at Bachat Bhawan here on Friday. He was accompanied by the Fatehgarh Sahib Member of Parliament, Dr Amar Singh, Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu among others.Bittu asked the officers to organise awareness camps about the schemes so that people at grassroots can be enrolled under the various schemes run by Central and state governments.The Member of Parliament said all the departments, especially education, agriculture, social welfare, health, municipal corporation, water supply and sanitation, rural development and others need to play an active role to facilitate the people, who visit their offices daily.He directed officials concerned to ensure that the issue related to Rahon Road was resolved permanently as it affected a large number of people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mp-ravneet-bittu-directs-officials-to-expedite-devp-works-284346
17-07-2021||---||BJP alleges scam in ration distribution||Ludhiana, July 16  BJP leaders on Friday alleged that one of the ministers and few MLAs of the ruling party in Punjab were involved in a fake ration card scam. Parveen Bansal, senior leader of the BJP, claimed that under the garb of “Garib Kalyan Yojna”, the minister and MLAs allegedly got fake blue cards made on which ration was shown to be given, while ration worth several crores of rupees was either stocked or was sold or given to near and dear ones.  Bansal said over 1.42 crore persons were to be benefited from this scheme. No migrant in the district was to be left without this benefit but instead of giving ration to actual deserving poor and needy, the things were either sold or distributed to near and dear ones or were stocked by the Congress leaders, he alleged.  “There are several such cards with us, which are bogus. Either the names are not matching or these are not under the name of main female person in the family. A new portal was made for showing these cards and later, this portal was attached with the main portal. This ration was to be distributed among poor and needy but it was wrongly distributed or stocked”, said Bansal. The BJP leaders, including Parveen Bansal, Sunil Moudgil, Inder Aggarwal and Sarabjit Singh Kaka said that a vigilance probe should be done into the matter and strict action should be taken against the guilty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bjp-alleges-scam-in-ration-distribution-284347
17-07-2021||---||Ludhiana MC removes encroachments, illegal constructions in city||Ludhiana, July 16  The Municipal Corporation (MC) today removed temporary encroachments from government land at different locations in the city. The development comes two days after the issue of encroachments was raised during the MC House meeting. Some persons had constructed sheds and other structures on the government land.  Civic body officials said encroachments were removed from Punjab State Power Corporation Limited  (PSPCL) office at Chawani Mohalla on the Old GT road. A councillor Prabhjot Kaur had raised the matter regarding encroachments during the MC House meeting.  The Municipal Town Planner (MTP), SS Bindra, said they removed encroachments as councillors had complained in this regard. Some encroachments were also removed from land near the Municipal Corporation workshop on the Hambran road. Illegal constructions at Kitchlu Nagar F Block and near Barewal were also removed today, Bindra added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-mc-removes-encroachments-illegal-constructions-in-city-284348
