18-07-2021||Mahesh Sharma||Farmers from region all set for Delhi chalo||Mandi Ahmedgarh/ Payal/ Raikot, July 17Office-bearers and activists of various organisations supporting the ongoing farmers’ protest at Delhi borders have started preparing for the scheduled protest outside Parliament from July 22, as announced by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha. Meetings are being organised at villages falling under Ludhiana and Malerkotla districts.Baldev Singh Latala, state executive member of All-India Kisan Sabha, who presided over the meeting at Latala village in Ludhiana district, said office-bearers of various wings of the outfit had already prepared lists of farmers and farm labourers who have volunteered to participate in the dharna in front of Parliament, scheduled to commence on July 22. He said activists had also been updated about precautions to be taken during the scheduled dharna. “As advised by coordinators and planners of the dharna, we have decided to ensure that groups of farmers reach Delhi borders regularly and lists of activists participating in dharna on any particular day are prepared by coordinators of the event,” said Latala.The Morcha has decided not to allow uncontrolled gathering at the dharna site on any single day. Though the final number of protesters to be allowed to sit on dharna daily is yet to be ascertained, the organisers would not allow more than 500 farmers at the dharna site at any time, Latala added.Saudagar Singh Ghudani, Ludhiana district general secretary, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) said farmer localities falling under Payal segment were enthusiastic about participating in the proposed dharna. “Seeing the enthusiasm of farmers, we have started sending date-wise lists of activists willing to participate in the scheduled event so that organisers at Delhi borders can regulate the number of participants in the dharna,” said Ghudani.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/farmers-from-region-all-set-for-delhi-chalo-284941
18-07-2021||Our Correspondent
||PYDB chairman inaugurates open gym at Mundian Kalan||Sahnewal, July 17 Punjab Youth Development Board (PYDB) Chairman Sukhwinder Singh Bindra today inaugurated an open gym at Government Senior Secondary School, Mundian Kalan. He also distributed sports kits among students of the school on the occasion. Bindra said the open gym had been installed specially for the rural youth. He urged the youngsters of Mundian and surrounding villages to shun the usage of drugs and concentrate on health and fitness. “When the health facilities are literally reaching your doorsteps, there is no reason why the young boys and girls should not come out of their slumber and participate in activities which matter as far as their well-being and good health is concerned. Moreover, it is the young, energetic and enthusiastic young men and women on whom the economy of the state rests,” he said. Harpreet Singh, Hardeep Singh, Pal Singh Grewal, Inderpal Singh Grewal, Harvinder Kumar Pappi, Mandeep Singh Sahnewal, Harpreet Kaur Grewal, Shingara Singh Mangli, Kamal Sharma, Manpreet Singh Dheri, Kamaljit Singh Bhatti, Manpreet Singh, Sunita Tezaniya, Surinder Caudhry and Harvinder Mundian were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pydb-chairman-inaugurates-open-gym-at-mundian-kalan-284942
18-07-2021||---||Arrangements made for protests, says BKU leader||Ludhiana, July 17 President of BKU (Lakhowal) Ajmer Singh Lakhowal  said arrangements were being made to hold protests against the farm laws outside Parliament as per the call given by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha. While addressing mediapersons, he said a group of 200 farmers would protest daily from July 22 during the Parliament Session. He said the arrangements had been made for sending groups of farmers that would move from the Singhu Border to the Parliament House on July 22. He said lists of farmers from various districts had also been prepared. He said the farmers would hold peaceful protests in front of Parliament against the three black laws and would demand a law on the MSP. The protests would continue till the Narendra Modi-led Central Government accepts their demands. Lakhowal said opposition parties should raise voice for the rights of the farmers in Parliament. The  parties should gherao the Central Government over the farm laws in Parliament instead of the opting walkout. He said agriculture was a state subject but the Centre was benefitting big corporates by introducing the black laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/arrangements-made-for-protests-says-bku-leader-284943
18-07-2021||Sports Correspondent 
||Ludhiana register 10-wkt win over Fatehgarh Sahib||Ludhiana, July 17 Ludhiana trounced Fatehgarh Sahib by 10 wickets in a group B match in the Inter-District T20 Cricket Tournament for Punjab Championship played at GRD Global Education Institute ground on Hambran Road here on Saturday. Batting first, the visitors were bundled out for a small total of 79 runs. They failed to put any semblance of resistance against Ludhiana bowlers as only two batsmen, namely Gurmail Singh and Ajay Pal Singh, could reach double figure. Gurmail scored 27 runs off 39 balls with the help of one boundary and one six while Ajay Pal contributed 11 runs including two hits over the ropes. For Ludhiana, Hartejassvi Kapoor, Baltej Singh, Vaibhav Kalra, Dipin Chitkara and Yogi shared the bowling honours. Hartejassvi chipped in with three wickets after conceding 26 runs, Baltej got rid of two batsmen for 11 runs and Vaibhav captured two wickets for 18 runs. Dipin Chitkara grabbed one wicket for nine runs and Yogi claimed one wicket after giving away 14 runs.  Facing an easy target, Ludhiana consumed just 6.3 overs to overhaul Fatehgarh Sahib’s total to register a facile victory. In the next match, scheduled for July 19 at Mohali, Ludhiana will take on Mohali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-register-10-wkt-win-over-fatehgarh-sahib-284944
18-07-2021||Ludhiana||Congress protests fuel price hike||Congress workers protested against inflation in the city today. Party leader Parminder Mehta said prices of cooking gas and fuel had increased so much that now it seemed that no other option was left but to return back to ‘desi chullah’ for cooking. “Seems we will once again go back to the year 1947. It has become very difficult for the poor to make both ends meet,” he added.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/congress-protests-fuel-price-hike-284945
18-07-2021||Ludhiana||Addl Chief Secy visits PRSC||Anirudh Tewari, Additional Chief Secretary (Development), who is currently holding the charge of Vice-Chancellor, PAU and also the Chairman of Punjab Remote Sensing Centre (PRSC), on Saturday visited the PRSC.  Dr B Pateriya, Director, PRSC, during the visit explained various activities of the centre and government developmental projects using satellite remote sensing to Tewari.  He interacted with scientists of the centre to discuss various projects of Punjab.  He also took note of space and geospatial-based projects of various other departments like education, revenue, health, wetland mapping and other citizen-centric activities for developmental planning, better natural resource management and monitoring of infrastructure through geospatial and ICT technologies in the state. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/addl-chief-secy-visits-prsc-284946
18-07-2021||Ludhiana||PAU celebrates World Youth Skills Day||The Department of Extension Education and Communication Management, Punjab Agricultural University, celebrated “World Youth Skills Day” by organising webinar for the youth of Punjab. The theme for 2021 is ‘Reimagining Youth Skills Post-Pandemic.’ Dr Kiranjot Sidhu, head, Department of Extension Education and Communication Management, briefed the audience about the importance of skill development. She emphasised that skill development was an important tool for personality development and it empowered youth and safeguards their future. She said equal emphasis should be laid on skill acquisition and academics, right from childhood as they both go hand in hand in laying foundation for economic growth and development of any nation. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pau-celebrates-world-youth-skills-day-284947
18-07-2021||Ludhiana||61 attend  fish farming training camp||College of Fisheries (COF), Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), organised an-online training programme on fish farming.  As many as 61 candidates, constituting of a diverse group of agriculture, livestock, fish farmers, private and government employees and students attended the programme. Dr Vaneet Inder Kaur, course director, informed the training programme was tailor-made to infuse an entrepreneurial aptitude among aspiring stakeholders to take up fish farming as a promising business endeavour for livelihood and employment generation, driving to ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’. An interactive session was held by progressive fish farmers Jasvir Singh Aujla and Amandeep Kaur. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/61-attend-fish-farming-training-camp-284948
18-07-2021||Ludhiana||Use water judiciously for paddy cultivation: Experts to farmers||Though Punjab has taken significant strides for making the country food-sufficient but large-scale acceptance for paddy-wheat monoculture has increased farmers’ dependence on irrigation water resources. Tube wells contribute more than 70 per cent of the irrigated area of the Punjab which further threatens the state ground reserves. In spite of various crop diversification efforts, the paddy area in the state has reached to 31.4 lakh hectares and ultimately paddy cultivation become the main culprit for the over-extraction of groundwater. Therefore, the ground water situation in the state has become grim. “Efficient water management practices are urgently needed to stop the indiscriminate use of precious groundwater resources in paddy crop. Farmers need to adopt some of the practical alternatives and efficient water management techniques,” said Dr Amit Salaria from Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Kapurthala.  “Repair and clean all irrigation channels and prefer to use underground pipeline system to reduce the conveyance losses of irrigation water. Divide large fields into smaller ones. Obtain a fine well levelled puddled field to reduce water loss through percolation, to maintain good seedling vigour and to control weeds,” added further Dr Jugraj Singh also from KVK Kapurthala.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/use-water-judiciously-for-paddy-cultivation-experts-to-farmers-284949
18-07-2021||Nitin Jain||Ludhiana leads state in building medical oxygen infrastructure||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 17Ludhiana, which being the biggest district with a maximum population of over 3.5-million passed through a harrowing time during the deadly second Covid wave, has built a strong medical oxygen infrastructure to meet the anticipated high demand of the life-saving gas during the possible third virus wave, the government has confirmed.Besides accumulating maximum cylinders, the district has also acquired the highest number of oxygen concentrators in the state, the official figures have revealed.6,165 oxygen cylinders made availableThe data compiled by the Health and Family Welfare Department, which is available with The Tribune, showed that Ludhiana has made available 6,165 oxygen cylinders, including 4,774 D-type cylinders, 4,158 in private and 616 in government hospitals, and 1,391 B-type cylinders, including 855 in private and 536 in government institutions.The development assumes significance as an acute shortage of oxygen cylinders and concentrators was faced while catering to a high demand of serious and critical patients who were hospitalised during the second Covid wave, which had rapidly slid into a devastating crisis when the health facilities had unbearably fell short, oxygen supplies had ran low and many had died even without seeing a doctor.The data compiled by the Health and Family Welfare Department, which is available with The Tribune, showed that Ludhiana has made available 6,165 oxygen cylinders, including 4,774 D-type cylinders, 4,158 in private and 616 in government hospitals, and 1,391 B-type cylinders, including 855 in private and 536 in government institutions.When it comes to oxygen concentrators, Ludhiana acquired 417 devices that concentrate the life-saving gas from a gas supply, typically ambient air, by selectively removing nitrogen to supply an oxygen-enriched product gas stream, which were the highest in any district as of now. These included 270 of 5-litre capacity each and 201 of 10 litres each.In the entire state, a total of 32,897 oxygen cylinders, including 25,376 D-type (16,711 in private and 8,665 in government hospitals) and 7,521 B-type (3,768 in government and 3,753 in private institutions), have been made available so far.On the oxygen concentrator front, the state has already accumulated 8,387 devices, including 4,398 of 5-litre each and 3,998 of 10-litre capacity each.The state government was already in the process to further augment the medical oxygen supplies, under which several systems and processes were being put in place, besides building up the requisite infrastructure.Besides, 41 PSA plants were being installed through the Centre and 37 through aid and donations in medical colleges and healthcare facilities. While six PSA plants were already installed and functional in the state, work to install 11 was in progress and 61 were in the pipeline.While three cryogenic LMO tanks in medical colleges at Amritsar, Patiala, and Faridkot were being installed at Rs 2.27 crore, six more tanks will be installed at six hospitals, including a medical college, and five district hospitals at Rs 4.28 crore.Another Rs 11.17 crore was being spent on the allied works for PSA plants.The government has already provided Rs 25 crore for oxygen PSA plants, and Rs 30 crore for allied equipment in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-leads-state-in-building-medical-oxygen-infrastructure-284932
18-07-2021||---||Man sexually exploits minor, booked||Ludhiana, July 17 A 13-year-old girl was allegedly sexually exploited by the paramour of her mother in Meharban. The accused has been identified as Balwinder Singh. The complainant told the police that she got married with Ramu Shah in 2002 and the couple had four children. In 2016, she came in contact with Balwinder and developed a relationship with him. When her husband came to know about their illicit relationship, he parted ways with her. “After my husband left me, I took a room on rent and started living there. Balwinder used to visit our house regularly. Recently, when my elder daughter was alone at home, Balwinder went to our house and tried to rape her. It was only when she raised an alarm, the accused fled the spot,” the girl’s mother said. Investigating officer ASI Kamaljit Singh of the Meharban police station said after receiving a complaint, a case under relevant sections of the IPC had been registered against the accused and raids were on to nab him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-sexually-exploits-minor-booked-284933
18-07-2021||---||2 held for running lottery racket||Ludhiana, July 17 The city police conducted a raid and nabbed two persons for running an illegal lottery racket in the city. Additional DCP IV Rupinder Kaur Sra said acting on secret information, a raid was conducted at Vishwakarma colony from where two persons, namely Bittu and Babbu Kumar, were nabbed red-handed while running an illegal lottery business. The police also recovered Rs 28,110 from the accused. Sra said a drive was launched in the city over a month back against the illegal lottery business and several persons involved in this racket were arrested. “I have told all police station heads to keep a tab over such illegal activity in their area and take immediate action,” the ADCP added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/2-held-for-running-lottery-racket-284934
18-07-2021||---||No Covid patient from Ludhiana on ventilator support||Ludhiana, July 17What has come as a relief today is that no patient from Ludhiana district is on ventilator support. During the second wave, there were days when over 50 patients were on ventilator support on a single day. On May 25, 64 patients were on ventilator support.Today, 23 patients were admitted to private hospitals and six to government hospitals. As many as 101 persons were sent for home isolation.On Saturday, seven persons tested positive for Covid while one lost his life to the virus. The deceased was a 62-year-old man from Khanna who was admitted to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala.A total of 18,81,262 samples have been taken, of which 17,82,459 were found negative. Today samples of 9,509 persons were collected.Till now, 1,00,530 persons have been home quarantined and at present, 13,474 are in home quarantine.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said despite the fact that cases were decreasing in the district, people need to be vigilant as the virus was still here and everyone had to be cautious.“I request people to continue follow Covid-appropriate behaviour,” thew Deputy Commissioner said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/no-covid-patient-from-ludhiana-on-ventilator-support-284935
18-07-2021||Manav Mander 
||Residents left wondering as dist runs out of vaccine stock||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, July 17 The vaccination stock in Ludhiana district went dry today, as a result, no inoculation session was held. Supply of both Covishield and Covaxin has exhausted. People were seen shuttling between various centres to enquire about the stock. Rashnoor, who is moving abroad for studies, said he has to fly to Canada and wanted to get his vaccination but he came to know that no drive was going on today. “Although there are few weeks left, but I wanted to get done with my vaccination. I hope the stock arrives early and I am done with this formality required for travelling,” he said. A resident, Kokila, was due for her second vaccination today. “I got my first dose of Covaxin last month and yesterday I got the message about my second dose being due. I reached the vaccination site before going to work but upon reaching here I came to know that the vaccine was out of stock. I have been asked to enquire after a couple of days,” she said. Another city resident, who also had to return without the jab, said the stock had depleted earlier too. He went again to his nearest vaccination site today after waiting for a few days, but was told that vaccination was not going on. District Immunisation Officer Dr Puneet Juneja said they had no such information about stock arrival till now. “As soon as we are informed about the stock arrival, we will schedule vaccinations. We are expecting an update by Monday,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/residents-left-wondering-as-dist-runs-out-of-vaccine-stock-284936
18-07-2021||---||Key member of vehicle thieves’ gang held||Ludhiana, July 17 The city police have arrested a key member of a gang of vehicle thieves and recovered stolen vehicles from them. The accused has been identified as Gurmukh Singh of Dashmesh Nagar, Sahnewal. The police recovered four motorcycles, a scooter and a car from him. ADCP Jaskiranjit Singh Teja in a statement issued here today said the Sahnewal police had received a tip-off that Gurmukh was running a gang of vehicle thieves and he had stolen several vehicles from the industrial hub. Today, he was on the way to Sahnewal to sell a stolen motorcycle. The ADCP said accordingly, a naka was laid at a strategic point where the bike-borne accused was intercepted and arrested. During the questioning of Gurmukh, he confessed that he, along with his gang members, Baljinder Singh Golu of Preet Nagar, Shimlapuri, Mandeep Singh Deepa of Rose Enclave and Mandeep of Lohara, had been committing vehicle thefts. The accused also admitted that he had committed 10 vehicle thefts in the city and neighbouring towns and some of the stolen vehicles were already sold to junk dealers. The police would also round up junk dealers who had bought the stolen vehicles. The ADCP said the police obtained two-day police remand of the accused so that in further interrogation, more members of the gang could be nabbed and more stolen vehicles could be recovered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/key-member-of-vehicle-thieves-gang-held-284937
18-07-2021||Ludhiana||Migrant labourer killed over Rs 5,000||A migrant labourer was murdered at the motor room of a farm at Dakha over a dispute of Rs 5,000. The accused, Anurag, hit the victim’s head with a brick and killed him on the spot. The deceased has been identified as Shiv Naresh, a native of UP.  Complainant Amarjit Singh, sarpanch of Jangpur village, told the police that he had taken farming land on contract and had employed Shiv Naresh for the supervision of the crops sown. Shiv resided in the motor room of the farm. Amarjit said when he went to the motor room on Thursday night, he saw Shiv and Anurag fighting over money. The deceased owed Rs 5,000 to Anurag and the latter had come to take back his money. He said their fight went into the wee hours of Friday. It was then that Anurag took a brick and hit Shiv’s head with it, killing him on the spot. Later, the accused fled. The police said he had been nabbed. He had confessed to having committed the crime. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/migrant-labourer-killed-over-rs-5-000-284938
18-07-2021||Ludhiana||SAD expels Madan Lal Bagga for 6 yrs||The SAD has expelled Madan Lal Bagga from the party for six years. Ranjit Dhillon, SAD Ludhiana president, said the party had taken the decision due to his anti-party activities. Dhillon told party workers not to keep any political relations with him.  He was earlier expelled from the SAD before the last Assembly poll too, but later rejoined the party. He had unsuccessfully contested from the Ludhiana North constituency during the 2017 Assembly poll. Sources said Bagga was likely to join AAP soon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sad-expels-madan-lal-bagga-for-6-yrs-284939
18-07-2021||Harshraj Singh||Ludhiana MC identifies 55 illegal colonies in Zone C||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 17The Municipal Corporation (MC), in a survey, has identified 55 illegal colonies in Zone C while new illegal colonies are still coming up in other parts of the city.Moreover, a number of colonisers, who had earlier applied for regularisation of their colonies under the government’s regularisation policy, have also failed to submit the required documents but the MC is yet to take action in this regard till date.Earlier this year, raising questions over the MC not taking action against the colonisers concerned, Kuldeep Singh Khaira of Vigilant Citizens’ Forum had demanded that the MC should conduct a survey of illegal colonies. Khaira said MC’s Zone C had provided information under an RTI that about 55 new illegal colonies had come up recently. Other zones had not provided him any information under the RTI, he maintained.In 2018, the MC had provided information under the RTI that the colonisers of 128 illegal colonies had applied for regularisation but the files of only 22 colonies were sanctioned. When the Congress government had introduced regularisation policy in 2018, 38 illegal colonies had applied for it till December 2019.Khaira alleged that most of the colonisers had failed to get their colonies regularised by submitting the required documents to date but the MC did not take any action against such colonisers. He further alleged that new illegal colonies were still mushrooming in the jurisdiction of the MC. He demanded that FIR should be registered against such colonisers under the Punjab Apartment and Property Regulation Act.Municipal Town Planner SS Bindra said 182 illegal colonies had applied for regularisation while 35 illegal colonies had been regularised.“We have lodged FIR against colonisers of 85 illegal colonies. Notices will be served to those colonisers who have not submitted their documents yet. If they do not fulfill the conditions, we will initiate further action as per the law,” he said. eanwhile, people who purchased plots and constructed houses in illegal colonies are suffering a lot due to lack of basic amenities. The colonisers are openly selling plots in these colonies by making false claims.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-mc-identifies-55-illegal-colonies-in-zone-c-284940
