19-07-2021||Open House||Open House: Alternative power sources, cooperation need of the hour||Forced power cuts undoubtedly acted as a blow to large-scale industries that are already reeling under losses for the second consecutive year. From lack of demand from distributors to shortage of labour, Punjab's industrial hub is fighting this unprecedented war on multiple fronts. To revive industry, the government should lead from the front. There is a need to "redefine, refocus and change" the blueprint for the revival of industrial sector. The state government must provide manufacturing units with institutional access to working capital and enable liquidity by deferring loan repayments. In order to provide a major boost to the sector immediately, the incumbent dispensation must help MSME sector by underwriting a part of their loan amounts.Akash KumarUse power judiciouslyIt has become difficult for the industry to survive under such circumstances as the factories are unable to produce goods and services as per the demand. To cope up with these issues, we all need to be more firm. If we want our demands, in terms of products, to be fulfilled, we need to ensure sustainability of water and power resources. This is possible by adopting rainwater harvesting system in our homes and in factories. We should look at the overall power needs and not waste electricity. We must use inbuilt solar systems and use natural electricity. We all need to follow and adopt some eco-friendly methods to save electricity and water.Simarjot KaurOPEN HOUSE QUESTIONAt a time when the WHO and the Centre are cautioning people to exercise utmost restraint in the wake of much-anticipated third Covid wave, which experts predict is round the corner, is it advisable to re-open educational institutions, especially schools, when children below 18 years remain non-vaccinated? Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to ludhiana.feedback@gmail.comAllow partial productionIndustrialists are facing many financial problems, first due to Covid-19 and now due to power usage restrictions. There are some steps which should be taken, both by government and industrialists. First of all, the government should modify the restrictions. Instead of full-day shut down, the industries can be allowed to operate on alternate days for 12 hours each day. The government should make sure that all industries are getting full financial support, such as easy loans, waiver of old loans etc. The industries which use minimal water and power should be provided incentives. When it comes to industrialists, they should make sure that they are following guidelines. There should be minimum use of power and water. Non-essential production should be temporarily stopped.Ekamjot SinghGovt must support industryThe industry had been adversely impacted due to the nationwide lockdown imposed due to Covid. Now, when the economy has reopened, the industry is facing the problem of power and water crisis. In order to survive in such conditions, the production houses need adequate government support in form of tax rebates, reduction in tariffs on power and water supply, restructuring of loans, credit availability at reasonable rate of interest etc. In the long run, to ensure continuous supply of power and water, government should encourage industries to install solar panels and water recycling plants on their premises by giving them incentives.Medha BatraInstall more thermal plantsIt is a known fact that monsoon has not been regular in Punjab since a decade. So, rainwater is not dependable anymore. Also, during monsoon we face the dual problem of lack of power for industry and pure water to drink. The supply of electricity is considered the backbone of industry. Due to lack of power supply, our economy is getting affected. It creates a very serious problem of unemployment. In order to boost the industry, hours of electricity supply should be fixed. Efforts should be made to install more thermal plants to produce more power in the state itself. People also must be encouraged to save electricity. The government needs to open more industrial units only when our supply of power is normalised. Also, more trees need to be planted for rain.BS NandaCareful power usage mustPunjab is the hub of industries. However, for the past one year, the industrialists are under heavy losses due to the pandemic. Now, when they had a chance to revive, the problem of inadequate power supply has jeopardised their functioning. This is due to the lack of foresight on part of the state government as it didn't make any arrangements for the increased demand of power supply in the months of extreme heat. Industries too need to be more vigilant in the use of electricity. They should minimise wastage and ban the use of air conditioners. Also, the machines using more power supply ought to be shut down for a few days.Sangeeta JainEnhance transmissionThe state industrialists were already reeling under losses due to the pandemic and the power crisis has added to their woes. The state government should purchase more power to meet the industry demand. The shut thermal plants must be made functional immediately and more thermal plants must be set up in the state. The government needs to enhance its transmission capacity vis-a-vis the rising demand. Also, taxes on diesel can be reduced or subsidy can be provided on diesel to industry during the period of crisis. As a long term measure, the power demand for agriculture needs to be reduced by encouraging diversification of crops and providing more canal water for irrigation.RS SEMBHIPool rainwater for field useThe main reason for the electricity and water crises is the reducing groundwater. This problem can be minimised by creating awareness among the farmers to use rice crops PR 126, PR 124, PR 127 and PR 121 as these varieties can mature or ripen within 193, 107 and 110 days and need 15 - 20% less water as compared to the more common Pilli Pusa variety. Rice crop uses 67% of Punjab’s water every year. Some simple steps, like pooling rainwater and using it for watering crops, prohibiting unnecessary use of electricity and water, making residents aware of the need to save water and electricity etc can be helpful. A nation can develop rapidly only of its industry runs smoothly. The industry suffering from Covid and power cuts should be given relief in taxes by the government.Adish SoodRun industries on rotationIt is a very tough situation, both for the agriculture sector and the industrial sector in the state. Industries have been ordered to shut down forcefully due to power shortage. It is difficult to run factories to produce and meet the demand of the market. The state’s industry is losing business, prices are shooting up continuously and residents are bearing the brunt of it all. To come out of the crisis, the government must run the factories on rotation. Heavy industries may be allowed to carry out their production in late night hours for some time. The government must install more power generating plants and must make plans to overcome the shortage of power supply during summers. It must permit the units to run by using generators in the period of power crisis.Farzana KhanProper supply to firms mustPower shortage and its frequent breakdown are two important reasons for slowing down of industrial production and big financial losses to the state. The government must allocate more attention and funds for increasing production of power in the state itself, rather than buying it from outside after paying high prices, as at present. Also, government should promote use of solar plants by giving incentives to people. The electricity department must make sure that there is no breakdown of electric supply under any circumstances. Regular supply of electricity to the industry will mean more industrial production, increase in income and welfare of the state.Gautam DevTime to shift to solar powerThe temporary shutting down of factories due to less supply of electricity has led to an extremely devastating situation. In such circumstances, it is the sole responsibility of PSPCL to meet the demands of electricity, instead of just issuing public notices and waiting for monsoon. The power board needs to make sure that whatever reasons are responsible for power cuts in industrial sector should be resolved as soon as possible. PSPCL must learn a lesson from the current scenario and work in the field of solar power generation. It is high time that the state should rely more on solar power instead of thermal power plants and hydroelectricity.Rishika KritiLong-term solution neededThe Covid-19 turmoil has hit all business houses and industries of the state badly. Recent cuts owing to reduced electricity supply have added fuel to the fire. They should be immediately withdrawn. The state government should strive hard to rescue the industry from this crisis by giving them adequate financial help in the shape of loans etc. Also, there is an urgent need to evolve and look at the long -term solution of the problem.Dr Sunil ChopraBuy from surplus statesPunjab is reeling under the problem of shortage of power supply, Covid pandemic, harvesting season and scanty monsoon. If the government ignores agriculture, then industry has to suffer and vice versa, due to power shortage. The government can come out of the crisis by directing the industries to run in shifts. During day time, power supply may be released to villages. The government may purchase electricity from power surplus states, such as Himachal Pradesh and Srinagar, and may sell power to these states in off period, such as in winters. Power supply may be rationed during peak hours and at least for two shifts, regular supply of power must be released to industries. Agriculturalists and industrialists must cooperate with the government in this time of crisis.Dr.Mohd Saleem FarooquiFix working hoursDemand of electricity has increased manifolds as compared to its supply. The state faces power shortage in peak summers and as a result, the industrial units have been forced to shut down. The industry is already under huge losses due to Covid-induced lockdowns. The government must make arrangements to purchase electricity from other states and in order to boost the industry, it must provide power at subsidised rates. If more crises prevail, then it should fix working hours for industrial firms. Power cuts should not be imposed in industrial areas. It can be imposed in residential areas for ensuring surplus.Ritu PriyaAbolish subsidiesAdmit it or not, we are over-dependent on electricity. Each and every gadget at our houses is electronic. So the question is, from where will so much electricity be produced? The only answer seems to be using alternative sources. We need a paradigm shift with regard to use of electricity. For the time being, forced closure of industry was the only possible solution, but this is injustice with the industry, which is already in losses due to Covid-19 restrictions. We must also look for ways to save electricity, which can be a good measure to save the industry. The habit of using electricity judiciously must be instilled in kids. Above all, the subsidies given to all categories should be abolished, so that the money thus saved by the power corporation be used for purchasing deficient power.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/open-house-alternative-power-sources-cooperation-need-of-the-hour-285334
19-07-2021||Ludhiana||8 short-run trains to be restored today||The Northern Railway authorities have announced restoration of eight (four pairs) unreserved short-run special trains in the region. While three pairs of these trains would be back on tracks from Monday (July 19), one pair would resume its run on July 20 and 21.Railway officials said 04663/64 Ludhiana-Ferozepur Cantt-Ludhiana Special, 04575/76 Hissar-Ludhiana-Hissar Special and 04479/80 Jalandhar City-Pathankot-Jalandhar City Special trains would be resumed from Monday while 04573 Sirsa-Ludhiana and 04574 Ludhiana-Sirsa Special trains would commence from July 20 and 21, respectively.The authorities have made a fervent appeal to passengers to strictly observe the prescribed protocol for prevention against Covid-19. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/8-short-run-trains-to-be-restored-today-285308
19-07-2021||---||Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University holds virtual educational tours||Ludhiana, July 18To overcome the hurdles put forth due to ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the College of Animal Biotechnology of Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Ludhiana, organised educational trips through virtual mode for the BTech (biotechnology) students.Dr Yashpal Singh Malik, Dean, College of Animal Biotechnology, said that college was regularly organising such kind of activities to motivate students. During the seven-day programme, students visited Gujrat Biotech Research Centre, Gandhi Nagar, Department of Animal Biotechnology, College of Veterinary Science and Animal Husbandry, Anand, College of Biotechnology, Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel University of Agriculture and Technology (SVPUAT), Modipurum, Meerut, and College of Biotechnology, DUVASU, Mathura.Dr Simrinder Singh Sodhi, in-charge educational trips, added that during this programme all institutes showcased their respective research facilities, infrastructure and students were apprised about the ongoing research projects and the facilities being offered by institutes to outsiders. Interactive sessions between the faculty and students were also organised, and students took part in these sessions with great interest.The ideas about career opportunities in biotechnology and research options were the main centre of attraction during the interaction sessions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/guru-angad-dev-veterinary-and-animal-sciences-university-holds-virtual-educational-tours-285305
19-07-2021||---||Medical practitioners protest, submit memo||Ludhiana, July 18The Medical Practitioners Association, Punjab, today sat on a dharna outside the house of Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu to press upon their long-pending demands.The minister and medical practitioners had an argument while the memorandum was being submitted by the association.The minister told them that now they were submitting their momorandum of demands but during Covid, patients either did not reach hospitals at all or reached late and due to the same, many patients lost their lives.On the other hand, the medical practitioners said during Covid, doctors posted in rural areas were given duty in urban areas and dispensaries lacked staff and medicines. In such a situation, they managed to handle patients with whatever little help was available to them and they also motivated residents of villages for Covid tests and vaccination.They said during the Vidhan Sabha elections, the minister had promised to solve their problems but even after passing of over four years, nothing had been done in this regard.Earlier, they sat in a park at Kochhar Market and later moved towards the house of the minister but the police stopped them by putting barricades and only a few members were allowed to proceed further and submit memorandum to him.Dr Ramesh Kumar Bali, state president of the association, said medical practitioners were working for the past 30-35 years in those areas where even government was unable to provide services.“Before 1965, registration was done on the basis of experience but later it was stopped. Our main demand is that we should be allowed to practice on the basis of our experience so that we can continue our work peacefully. While we were handing over the memorandum to the MLA, he blamed us without knowing the ground realities,” said Dr Bali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/medical-practitioners-protest-submit-memo-285303
19-07-2021||Ludhiana||Expelled from SAD, Madan Lal Bagga joins AAP||Madan Lal Bagga, who was expelled from Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Saturday, joined Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday. Known to be close to the Badal family, Bagga joined AAP along with a large number of associates and supporters. Party national spokesperson, MLA from Delhi and Punjab affairs co-in charge Raghav Chadha, Leader of Opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema, Deputy Leader of Opposition Saravjit Kaur Manuke, MLA Master Baldev Singh and district president Suresh Goyal formally inducted Bagga and his associates into AAP.Welcoming him to the partyfold on behalf of party president Arvind Kejriwal, Chadha said with Bagga’s joining, AAP had become stronger not only in Ludhiana but in the whole state.Bagga was senior vice-president of the trade and industry wing of SAD and vice chairman of the Board of Commerce, Punjab, with the status of Minister of State in the previous SAD-BJP government. He was also the president of Shiromani Akali Dal, Ludhiana (Urban), and remained councillor twice. The SAD leadership had expelled him from the party for six years for his “anti-party activities” on Saturday evening. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/expelled-from-sad-madan-lal-bagga-joins-aap-285302
19-07-2021||---||Ludhiana: Teachers gherao Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu’s residence||Ludhiana, July 18On a call given by the Sanjha Adhayapak Morcha, members of the Meritorious Schools Teacher Union held a protest today and gheraoed the residence of Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu. Police personnel were present in large numbers and force was used to not let the protesters move forward. Mild lathicharge and barricading of the area was done by the police.Amrish Sharma, a teacher union leader, said they were working on contract basis from the past seven years but the government was not regularising their services.“If the government doesn’t listen to our genuine demands, we will be left with no other option but to intensify our struggle further,” he said.The entire staff of the meritorious school took part in the dharna. Later, Ashu’s wife Mamta met the protesters and assured them of making their voice reach the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-teachers-gherao-cabinet-minister-bharat-bhushan-ashus-residence-285301
19-07-2021||---||Cash, valuables stolen from doctor’s house in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, July 18Thieves targeted the house of a doctor at New Shivaji Nagar and decamped with Rs 2.35 lakh, two mobile phones and some other valuables.Thieves had reportedly sprayed some chemical in the house following which the doctor and his family had fallen unconscious.House owner Dr Gaurav Verma said that on the intervening night of July 17-18, some unknown persons entered his house and committed theft. “We all family members had slept in one room and next morning when they woke up, they found the locks of almirah kept in another room lying broken and Rs 2.35 lakh was missing. Even two of his mobile phones were also taken away by the thieves.The owner said when they woke up, all family members had headache and it seemed that thieves had sprayed some chemical in the house following which they (all family members) fell unconscious and could not notice any noise of thieves.ASI Gurmeet Singh said thieves were also captured in the CCTV cameras and efforts were on to identify them. A case of theft was registered against the unknown thieves.In another theft case reported at a house in GK Estate, thieves decamped with a laptop, some valuables and a scooter. House owner Sanjiv Wig said the thieves had entered the house by scaling outer wall of the house on July 10. The Jamalpur police have registered a case and launched a probe in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cash-valuables-stolen-from-doctors-house-in-ludhiana-285300
19-07-2021||---||Punjab women panel chief Manisha Gulati meets rape victim at Roomi village, near Jagraon||Ludhiana, July 18Punjab State Women Commission chairperson Manisha Gulati on Sunday met seven-year-old rape victim girl child at Roomi village, near Jagraon.She said the accused would be arrested soon. She was also accompanied by Political Secretary to CM Capt Sandeep Singh Sandhu and Ludhiana (Rural) SSP Charanjit Singh Sohal.The girl was raped by a neighbour at the village on July 9.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/punjab-women-panel-chief-manisha-gulati-meets-rape-victim-at-roomi-village-near-jagraon-285299
19-07-2021||Ludhiana||Man booked for raping minor in Ludhiana||A man has been booked for allegedly raping a minor girl at Partap Nagar, Tibba. The accused, identified as Manjit of Pratap Nagar, had served cold drink laced with sedatives to the girl before committing the crime.The victim told the police that her parents were daily wagers and were living in a migrants’ vehra in the area and the accused also lived there.“On July 15, when I was heading to my aunt’s house, Manjit met me on the way. He offered me a cold drink and I fell unconscious the moment I had it. When I regained consciousness, I found myself at some empty plot in Pratap Nagar. He raped me there and threatened me with dire consequences,” the victim alleged.Next day she told her mother about the incident. Her mother then got a case registered against the accused.ASI Sukhdev Singh said a case was registered and raids were on to nab the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-booked-for-raping-minor-in-ludhiana-285295
19-07-2021||Harshraj Singh||Activist launches ‘Voter vs Leader’ drive||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 18Ahead of the Assembly elections, likely to be held in early 2022, youth activist Prof Komal Gurnoor Singh and his aides have started a movement, ‘Voter vs Leader’. Through the campaign, they are encouraging people, especially the youth, to ask leaders of various political parties to present their agenda and roadmap for redressal of actual issues faced by people of the state.He said, “Many people died without getting the required oxygen and treatment during Covid-19 pandemic in the country. The successive governments have failed to improve the health infrastructure in the state. Besides, low budget is allocated for education sector. People should ask the leaders of political parties as to how much budget will be allocated for health and education sectors if their respective party forms the government in the state in 2022.”Professor Gurnoor said, “Under the campaign, I am appealing to the people to put up questions to the leaders, such as how the government health facilities and educational institutes would be developed, how the issue of unemployment would be dealt with and how the issue of depleting groundwater in the state would be tackled.”He further said “Why have the successive governments failed to ensure the security of women? The political parties and leaders should clear their stand regarding women’s security”.“The political parties should tell us that how they would ensure the uplift of the poor, instead of offering them few ration items for free. Actually, the politicians divert the attention of the people from actual issues to unwanted issues. But now, people must seek redressal of issues which the successive governments have failed to resolve,” the professor said.He posed another question to the political parties of the state: “The outstanding debt of Punjab has risen to more than Rs 2.73 lakh crore. How will it be returned?”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/activist-launches-voter-vs-leader-drive-285280
19-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Mild showers bring relief, inundate several areas in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, July 18Mild showers that lashed the city today submerged several main roads and residential localities causing huge inconvenience to people. However, the rainfall in the afternoon brought some relief from the extremely hot and humid weather conditions.According to weather experts, rainfall is expected tomorrow as well. For the past few days the maximum temperature was hovering around 36°C and after rainfall, it came down by three degrees.People were seen rejoicing in the rain and since it was Sunday, it proved to be a double delight for them.Reports received from many areas indicated that main Chandigarh Road, Ferozepur Road, some parts of the Civil Lines, Ghumar Mandi, Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar (colony of the Ludhiana Improvement Trust) were waterlogged with commuters having to traverse through ankle-deep water and puddles where roads and streets had potholes.A few residents said the tall claims of the Municipal Corporation were exposed as even scanty rainfall had led to accumulation of so much water on roads as all preparations such as cleaning of sewer lines, road gullies and other drainage channels were carried out ‘on paper’ only and nothing was practically done.Residents of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar colony blamed LIT officials for neglecting the work related to preparations for the rainy season. MC officials, however, claimed that the problem of waterlogging had been sorted out at many places and an exercise was on to identify other problematic areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mild-showers-bring-relief-inundate-several-areas-in-ludhiana-285277
19-07-2021||Harshraj Singh||Demand for making agenda of Ludhiana MC’s meetings public ignored||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 18Though people elect MC councillors from their respective wards in a democratic way, agenda and minutes of the Municipal Corporation’s House and F&CC meetings in Ludhiana are still not being made public on the civic body’s website.Some activists and members of various NGOs had earlier raised questions and demanded that when the Municipal Corporation, Chandigarh, could share information about such meetings on its official website, why the Ludhiana MC can’t.They have been demanding for long that the MC, Ludhiana, should also ensure the availability of the agenda and minutes of the meetings on its official website so that city residents could learn about the working of the civic body as well as their elected representatives.Col JS Brar (retd), a city resident, said: “There is nothing secret in meetings of the F&CC and MC General House. When councillors are elected by people, no information should be hidden from the public. Residents should be informed about the Budget and expenditure on every project and works in the MC.”He said: “Agendas and minutes of such meetings are not being made public due to corruption in the civic body and bad intentions of some persons.”Prof Komal Gurnoor Singh, a social activist, said: “We want to know what is being done by the MC for redressal of civic issues in various areas. People want to know what steps are being taken for the development in the city and where the money paid as taxes by city residents is being used for. To ensure transparency and accountability, the MC must share the agenda and minutes of both F&CC and House meetings on its website and display at its offices.”He suggested that bulletin boards regarding works (with expenditure) done by the ward councillor concerned must be displayed outside his/her office. Also, a committee of residents in every ward should be formed to keep vigil on the working of their elected representative, he added.Another resident, Jaskirat Singh, said: “We had raised the demand that the agenda and minutes of all MC meetings must be made available on the Ludhiana MC’s website for the public but to no avail.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/demand-for-making-agenda-of-ludhiana-mcs-meetings-public-ignored-285276
19-07-2021||---||7 travel agents dupe two of Rs 31.4L||Ludhiana, July 18The district police have booked seven travel agents on the charge of duping two residents of Rs 31.40 lakh on the pretext of sending them abroad.Kashmira Singh of Machhiwara Sahib told the police that his son Rajan Kumar wanted to go abroad and Rajan’s wife Satvir Kaur had assured that her family could help to send him to Canada. The complainant alleged that my son gave Rs 25 lakh through Satvir to her father, mother Nirmal Kaur and one of her relatives Jatinder Singh, an NRI from Canada. Despite taking money the accused neither arranged visa for Canada nor returned the money.Investigation officer ASI Vipan Kumar said that a case of fraud and criminal conspiracy had been registered against the four accused, including Satvir Kaur, and further probe is on.In another case, a Doraha resident, Narinder Kumar, in his complaint to the police alleged that three travel agents took Rs 6.40 lakh to send him abroad. The accused failed to fulfil their promise and now they also refused to return the money.The Doraha police have booked three persons namely Surjit Singh, alias Laddi, of Nakodar, Rahul and Dharamvir of Jalandhar for committing travel fraud. Investigation officer ASI Jarnail Singh said that efforts were on to nab the travel agents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/7-travel-agents-dupe-two-of-rs-31-4l-285275
19-07-2021||---||Man dies, 9 fresh Covid cases in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, July 18Today, nine persons from the district tested positive for Covid while one death was reported.There were 130 active patients in the district and 25 were admitted to various hospitals while 97 were sent for home isolation on Sunday.Total positive cases in the district have reached 87,230 while 2,093 have lost their lives so far. The patient who lost his life today was a 54-year-old man from Jamalpur. He was admitted to SPS Hospital.The recovery rate in the district is 97.45 per cent while today it was 97.41 per cent.A total of 18,90,940 samples have been taken, of which 17,92,127 samples were found negative. Today, samples of 9,678 persons were collected.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Sharma said though Covid cases were decreasing, people need to be vigilant as the virus was still here and everyone have to be cautious.“I request people to continue observing Covid-appropriate behaviour, including wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and hand hygiene,” Sharma said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-dies-9-fresh-covid-cases-in-ludhiana-district-285274
19-07-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Residents of SBS Nagar up in arms over plots at school site||Ludhiana, July 18A public notice issued by the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) for e-auction of 42 built-up commercial sites and 24 residential plots in various colonies scheduled to be held on August 12, 2021, has sparked off a row with residents of the E-block of Shaheed Bhagat Singh (SBS) Nagar raising a banner of revolt against conversion of a pocket of 2,500 sq yard land into residential plots.LIT officials claim that the change of land use (CLU) from the primary school site to residential plots had been duly approved and the amended layout plan had also been sanctioned by the government (read Local Government Department).“Of the 2,500 sq-yard chunk of land, residential plots are being carved out in an area of 1,600 sq yards (8 plots of 150 sq yards each and two plots of 200 sq yards each). The remaining area would be used for development of park (500 sq yards) and roads (400 sq yards),” said a LIT official.However, the residents have taken offence to persistent policy of the LIT top brass to divert whatever open spaces or even green belts were available in its colonies to be diverted for development of residential plots or commercial sites.In a petition, signed by nearly 40 residents of the E-block of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, to the state through its Chief Secretary and the Principal Secretary, Local Government, it has been submitted that the pocket of land earmarked for the primary school earlier was proposed to be used for the construction of a community centre in the colony.“Carving out residential plots on a chunk of land reserved for special purpose or community use is in a way of betrayal of the residents of the colony as the land reserved for public good is being put to individual use. Even if the CLU has been approved by the competent authority, it is still denial of promised facilities/amenities to the residents which will not stand the scrutiny of law,” said the residents, demanding cancellation of e-auction of the residential plots proposed to be developed in this pocket.Meanwhile, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today called upon the LIT to cancel the proposed auction of residential plots. Senior SAD-B leader Maheshinder Singh Grewal said it was shocking that the LIT was going ahead with the auction of residential plots on August 8, which was a blatant illegality.He said in case the LIT did not cancel the auction, the SAD would join the struggle of the residents to secure justice in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/residents-of-sbs-nagar-up-in-arms-over-plots-at-school-site-285273
19-07-2021||Jalandhar/Khanna||Navjot Sidhu calls on party leaders in Jalandhar, Khanna||Before his elevation, Navjot Singh Sidhu held meetings with various Congress leaders, including Avtar Henry, Mohinder Singh Kaypee, Jalandhar North MLA Bawa Henry, Khanna MLA Gurkirat Singh Kotli and Payal legislator Lakhvir Singh Lakha, today.In Jalandhar, he was accompanied by Jalandhar Cantt MLA Pargat Singh and Tanda legislator Sangat Singh Gilzian. Asked about Sidhu’s possible elevation, Pargat said: “He just came to meet Henry. Some things don’t need to be said. When it is overcast, you know it is going to rain.”Avtar Henry said: “I have known Sidhu for past 30 years. He is a friend. So he has come to meet us. We’ll talk over a cup of tea.” Earlier, Sidhu met MLAs Kotli and Lakha in Khanna. Praising Sidhu, Kolti said party workers had complete faith in him.“Sidhu enjoys public support and if the 2022 elections are fought under his leadership, it will yield positive results,” said Kotli.“The decision by the Congress high command has to be accepted by all party leaders, irrespective of their stature. We are soldiers of the party and will readily accept the decision to make it stronger.” — TNSNo infightingThere is no infighting within the Congress. There are no two factions. It’s just an opposition narrative. Avtar Henry, CongressDullo for Dalit CMGiven the Dalit vote share in the state, a leader from the community should be made the CM. Shamsher Singh Dullo, Rajya Sabha MP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/navjot-sidhu-calls-on-party-leaders-in-jalandhar-khanna-285214
