20-07-2021||---||Ludhiana Civic body acts against seven illegal colonies||Ludhiana, July 19After MC Commissioner ordered the officials concerned to act against illegal colonies and constructions, the officials of the building branch took action against seven unauthorised colonies and around 10 illegal constructions in all the four zones on Monday.‘People warned not to purchase properties’Joint Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Kulpreet Singh, who was present at the colony site during the demolition drive, said a few persons came to see houses but they were warned not to purchase houses or plots in illegal colonies.Joint Commissioner, MC, Kulpreet Singh said they took action against Connaught Palace Colony in Zone C once again and demolished four newly constructed houses in the colony. The Joint Commissioner, who was present at the colony site during the demolition drive, said a few persons came to see houses but they were warned not to purchase houses or plots in illegal colonies.Apart from this, an illegal colony opposite the Eastman factory in Giaspura was razed while two illegal shops were demolished on Lohara Road in the Zone C area, he said.He said, “In Zone A, sewer lines of illegal colonies on Jassian Road and Kakowal Road were dismantled. Besides, three illegal industrial constructions were demolished at Manna Nagar, Azad Nagar and Bahadur Ke Road, while 17 shanties were razed in a slum area.”In Zone B, action was taken against two illegal colonies, including New Shera Colony. The sewer lines were dismantled in these colonies, he added.Kulpreet Singh said in Zone D, they took action against an illegal colony near Sharmanji Vatika, Barewal. He said some illegal shops were demolished on Churpur Road.He said the drive would continue against the illegal colonies and constructions in the city in the coming days.A large number of illegal constructions have come up in the city in recent years, while thousands of commercial activities are going in many residential areas.A city resident, Baljeet Singh said the MC should install status boards at the sites of all approved/authorised colonies with displaying information about approval number and detailed colony map with boundary lines. Warning boards must be installed at the sites of illegal colonies.“The civic body should also display lists of approved colonies at its offices and web portal. Awareness should be created among people not to buy any plot or house in any illegal colonies. In every ward, helpline numbers for registration of complaints regarding illegal colonies and constructions must be displayed on big boards to curb the menace,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-civic-body-acts-against-seven-illegal-colonies-285513
20-07-2021||Kuldip Bhatia
||Police trace missing through ‘Gumshuda’ app||Ludhiana, July 19 Commissioner of Police (CP) Rakesh Agrawal today dwelt upon the success achieved by the use of innovative mobile appplication ‘Gumshuda’ for tracing missing persons, saying the app had been developed after it was strongly felt to use technology to match details of missing persons with recovered persons. Interacting with mediapersons here, he said the police achieved a major success when a 10-year-old boy, Kartik, a resident of Jagraon, went missing from his home on the evening of July 14. He was taken to the police post at the bus stand where his entry was made on the ‘found persons’ list on the app. The parents were able to find their son when they got uploaded their son’s picture on the app through their relatives. Giving details of the earlier cases traced with the help of the mobile application, the CP said in March, an 80-year old woman, Maya Devi, of Ganesh Nagar in the city had gone missing and was found by a public-spirited person who found her unaware of her whereabouts. He reported her as a ‘found person’ and uploaded her photo in the app. The app, using the facial recognition, gave a match with the missing report entry of Maya Devi. He contacted SHO Division No 3 as mentioned in the profile and the SHO Jarnail Singh sent his team to get her reunited with her family. Agrawal said in another success story, a 26-year-old mentally challenged person, Maninderjeet Singh, a resident of Moga district, who was missing since March 1, 2021, was found by an NGO in the area of Dehlon police station. “With the help of the app, volunteers of the NGO identified him and contacted the Dehlon SHO, who made arrangements for reuniting Maninderjeet with his family in no time. The app could also be used by parents to report their missing children and by vigilant citizens to report any vulnerable children found on streets. So far, the data of about 3,300 persons (missing and found) has been uploaded on the app. The Commissioner of Police made special mention of a city boy, Bharat Sood, who had helped develop the mobile app. The ‘Gumshuda’ app can be downloaded on android phones using the link https://play.google.com/ store/apps/details?id=com.punjab.police.child.missing.gumshuda.gumshuda_app.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/police-trace-missing-through-gumshuda-app-285515
20-07-2021||Nitin Jain||Maximum lives lost to Covid in the age group of 61 to 70||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 19The dreaded Covid virus claimed maximum lives in the age group of 61 to 70 while the highest number of infected persons was in the 31-40 age group in the state, the government has confirmed.The newborn to 10 year age bracket remained the safest with negligible harm caused to them by the contagion, the official figures have revealed.The state government has, for the first time, categorised in the age group the Covid cases and deaths reported in the state from March 1 to June 30.In Punjab, Covid had claimed 16,072 deaths and had infected 5,95,899 persons till June 30.The data analysed by the Health and Family Welfare Department, which is available with The Tribune, showed that a maximum of 28.6 per cent Covid casualties were reported in 61 to 70 age group, followed by 24.4 per cent in 51 to 60, 22.8 per cent in above 71 years, 14.9 per cent in 41 to 50, 6.8 per cent in 31 to 40 years, 2.2 per cent in 21 to 30, 0.2 per cent in 11 to 20 years, and the minimum of 0.1 per cent deaths due to virus in the state were reported in the 0 to 10 years of age.The age-wise distribution of Covid positive cases from March to June suggested that the highest number of 22.2 per cent patients were reported in 31 to 40 years of age, followed by 20.1 per cent in 21 to 30, 17.4 per cent in 41 to 50, 14.7 per cent in 51 to 60, 10.1 per cent in 61 to 70, 7.9 per cent in 11 to 20, 5.4 per cent above 71 years, and the least 2.1 per cent cases were reported in the 0 to 10 years of age category.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/maximum-lives-lost-to-covid-in-the-age-group-of-61-to-70-285516
20-07-2021||---||Covid cases dip to 4 in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, July 19Today only four persons tested positive for Covid and no death due to the disease was reported in the district. In this month, on many days cases were reported in single digit only.Nine persons tested positive on July 18, seven on July 17, eight on July 16 and five on July 14. The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached at 97.46 per cent, while there were 126 active patients in the district today.A total of seven persons — four from Ludhiana district and three from other states/districts — tested positive in the last 24 hours.A total of 18,98,783 samples have been taken, out of which reports of 18,98,783 were received. As many as 17,99,963 samples were found negative.The total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 87,234, while 11,586 patients belong to other districts/states.The total number of persons who lost their lives are 2,093 from Ludhiana and 1044 from other districts.“As many as 7,843 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly,” said DC Varinder Kumar Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-cases-dip-to-4-in-ludhiana-district-285517
20-07-2021||Harshraj Singh||Road dug up for laying sewer pipes troubles commuters in BRS Nagar, Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 19Residents and commuters are a harried lot due to the dilapidated condition of a stretch after installation of sewer pipes near Telephone Exchange at the E-Block of BRS Nagar here.The residents said a car had got stuck on the stretch for nearly two hours after rain yesterday. Also, two-wheeler riders generally lose balance while pedestrians also face inconvenience due to the slippery conditions on the stretch after rain.The residents said after installation of the sewer pipes, the level of the road was not corrected by the MC, Ludhiana. Even no caution boards had been displayed to alert commuters, despite there were chances of cave-in.A resident, Lakhbir Singh, said: “The road was dug up for installation of pipes over a month ago. Since then, the flying dust has been troubling us in routine. After rainfall, the situation turned worse as pits have appeared on the stretch. Even, it is difficult for us to step out of our house. Commuters also face troubles due to the dilapidated condition of the stretch. The MC should take steps to resolve the issue.”Another resident said: “A car that had stuck in a pit due to muddy condition of the stretch yesterday was pulled out with the help of a machine. As the rainy season has just started, the public may face more problems in the days to come, if no action is taken by the authorities concerned. It is the responsibility of the civic body to pay timely attention and get the road stretch levelled and repaired without any further delay. It must take immediate steps to avoid cave-ins and ensure safety of people.”Despite repeated attempts, Superintending Engineer Ravinder Garg could not be contacted for comments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/road-dug-up-for-laying-sewer-pipes-troubles-commuters-in-brs-nagar-ludhiana-285518
20-07-2021||---||Waste dumped on Ludhiana's Buddha Nullah banks irks residents||Ludhiana, July 19 Solid waste is continuously getting collected in Buddha Nullah while the removed waste from the nullah is being kept on its banks. Notably, the Rejuvenation of Buddha Nullah Project worth Rs 650 crore is underway. Former councillor Parminder Mehta and his aides visited the drain and raised questions over the working of the Municipal Corporation (MC). He said the waste was still getting collected in the nullah while a huge amount of waste removed from the nullah had been kept at different points of its banks. The MC needed to strengthen both sides of the drain in a proper way. Lakhs of rupees were spent on cleaning the nullah every year but the issue had not been resolved to date, Mehta said. Earlier, residents of the areas near New Kundan Puri Bridge had raised the matter of the MC dumping the removed waste on the banks of the nullah. A resident said, “Whenever it rains, the removed waste goes back into the drain. Moreover, there should be no garbage dump along the nullah.” Notably, the Buddha Nullah has overflowed a number of times in the past but its banks are yet to be strengthened. Around two years ago, a portion of its banks was washed away from few points.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/waste-dumped-on-ludhianas-buddha-nullah-banks-irks-residents-285519
20-07-2021||---||Contractual staff to protest in Patiala||Ludhiana, July 19Members of The ‘Manbhatta Kacha Contract Mulazim Morcha’ and workers of the Forest Department announced that they would hold a protest march in Patiala on July 21 as their demands were not fulfilled by the state government.District convener of the union Harjit Kaur said a large number of members would gather to carry out a protest march in Patiala, the home town of Chief Minister, and required arrangements had been made for the same.She said even after the completion of three years of service, the contractual employees were not being regularised by the state government. “We will hold the protest in Patiala against anti-employee policies of the government. We will march towards Moti Mahal,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/contractual-staff-to-protest-in-patiala-285521
20-07-2021||---||Redress docs’ grievances on priority: Vets to Capt Amarinder||Ludhiana, July 19 The Senior Vets Association has rued what it alleged the callous and stubborn attitude of the state government towards genuine demands of government doctors and medical teachers, who had been spearheading a stir against the reduction of their non-practicing allowance (NPA) from 25 to 20 per cent and its delinking from salary. Chairing a meeting held here today, Dr Gurinder Singh Walia, former joint director, Animal Husbandry, Punjab, and member, Punjab State Veterinary Council, urged Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to intervene in the matter and come to the rescue of doctors who were demoralised and feeling dejected, due to which unrest prevailed in the cadre of government veterinary, medical, dental, ayurvedic and homoeopathic doctors, affecting their smooth working. Dr Walia averred that in the prevailing scenario, under the ‘one health programme’, veterinary and medical doctors had a crucial role to play and were supposed to form joint strategies and programmes to contain the spread of emerging new diseases globally. The government must ensure parity of vets and medicos and provide them pay scales higher than Punjab Civil Service officers because of their higher qualifications, longer duration of study and arduous working conditions, he said. Dr Walia recalled that the Chief Minister was seized of importance of the animal husbandry sector realising that during his previous tenure, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University had been established in Ludhiana to lay more focus on the sector through which the rural economy was being uplifted. Dr Nitin Kumar, former CEO, Punjab Gau Sewa Commission, lamented that the pay commission had disturbed inter se pay scales of different categories of employees, resulting in resentment among them.  Former deputy directors Dr Bimal Kumar, Dr Raghunandan Sharma, Dr Guriqbal, Dr Nirmaljit Singh Mahal and Dr Rajinder Kumar Vasdev were among those present in the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/redress-docs-grievances-on-priority-vets-to-capt-amarinder-285522
20-07-2021||Ludhiana||Two killed in road mishaps||Reckless driving and poor road sense snuffed out two lives on the city roads during the past 48 hours. Swarnjit Singh (38) was grievously injured when his motorcycle rammed into a stationary truck outside a dhaba near Hardy’s World on the Main GT Road on Sunday afternoon. Dhaba owner Binder Singh told the police that the truck was parked in front of his dhaba and the victim, riding a motorcycle (PB-09H-6455), rammed into the truck apparently while trying to avert an oncoming vehicle.  A critically injured Swarnjit Singh was rushed to a private hospital where he succumbed to his injuries.  In another hit-and-run accident, Sandeep Kumar (33) was hit by a speeding vehicle on Dhandari Pul while driving his motorcycle (PB-10BU-8751) late on Saturday night, killing him on the spot.  The police have registered two cases under Sections 304-A/279 of the IPC and investigation was in progress. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-killed-in-road-mishaps-285523
20-07-2021||runs which included 4 sixes and 7 hits over the fence while Gitansh remained unbeaten on 17 off 11 balls with the help of one boundary and one six.||Ludhiana rout Mohali by 9 wkts||With this win, Ludhiana had eight points from two matches. They had scripted an easy 10-wicket victory against Fatehgarh Sahib in the first league match, played at Ludhiana on Saturday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-rout-mohali-by-9-wkts-285524
20-07-2021||---||Navjot Sidhu’s elevation: Ludhiana city Cong leaders welcome high command’s decision||Ludhiana, July 19Appointment of Navjot Singh Sidhu as president of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) has caused a stir in the Ludhiana unit of the party. Local MLAs, who had kept mum on Sidhu earlier, are expected to make a move to get closer to him. Sidhu’s appointment was celebrated at the local Congress Bhawan by distributing ladoos.Yesterday, Sidhu went to Khanna to meet MLA Gurkirat Singh Kotli and Lakhvir Singh Lakha and then went straight to Jalandhar, without stopping at Ludhiana.Sanjay Talwar, MLA (East), who is said to be on good terms with Sidhu, said he was expected to visit his house yesterday but the plan could not materialise.“Every Congress leader should respect the decision taken by the high command. We have to work as a collective strength to win the forthcoming Vidhan Sabha elections. There are differences of opinion but that should not come in between the interests of the party,” Talwar said.Rakesh Pandey, MLA Ludhiana North, said it was a wise decision. “The decision has been taken by the high command and I support the same,” he said.Cabinet Minister and MLA (West) Bharat Bhushan Ashu has long-standing differences with Sidhu and nothing has improved over the years. Ashu and Sidhu have been at loggerheads over the delay in development works in Ludhiana, which later escalated over the change of land use (CLU) granted to a housing project in Ludhiana.Ashu could not be contacted for his comments over Sidhu’s appointment as PPCC chief.Ashwani Sharma, president of District Congress Committee (Urban), said the decision taken by the high command was acceptable to all. “High command’s decision is final and everybody should abide by it,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/navjot-sidhus-elevation-ludhiana-city-cong-leaders-welcome-high-commands-decision-285525
20-07-2021||Ludhiana||Experts give tips on crop care in rains||The Gramin Krishi Mausam Sewa of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) has issued advisory to the farming community for monsoon. According to the advisory, farmers should let the water stand in paddy field only for two weeks and irrigate them two days after the ponded water has infiltrated into the soil. They should apply second 1/3 dose of nitrogen 21 days after transplanting. For cotton, the requirement is to eradicate weeds, like kanghi buti, peeli buti, puth kanda etc, growing on cotton field bunds, waste lands and roadside. Whitefly also attacks other alternate host crops, like brinjal, potato, tomato, okra, moong, mash and guar, so regular surveillance should be done and leaf curl virus infected plants should be uprooted and destroyed from time to time. Experts said sowing of moong (ML 1808, ML 2056 and ML 818) should be done during this period as delayed sowing results in lower yield. Vegetable crop should be irrigated at weekly intervals. This is the right time for sowing of Punjab Suhawani variety of okra and Cowpea 263. For sowing bottle gourd, sponge gourd, bitter gourd, ash gourd, tinda etc, 2 kg seed should be used per acre and 1 kg seed per acre for wanga. Transplanting of early varieties of cauliflower can also be done.  In case of heavy rain, farmers need to drain out the excessive water from orchards. They should not allow water to stagnate around tree trunks and keep the basin of plants slightly higher than rest of orchard soil. Whitewash mixture containing copper sulphate should be applied on the main trunks of fruit trees to protect them from diseases, the experts added. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/experts-give-tips-on-crop-care-in-rains-285526
20-07-2021||---||MC lifts carts, street vendors hold protest in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, July 19After the MC lifted their carts, a group of street vendors staged a protest on Overlock Road near Partap Chowk here on Monday.Hanuman Maurya, a street vendor alleged, “A man, Harjeet Singh, who claimed to be associated with the Aam Aadmi Party, has been filing complaints to the civic body against us. Following his complaints, the MC removed our carts today. Thus, we staged the protest. Moreover, the MC has not even set up vending zones for us as per the rules.”On the other hand, Harjeet Singh said he has not filed any complaint against the street vendors. He said the Opposition parties are behind the conspiracy.Zonal Commissioner, MC, Neeraj Jain said the action was taken against the encroachments. He, however, said he has no information regarding the complainant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mc-lifts-carts-street-vendors-hold-protest-in-ludhiana-285527
20-07-2021||Our Correspondent
||Doraha police nab 3 murder accused||Doraha, July 19 The Doraha police have arrested the accused in a murder case of Buani village. The victim was found murdered in  an old house two weeks ago. The accused, Jatinder Singh of Lehal village, Gurwinder Singh Rimpy of Khatra village and Arshdeep Singh of Koohli Kalan village, were arrested by Doraha police and taken on two-day remand. A licensed revolver, a purse, cash and a gold ring have been recovered from them. On July 5, the foul smelling body of Harjinder Singh (70) was recovered from his residence. The body bore injury marks on the head as well as forehead. A cloth too was tied around his throat, indicating death by strangulation.  Doraha SHO Vijay Kumar said the Jatinder Singh of the same village, along with Gurwinder Singh Rimpy and Arshdeep Singh, had decided to murder and loot the deceased as he was staying alone in the house. “During interrogation the three confessed to having committed the crime,” the SHO added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/doraha-police-nab-3-murder-accused-285528
20-07-2021||Ludhiana||NSS unit plants 100 saplings||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/nss-unit-plants-100-saplings-285696
20-07-2021||A five-day online training course on “Vegetable cultivation through hydroponics||161 attend vegetable farming training camp at PAU||Protected cultivation ensures returns: ExpertThe Skill Development Centre, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), organised a two-day online training course on “Use of drip, sprinkler irrigation and poly-houses” for in-service candidates. In total, 55 agriculture, horticulture and soil conservation officers and scientists from PAU and its Krishi Vigyan Kendras participated in the course. Dr Kuldeep Singh, associate director (Skill Development), shared that with globalisation of markets, shrinking land holdings and climate change, protected cultivation had emerged as the single most important technology for ensuring high productivity, improved quality and profitable returns. Dr Kiran Grover, Principal Extension Scientist (Food and Nutrition) and Course Coordinator, highlighted that production of safe and nutritious food was much required to meet the growing demand and ensure food security for all.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/161-attend-vegetable-farming-training-camp-at-pau-285697
20-07-2021||Ludhiana||Two minor girls go missing||Man booked for abetting suicideLudhiana: The police have booked Prince Keswani, a resident of Nirmal Nagar, under Section 306 of the IPC for allegedly abetting the suicide of Manmohan Singh (40). The victim’s wife, Baljit Kaur, a resident of Kartar Nagar on Tibba Road, lodged a complaint with the police that her husband had taken a loan from the accused about two years ago for business. “Prince was harassing my husband for repayment of loan. He committed suicide by jumping into the Gill Canal in frustration on July 17,” Baljit said. ocOne arrested for smuggling liquorLudhiana: The police have nabbed Amandeep Singh,a resident of Phase 3, Shaheed Karnail Singh Nagar, for allegedly smuggling liquor. Acting on a tip-off, the accused was arrested from near Domoria Bridge and 24 bottles of Royal Stag whisky and 36 bottles of Imperial Blue whisky were recovered from his possession. He has been booked under Sections 61/1/14 of the Excise Act. ocMan held with poppy huskLudhiana: The police have arrested Narinder Singh,a resident of Sahnewal, with 2.5 kg of poppy husk. A case under Sections 15/61/85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, has been registered in this regard. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-minor-girls-go-missing-285698
20-07-2021||Ludhiana||Get 142 unsafe buildings vacated: Ludhiana MC chief to police||Amid the rainy season, MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal has written to the police to take action to get unsafe buildings vacated in the city. The MC had conducted a survey and found 142 unsafe buildings in the city.According to MC officials, these buildings are mainly being used for either residential and commercial purposes while a number of such buildings are also disputed.Sabharwal said the monsoon had arrived and there were chances of heavy rainfall as predicted by the Meteorological Department.He said the ATPs concerned had earlier served notices to owners of the unsafe buildings, directing them to get the buildings vacated. But occupiers had not vacated the buildings within the given time.Now, the MC Commissioner has written to the police to get the buildings vacated to avoid any tragedy. The Commissioner has also appealed to city residents that if they had any information about any unsafe building in their area (except 142 identified unsafe buildings), they could inform superintending engineers of the B&R branch, ATP, MTP or Joint Commissioner concerned so that timely steps could be taken to avert any mishap. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/get-142-unsafe-buildings-vacated-ludhiana-mc-chief-to-police-285700
20-07-2021||Manav Mander||Strict vigil, fine prompt people to wear masks on roads: Study||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 19A study on “effective mask usage” revealed that maximum violation is reported near hospitals.66.7% Wear masks on roads, intersections52.8% Wear it near Hospitals, Bus stand, Railway station, religious places77.5% Total number of people seen wearing masks61.9% Wear it effectivelyConducted by Dayanand Medical College and Hospital in collaboration with the Police Department, the study found that maximum people (66.7%) were seen wearing masks on roads and intersections and minimum (52.8%) near hospitals, bus stand, railway station and religious places.The compliance is high at intersections due to constant vigilance on roads and intersections by the police personnel and fines are also levied on the violators.Cost of the mask has also been cited as one of the reasons for not wearing it apart from other reasons like being uncomfortable, difficulty in breathing, not being aware or it’s of no use.Of 77.5% people seen wearing masks only 61.9% wore it effectively. TV and newspapers, social media, friends and relatives were cited as the most common sources of information regarding prevention of Covid-19, which could be due to increased viewing of TV, Internet and social media during and after lockdown.“Effective usage of masks had significant association with age, ethnicity, education and occupation. The participants in the 18-40 age group had significantly higher effective mask usage (EMU) than older people. Participants who had no formal education (46.9%) or were below Matric (58.9%) had lesser EMU than those who were educated above Matric (67.6%),” said Dr Bishav Mohan, Medical Superintendent of Hero Heart DMCH, who was also part of the survey team.The places where people were observed included religious shrines, residential areas, crowded roads and intersections, bus stand, railway station, hospitals and public places such as markets, gardens, administrative offices, malls, etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/strict-vigil-fine-prompt-people-to-wear-masks-on-roads-study-285622
