22-07-2021||Nitin Jain||Centre sanctions Rs 199 cr to Punjab for emergency Covid response||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 21In order to thwart the possible threat posed by the much-anticipated third Covid wave, the Centre has sanctioned a sum of Rs 198.98 crore to Punjab under the second phase of emergency Covid response package (ECRP), the government has confirmed.As per the ECRP scheme, Punjab will contribute its share of Rs 132.6 crore for the implementation of the works through the Department of Health and Family Welfare (DoHFW) and the National Health Mission (NHM), Principal Health Secretary Hussan Lal told The Tribune here on Wednesday.The objectives of the ECRP Phase-II will be to establish dedicated paediatric care unit in all 23 districts of the state for paediatric Covid management, establish paediatric Centre of Excellence (CoE) in one of the medical colleges for mentoring and technical hand-holding to district paediatric units, increase the availability of ICU beds, including 20 per cent paediatric, set up liquid medical oxygen (LMO) storage tanks along with medical gas pipeline system (MGPS), at least one per district, in public healthcare system, increased access to ambulance services (ALS) in transport and referral of Covid patients, and to utilise the undergraduate and postgraduate interns, residents, final year MBBS, BSc, and GNM nursing students for effective management.The priority non-negotiable components of ECRP-II being planned in the state’s Covid response included Rs 10,437 lakh for 27 paediatric units with 1,134 beds, each costing Rs 389 lakh, Rs 500 lakh for CoE, Rs 510 lakh for RT-PCR testing facility in public healthcare system in remaining 17 districts, each costing Rs 30 lakh, Rs 666 lakh for 17 LMO tanks, Rs 405 lakh for 11 MGPS, and Rs 200 lakh for functional hospital management information system in all medical colleges.The non-priority negotiable components included Rs 983 lakh for six-bed units at 100 PHCs, each costing Rs 9.83 lakh, Rs 3,500 lakh for 20-bed units at 41 subdivision hospitals and 26 CHCs, each costing Rs 35 lakh, Rs 2,392.7 lakh for 142 ICU beds at seven district hospitals, each costing Rs 16.85 lakh, Rs 2,300 lakh for essential drugs and consumables for Covid management, with allocation of Rs 100 lakh for each district, Rs 9,720 lakh for conducting RAT and RT-PCR tests, Rs 975 lakh for hub and spoke for tele-consultation services with six hubs and 230 spokes, Rs 1,200 lakh for availing services of 200 medical PG residents, each at Rs 25,000 per month for two months, Rs 792 lakh for hiring 200 medical UG interns, each at monthly remuneration of Rs 22,000 for two months, and taking on board 100 final year MBBS students, each at Rs 22,000 per month for two months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/centre-sanctions-rs-199-cr-to-punjab-for-emergency-covid-response-286586
22-07-2021||---||Armed robbers loot cash, valuables from fuel station in Khanna||Ludhiana, July 21Three armed robbers looted a petrol pump situated on a national highway in Khanna. The incident took place in the wee hours of Wednesday.Suspects had also attacked employees of the fuel station employees, fortunately no one suffered any serious injury in the incident.As per an employee, Paramjit Singh, on Tuesday night, he, along with two other employees, was sleeping beneath the shed at the petrol pump. At around 2.25 am, a Maruti Swift car reached the pump and two armed persons came out of it while one remained inside the vehicle.“The robbers were carrying swords and they asked us to handover cash and other valuables and threatened to kill us. Afterwards, the accused snatched Rs 30,000, one LED, an internet modem, mobile phones and some other valuables from the pump, “ he said.Sanjay Singh, the owner of the pump, said the staff had called him after the robbers left the spot. Later, he informed the police. He demanded that the police should arrest the accused as soon as possible so that no such incident should take place in future.Khanna Sadar SHO Sarabjit Singh said robbers were captured in CCTV cameras and efforts were on to identify them. “We have clues about them and we are working on leads to catch them,” the SHO said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/armed-robbers-loot-cash-valuables-from-fuel-station-in-khanna-286587
22-07-2021||---||Man held for killing wife||Ludhiana, July 21 Man killed his wife after a minor dispute at their residence in Gagandeep colony, Bhattian Bet, last night. The police registered a case of murder against the man, identified as Raja Sekhon, and arrested the accused. Station House Officer, Salem Tabri police station, Gopal Krishan said the couple had a fight over some family dispute on Tuesday evening and the woman turned furious and threatened to commit suicide. “The woman tied a piece of cloth around her neck and its other end with the ceiling. She was about to jump from a table, but before that her husband came and dragged the table from under her feet, which killed her,” the SHO added. After killing his wife, a Raja Sekhon fled from the house. When a police team reached the spot, the woman’s body was lying on the bed and a piece of cloth was tied around her neck. The SHO said Raja Sekhon was nabbed from near the Jalandhar bypass today. He had planned to leave the city. During questioning, Raja Sekhon confessed to killing his wife.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-held-for-killing-wife-286588
22-07-2021||Kuldip Bhatia
||Ruckus in Dugri market as vendors illegally occupy GLADA booths||Ludhiana, July 21 A market in Phase I, Dugri, witnessed ruckus, noisy quarrels and slogan-mongering between groups of vendors and functionaries of the Sikh Danga Peerit Welfare Society after some vendors allegedly took forcible possession of booths recently constructed by the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) as a part of the process to set up proposed vending zones across the city for street vendors. After the vendors, reportedly enjoying patronage of certain Congress leaders of the area, occupied the booths without any allotment or authorisation, the activists of Sikh Danga Peerit Welfare Society, arrived at the spot in a sizeable number and started raising slogans against the Congress government, while alleging that certain ruling party leaders had taken money from the vendors on the promise of getting them booths allotted from the GLADA authorities. Denying the allegations, the illegal occupants of the booths (vendors) also raised slogans against the riot victims. The protesting vendors said the riot victims had no continued on page 2||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ruckus-in-dugri-market-as-vendors-illegally-occupy-glada-booths-286589
22-07-2021||---||Ex-councillor among five booked for firing at realtor||Ludhiana, July 21 A former SAD councillor is among five booked by the police on the charges of firing at a property dealer over an old property dispute on the Pakhowal road on late Monday night. The accused have been identified as Mintu Grewal, Ravi Sekhon, former SAD councillor Tanvir Dhaliwal, Amit Kumar and Simran Singh. Complainant Prem Singh of Omax Flats told the police that on Monday at around 11.40 pm he was heading towards the flats on the Pakhowal road from the Flower chowk. He noticed a Swift car chasing him and suspecting something suspicious, he accelerated his car. Occupants of the Swift car then paralleled their car with his and Mintu Grewal fired at him but he had a miraculous escape. He then sped his car into the Omax flats and alerted the security guards. “I also took a round of a petrol station to save my life and CCTV cameras of the station also captured the Swift Dzire car of the accused while they were chasing me,” alleged the complainant. continued on page 2||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ex-councillor-among-five-booked-for-firing-at-realtor-286590
22-07-2021||Ludhiana||Five fresh Covid cases reported in Ludhiana dist||Five cases of Covid-19 were confirmed during the past 24 hours in the Ludhiana district. Of them, two patients suffering from influenza-like illness had visited Flu Corner and one visited OPD. A healthcare worker is also among the infected.A total of 87,249 cases of Ludhiana district and 11,592 cases of other districts or states have been confirmed till now. Besides, the Health Department has confirmed that 2,093 persons of Ludhiana district and 1,044 cases of other districts or states have died of the virus.Meanwhile, DC Varinder Kumar Sharma on Wednesday appealed to people of Ludhiana to continue to observe the Covid protocols and get vaccinated.Interacting with people of the district in his Facebook live session on the official page of the DRPO, Ludhiana, the DC said with the overwhelming support of the people to the vaccination drive, 14 lakh citizens have received the dose of the life-saving jab and the aggressive inoculation drive has reduced the Covid positivity rate to below 0.05 per cent in the last few weeks.He said due to a decline in the positivity rate, the state government has further issued fresh relaxations, including an increase in the number of people in indoor gatherings to 150 and outdoors to 300, subject to an upper limit of 50% of the capacity. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/five-fresh-covid-cases-reported-in-ludhiana-dist-286591
22-07-2021||---||Clear stand on proposed industrial park: Activists to political parties||Ludhiana, July 21Members of a public action committee have sent a mail to presidents of various political parties in the state, requesting them to clear their stand/views on a proposed modern industrial park to be set up by the state government near the Sutlej and the Mattewara forest.The committee members are opposing the location of the proposed modern industrial park near the Sutlej and the Mattewara forest. They have written a mail to PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu, AAP president Bhagwant Mann, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, LIP chief Simarjeet Singh Bains and others.Dr Amandeep Singh Bains, a member of the committee said: “The state government has proposed a 1,000-acre industrial park in an ecologically sensitive zone adjoining the Mattewara forest and on the bank of the Sutlej in Ludhiana district. The river is the lifeline of millions of humans and animals as it was the only source of drinking water available to a large population of South Punjab and eight districts of Rajasthan. Sadly, this extremely important issue has not received the attention it deserves from the political class of the state and we want presidents of political parties to take a clear public stand on this on behalf of their party.”“Political parties play an important role of mediating between citizens and governments in a democracy. Elections in the state are a few months away. We want the leaders of political parties to take a clear stand against the choice of location of this proposed industrial park and tell the government clearly that they should find another suitable place for the project and not mess with this environmentally sensitive area. They must clear their position on this issue publically which will also help citizens to make up their minds in this election year,” said Gurpreet Singh Chandbaja, president, Bhai Ghanayia Cancer Roko Seva Society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/clear-stand-on-proposed-industrial-park-activists-to-political-parties-286592
22-07-2021||Mahesh Sharma||MC encourages residents to segregate household waste in Mandi Ahmedgarh||Mandi Ahmedgarh, July 21The Municipal Council (MC) launched a door-to-door campaign on Tuesday as part of the Swachh Bharat Mission, wherein women councillors of the town spread awareness about fundamentals of solid waste management at grassroots level.Besides encouraging residents of their wards to segregate waste at the household level, the councillors are coordinating with officials of the Sanitation Department to facilitate distribution of organic manure being prepared with biodegradable litter collected from houses.Municipal Council president Vikas Tandon said almost all women councillors had associated themselves with the awareness campaign, launched by the council for further upgrading cleanliness level in the town.“Though volunteers of Punjab Infra Development Company have already been assisting the Sanitation Department staff in solid waste management, women councillors have now come forward to encourage residents to ease the job of sanitation workers by segregating waste at the household level,” Tandon said, maintaining that organic manure was distributed among desirous residents.Ward Number 5 councillor Jaswinder Sharma said the initiative had encouraged residents to start segregation of litter regularly and develop kitchen gardens at their residences. “We are glad the residents of our ward are now segregating waste before handing it over to waste collectors and the MC is preparing compost manure from it,” said councillor Navjot Kaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mc-encourages-residents-to-segregate-household-waste-in-mandi-ahmedgarh-286593
22-07-2021||Harshraj Singh||Complete ban on plastic carry bags in Ludhiana city from Aug 1: Mayor||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 21A day after waterlogging occurred in various parts of the city, Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu has announced to impose a complete ban on the use of plastic carry bags from August 1. The Mayor said the dumping of plastic bags was among the main reasons behind choking of sewer lines and road gullies in different localities.He said it has come to light that a lot of plastic was found in choked road gullies and sewer pipes in the city. Many people generally dump plastic in the sewer system due to which pipes get choked. The MC would launch a drive to ensure implementation of the ban and action would be taken against violators, he said.The MC’s General House had earlier given nod for issuing a notification to ban single-use plastic. He appealed to residents, not to use plastic bags.Meanwhile, Sandhu claimed that rainwater had got cleared from various areas within a lesser time yesterday as compared to earlier. He said the MC had ensured cleaning of drains while sewers were cleaned with super suction machines before the arrival of the monsoon.Issues need attention to resolve waterloggingThe MC has recently installed storm water drainage lines in a few areas, including Clock Tower Road and Rani Jhansi Road recently but a majority of city areas still lack storm water drainage system. Road gullies are generally connected with the sewer system in majority of the areas.Most of the new buildings have come up without the provision of the rainwater harvesting (RWH) system by violating the norms. Besides, interlocking tiles were being installed on roadsides in the absence of a proper drainage system. Earlier, road berms, which were not metalled, used to absorb rainwater easily.The Mayor said he would order officials to prefer installation of grass paver interlocking tiles on roadsides. He said building branch officials would be directed to check the rainwater harvesting system in buildings too. Notably, sewer connections of a number of colonies outside the MC’s jurisdiction have been connected with the MC’s sewer system. In several areas of the city, sewers start overflowing soon.An official said: “Sewer connections of colonies outside the MC also put a load on the MC’s sewer system.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/complete-ban-on-plastic-carry-bags-in-ludhiana-city-from-aug-1-mayor-286594
22-07-2021||Ludhiana||FICO writes to Prime Minister over poor functioning of EPFO portal||The Federation of Industries and Commercial Organisation (FICO) has sent a memorandum to  Prime Minister Narendra Modi over poor functioning of the Employees' Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO). Gurmeet Singh Kular, president, FICO, along with Vipan Mittal, vice-chairman, FICO, in the memorandum have demanded from the Central Government to resolve the issue. They said a major technical issue on the website was being faced in the last days of the month. It appears when traffic was high during the last dates, automatically the website gets slow and starts troubling users. “The EPFO is not a small organisation, we don’t expect such issues on its website. It hampers the MSME sector the most. MSMEs are the most vulnerable, they had already been hit badly by Covid-19-induced lockdown across the country. The Income Tax Act has been amended, effective from April 1, 2021, which states that if the employee’s share has not been deposited within the said period, the deducted amount will be counted as the income of the company. Hence, this problem needs to be addressed soon,” Kular said.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/fico-writes-to-prime-minister-over-poor-functioning-of-epfo-portal-286595
22-07-2021||Sports Correspondent
||Appointment of Olympian Hardeep as vice-chief of Hockey Punjab hailed||Ludhiana, July 21 The sports fraternity here have welcomed the appointment of Olympian Hardeep Singh Grewal from Ludhiana, as vice-president of Hockey Punjab. Representatives and office-bearers of different sports associations and clubs, besides sports promoters and organisers, hailed the decision and hoped that hockey would achieve new heights under the stewardship of experienced players like Hardeep Singh. Hardeep was a member of the national hockey team as centre half from 1983 to 1990. He represented the country in the 1984 Olympics at Los Angeles. Besides, Hardeep played in the 1986 Asian Games and participated in two World Cups (1986, London, and 1990, Lahore). He also took part in three editions of the Champions Trophy (1983, 1985 and 1986) in addition to other prestigious tournaments. He was the main architect of India’s title victory in the 1986 Sultan Azlan Shah Hockey Cup, Malaysia. Hardeep was a member of the All Asian Stars hockey team and also played for a long time for Indian Airlines and Namdhari XI. Besides, he is also associated as an administrator with the Namdhari Hockey Academy and the Mata Sahib Kaur Hockey Academy of Jarkhar. Speaking to The Tribune, the Olympian said he owed his success to coach Balkrishan Grewal and Daronacharya awardee Baldev Singh. Satguru Thakur Udey Singh, head of Namdhari sect, along with senior hockey coach Baldev Singh, Teja Singh Dhaliwal, general secretary, Punjab Basketball Association, Amrik Singh Minhas, president, Ludhiana Sports Welfare Association, Jagroop Singh Jarkhar, chief organiser, Jarkhar Hockey Academy, Narinder Pal Singh Sidhu, chairman of Mata Sahib Kaur Sports Welfare Trust, coaches Harminder Pal Singh and Gursatinder Singh Pargat, Iqbal Singh Sandhu and Surinder Singh Bapa, organisers of the Surjit Hockey Academy, Jalandhar, congratulated Hardeep Singh on his appointment. “With experienced players such as Olympians Pargat Singh (as general secretary), Hardeep Singh Grewal (as vice-president) and Rajinder Singh Jr. (as chief coach) at the helm of hockey affairs in the state, the game was set to revive and regain its lost glory in the days to come,” Baldev Singh and Teja Dhaliwal said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/appointment-of-olympian-hardeep-as-vice-chief-of-hockey-punjab-hailed-286596
22-07-2021||Sports Correspondent
||T20 cricket: Ropar pip Ludhiana by 11 runs||Ludhiana, July 21 An all-round performance by Gurpreet Singh (87 runs and 2 for 22) and an equally useful contribution with the bat by Nitin Kamboj (54) helped Ropar beat Ludhiana by 11 runs in the third league match of group B in the ongoing Punjab State Inter-District Senior T20 Cricket Tournament, played at Government College ground, Ropar on Wednesday. Batting first in the rain-affected 15 overs a side match, hosts Ropar scored 172 runs for the loss of three wickets. Their innings revolved around Gurpreet Singh and Nitin Kamboj who made bulk of scoring (141 runs). Gurpreet faced 42 balls for his fiery innings of 87 runs during which he executed eight sixes and six boundaries while Nitin contributed 54 runs off 38 balls with the help of four hits over the ropes and two sixes. Mayank Gupta remained unbeaten on 11 runs. For Ludhiana, Baltej Singh was the lone wicket taker. He sent down three overs, captured two wickets after conceding 17 runs. The target set by Ropar appeared an uphill task as Ludhiana could muster 161 runs after losing five wickets. Vaibhav Kalra was the top scorer, chipping in with 74 runs off only 37 deliveries. His innings contained six sixes and five fours. Nehal Wadhera followed him with 32 runs whereas Gitansh Khera and Sunny Pandey scored 14 and 12 runs, respectively. For Ropar, Gurpreet was the most successful bowler who claimed two wickets for 22 runs. Inderpreet Singh secured one wicket for 12 runs and Jujhar Singh got one for 23 runs to enable their side to emerge victorious.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/t20-cricket-ropar-pip-ludhiana-by-11-runs-286597
22-07-2021||Ludhiana||To achieve big in NAS, Education Dept asks all to pull up socks||In a bid to excel in the National Achievement Survey (NAS), the Education Department has formulated a training schedule for block mentors and ‘Sikhya Sudhar’ teams of the state. The District Education Office, Ludhiana, conducted a one-day district-level training of block mentors under the patronage of District Education Officer (DEO) Lakhvir Singh Samra at Government Meritorious School. The training schedule was attended and addressed by Samra, Deputy DEO Charanjeet Singh and DM (Maths) Sanjiv Taneja. The latter made presentations for block mentors on all subjects. Tips were shared about NAS, which would be conducted in November. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/to-achieve-big-in-nas-education-dept-asks-all-to-pull-up-socks-286598
22-07-2021||---||Traffic disrupted as tree falls on Dugri road in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, July 21A fully grown tree fell on a road connecting Urban Vihar and Dugri today due to which traffic movement got affected for some time. Kapil Arora of the Council of Engineers said interlocking tiles installed around trees by the Municipal Corporation were choking their roots.He demanded that the orders of the NGT should be implemented to save trees in the city. An official of MC’s Horticulture wing, Kirpal Singh, said staff was sent to clear the way.He said the tree fell on the road after rain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/traffic-disrupted-as-tree-falls-on-dugri-road-in-ludhiana-286599
22-07-2021||Ahmedgarh/Raikot||Eid al-Adha celebrated||Eid al-Adha was celebrated with traditional fervour and gaiety by all sections of the Muslim community in the region. While preparations for the festival began many days ago, formal celebrations commenced with community Namaz held at various mosques in the area. Preachers and leaders of the community led the enthusiasts while praying for communal harmony and universal prosperity. Social and political activists, led by MP Dr Amar Singh Boparai, legislator Surjit Singh Dhiman, Kaamil Amar Singh, Teji Kamalpuri, Municipal Council president Vikas Tandon and Raikot MC Chief Sudarshan Joshi greeted people on the occasion. Appreciating the gesture of office-bearers and activists of various social and religious organisations on the occasion, leaders from the Muslim cimmunity, led by councillor Aman Afridi and former president Suraaj Mohammad, said Muslims of the area had vowed to work for strengthening social ties with all sections of society.—OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/eid-al-adha-celebrated-286601
22-07-2021||---||Bank of Baroda organises plantation drive||Ludhiana, July 21Bank of Baroda (BoB), regional office, organised a tree plantation programme on the occasion of its 114th foundation day. Vipin Kumar, regional head, Ludhiana, BOB, GADVASU Vice-Chancellor Dr Inderjeet Singh, Registrar Dr HS Banga and comptroller Dr Amarjeet Singh and AGM of the bank were among those present. The event was organised at the Fisheries Department, GADVASU. On the occasion Vipin laid emphasis on the importance of nurturing the environment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bank-of-baroda-organises-plantation-drive-286602
