23-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Man found murdered||Mandi Ahmedgarh, July 22The Delhon police have registered an FIR under Section 302 of the IPC against unknown persons after a resident of Nangal road was murdered on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday. The deceased has been identified as Baba Jang of Shimlapuri, Ludhiana.Investigations revealed that some unknown assailants had killed Jang Singh when he was sleeping alone at his house, situated on the outskirts of the village on Nangal road. The victim was last seen at his house at 8.30 pm on Wednesday.Though the police are yet to ascertain the sequence of events leading to the murder, preliminary investigations revealed that an old rivalry was the cause of the attack.Dehlon SHO Sukhdev Singh Brar said some unknown miscreants had hit the victim with some blunt weapon on head, which proved fatal. “Though we are yet to find a clue, it is suspected that an old rivalry was the reason behind the murder as the miscreants have not taken away valuable from the victim’s house,” Brar said.The murder came to light when a resident of the village visited the victim’s house around 8 am on Thursday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-found-murdered-287075
23-07-2021||Ludhiana||NGOs, Ludhiana Smart City Ltd meet on Eat Smart challenge||Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal, MC Commissioner-cum-CEO of Ludhiana Smart City Limited, conducted a meeting with NGOs and his officials on Thursday to discuss ‘Eat Smart Cities Challenge’.The ‘Eat Smart Cities Challenge’ aims to motivate Smart Cities to develop a plan that supports a healthy, safe and sustainable food environment supported by institutional, physical, social, and economic infrastructure, along with the application of ‘smart’ solutions to combat food-related issues.He said a team of tehbazari officials, health officials and NGOs had been formed to visit various areas and create awareness among residents about healthy eating habits. The street vendors would be encouraged to get registered, maintain hygiene and sell safe food items. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ngos-ludhiana-smart-city-ltd-meet-on-eat-smart-challenge-287074
23-07-2021||Ludhiana||PAU counselling on July 30||The PAU, Ludhiana, will conduct counselling and document verification of eligible candidates for master’s programme, on the basis of MET Agri 2021, on July 30 at 9.30 am at the PAL Auditorium, College of Agriculture. The candidates must bring all original certificates/ testimonials along with two photocopies for verification, as well as the requisite fee. For further details, the candidates can visit PAU website www.pau.edu. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pau-counselling-on-july-30-287072
23-07-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana girl brings laurels in International Astronomy and Astrophysics Competition||Ekjot Kaur, a student of Class XI at Sacred Heart Convent School, Sarabha Nagar, Ludhiana, has made the nation proud by winning silver honour in junior category (under 18 years) in International Astronomy and Astrophysics Competition (IAAC) 2021.The IAAC is regarded as one of the largest astronomy competitions in the world with 4,700 students competing from various nations, including the US, the UK, Russia, Canada, Germany, China, France, Italy, Spain, South Korea and New Zealand. The competition included three rounds— the qualification round, the pre-final round and the final round, testing participants in -depth knowledge of astronomy and astrophysics.Ekjot aims to pursue a career in astrophysics in the near future.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-girl-brings-laurels-in-international-astronomy-and-astrophysics-competition-287071
23-07-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Firing on realtor: SAD leaders meet CP; SIT formed||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 22A day after the registration of an FIR against former SAD councillor Tanvir Dhaliwal and others on the charges of firing at a realtor, senior leadership of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today met Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal and demanded an impartial inquiry into the case.The SAD leaders termed the allegations fake and motivated. Agrawal accepted the demand and formed a Special Investigation Team (SIT) under the leadership of Joint Commissioner of Police, Headquarters, J Elanchezhian. The team also comprises of ADCP Jaskiranjit Singh Teja and Sadar SHO Jagdev Singh and would conduct probe within one week and submit report.Dhaliwal also accompanied the SAD leaders to the CP’s office. “The allegations against me of chasing Prem Singh’s car and then firing at him are totally false. We did not chase Prem, so the question of raining bullets at him does not arise. We have full faith in the city police and the SIT will find out the truth,” Dhaliwal said.Senior SAD leader Maheshinder Grewal said the SIT should also question those at whose behest the police registered the case.“It could be possible that some senior police official or senior politician had forced the police to register the case without verifying facts. The CCTV footage only shows a Swift Dzire car and without identifying the occupants of the car, the Sadar police named Mintu Grewal, Ravi Sekhon, former SAD councillor Tanvir Dhaliwal, Amit Kumar and Simran Singh in the FIR. Let the probe report come, we will register a case against Prem Singh for filing a fake complaint,” Dhaliwal added.The incident took place on the night of July 19 and the complainant had submitted the CCTV footage to the police.Monday incidentComplainant Prem Singh told the police that on Monday around 11.40 pm, he was heading towards Omaxe flats on the Pakhowal road. He noticed a Swift car chasing him and suspecting something suspicious, he accelerated his car. Occupants of the Swift car then paralleled their car with his and accused Mintu Grewal fired at him but he had a miraculous escape.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/firing-on-realtor-sad-leaders-meet-cp-sit-formed-287069
23-07-2021||Harshraj Singh||Modern industrial park site not suitable, says MLA Pargat Singh||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 22Sharing his concern over the location of the proposed modern industrial park to be set up near Sutlej River and Mattewara Forest, Congress MLA from Jalandhar Cantt Pargat Singh today visited the site for the project. The MLA said he would take up the matter with the departments concerned and the government.Environmental activists and villagers have been opposing the location of the proposed modern industrial park to be set up by the Punjab Government for the past several months.The MLA said the eco-sensitive zone did not seem suitable for such an industrial project. “The forest cover is already low in Ludhiana. Forests are lungs of any city and should not be harmed. The project may also displace villagers,” the MLA stated. “The Sutlej river bank is adjacent to the proposed industrial park site. Moreover, the forest area is near the site. We know what happed to Buddha Nullah due to industry. If industrial waste is directly released in Sutlej, it will create serious issues. I fail to understand how the ecological balance can be maintained if an industrial park is set up at the eco-sensitive site,” the MLA said. “I will hold talks with experts and departments concerned regarding the proposed industrial park. Either they have to convince us or we have to convenience them. If the project is not suitable, it should not be set up here,” the MLA added. “Earlier, 500-acre cycle valley was announced, but I have seen only one factory come up there. The land in this valley can be used to set up industry,” the MLA said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/modern-industrial-park-site-not-suitable-says-mla-pargat-singh-287068
23-07-2021||---||Poll on mind, Cong councillors hold meeting||Ludhiana, July 22Political activity is abuzz these days, keeping in view the forthcoming Vidhan Sabha elections. A meeting of Congress councillors and ward presidents from Ludhiana (south) constituency was held in this regard today.During the meeting, it was decided to further intensify the preparations and chalk out a plan of action for the elections. Parminder Singh Matharoo, a former councillor, said party workers had already started working to make sure that the seat is won by a candidate of their party.“Party workers have been assigned duties to work towards the goal,” he said.The councillors and ward presidents made an appeal to the Congress high command that the candidates for the forthcoming elections should not be outsiders. Local leaders have more interaction and contact with people and this would help them win, Matharoo added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/poll-on-mind-cong-councillors-hold-meeting-287066
23-07-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Industry flays ban on plastic bags, says being targetted||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 22The Mayor of Ludhiana has announced to ban plastic carry bags from August 1. This has caused a lot of worry and confusion among the industrialists making such bags. They said instead of putting the entire blame on the industry, the Municipal Corporation should get the sewer lines cleared and find ways to resolve the problem of drain blockage as in many other western countries, neither there is any ban on plastic bags nor their sewerages remained choked.Moreover, the plastic bag manufacturers said the state government was trying to hit this industry only whereas wrappers of biscuits, chips and other such products were more harmful. But the government did not have guts to stop them because these were multinational companies and taking a strict action against them was not viable.Pawanpreet Singh, president of Association of Punjab Technical Textile, said banning plastic bags was no solution. The state government would lose its revenue because people would continue to get these bags from other states, like Gujarat, the largest manufacturer of plastic bags.‘Recycle waste, teach segregation’ Waste disposal is the main issue and the MC has failed to tackle it till date. The MC should pull up its socks, get the plastic bags recycled properly and generate awareness among the masses about segregation of plastic, etc. They cannot shut the entire industry — Pawanpreet Singh, president, Association of Punjab Technical Textile“They have again started targeting us because they have failed to provide clean sewerages to public. The pipes remain choked but they put the entire blame on the plastic industry. Waste disposal is the main issue and the MC has failed to tackle it till date. In fact, paper bags are more harmful as these are made by cutting trees. The MC should pull up its own socks, get the plastic bags recycled properly and generate awareness among the masses about segregation of plastic etc. They cannot shut the entire industry,” Singh rued.Another manufacturer, Sunil Shila Jain, said they had invested crores of rupees in setting up these units. “Ban means shutting our units. If they want to crack the whip, they should punish the manufacturers of wrappers of biscuits, chips etc, which are more harmful. But since it is not possible to punish them, they have started targeting plastic manufacturing units, which are limited in number,” Jain said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/industry-flays-ban-on-plastic-bags-says-being-targetted-287064
23-07-2021||Manav Mander||Docs continue strike against 6th pay panel, patients suffer||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 22Doctors continue with their strike against the Sixth Pay Commission today and all the services, including OPDs, were completely suspended by them. Only emergency services were provided by the doctors.Patients on the other hand are having a difficult time as it was the third day in a row that no OPD service was provided by the doctors. This month medical services were disrupted as the doctors remained on strike on maximum days. For a few days parallel OPDs were held but now the doctors have stopped that as well after the government did not accept their demands.Dr Rohit Rampal from the Punjab Civil Medical Services Association said they are left with no other option but to go on a strike.“The government is not listening to our genuine demands. Despite working 24X7 during the peak Covid season, the government has made reductions in our salaries. Doctors should have been given bonus but the reality is entirely different,” said Dr Rampal.He said that doctors worked relentlessly during Covid but this is what government has gifted them. “We were expecting some bonus in lieu of our selfless services but the government instead has decided to deduct our salaries,” he said.Dr Deepinder Bhasin, state president of the Rural Medical Officers Association, Punjab, condemned the insensitive attitude of the Punjab Government and said around 5,000 doctors will peacefully march from Civil hospital, Mohali, to the CM residence on Friday and in future more steps will be taken to get NPA rollback.Doctors are protesting against the recommendation of the Sixth Pay Commission to reduce non-practicing allowance (NPA) of veterinarians, medicos and allied professionals from 25 to 20 per cent along with delinking it from the basic pay structure.Meanwhile, patients were seen waiting outside the OPDs for the doctors and after waiting for couple of hours they were seen returning.“I am asking the doctor that when should I come to see him but he is not giving any concrete answer. They are on strike but for how many days?” questioned Sushma, a resident of Aman Nagar.Another patient, who came to the hospital at 8 am with the hope of seeing the doctor early and returning home on time, said she waited till 12 pm but got disappointed.“There is nobody to listen to the poor,” added Ram Dayal, a patient who was having fever.Stagnant water emanates foul smellStagnant water all around was a common site at Civil Hospital today. Foul smell was emanating out of it. Due to monsoon season, the water has collected at several places and it was impossible to walk inside the campus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/docs-continue-strike-against-6th-pay-panel-patients-suffer-287062
23-07-2021||Ludhiana||Four smugglers held with 250 liquor cases||The CIA wing of the Ludhiana rural police have nabbed four liquor smugglers and recovered 250 cases of illegal liquor from them. Those arrested have been identified as Balraj Singh, alias Raj, a resident of Rajpura, Sukhdev Singh, a resident of Kauli village in Patiala, Sandeep Singh, a resident of Mangewal in Patiala and Harpreet Singh Laddi.The investigation officer (IO), Sub Inspector Gursewak Singh, said secret information was received about four persons into the notorious trade of illegal liquor smuggling. They used to bring illegal liquor from other states, the IO added. Accordingly, a police party laid a naka near the Chachradi drain bridge, Jagraon, where a truck same was stopped for checking, the IO said. During search of the truck 250 cases of illegal liquor were recovered, the IO added. A case was registered against smugglers under the Excise Act and further probe launched to nab the main supplier, the IO said.Two Koom Kalan residents held with 170 liquor casesDuring a special drive the police have arrested two smugglers and recovered 170 illegal liquor cases from their possession. The liquor smugglers have been identified as Jagga Singh and Gulab Singh, both residents of Haider Nagar, Koom Kalan.The ADCP, Rupinder Kaur Sran, said police party of the Jamalpur police station laid a naka on the Chandigarh road where car-borne smugglers were signalled to stop for checking. Instead of stopping their vehicle, smugglers tried to flee, but the police party chased them and managed to bring them to halt, the ADCP added.During search of the car 170 boxes of illegal liquor were recovered, the ADCP said. Both smugglers had notorious background, the ADCP added. Jagga was already facing six cases of liquor smuggling, the ADCP said. Gulab was facing one case of liquor smuggling and two other crime cases, the ADCP added. Police remand of smugglers would be sought from the court to bust illegal liquor supply line, the ADCP said.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/four-smugglers-held-with-250-liquor-cases-287060
23-07-2021||Ludhiana||Man arrested with 1,000 banned tablets||The Jagraon Sadar police have nabbed a smuggler and recovered 10,000 intoxicating tablets from him. The suspect has been identified as Gaurav, a resident of Moti Bagh in Jagraon.The investigation officer (IO), Sub Inspector Jugraj Singh, said a tip-off was received about the suspect, who was into the illegal trade of smuggling heroin and banned medicines. Today, he was on way to deliver heroine and banned medicines to his clients, the IO added.Accordingly, a police party laid naka at a strategic place where the suspect was stopped and arrested, the IO said. During search of his belongings the police recovered 1,000 intoxicating tablets, 3 gm of heroin, Rs10,000 drug money and a digital weighing machine, the IO added. The suspect was supplying banned medicines and drugs to village youth, the IO said. The suspect would be produced in the court to seek his police remand.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-arrested-with-1-000-banned-tablets-287058
23-07-2021||---||Nod to technical bids of various projects||Ludhiana, July 22In a meeting of the city-level technical committee of Ludhiana Smart City Limited (LSCL) held today, Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal, CEO of LSCL, reviewed the technical bids of upcoming projects. A discussion was also held regarding the ongoing projects.Ludhiana Smart City Limited has started installing sanitary napkin vending machines at different locations, including markets and other public places, in the city. A total of 60 such machines are to be installed under the Smart City mission. As many as 15 machines have been installed already, as per the officials.Meanwhile, Sabharwal said technical bids for the selection of contractors for the development of basketball courts at Guru Nanak Stadium, badminton courts at Shastri Hall and table tennis complex at Rakh Bagh were approved. Bids for retrofitting of leisure valley near Zone D office, upgrade and beautification of parks in EWS colony and dairy complex on Tajpur Road and others were also approved.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/nod-to-technical-bids-of-various-projects-287056
23-07-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Call centre scam: UK-based NRI managed accounts to receive crime proceeds||Tribune News TribuneLudhiana, July 22Digging roots of the fake call centre scam in which nationals of the UK, the USA and Canada were duped, the crime branch of the Ludhiana police managed to identify the UK-based NRI, Ashish, a native of Gujarat. He is the one, who was managing bank accounts in the UK, in which crime money was deposited.A senior police official requesting annonymity told The Tribune, “This is the first connection of the UK, who has been identified in the call centre scam.”Development came after the police nabbed Naman Sukhadiya of Gujarat, who was in touch with Ashish, to transfer funds from the UK to India.“This person has opened bank accounts in the UK. Money deposited by nationals of the UK was being transferred in these accounts. Suspects sent this money to India via Hawala routes and direct transfer to Indian bank accounts,” revealed a senior police official.As per sources, 60 banks accounts, which were opened on names of NRIs, UK nationals and other identities, had been identified by the police. Now, the financial investigation unit (FIU) wing of the Punjab Police would communicate with the UK government via the Indian Government channel to freeze these accounts and inquire the volume of transactions in them, the sources added.The police said it could be possible that fake identities were used to open these accounts in the UK.Now, the police are trying to identify the USA and Canada-based persons, who were also managing crime money.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/call-centre-scam-uk-based-nri-managed-accounts-to-receive-crime-proceeds-287053
23-07-2021||---||Truck gets stuck in 15-ft pit as Ludhiana's Ishmeet Singh road caves in||Ludhiana, July 22As a big portion of the Ishmeet Singh road caved in near the cremation ground of Model Town Extension, a truck met with a mishap on Thursday. The rear tyres of the truck loaded with soil got stuck in the pit, as per the information. The truck driver is safe, MC officials said.After the truck was pulled out, the pit was seemingly about 15 feet wide and 15 feet deep. The MC’s old sewer line is passing beneath the road where the incident took place. Some underground wires, said to be of a telecom company, were visible in the pit too.After the incident, Leader of Opposition in the MC House Harbhajan Singh Dang said the rear portion of the truck had got stuck in the pit. If it would have been a car, it could have fallen inside the pit, he said.Dang raised questions over the role of the officials concerned. He demanded an inquiry into the matter. He also questioned whether the underground wires were installed with permission or not. “If permission was taken, how much fee was submitted to the civic body. If wires were installed illegally, necessary action should be taken in this matter,” he said.Superintending Engineer, Municipal Corporation, Ravinder Garg said, “It seems the telecom wires had punctured the sewerage system due to which the incident took place. The truck was later pulled out and the driver was safe.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/truck-gets-stuck-in-15-ft-pit-as-ludhianas-ishmeet-singh-road-caves-in-287048
23-07-2021||Nitin Jain||Delta Covid variant spreading fast as Alpha touches record low||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 22The Delta Covid variant of concern (VoC) has been spreading fast and continues to be the most dominant VoC in Punjab as the UK’s Alpha variant has touched a record low after dominating the state till March, the government has confirmed.Over 90 per cent of the total Covid samples processed for whole genome sequencing (WGS) in June have tested positive for the Indian VoC (B.1.617), which has been christened Delta, the official figures have revealed.However, no fresh case of highly contagious and dreaded new Covid variant Delta Plus (B.1.617.2), which is a mutated form of Delta and is gradually spreading fast to several other countries, claiming many lives, after being first found in India, has been reported in the state. Till now, only two Delta Plus cases, one each in Ludhiana and Patiala districts, were recorded last month.The data analysed by the Health and Family Welfare Department, which is available with The Tribune, showed that a total of 2,648 Covid samples were sent for WGS from January to July, of which 2,160 have been processed so far, accounting for 81.6 per cent. Of the total processed samples, 1,958 have tested positive for VoCs, which accounted for 90.6 per cent.The month-wise break-up of the VoCs suggested that 101 samples were processed in June, of which 93, which accounted for 92.1 per cent, tested positive for VoCs. Of these, 84 samples, accounting for 90.3 per cent, have tested positive for Delta, followed by four for B.1 (4.3 per cent), two for A (2.1 per cent) and only one sample each tested positive for Alpha, B.1.1., and B.1.575 (1.1 per cent each).In May, 591 of the total 623 samples, which accounted for 94.9 per cent, tested positive for VoCs. Of these, 521 cases, accounting for 88.2 per cent, were of Delta, followed by 41 cases for Beta (6.9 per cent), 23 cases of Alpha (3.9 per cent), two cases of AY.1 variant (0.3 per cent) and 1 case each of B.1.1.161, B.1.530, B.1.575 and B.1.216 (0.2 per cent each).In April, 439 of 469 WGS samples had tested positive for VoCs, which accounted for 93.6 per cent. Of these, 207 cases, accounting for 47.1 per cent, tested positive for Delta, 175 cases (40 per cent) for Alpha, 49 cases (11.2 per cent) for B.1, two cases (0.5 per cent) for other mutations and one case each (0.2 per cent) for B.1.1.135 and B.1.1.In March, 717 of 748, which accounted for 95.9 per cent, samples tested positive for VoCs. Of these, 680 cases, accounting for 94.8 per cent, had tested positive for Alpha, four cases (0.5 per cent) for Delta, two cases (0.3 per cent) for Beta, one case each (0.1 per cent) for B.1, B.1.36, and B.1.525 and 27 cases (3.8 per cent) were of other mutations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/delta-covid-variant-spreading-fast-as-alpha-touches-record-low-287044
23-07-2021||---||4 test positive for Covid in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, July 22Four people tested positive for Covid in Ludhiana today while no death was reported. There are 84 active cases in the district and recovery rate has reached at 97.50 percent.A total of five patients (four from district Ludhiana and one from other state/district) have tested positive in the past 24 hours. A total of 19,24,999 samples have been taken and all reports have been received. Of these, 18,26,153 samples were found negative. From the total cases, 87,253 patients belonged to Ludhiana while 11,593 were from other districts/states. Of the total 2,093 persons who lost their lives, 1,044 were from other districts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/4-test-positive-for-covid-in-ludhiana-district-287040
23-07-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana MC acts against 3 illegal colonies, 16 unauthorised constructions||The Municipal Corporation on Thursday took action against three illegal colonies and 16 illegal constructions in different parts of the city.Commissioner, MC, Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal had ordered the officials to take action against the illegal colonies and constructions. Joint Commissioner, MC, Kulpreet Singh said action against the violations was taken in all four zones today. In Zone A, a shop on Rahon Road was demolished as it was being constructed without map approval. Besides, two industrial buildings at Gehlewal and two such buildings at Guru Vihar Hosiery Colony were demolished as these were constructed against the norms, he said.In Zone C, action was taken against illegal colonies, including Avtar Colony and Ganpati Colony parts 1 & 2. Besides, three illegal buildings located on the back of Mann Dharam Kanda and two near Malhi Chowk were demolished, he said.In Zone D, Kulpreet Singh said they demolished four illegal shops being constructed in the residential area of E Block, BRS Nagar, a shop being constructed against standard design near Orient Cinema and an illegal commercial building near Kailash Chowk.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-mc-acts-against-3-illegal-colonies-16-unauthorised-constructions-287019
23-07-2021||---||Environmental compensation: Defaulting industrial units to pay Rs 2.46 cr||Ludhiana, July 22The Punjab Pollution Control Board imposed environmental compensation of Rs2.46 crore on units violating norms. Anurag Verma, Principal Secretary, Department of Science, Technology and Environment, in a press statement issued here today informed that the board was receiving complaints regarding illegal disposal of effluent by the electroplating and acid pickling units. Therefore, the board carried out surprise inspections through its officers.In this process, the working of the Common Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP) for electroplating units as well as re-processors of spent acid, which are lifting effluent/spent acid to treat on their premises, was also looked into.An environmental compensation of Rs2.46 crore was imposed on the two re-processor units involved in the reprocessing of spent acid as well as Common Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP) for electroplating units operating in Ludhiana.Verma informed that Rajchem Global Technologies Pvt Ltd, Dheri village, was established for processing of spent HCl generated by electroplating/acid pickling units. During inspection a number of irregularities, were found in the unit, including operation of the unit without statuary clearances. Therefore an environmental compensation of Rs1,14,62,500 was imposed on the unit by the PPCB, he said.“The second reprocessing unit located at Kohara was operating under the name of JBR Technologies Pvt Ltd and engaged in the processing of spent sulphuric acid generated by the acid pickling units. This unit was found lifting spent HCl along with spent sulphuric acid although this facility was granted permission for processing of spent sulphuric acid only. Therefore an environmental compensation of Rs26.25 lakh was imposed on the unit by the PPCB,” he said.Similarly, activities of the Common Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP) for electroplating units operated by JBR Technologies Pvt Ltd at Focal Point, Ludhiana, were got audited by a team comprising of officers of the board as well as an expert as a third party auditor. He said the CETP was found violating the provisions of the Water Act, 1974, and Hazardous and Other Wastes Rules, 2016, on a number of counts. Therefore an environmental compensation of Rs1,05,15,500 was imposed on the CETP by the PPCB.Anurag Verma exhorted all the industries to comply with the pollution control laws so that people can live in a clean and pollution-free environment. He said if any officer is found to be unnecessarily harassing industry, strict action will be taken against him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/environmental-compensation-defaulting-industrial-units-to-pay-rs-2-46-cr-287002
