26-07-2021||Decision can prove disastrous as kids below 18 yrs of age not vaccinated | Schools can turn ‘super spreaders’||Virus threat still looming, can’t throw caution to the wind||Though Covid-19 cases have started witnessing a decline in India, the Punjab Government should be in no hurry to re-open educational institutions, especially schools, as the move is fraught with several implications for students, parents and the society. Going by the experience of the past year-and-a-half, the impact of the third wave could be disastrous. Hence, it is much better to wait for a while to see how the pandemic pans out before taking a decision on reopening schools and colleges. Until the vaccination process is complete, we should not take any such risk with our children, even though the new normal of online learning can never replicate the real school interactions.Akash KumarOPEN HOUSE QUESTIONThe onset of monsoon has again exposed the non-preparedness of the Municipal Corporation as several areas were inundated and overflowing sewers remained a common sight, causing great hardships to residents. Even the work to lay stormwater pipelines in various parts of the city is not yet complete. Should the civic authorities be held to task for their negligence and indifferent attitude towards public issues? Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to ludhiana.feedback@gmail.comToo risky for kidsWarning and advisories are being issued by the government and medical council regarding the spread of a third wave of coronavirus. Ignoring these warnings, state governments are re-opening schools and colleges along with other establishments. It is very risky to send kids to schools without vaccination. Students below 18 must be vaccinated before being allowed to attend schools or colleges. The government should permit not more than 10 students in a class, while ensuring that all norms are taken care of. Till then, teaching must be continued online. Academic institutions should allow entry only to those students who are fully vaccinated with two doses. State governments must focus on creating infrastructure for the third wave. So, they must refrain from opening school and colleges.Dr Mohd Saleem FarooquiOpen schools in phasesI am of the firm belief that we have to learn to live with this disease. For how long can we keep educational institutions closed? Already, there is a lot of academic loss, especially of Class X and XII students. We can’t wait for any longer. I am not saying that the schools should be opened fully, but these can be opened in phases. Proper precautions, like physical distancing, sanitizing the classrooms regularly, making mask a compulsory part of school uniform etc should be followed so as to check the spread of the virus. Children are our future, we can’t take any risk with their lives, but at the same time, we can’t even keep them at homes due to the fear of the pandemic.Bir Devinder Singh BediUnderprivileged sufferAs schools were shut, children from affluent families transitioned to online schooling almost seamlessly but the underprivileged kids were affected in a completely different manner. So, it is difficult to continue with online classes with a huge digital gap among students. As online classes drag on, fatigued students are losing interest and becoming asocial. Students want to go back to school for morning prayers, playground time, face-to-face interactions etc. Children have largely been spared the effects of Covid- 19. They can return to physical classes even without immunisation, with adequate safety protocols like masking, social distancing and ventilation. The entire staff must be duly inoculated prior to the opening of the institution. It is also important to vaccinate the children as and when one is approved.RS SEMBHIEnsure vaccination of kidsThe government must rethink opening academic institutions, especially schools. Universities and colleges may be allowed on the condition that only vaccinated students would be permitted to attend. The government must start a drive to vaccinate students under the age of 18 years. Schools should continue with online teaching till each and every student is jabbed. It is expected that the third wave would hit in September. The government must wait and watch instead of taking a hasty and irrational decision without any preparation for the third wave. The third wave might affect children below 18 years of age more. The decision to open schools may be risky in these circumstances.Farzana KhanOnline study safer optionRecently, we came to know that the government had allowed schools to re-open, while on the other hand people are afraid of the third wave approaching. Also, school students are under 18 and not vaccinated yet. So, at present, schools should prefer online study for the safety of students as well as teachers. The government should wait for the third wave to recede before considering opening schools.Harshita KhullarCan prove disastrousIt is not advisable to re-open educational institution, especially schools, when children below 18 years remain non-vaccinated. The fear of the third Covid wave is looming large. Opening of schools and colleges can prove disastrous as infection could spread faster among students. It is much better to wait for a while to see how the pandemic pans out before taking a decision on re-opening educational institutions. If residents don’t follow restrictions religiously, then the third wave might be more dangerous than the second one. Till the situation becomes better, lockdown should not be lifted.Adish SoodVaccinate on war footingAccording to the WHO, the world is already in the grip of the third wave of Covid and children are more prone to its attack. All schools were closed during the second wave to protect children from the infection. It has been so long that the schools are closed and the children’s studies are suffering. But they are yet to get vaccinated. To ensure that children are safe and their studies do not suffer any more, their vaccination should be taken up on war footing and only thereafter should the schools be opened. We should let the schools remain closed for some more time. The safety of children is of prime importance to the nation.Gautam DevRemain vigilantOpening of schools now is not safe. We have already lost much due to Covid — our children remained in houses, studies have been badly affected, they could not play with their friends and they even lost touch with their teachers. But the measures were taken for the safety of their lives. The movement of mass vaccination of the age group 18-45 years has paid many dividends. Now, with the third wave approaching, the non-observance of guidelines can destroy the benefits. Not opening schools for one or two years in such sordid scenario would not matter much. We must save our children from the pandemic.JBS NandaGet all jabbed firstEducational institutions, whether schools or colleges, must be opened after ensuring Covid vaccination of all. The authorities must obtain proof of vaccination from each and every student before allowing entry. We know that the third wave is on its way and in some regions, it has already arrived. The government must ensure vaccination for each and every child in the country, only then a decision regarding opening schools should be taken. Also, necessary arrangements must be ensured before opening educational institutions.Ritu PriyaMental health affectedThe peak of the third wave is expected somewhere in winters and the studies of the children have already suffered a lot. The loss is almost irreparable. Above all, the situation has taken a toll on the children’s psychological health. So, schools should be re-opened at the earliest but with full precautions. Parents and teachers should strive to imbibe Covid-appropriate behaviour in the children.Dr Sunil ChopraWait before decidingOn the one hand, experts say that the upcoming third wave of Covid would be more harmful for children while on the other hand governments are re-opening schools. Until or unless it is declared that Covid has vanished completely, schools must not be re-opened. Also, kids and youth below 18 years of age have not even been vaccinated. We all need to stay home and help the nation cope up with the circumstances. We should keep in mind that though situation is getting back to normal, we still need to wear mask and sanitize regularly. We should avoid going to public places until it is absolutely necessary.Simarjot KaurOpen schools on rotationLearning from our past mistakes, we cannot afford to neglect the threat of the third wave of Covid. Now, amid reports that the third wave is going to hit very soon and will largely target children, our state government has decided to re-open schools and colleges. But we should also consider the fact that after the third wave, things are not going to be normal as it was before Covid. Hence, we need to cope up with the current challenges. Education is important and we cannot underestimate its significance. Therefore, it is not a bad idea to re-open schools with proper guidelines and precautions. Schools can be re-opened in rotational manner, like odd-even concept, to avoid mass presence of students.Rishika KritiMust exercise cautionThe decision to re-open schools is risky. Students below 18 years of age are not yet vaccinated against Covid-19. So, they need to follow all precautions, like wearing double mask and sanitising hands regularly. But even a little carelessness could be disastrous. So, it totally depends on students to study responsibly and stay safe or suffer from circumstances of the pandemic.NAVJOT SINGHCan be ‘super spreaders’The offline mode of study enables direct interaction between the teachers and students. Teachers can pay equal attention to every student in the class. But in such unprecedented times that we are witnessing, offline teaching is the only option. Also, the decision to open school seems a little rushed and negligent. Gatherings like that could act as ‘super spreaders’, especially as youth and children under 18 year of age have not been vaccinated yet. The government must strictly follow precautions towards kids as they are the future of the nation.Yashika ThakurOpen colleges firstSchools must remain closed as children are prone to get infected because they are not vaccinated. Only higher educational institutions should be opened and only the vaccinated students should be allowed to attend the same to prevent the spread of Covid.Amarpreet KaurNot a wise decisionSince experts are warning of the third wave of Covid, it is not at all advisable to re-open educational institutions, especially schools, as these can become hotspots for Covid-19 cases. When the first wave was almost over, schools were re-opened for senior classes in many states and that was one of the reasons for the second wave. Till every student and teacher gets inoculated, educational institutions should remain shut. But the government can improve the quality of online education to tap the interest of students. Instead of being dull and mundane, these should be made more interactive.Ekamjot SinghOpen with 50 pc strengthAs we all know, students have been trapped in their houses since March 2020. Online education cannot be a substitute for physical classrooms. Now, when the cases are at a low, the decision of reopening of school has been welcomed by all. This will prove to be a blessing in disguise as students will become more responsible and vigilant. The school authorities ought to follow all precautionary measures. Schools should be opened with 50 per cent strength. Students are expected to understand the gravity of the situation and behave accordingly. Nobody should be compelled to be present physically. There should be an option for online classes as well.Sangeeta Jain||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/virus-threat-still-looming-cant-throw-caution-to-the-wind-288465
26-07-2021||---||3 fresh cases in Ludhiana, no death||Ludhiana, July 25 Three persons tested positive for Covid while no death was reported in the district today. The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 97.53 per cent. Now, there are only 59 active patients in the district. Today, a total of eight patients (three new patients from Ludhiana district and five from other states/districts) have tested positive in the past 24 hours. The total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 87,265, while 11,600 patients belong to other districts/states. The total number of persons who lost their lives include 2,093 persons from Ludhiana and 1,045 from other districts. Till date, a total of 19,51,663 samples have been taken, of which reports of 19,51,663 have been received. Of these, 18,52,798 samples were found negative. Whenever the district administration ore the Health Department, Ludhiana, finds out any positive or suspected Covid patient, the sample was sent for testing. AS any as 8,510 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly. Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to residents to adhere to all Covid safety protocols.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/3-fresh-cases-in-ludhiana-no-death-288439
26-07-2021||Manav Mander||Three cholera cases put Ludhiana Health Department on toes||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 25Now, that Covid-19 cases have started showing a downward trend, three cholera cases from three areas has put the Health Department on its toes.The positive cases include two infants. Teams of the Health Department are visiting the three areas, doing a house-to-house survey, creating awareness and distributing ORS packets. The health officials have confirmed the three cases today.What is choleraCholera is an infectious disease that causes severe diarrhoea. It can lead to dehydration. It is caused by eating contaminated food or drinking water.From Shivaji Nagar, a two-year-old child has been confirmed as a cholera case.The source of drinking water in the area is a MC tap. The patient has consumed food from outside a day before symptoms showed up. Five water samples and three stool samples have been collected from the area today. The child, who was admitted to the DMCH, was discharged this evening. In Adarsh Colony, a 21-year-old youth was found suffering from cholera. He resides in a migrants’ vehra where eight families stay. Five water samples and two stool samples were collected from the area on Sunday.One case was reported from Ambedkar Nagar, where a one-year-old child was found infected with the disease. “The department is taking every necessary precautionary step. The hanging drop test of these three patients has come positive while the culture report is pending. No suspected patient was found in these areas. All three areas are located far off and are individual cases so the possibility of outbreak is less but still health teams are visiting these areas and creating awareness among people regarding water-borne diseases. Pamphlets, chlorine tablets and ORS packets are also being distributed in these areas,” said Civil Surgeon Kiran Gill.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/three-cholera-cases-put-ludhiana-health-department-on-toes-288440
26-07-2021||Ludhiana||3 youth die as car falls into Ludhiana canal||A Swift car fell into the Sidhwan canal near the Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) in Ludhiana on Sunday evening. All four occupants of the car were fished out by the passers-by and were rushed to the hospital but three of them succumbed later.The deceased have been identified as Pahul (18) and Prabhjot (19) of Gurdaspur and Trisha (18) of Delhi. Trisha was a student of a medical college in the city. Survivor Rahul also belongs to Gurdaspur. The youngsters were friends and had come to the city to meet each other. After visiting the mall and some prominent markets, they were heading towards Trisha’s accommodation to drop her. When they reached near GADVASU, another car came on the road and Rahul, who was driving, lost control and the car fell into the canal.Rahul said the boys had started from Gurdaspur around 11 am this morning and they were heading back at 4.30 pm when they met with the tragedy. The police have informed the families of the deceased. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/3-youth-die-as-car-falls-into-ludhiana-canal-288441
26-07-2021||---||Six arrested for looting devotees at Ludhiana Gurdwara||Ludhiana, July 25The Ludhiana (rural) police claimed to have busted a gang of robbers and arrested six of its members, including women. The gang had looted some devotees of Gurdwara Nanaksar near Jagraon.They have been identified as Rajini, Lakshmi, Nisha, Madhu, Surendra Singh and Binalo, all residents of Bathinda.The police recovered five mobile phones, three gold chains, a gold ring, some silver ornaments, Rs 14,785 and a scissor from them.ASI Harpreet Singh said a tip-off was received that the gang had looted some devotees at Nanaksar gurdwara and they were on their way to Jagraon city in their Ertiga car.Accordingly, a police party laid a naka where they intercepted the car and arrested the accused.The police said recovery of more looted valuables was likely in further investigation. The police said the gang had been active in the area from long and the members mainly used to target religious places where people visit in large numbers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/six-arrested-for-looting-devotees-at-ludhiana-gurdwara-288442
26-07-2021||Ludhiana||Punjab govt flayed over law and order situation||State BJP president Ashwani Sharma said today that the Narendra Modi-led Central Government was committed for the welfare of farmers. He blamed the Congress government in the state for not taking the sacrilege issue to any desirable conclusion. He described the law and order situation in the state as bad.   Sharma chaired a meeting of the BJP working committee in the city today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/punjab-govt-flayed-over-law-and-order-situation-288443
26-07-2021||---||Ludhiana's book market parking lot wall collapses, several vehicles damaged||Ludhiana, July 25Several vehicles were damaged after a wall at the parking lot of the Books Market collapsed on Sunday. This paid parking lot belongs to the Zila Parishad.The damaged vehicles belonged to shopkeepers and include two Maruti Brezza cars, two Honda cars, a Duster, a Venue and some others.After the incident, Kotwali police officials reached the spot to conduct investigation and record the statement of the car owners.Sahil Rana, who runs a mobile accessories shop, said he had recently bought a new Mahindra Thar and had been parking his vehicle at the Books Market paid parking. This afternoon he got a call from a friend informing him about the wall collapse. “I immediately reached the spot and found big boulders lying on my car. The front part of my vehicle was badly damaged and the loss could run into lakhs,” he rued.Sahil said he was paying Rs 100 daily for the parking and the Zila Parishad should compensate the loss. In fact, it was the responsibility of the Zila Parishad to keep the surrounding walls of the open parking lot in good state, he added.Another car owner, Sumit Sharma, said the walls were in bad state and the department was asked to repair the same but no one paid heed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhianas-book-market-parking-lot-wall-collapses-several-vehicles-damaged-288445
26-07-2021||Anil Datt 
||Moga enter semis of inter-dist cricket c’ship||Ludhiana, July 25 Thanks to a fine all-round performance by Sohraab Kamal (82 not out and 2 for 22), Moga beat hosts Ludhiana comprehensively by six wickets to top the points table in group B and secured a semi-final berth in the fourth and last league match of group B in the ongoing Punjab State Inter-District Senior T20 Cricket Tournament. It was played at GRD Global Education Institute ground on Hambran Road here on Sunday. Moga district wrapped up all their four league matches (against Mohali, Ropar, Fatehgarh Sahib and Ludhiana) whereas Ludhiana with some established names in its ranks, won only two matches (against Fatehgarh Sahib and Mohali) and made an exit from the competition. Batting first, Ludhiana were off to a solid start with the opening pair of Nehal Wadhera, an international player, and Sunny Pandey posting 40 runs on the board. Nehal scored 25 runs and Sunny contributed 23 runs to hosts total of 155 runs for the loss of eight wickets. Ludhiana skipper, Punjab Ranji player, Gitansh Khera, however, played an invaluable innings of 75 runs and remained unbeaten. He faced just 46 balls, hit nine fours and three sixes. Vaibhav Kalra chipped in with 15 runs off 12 balls. For the visitors, Sohraab Kamal, Gurtej Singh Brar and Talwinder Brar shared bowling spoils, securing two wickets each. Sohraab claimed two for 22, Gurtej grabbed two for 30 and Talwinder captured two for 40. Moga began its reply on a dismal note, losing first wicket with only three runs on the board when Kohinoor Singh Sidhu departed without scoring a run. But, Sohraab was in his true elements. He cracked 82 runs without losing his wicket. His essay was scripted in 45 deliveries, studded with nine boundaries and three sixes. Other notable contributors were Manpreet Singh, Gurjinder Singh and Harpreet Singh, who made 19, 21 and 13 runs, respectively to enable their side achieve the target (156 for 4) in 17.2 overs. For Ludhiana, Harshit Takkar got two wickets for 39 runs and Baltej Singh secured one for 24 while Gurmehar Singh accounted for one wicket for 26 runs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/moga-enter-semis-of-inter-dist-cricket-cship-288446
26-07-2021||Ludhiana||Hockey: Jarkhar Academy, Kila Raipur log wins||Jarkhar Hockey Academy along with Kila Raipur and Gill Sports Club of Dhamot registered victories in the third round matches in the Seven-a-Side Nara Gurmit Kaur and Gurinder Pal Singh Waraich Memorial Jarkhar Hockey League being organised at Jarkhar village, about 15 km from here, on Sunday. In the junior section, Jarkhar Hockey Academy overpowered Amargarh School 7-5 in which Sukhmanjot Singh struck thrice whereas Manavjit Singh, Gurjot Singh Jarkhar and Prabhjot Singh pumped in apiece to complete the tally while for the losing side, Harman and Navjot Singh scored two goals each and Komalpreet Singh found the target once. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/hockey-jarkhar-academy-kila-raipur-log-wins-288447
26-07-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Sitting in two different cities, Punjab girls pen murder mystery||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 25All of 14 years, two girls – Baruni Arora of Jalandhar and Pratibha Sharma of Ludhiana – have jointly penned a novel, which is a murder mystery. The most interesting part is that two of them have never met each other in the past nine months ever since they conceived the idea of writing a novel together, planning its plot and jotting it down into a 116-page novel ‘Summer Enigma’.At a book release function here, Baruni and Pratibha shared, “While our friends used to play online games and indulged in unnecessary chats with their friends to break their monotony during the lockdown period, the two of us were happily engaged in the productive work.”Asked how the two came across with the idea, they shared, “We were both very fond of reading novels of Agatha Christie and used to share stories of her murder mysteries. Discussing her novels, it struck to us if we too could begin to write something of the sort. We discussed the plan with our parents and they readily agreed and we started on. We used to daily discuss the ideas on our Zoom meeting. There used to be daily additions and deletions till the time we both were satisfied with the final output.”About the novel story, they said, “The plot is based in Goa. Four friends are on a tour and they come across a murder incident and begin its investigation just out of curiosity. The two of them had their fathers as detective agents. This is the main idea around which the story sets in.”Both Baruni and Pratibha were students of Delhi Public School till the last year and the best of friends for almost two years. The duo got separated when Pratibha’s father, Varinder K Sharma, who was posted as Deputy Commissioner in Jalandhar got transferred to Ludhiana. Baruni’s dad Manhar Arora is working as MD at the St Soldier’s Group of Schools here.Manhar praised his daughter saying, “I knew that she had good writing skills since the beginning. Since she was a Class III student, she would pen poems for me, my wife and her elder sister on all special occasions including our birthdays and anniversary. I never knew that this skill in her would make her a novel author one day.” His daughter reciprocated saying, “I got the writing genes from my dad, who himself writes too well.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sitting-in-two-different-cities-punjab-girls-pen-murder-mystery-288415
