27-07-2021||Sahnewal||Sahnewal: Sacred Heartians secure 100% result||Kargil Vijay Diwas observedDoraha: Green Grove Public School observed Kargil Vijay Diwas virtually. Students from classes nursery to XII participated in various activities, such as poster making, speeches, messages, poems, dances and songs to commemorate the day. President JPS Jolly, Chairperson Satinderjeet Kaur Jolly and Principal Suzy George appreciated the staff and students for their active involvement in the event. The President said, “We Indians are proud of our Jawans, who are always on their toes to save the countrymen at any cost.” Dakhsdeep , Pridhi, Dilmanjot, Samiksha, Jagmanjot, Khushman, Gurneer Kaur and Shreya got special appreciation for their wonderful messages dedicated to the Indian Armymen. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sahnewal-sacred-heartians-secure-100-result-288679
27-07-2021||Ludhiana||CT University, Ludhiana, organises Cyclothon||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ct-university-ludhiana-organises-cyclothon-288682
27-07-2021||Our Correspondent||14-year-old girl goes missing in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, July 26A 14-year-old girl has been reported missing from Baba Nam Dev Colony since July 24. In his complaint to the police, the father of the girl expressed suspicion that Ajmat, a resident of Pancham Sarpanch Wali Gali, Baba Nam Dev Colony, might have abducted the girl on the pretext of marrying her. The police have booked the accused under Sections 363 and 366-A of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/14-year-old-girl-goes-missing-in-ludhiana-288668
27-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Man nabbed with opium in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, July 26The police have arrested Gurdeep Singh, a resident of Noorwala village, with 100 gm of opium while the accused was going to sell the contraband to his customers in his car (bearing registration no. PB 91E 2000). He was intercepted at a naka on the basis of a tip-off and a case under Sections 18, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act was registered against him. The vehicle has also been impounded by the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-nabbed-with-opium-in-ludhiana-288669
27-07-2021||Ludhiana||One arrested with 15-kg poppy husk in Ludhiana||The crime branch of the city police nabbed one person, identified as Jinder Pal Singh alias Jinder, a resident of Seerha village, PS Meharban, with 15 kg of poppy husk. The police said the accused was on foot and was carrying a heavy plastic bag. On sighting the police party, he took a u-turn, which raised suspicion and he was caught. Search of his bag led to seizure of poppy husk. A case under Sections 15B/61/85 of the NDPS Act was registered and Jinder was produced in a local court on July 25 which remanded him to two-day police custody. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/one-arrested-with-15-kg-poppy-husk-in-ludhiana-288670
27-07-2021||Ludhiana||Book ‘Balan layi jaruri gallan’ for kids released at Gyan Anjan Academy||The Gyan Anjan Academy organised an event wherein a book ‘Balan layi jaruri gallan’, written by Kulwinder Kaur Minhas, was released. The event was held under the guidance of former Vice-Chancellor of PAU Manjit Singh Kang while Dinesh Kumar from Punjab National Bank was the chief guest. Minhas said the book contained important teachings for the children, who have been encouraged to follow the path of truth and honesty. “After writing 20 books on different subjects, I thought of writing for children, whom I have been teaching for the past seven years. This book will help children become good citizens and work for the welfare of society,” she added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/book-balan-layi-jaruri-gallan-for-kids-released-at-gyan-anjan-academy-288671
27-07-2021||Ludhiana||DC starts plantation drive at Jagraon||Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Monday launched a plantation drive at Jagraon. The DC planted saplings at various points of the sub-division, along with head of Nanaksar Gurdwara Baba Lakha Singh, Jagraon Additional Deputy Commissioner Dr Nayan, Assistant Commissioner (under training) Dr Harjinder Singh Bedi and SDM Narinder Singh Dhaliwal. Sharma said clean and pollution-free environment was a must for ensuring good health of citizens.In today’s scenario when forest cover was rapidly depleting, ensuring maximum plantation was the need of the hour. The main focus of the drive was to ensure that more trees were planted in the sub-division, the DC added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dc-starts-plantation-drive-at-jagraon-288672
27-07-2021||---||Opposition conspiring against Simarjit Singh Bains: LIP leaders||Ludhiana, July 26While the opposition parties are demanding the arrest of Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) chief Simarjit Singh Bains, accused in a rape case, the women leaders of LIP have come forward in his support. Leaders of the women wing of LIP said the opposition would not succeed in its conspiracies against MLA Bains.In a press note sent on Monday, they said Akali and Congress leaders were defaming the Atam Nagar MLA as Assembly elections were nearing. They said Bains had always raised his voice for the welfare of the Dailt, the poor and common people in the Vidhan Sabha but the opposition leaders were hatching conspiracies against him. The leaders said they had full faith in the judiciary and were hopeful that the MLA would get justice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/opposition-conspiring-against-simarjit-singh-bains-lip-leaders-288673
27-07-2021||---||Opportunities, challenges in dairy sector discussed at Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University||Ludhiana, July 26Institutional development plan (IDP) cell of the Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) organised a guest lecture on ‘Dairying in India — opportunities and challenges’. Dr Rameshwar Singh, Vice-Chancellor, Bihar Animal Sciences University (BASU), was the expert speaker.Dr SPS Ghuman, Dean, College of Veterinary Sciences, and Principal Investigator, IDP, speaking on the occasion stressed on the importance of the topic. He asserted that dairying was the backbone of the nation’s economy as it was supporting 80 million households in the country.In his talk, Dr Singh threw light on the dairy sector in the country in an elaborative manner and also explained challenges being faced by farmers and entrepreneurs. He insisted that the dairy industry should work on development of shelf stable milk products which were having a potential market. Breeding, animal health and nutrition were another areas where researchers and policy makers should work in tandem for the growth of this industry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/opportunities-challenges-in-dairy-sector-discussed-at-guru-angad-dev-veterinary-and-animal-sciences-university-288674
27-07-2021||---||Bharat Bhushan Ashu lays stone of senior citizen home in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, July 26Cabinet Minister and MLA Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Monday laid the foundation stone of an ultra-modern senior citizen home, coming up on 700 sq yards of land at a cost of Rs 50 lakh in D block of Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar area in the city.While speaking on the occasion, the MLA said the senior citizen home would come up adjoining the newly developed leisure valley. The home would have all kinds of state-of-the-art facilities for the elderly, so that they can spend quality time here.Out of the total 700 sq yards of land, 500 sq yards would be under construction for a library, hall, kitchen, toilets etc, while the remaining area would have lush green lawns and seating, Ashu said.He said the project was a long-pending demand of area residents, but got delayed due to the pandemic. He assured that the work order had already been issued and the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) would complete the work in the next few months.On the occasion, the minister also assured that modern furniture, along with other such amenities, would also be provided for the senior citizens separately. If senior citizens wanted the Punjab Government to set up a medical dispensary inside the home, this demand would also be fulfilled on priority basis, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bharat-bhushan-ashu-lays-stone-of-senior-citizen-home-in-ludhiana-288677
27-07-2021||---||Garbage dumped on scooter market road in Ludhiana an eyesore||Ludhiana, July 26Heaps of garbage lying scattered on the scooter market road near Bhai Chattar Singh Park in the city have left shop owners and shopkeepers harried. The road was found jam-packed with garbage on Saturday morning, after which the shopkeepers complained to the Municipal Corporation in this regard.A shopkeeperWe have been suffering a lot due to the garbage dump located adjoining our shops for the past several years. We appeal to the MC authorities to take necessary steps to ensure timely lifting of garbageThe civic body had earlier given its nod to increase the tipping fee of a third-party firm that lifts waste from secondary points, but the lifting is not being done timely.Satinderpal Singh of Scooter Sellers’ Association said garbage was dumped on the road outside the shops due to which they faced a harrowing time. Also, with the ongoing rainy season, the foul smell emanating from the garbage dump caused a lot of trouble to the visitors, he rued.“When we raised the matter before the MC officials, staff was sent in the afternoon to lift the waste. We request the civic body authorities to direct the officials concerned to lift garbage timely before the opening of the market in the morning,” Satinderpal said.Another shopkeeper said, “We have been suffering a lot due to the garbage dump located adjoining our shops for the past several years. We appeal to the MC authorities to take necessary steps to ensure timely lifting of garbage.”MC’s health officer Dr Vipul Malhotra could not be contacted for comments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/garbage-dumped-on-scooter-market-road-in-ludhiana-an-eyesore-288676
27-07-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Restaurateur uses govt land as private parking space, Ludhiana MC fails to take action||Ludhiana, July 26Shopkeepers at Fountain Chowk market, popularly known as Chowpatty, visitors to the adjoining church and owners of showrooms in the vicinity are at their wits’ end as a politically-connected restaurateur has got grills, put up by the Municipal Corporation adjacent to the boundary wall of the Church, removed for using the vacant government land as his personal parking area.Eatery owners said the girder grills were erected by the MC in consultation with the city traffic police for regulated parking of vehicles of the visitors to the Chowpatty market as well as the Church. “Now, after removal of grills, the security staff of the said restaurant does not allow others to park their vehicles there and the entire space is being used as a private parking area for the restaurant,” owner of an eatery said.The affected shopkeepers maintained that on their repeated representations, the MC staff had visited the site to put the removed grills back but they had to beat a retreat on the intervention of the restaurant owner, the area councillor and some other senior political leaders.The shop owners pointed out that it was not only that the vacant government land meant for use by the public was being put to private use by the restaurateur, but removal of the grills had also become a traffic hazard as vehicles moved out (of the parking area) haphazardly to merge in the heavy traffic flow.When contacted, a senior MC official said the field staff would visit the site in a day or two and the necessary action would be taken to clear the encroachment, if any, and restore the vacant area for use by the public. ‘Connections’ workAffected shopkeepers maintain that on their repeated representations, MC staff visited the site to put the removed grills back but they had to beat a retreat on the intervention of the restaurant owner, the area councillor and some other senior political leaders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/restaurateur-uses-govt-land-as-private-parking-space-ludhiana-mc-fails-to-take-action-288683
27-07-2021||---||Punjab Education Department asks transferred teachers to continue online classes||Ludhiana, July 26The Education Department, Punjab, has asked the transferred teachers to continue taking online classes of students of schools from where they have been shifted. The department said the classes can be conducted by the teachers through zoom meetings.Secretary (Education)Since everything is going online, it is suggested that the teachers continue to take online classes of both the new as well as old students of the schools from where they have been transferred. And this should continue till the time the vacant post in the old school is filled.A letter in this regard was issued recently by the Secretary, Education. It says that during Covid times, many teachers of various subjects were adjusted here and there as per requirement. But it has come to the notice that the moment they are transferred, the online classes are stopped (of old school/students). This not just causes negative impact on both the students and parents but the students lose interest and regular studies are hit.The letter says that since everything is going online, it is suggested that the teachers continue to take online classes of both the new as well as old students of the schools from where they have been transferred. And this should continue till the time the vacant post in the old school is filled.Gurjant Singh, a parent, said some adjustment was done at the school where his son studies and a teacher was posted at another place, so no classes were conducted of that particular subject. “The students must not lose interest in any subject and their classes should be taken regularly till the department fills the vacancies,” he said.It may be mentioned here that the Education Department is trying hard to attract more students towards the government schools. The department cannot afford to take such steps due to which the trust of parents and students is lost.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/punjab-education-department-asks-transferred-teachers-to-continue-online-classes-288684
27-07-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Schools reopen for higher classes in Ludhiana, see low attendance||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 26Government and many private schools reopened today for higher classes, starting from Class X onwards.Though, being the first day, thin attendance of students was witnessed, teachers believe that in days to come attendance will improve and the working would also be streamlined.The students went to their respective schools with the consent of parents and there was no compulsion for the pupils to attend classes. If they want to attend and parents allow them, only then they can join the classes. Proper guidelines were followed by school managements for the safety of the students, staff and teachers. Their temperatures were also checked and it was ensured that they wore masks properly.Dr Devinder Singh Chhina, principal, Government Senior Secondary School, Shahpur, said attendance was thin as it was the first day. Secondly, PTMs were conducted for Classes VI to XII today and parents thought that only PTMs were being conducted. But they had been informed that schools had reopened after the second wave and it was expected that in the next couple of days, they would witness a good number of students. The teachers were also happy as they would be conducting offline classes after long.The students were given a warm welcome at Springdale Public School. They showcased enthusiasm while stepping into the school after long. Keeping in view, the Covid-19 safety protocols, the school had made proper arrangements. As the holy month of Saawan is on, a special prayer assembly was organised, seeking Lord Shiva’s blessings.However, there are many students and parents who are reluctant to attend schools.“The students are under 18 years of age and vaccination below 18 is not advisable, which means they are the most vulnerable lot. In such circumstances, we feel scared to send them to the schools. We have protected the children for about 18 months and cannot expose them suddenly,” said Neeti Jain, a worried parent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/schools-reopen-for-higher-classes-in-ludhiana-see-low-attendance-288664
27-07-2021||Ludhiana||Man held for snatching in Ludhiana||Eight arrested for gamblingLudhiana: The police have arrested eight persons for gambling in two raids conducted at different localities. Four persons identified as Ashwani Kumar, Satnam Singh, Harwinder Singh, all residents of Kot Mangal Singh, and Manpreet Singh of Ittan Wali Gali in Shimplapuri were nabbed while gambling in Grain Market on Gill Road on Sunday. The police recovered Rs 2,370, a pack of cards from the spot. They were charged under Sections 13, 3 and 67 of the Gambling Act. In another incident, four persons were nabbed while gambling at Tikoni Park in Kakka village on Sunday. The accused, who were booked under Sections 13A/3 and 67 of the IPC, were identified as Maninder Singh, Satnam Singh, Lakhwinder Singh, all residents of Ror village, and Arjun Singh of Sasrali Colony. The police said Rs 18,140 and a pack of cards were recovered from the spot. OCFive booked for assaultLudhiana: The police have booked Ranjit Singh and his brother Hardeep Singh, residents of Vishwakarma Colony, along with their three unidentified accomplices for allegedly assaulting Sabar Hussain, a resident of the same colony. The complainant said a part of the boundary wall of the rented house of the accused had collapsed on July 22 and the debris had fallen on his Tata vehicle, damaging it badly. He said when he approached them for compensation for the damages, they got infuriated and assaulted him. When he raised an alarm, the accused fled while threatening him. The victim had suffered a head injury inflicted with a wooden log and had been under treatment at Oswal Cancel Hospital. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-held-for-snatching-in-ludhiana-288678
27-07-2021||---||22 Smart City projects completed, says Ludhiana MC chief||Ludhiana, July 26CEO of Ludhiana Smart City Limited (LSCL) and MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal said today that 22 projects worth Rs 61.75 crore under the Smart City Mission had been completed so far.A state-level meeting to review the Smart City Mission projects was held in Chandigarh today which was attended by the MC Commissioner.Sabharwal said 22 projects, including rooftop solar panels, installation of signages, Animal Birth Control system, facade lighting on the iconic clock tower, smart classrooms, and others had been completed. Notably, major projects such as the smart street road on Malhar Road, RUBs/ROB on Pakhowal Road, installation sanitary pads vending machines and others are underway.The Commissioner said 19 project works worth Rs 605.82 crore had been awarded and were under execution.He said tenders for 12 projects worth Rs 63.68 crore had been floated while detailed project reports of six projects, worth Rs 258.38 crore, had been prepared and were under approval. The discussion was held on a total of 58 projects worth Rs 989.66 crore.Meanwhile, one of the directors of the LSCL-cum-Chairman of the IIA, Punjab chapter, Sanjay Goyal, attended the meeting through virtual mode and raised the issue of lack of parking lots in the city.He said: “Traffic-related problems in the city need to be addressed. Since the name of Ludhiana was declared for the Smart City Mission in 2016, no new parking lot had been constructed under the Smart City Mission. At present, visitors are forced to suffer in the absence of parking lots at city markets. Besides, I also raised a point that development of industrial areas inside the MC limits should also be ensured.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/22-smart-city-projects-completed-says-ludhiana-mc-chief-288663
27-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Reckless driving claims 2 lives in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, July 26Two persons lost their lives in two road accidents in the city on Sunday.Harjinder Kaur (26), who was riding pillion on a motorcycle with her husband Sukhdev Singh, a resident of Mehmoodpur in Patiala, was killed on the spot when a speeding truck rammed into their motorcycle on Sutlej Bridge in Ladhowal.The husband of the deceased reported to the police that he and his wife were going to Aulakh village to visit their relatives on a motorcycle (bearing registration no. PB 11CQ 9217) when a recklessly driven truck hit their bike. He said his wife died on the spot while the truck driver escaped. The police have booked the truck driver under Sections 279, 337 and 304-A of the IPC.In another road accident near Bhai Bala Chowk on Ferozepur Road, Vikas Kondal (32) and his friend Sachin, who were riding a motorcycle (bearing registration no. PB 10HD 2788) were hit by a speeding Innova vehicle (bearing registration no. PB 10FM 1632) while going from Feroze Gandhi Market towards Bhai Bala Chowk on Sunday. A critically injured Vikas was rushed to the DMCH where he was declared dead, the police said. The vehicle driver, Kunal Minocha, a resident of Mohar Singh Nagar, was arrested and charged under Sections 279, 304-A and 336 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/reckless-driving-claims-2-lives-in-ludhiana-288661
27-07-2021||Mahesh Sharma||Raikot village praying for home-grown boxer Simranjit Kaur’s win||Raikot, July 26While Simranjit Kaur, a World Boxing Champion from the state, is striving hard to live her late father’s dream in Tokyo, residents of her native village Chakar here, once infamous for violence, gang wars, family rivalries and drug battle, are praying for her emergence as the first Olympic champion of the village.The Chakar village is now known as the village of boxers, as both boys and girls are being trained at the Sher-E-Punjab Academy, established at the village around 15 years ago.Appreciating Simranjit for bringing laurels to the village by winning World Championship Medal in 2018 and then winning gold in Boxing World Cup at Cologne in Germany in December 2020, chief coach Balwant Singh Sandhu said they had been praying for her victory in Tokyo Olympics too. “Though we are sure of her victory in the final, we have organised special prayer meetings to seek the blessing of the Almighty,” Sandhu said.He appreciated the contribution and sacrifice of Rajpal Kaur, Simranjit’s mother, who had managed to send all her children to the academy despite all odds. Simranjit’s elder sister and two younger brothers have also brought laurels to the village in the field of boxing.Rajpal Kaur said she was in touch with her daughter, who had already won her first match. “I am so excited about the happenings in Tokyo that I don’t let my mobile phone out of my sight now. I wish Simranjit is able to fulfill her father’s last desire to see her as a champion boxer,” she said.“Though I am proud of all my children, but Simranjit has gave me the strength to reply to all those who used to scorn when I allowed my daughters to take up boxing,” Rajpal added. The only income of the family came from Simranjit’s prize money.Simranjit’s siblings sent to academy despite oddsChief coach Balwant Singh Sandhu appreciated the contribution and sacrifice of Rajpal Kaur, Simranjit’s mother, who had managed to send all her children to the academy despite all odds. Simranjit’s elder sister and two younger brothers have also brought laurels to the village in the field of boxing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/raikot-village-praying-for-home-grown-boxer-simranjit-kaurs-win-288658
27-07-2021||Nitin Jain||Aditya Birla Group to set up Rs 1K-cr paint unit at cycle valley in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 26The upcoming hi-tech cycle valley at Dhanansu village in the district has attracted another big investment, the government has confirmed.The Aditya Birla Group will set up a state-of-the-art paint manufacturing unit at an investment of Rs 1,000 crore and this will offer over 2,000 jobs, including direct employment of 600 persons, a senior official said here on Monday.Vini Mahajan, Chief SecretaryOfficialSpeakThe state has always focused on strengthening businesses and improving government transparency. Within the past four years, we have got investment proposals of Rs 91,000 crore that are under stages of implementation.This was the second major investment after Hero Cycles setting up its anchor unit over 100 acres worth Rs 400 crore, which promises to offer 1,000 direct employment opportunities and produce 4 million bicycles per annum, especially premium and e-bikes.Sharing details, Chairman, Aditya Birla Group, Kumar Mangalam Birla, who was recently offered 61 acres of land at Rs 147 crore to invest in the hi-tech valley by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, told The Tribune that the group was planning to foray into the paint business with an initial capital expenditure of Rs 5,000 crore over the next three years through their flagship company Grasim5.“We are setting up a paint manufacturing plant in Ludhiana in over 61 acres with an investment of Rs 1,000 crore and will offer over 600 direct jobs, besides 1,500 indirect employment opportunities through our operations,” disclosed Birla.Having 130 state-of-the-art manufacturing units globally with presence in the USA, Australia, Vietnam, South Korea, Thailand and the UK, besides overseas operations spanning 36 countries, the group has proposed to begin its operations here with the production of 300 MLPA water-borne paint, 60 MLPA enamel paint, 120 MLPA co-polymer acrylic emulsion paint and 40 MLPA alkyd resin.With a turnover of Rs 78,591 crore in 2019-20 and having 1.4 lakh employees on board, the BSE and NSE-listed group has hired Piyush Shankarani as vice-president, projects, to look after its new foray into the paint operations. Piyush was a part of Asian Paints for 18 years and has also worked with Sudarshan Chemicals for three years before joining Aditya Birla Group.Meanwhile, the e-auction of plots and units at the hi-tech valley industrial park that will provide plug and play infrastructure to mobility and advanced manufacturing industrial units, coming up over 383 acres of land at a cost of Rs 500 crore, was launched shortly.Principal Secretary, Industries and Commerce, Alok Shekhar, said the internal works of the project of key concern for all components will be completed by the end of this year.He disclosed that following e-tendering for industrial chunks and units, a few large industries have shown interest for the large plots.A provision of Rs 22 crore has been made in the Punjab Budget 2021-22 for creation of capital assets in the valley.The state government is developing the cycle valley with an aim to attract new investors not only from within the country, but also from overseas. The approved industrial park will not only attract global investments, but also facilitate Punjab-based industries to expand their capacities thereby generating new employment opportunities in the state.While a concrete four-lane road to connect the valley directly with the Ludhiana-Chandigarh NH-5 has already been completed at the cost of Rs 33.53 crore, the storm water drainage, effluent collection system and water supply distribution system are in the advanced stage of completion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/aditya-birla-group-to-set-up-rs-1k-cr-paint-unit-at-cycle-valley-in-ludhiana-288662
27-07-2021||Manav Mander||After 3 years, chikungunya case reported in Ludhiana district||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 26After cholera now dengue and chikungunya cases have started springing up in the city. During the last one week, five dengue cases and one chikungunya case have been detected. The chikungunya case has been detected in the district after three years.Dr Ramesh, District Epidemiologist, said it was last in 2018 that cases of chikungunya were reported from Ludhiana.The patient is from Ambedkar Nagar and the district Health Department has done surveys in and around his house. Spray was also done and breeding of mosquitoes was checked.“People should not let water get stagnant in and around their houses and every Friday should be observed as ‘dry day’. Water from coolers, pots, etc, should be drained out and they should be filled afresh every week,” said Dr Ramesh.Severe joint pain and swelling in the joints along with fever are the main symptoms of chikungunya, added Dr Ramesh.Dr Ramesh said five cases of dengue have been reported from different localities till now. A mass media team of the Health Department is sensitising the people of different localities and making them aware of taking precautions. Awareness activities are being carried out regularly, especially in the huge risk areas, which include Haibowal Kalan, Jalandhar bypass, Dana Mandi, Tibba Road, Bahadur-ke Road, Dholewal, Jawahar Nagar Camp, Bus Stand, Rahin Road, Sherpur Chowk, Dugri, etc. As many as 248 cases of chikungunya were reported in 2016 and 11 in 2017.Symptoms of the disease||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/after-3-years-chikungunya-case-reported-in-ludhiana-district-288660
27-07-2021||---||Covid-19: New cases drop to two, year’s lowest in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, July 26Two persons tested positive for Covid, while no death due to the disease was reported in the district today. This is the lowest number of people testing positive in a day since January this year.The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 97.54 per cent and the number of active cases is also all-time low of this year at 53.A total of four patients — two patients from Ludhiana district and two from other states/districts — tested positive in the last 24 hours. The total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 87,267, while 11,602 patients belong to other districts/states. The total number of persons who lost their lives is 2,093 from Ludhiana and 1,047 from other districts. Till date, a total of 19,59,008 samples have been taken and reports of all the samples have been received. As many as 18,60,139 samples were found negative. Samples of 7,345 suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-19-new-cases-drop-to-two-years-lowest-in-ludhiana-district-288659
