29-07-2021||Ludhiana||Bajaj College, Ludhiana, students shine||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bajaj-college-ludhiana-students-shine-289953
29-07-2021||---||Ludhiana: ASI keeps offender’s phone as ‘security’, sent to Police Lines||Ludhiana, July 28An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) was sent to the Police Lines following a complaint by a commuter, who was caught without a mask at a naka. The ASI challaned the motorcyclist, who had no money to pay the penalty. Instead, the cop kept his mobile phone.“I was asked by the cop to pay Rs 1,000 as fine but I had only Rs 250. The ASI after issuing challan, took Rs 250 and against the remaining Rs 750, he kept my mobile phone as security. I then complained to the police, following which the cop was sent to the Police Lines,” the complainant added. Joint CP (Headquarters) J Elanchezhian has confirmed the development.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-asi-keeps-offenders-phone-as-security-sent-to-police-lines-289952
29-07-2021||---||Harpreet Kaur tops in MA history||Ludhiana, July 28MA (history) students of Khalsa College for Women, Civil Lines, brought laurels to the college by achieving top positions in 3rd semester PU exams. Harpreet Kaur stood first in the university with 379 marks and Anita secured 6th position with 370 marks, Principal Mukti Gill said. She congratulated the students and lauded the efforts of the teachers concerned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/harpreet-kaur-tops-in-ma-history-289951
29-07-2021||Our Correspondent
||SAD mounts pressure on police to arrest LIP chief Simarjeet Singh Bains||Ludhiana, July 28 Senior leaders of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today made yet another bid to mount pressure on the city police for arresting LIP president and Atam Nagar MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains, who has been booked in a case of rape on the directions of a local court. The SAD leaders, including former ministers Maheshinder Singh Grewal and Hira Singh Gabria, accompanied by former MLAs Ranjit Singh Dhillon and Harish Rai Dhanda, met the Commissioner of Police Rakesh Agrawal and told him that delay in arrest of Bains was creating an impression among people that the police force was openly helping the MLA and the rights of the victim were not being protected. They alleged that even after the registration of an FIR, Bains and his supporters were openly threatening the rape victim, the witnesses were being intimidated and brazen attempts were being made to destroy evidence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sad-mounts-pressure-on-police-to-arrest-lip-chief-simarjeet-singh-bains-289933
29-07-2021||Ludhiana||BSNL unions hold hunger strike at Bharat Nagar chowk in Ludhiana||BSNL unions today held a massive hunger strike in front of the BSNL office at the Bharat Nagar chowk in favour of their long-pending demands.Vipin Kumar, president, BSNL Employees Union, said today, protest demonstrations were held across the country.He said the government should allot the 4G service to the BSNL and it should pay the dues of Rs 39,000 crore to the company.They also alleged that employees were not being paid salaries on time. The unions would intensify their protest in the future to get their demands fulfilled. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bsnl-unions-hold-hunger-strike-at-bharat-nagar-chowk-in-ludhiana-289934
29-07-2021||---||AAP: Provide safety kits to sanitation workers||Ludhiana, July 28 Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) spokesperson Ahbaab Singh Grewal and state assistant secretary Amandeep Singh Mohi in a joint press statement alleged that sanitation workers were being forced to enter sewers for cleaning without any safety equipment. They said there was a significant contribution of sanitation workers for the development of any city. Grewal said the state government had failed to provide the state-of-the-art cleaning equipment to the Ludhiana MC so that the workers were not forced to enter manholes. Amandeep said on one hand the sanitation workers were being kept on a contractual basis and low pay and on the other, their lives were being risked. They demanded that all jobs of contractual workers should be regularised. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/aap-provide-safety-kits-to-sanitation-workers-289935
29-07-2021||---||World Hepatitis Day: Events spread awareness to prevent hepatitis||Ludhiana, July 28World Hepatitis Day was observed in various hospitals of the city today where awareness talks for the prevention of the disease were conducted.The Health Department organised awareness events at the Civil Surgeon’s office and the Central jail today.Civil Surgeon Kiran Gill said the treatment of hepatitis C and B was provided free of cost at district-level hospitals and free tests were also conducted.She said 7,671 patients with hepatitis had come to get treatment in the district till June 2021 and of them, 5,067 patients had been successfully treated.The Department of Microbiology, DMCH, organised a quiz competition on hepatitis for MBBS students (batch 2019), an awareness talk by infection control nurses for patients and attendants, among other events. HoD, microbiology department, Dr Veenu Gupta, said this day was celebrated to raise awareness about viral hepatitis which impacts over 354 million people.“It is a group of infectious disease commonly caused by viral infection (Hepatitis A, B, C, D, E) in addition to other risk factors such as consumption of alcohol, toxins, some medications and certain medical conditions. It requires a multipronged approach for early case detection and appropriate treatment,” the doctor said.Meanwhile, a blood donation camp was also held at the Department of Transfusion Medicine, DMCH.To mark the day, ‘Team AGI-The Gastrociti’, Ludhiana, organised a public awareness session on causes, diagnosis and treatment of chronic viral hepatitis on the OPD campus. Gastroenterologist and chairman, AGI-The Gastrociti, Dr Nirmaljeet Singh Malhi, said according to WHO, 90 per cent of people living with viral hepatitis B & C were unaware of harbouring the infection resulting in the real possibility of developing fatal liver disease or liver cancer and at the same time transmitting the infection to others.“With the availability of effective vaccines and treatments for hepatitis B and a cure for hepatitis C, the elimination of viral hepatitis is achievable”, he said.Fortis Hospital, Ludhiana, also observed world Hepatitis Day. A free check-up camp was organised to mark the day. Doctors said that Hepatitis C was a viral infection of liver, which causes permanent liver damage (cirrhosis) and liver cancer ultimately leading to the death of patients. Dr Nitin Behl, additional director, gastroenterology and hepatology, claimed that “Punjab is the capital of Hepatitis C in India as the prevalence of the disease is around 6 per cent in the state.”Dr Behl conveyed the urgency of efforts needed to eliminate hepatitis as a public health threat by 2030.A Hepatitis screening and awareness camp was organised at Deepak Hospital, here today. Dr Dinesh Gupta, chief liver and gastro specialist at the hospital, said: “We are aiming to eliminate hepatitis C by 2030. This is possible by more screening and proactively finding out asymptomatic infections and treating it to break the transmission chain.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/world-hepatitis-day-events-spread-awareness-to-prevent-hepatitis-289936
29-07-2021||Ludhiana||Joint Teachers Front to participate in rally of Punjab and UT employees in Patiala||The Joint Teachers Front Punjab has announced to participate in the ‘Halla Bol Maha Rally’ of Punjab and UT employees tomorrow in Patiala.Digvijay Pal Sharma, state president of the Democratic Teachers’ Front (DTF), Punjab, stated that the state government, under the leadership of Capt Amarinder Singh, has deceived the employees of Punjab and the UT in the name of the Sixth Pay Commission. A huge cut has been made in the already existing grade pay and allowances received by the employees resulting in great rage among employees against the government policies and Sixth Pay Commission report. This frustration will result in a huge gathering during the ‘Halla Bol Maha Rally’ in Patiala on Thursday.State committee members said in order to make the rally a huge success duties have been allotted to district as well as block-level workers. Workers of the front are visiting schools along with door-to-door campaign to garner people’s support. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/joint-teachers-front-to-participate-in-rally-of-punjab-and-ut-employees-in-patiala-289937
29-07-2021||---||Ludhiana: Citizens join hands for clean air action plan||Ludhiana, July 28In a bid to ensure that residents of Ludhiana breathe clean and healthy air, senior officials from Ludhiana, which is often ranked as one of the most polluted cities in the state, along with air quality experts came together for a virtual discussion to not only highlight post-Covid challenges in the implementation of the clean air action plan but also the role of stakeholders in ensuring effective implementation.The discussion was organised by EcoSikh in collaboration with Clean Air Punjab, a citizen’s initiative. The panel included Swati Tiwana, Joint Commissioner, Ludhiana Municipal Corporation, Gulshan Rai Chief Environmental Engineer, Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB), Kahan Singh Pannu, former IAS and adviser, NHAI, Punjab region, Tanushree Ganguly, from the Council on Energy Environment and Water (CEEW), and Jaskirat Singh.Over 100 concerned citizens from Ludhiana, which has received a special grant of Rs 26 crore last year to improve air quality in the state’s industrial heartland, attended the session to understand how the authorities were implementing and executing the action plan.Swati Tiwana said Ludhiana was one of the non-attainment cities and hence, had been getting grants under the 15th Finance Commission from the Central Government, specifically to control the sources of pollution, to neutralise them, if not minimise.“To counter all damages being caused due to air pollution, efforts must be put in making complete changes on the ground as well as planning in a way that at least in future, we are able to bring down the air pollution levels,” she emphasised.Explaining that despite Ludhiana being among the nine non-attainment cities in the state, Tanushree Ganguly said it had only one real-time and 4 manual monitoring stations against minimum requirement of 11 monitors.“However, none of the manual stations report data on PM2.5, transport, dust, industries, and the residential sector were the major pollution sources in the city. Interestingly, existing source apportionment studies for the city point to a significant contribution from sources outside city limits,” she said.Ganguly stated that besides, the seasonal crop residue burning also deteriorates the city’s air quality. “Therefore, to address pollution in the industrial hub of the state, it would be imperative to ramp up air quality monitoring and generate more evidence on local and regional sources of pollution impacting the city,” she said.Kahan Singh Pannu mentioned that strict action needs to be instigated against pollution from smoke-spewing factories, especially thermal, paper, cement and chemical plants, besides brick-kilns as these industry owners often deliberately turn off the pollution control devices to save cost, even though effectively installed. “Air quality measuring stations need to be set up at around 100 places in the state to keep an eye on pollution. No violation should be allowed to go unpunished,” he said.Highlighting the reducing green cover Jaskirat Singh, an environment activist, said Ludhiana had only 1.65 per cent forest cover, which authorities and citizens need to not only protect at all costs but also take efforts to increase.“Besides other actions under the clean air action plan, we must also conserve our Mattewara forest and all other smaller forests and tree cover in Ludhiana as we and our future generation will need oxygen to breathe and this green cover will help us in improving the air quality,” he stressed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-citizens-join-hands-for-clean-air-action-plan-289938
29-07-2021||---||Workshops organised during Safe School Week at Sat Paul Mittal School in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, July 28Sat Paul Mittal School celebrated Safe School Week. Various workshops were organised during the Safe Schools’ Week from July 19 to 27 for the students of classes II to V to apprise them of various aspects of danger, security issues and health and hygiene and to make them more aware of themselves and their surroundings.The first day of the workshop emphasised on health and hygiene where we had with us three prominent doctors. Dr Vikas Bansal, paediatrician, said maintenance of hygiene should be at both personal level as well as community level. Dr Anushi Mahajan, dental hygiene, spoke about the importance of dental hygiene as well as the oral hygiene measures to be taken care of. She also apprised the students of the adverse oral habits. Dr Harpreet Singh, a renowned eye specialist of the city, emphasised that students should use bigger screens (laptops/ computers) as compared to the smaller screens as it was more stressing. He concluded by saying that we should have a healthy diet schedule and should eat more leafy vegetables. Cyberspace is the online world of networks and especially the internet. Cybercrime is increasing at an exponential rate.To make aware about the security issues, a workshop on cyber security was conducted on the second day of the Safe School Week by Arun Soni. He is a certified ethical hacker from EC council (US) and a cyber security consultant, who is working for the cause of spreading awareness of cyber security. The workshop aimed to equip students to recognise and secure themselves and their computers from dangers lurking online.With this positive outlook, the third day of the workshop concentrated on traffic and road safety where we had with us Deputy Superintendent of Police Rajan Sharma, who focussed on how to keep our mind alert and active on the roads following the five golden rules for road safety.Considering the fact that cases of child sexual abuse are on the rise, an awareness session on ‘Good Touch Bad Touch’ was conducted on the fourth day by renowned psychologist Avneet Kaur where she highlighted her concern over their “Safe zones”.The last day of the workshop was conducted by school teachers on disaster management to make students cautious about various steps and drills to be taken during the time of earthquakes, fire and terrorists attack. It was indeed a fruitful week of workshops and proved to be beneficial month for one and all.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/workshops-organised-during-safe-school-week-at-sat-paul-mittal-school-in-ludhiana-289939
29-07-2021||Nitin Jain||Ludhiana continues to lead with 14.41L vaccinations as Punjab inches close to 10-million mark||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 28If hesitancy and unfounded misconceptions were coming in way earlier, the acute shortage of vaccines has stalled the ongoing Covid vaccination drive in the district for the past four days.Confirming that the inoculation drive has been suspended in the district since July 25, District Immunisation Officer Dr Puneet Juneja told The Tribune that no vaccine has been available in the district for the past four days and the vaccination programme will be restored once the vaccines arrive.Till July 24 when the last vaccination was done, Ludhiana district jabbed 14,41,147 beneficiaries above 18 years of age. With 20,149 persons inoculated on July 24, the total vaccinated population included 39,180 at the industrial houses, 2,06,808 at private hospitals and 11,95,159 at the government institutions.With the state inching closer to 10-million inoculation mark, which is almost one third of the total population, Ludhiana continues to lead Punjab by vaccinating its over 41 per cent people so far.The vaccination inventory compiled by the Health and Family Welfare Department, which is available with The Tribune, revealed that 79,11,161 persons were given Covishield shots, while 11,25,163 beneficiaries were Covaxin jabs in the state till July 20.However, the total vaccination figure in the state has touched close to 94 lakh till Wednesday.The category-wise break-up showed that 2,13,388 healthcare workers have been given first dose, 1,31,957 second; 11,37,088 frontline workers first, 3,03,060 second; 37,11,330 population above 45 years first, 10,55901 second; 24,19,873 beneficiaries between 18 and 44 years have got their first shot and 67,041 second.When it comes to Ludhiana, 32,776 healthcare workers have been given first jab, 22,236 second; 1,08,438 frontline workers first, 28,248 second; 3,56,319 beneficiaries between 18 and 44 years first dose of Covishield, 40,349 second; 94,816 first shot of Covaxin, 14,513 second; 3,52,082 population between 45 and 60 years given first jab, 1,15,981 second; 2,05,526 persons above 60 years of age given first dose, and 69,863 second dose till July 24. The allocation and supply status suggested that Punjab has received a total of 14,97,830 vaccine doses in July so far, which was almost half than the total allocation of 28,16,100 shots, including 21,12,070 for the government sector and 7,04,030 for private institutions.The state was allocated 17,52,710 doses of Covishield and 3,59,360 doses of Covaxin for use in government hospitals, while 5,84,240 Covishield and 1,19,790 Covaxin shots were allocated for private centres in the state for July.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-continues-to-lead-with-14-41l-vaccinations-as-punjab-inches-close-to-10-million-mark-289925
29-07-2021||---||Waterlogging witnessed on national highways again as rain lashes Ludhiana||Ludhiana, July 28Waterlogging occurred again on some locations on national highways, including Ludhiana-Chandigarh Road and Delhi Road, in the city as the rain lashed here on Wednesday.Residents on Chandigarh Road (national highway) complained that sewers overflowed after the rain started and water accumulated near Police Colony Chowk. Water also accumulated near Malhotra Palace, Jalandhar Bypass and Giaspura Chowk on the NH-44. Besides, water was accumulated on the PSPCL office road in the Giaspura area, Hambran Road and other areas.Premjeet Singh, a resident of the Chandigarh Road area, said: “Water accumulated on the highway again as nothing was done at the ground level to resolve the problem.” RK Yadav of the Yadav Ahir Mahasabha said they had complained multiple times but the waterlogging issue on Giaspura Road near the PSPCL office was not resolved. Upkar Singh Sahni, an industrialist, said: “The MC should find out a permanent solution to resolve the issue on Giaspura Road as we have been suffering due to the same.”Meanwhile, Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal and councillor Mamta Ashu inspected Malhar Road where a Smart Street project work is underway. As the rainwater was getting accumulated along the roadside, they pulled up officials. The Commissioner directed them to take steps in this regard.He said: “There were no complaints regarding waterlogging today. The rainwater was getting drained out easily.”The MC Commissioner said they would take necessary steps to resolve the waterlogging problem on Giaspura Road.He said the storm water drainage would be installed on Chandigarh Road and tenders for the same had already been floated.According to the School of Climate Change and Agricultural Meteorology, PAU, Ludhiana, 38.4 mm rainfall was recorded till 2:30 pm today. Rain continued till the evening.Regarding the water accumulation issue on Malhar Road, Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said the contractor and officials concerned had been directed to resolve the issueat the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/waterlogging-witnessed-on-national-highways-again-as-rain-lashes-ludhiana-289926
29-07-2021||Ludhiana||Couple marrying against wishes of girl’s parents abducted near Jagraon||Two lovers getting married against the wishes of the girl’s parents were kidnapped by the girl’s kin from a gurdwara at Kothe Baggu village near Jagraon.The city Jagraon police registered a case against girl’s father Jalaur Singh of Moga, Jaswinder Singh, former sarpanch of Buttar village, Moga, Honey, a resident of Moga, Bant Singh and five unknown persons.As per complainant Puran Singh of Buttar Kalan village, his son Jagga Singh (22) had a love affair with a girl, Rashpinder Kaur (21), but the parents of girl were not agreeing to their marriage.“On July 27, my son and the girl went to a gurdwara to get married. Before the Anand Karj could start, the accused reached the spot in three cars. They attacked all of us, including the boy and the girl. After beating badly, they bundled the couple into their cars and kidnapped them,” Puran alleged.Investigating officer SI Kamaldeep Kaur said after kidnapping them, the accused went towards the Moga side. However, the boy managed to escape from the clutches of the accused and reached home. She said raids were being conducted to nab the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/couple-marrying-against-wishes-of-girls-parents-abducted-near-jagraon-289927
29-07-2021||---||Wife, kin booked for abetting man’s suicide||Ludhiana, July 28 A 23-year-old married man, who consumed some poisonous substance at Basti Abdulapur on Tuesday, succumbed at a hospital on Wednesday. The deceased has been identified as Satnam Singh. The victim had made a video on his mobile before committing the suicide in which he had held his wife and her four relatives responsible for his death. He had sent the video to his sister before taking the extreme step. The Atam Park police had registered an abetment to suicide case against deceased’s wife Ramanjot Kaur, her cousins Sonu and Lakhbir, two uncles Iqbal and Jaspal. ASI Sukhdeep Singh said Satnam Singh in his video clip had alleged that his wife was forcing him to live separately from his parents and his wife’s uncle and cousin had also been forcing him for the same. He got married this year in February.  The police are conducting raids to arrest the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/wife-kin-booked-for-abetting-mans-suicide-289928
29-07-2021||---||Ludhiana MC employees on strike today||Ludhiana, July 28 Extending support to the state-level unions protesting against the recommendations of the state’s Sixth Pay Commission, the Municipal Employees Sangarsh Committee announced to go on a complete strike on Thursday (July 29). President of the committee Jasdev Singh Sekhon said they have written to the MC chief regarding their strike. He said they will support the protest rally being organised by the state-level unions of various departments in Patiala on Thursday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-mc-employees-on-strike-today-289929
29-07-2021||---||11 fresh Covid infections in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, July 28As many as 11 cases of Covid-19 were reported in the district on Wednesday. Of them, four patients had visited OPDs, one had influenza-like illness and two are healthcare workers.At present, 54 cases are active in the district. Four patients — two from Ludhiana and two from other districts —are on ventilator support.A total of 87,284 cases have been confirmed in the Ludhiana district, while 11,605 cases belong to other districts or states. The Health Department has confirmed the death of 2,093 patients of Ludhiana district and 1,047 of other districts or states due to Covid-19.A total of 19,76,730 samples have been collected so far in the district. As many as 9,155 samples for the Covid-19 test were collected today.The administration has appealed to the residents to adhere to all safety protocols, like wearing masks, maintaining social distance and washing hands frequently to not only save themselves but keeping everyone around safe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/11-fresh-covid-infections-in-ludhiana-289930
29-07-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||A child prodigy finds place in 3 books of records||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 28Meet Kunwarpratap Singh, a three-and-a-half-year-old kid from Sacred Heart Convent School, Sarabha Nagar, who has left everyone amazed with his superb IQ and photographic memory.The “little Einstein” knows much more than a 10-year-old student. Kunwarpratap has surpassed the intellect of an average Class V student and knows tables of 1 to 40, capitals of all countries of the world, multiples of every number, prime numbers etc. This extraordinary child has got his name entered into the Asian Book of Records, India Book of Records and International Book of Records.As per his teachers, his passion for books is reflected in the fluency in his reading and speaking. He can comfortably pronounce long words and has a good reading speed. His ability to solve multiplication, subtraction and division sums orally leaves everyone stunned.Kunwarpratap’s parents said he is adored by all in his residential colony as he remembers names of all residents, their house numbers and other details. “Incredibly all his talks, though innocent, are thought provoking. He mildly checks anyone who states something incorrect and spontaneously gives the correct answer. He attempts Olympiads easily and has many world records to his credit.He won the Grandmaster title, awarded for recalling 27 monuments and 14 multiplication tables in one minute. Besides, he was the youngest to recite tables from 1 to 30, fastest to name capitals of all Indian states (in 48 seconds) and youngest to read maximum books (27 books in 23 minutes 48 seconds). He got selected amongst the top 100 from across India in Child Prodigy magazine,” his parents said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/a-child-prodigy-finds-place-in-3-books-of-records-289931
29-07-2021||Kuldip Bhatia
||Erratic power supply makes life of residents miserable||Ludhiana, July 28 Sultry weather conditions, coupled with frequent disruptions in power supply in most city localities, have made the life of city residents miserable. To add to their woes, booking complaints at the customer care (call centre) of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) still remains a problematic task, even after the tall claims of the power utility of upgrading the centralised fault booking system and addition of more telephone lines to the over-busy fault booking mechanism. That the major part of the power distribution system in the city is vulnerable to inclement weather is a known fact as the consumers have to undergo harrowing time even after mild showers or slight winds due to tripping, blown fuses or other line faults which, more often than not, take hours to be rectified. The most common complaint of the residents about booking of complaints and rectification of faults remains that either the complaint booking number (1912) or customer care number are unreachable or the officials concerned fail to pick up their phones to attend to desperate consumers. Take the instance of a resident of Sandhu Nagar (in Haibowal), Kimti Rawaal, who had to follow up his complaint of 16-hour disruption in power supply in the area with the Deputy Commissioner after having failed to receive any response from PSPCL officials, except for an SMS acknowledging his complaint.  Similarly, Brij Bhushan Goel, a resident of New Tagore Nagar (in Haibowal), had to take up the matter at the highest level in the power utility for restoration of power supply after several hours on Sunday morning. It’s not in any particular locality, but consumers across the city face the same problem on day-to-day basis in case of power failure.  Several residents complained that the computerised fault booking system, at times, generated an SMS to intimate the consumers concerned that fault had been rectified, without attending to the complaint. A resident of Isher Nagar colony said it had happened twice with him when he had received two SMSs, one after the other, that his complaint had been closed after rectification of the fault which was contrary to the factual position. PSPCL officials admit that to some extent, grievances of the consumers were genuine, while attributing it to technical glitches. “In normal course, SMS is sent in response to complaints once after booking of complaint and again after rectification of fault. But some lapses, once in a while, could not be ruled out,” said an official, while adding that upgrade of the distribution system was an ongoing process and power utility continued to strive to providing better service to the consumers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/erratic-power-supply-makes-life-of-residents-miserable-289932
