31-07-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Court stays e-auction of five residential plots on ‘school site’ in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar Colony||Ludhiana, July 30Providing a huge relief to residents of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar Colony of the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) on Pakhowal Road here, a local court has issued a stay order on the auction of five residential plots carved out from a piece of land reserved for school and later proposed to be used for construction of a community centre.In its proposed e-auction of built-up commercial properties and residential plots in various colonies to be held on August 12, 2021, the LIT had offered for sale five plots (four measuring 150 sq yd each and one corner plot with an area of 200 sq yd) in the chunk of land reserved for a school site. The LIT authorities had claimed that the layout plan of the pocket of land was duly amended and change of land use also approved by the government for conversion into residential plots.However, the residents had taken strong exception to the arbitrary decision of the LIT, while claiming that after the land could not be sold for construction of a school, the LIT authorities had accepted the proposal for construction of a community centre at this site.Terming the conversion of land into residential plots as injustice inflicted on the residents, an area resident, SK Pathak, had moved a local court seeking relief against the ‘arbitrary’ and ‘unjust’ decision of the trust authorities.In an order passed on July 27, the court of Judicial Magistrate Geeta Rani relied on the evidence produced by the petitioner that the land, earlier reserved for a school, was to be used for construction of a community centre for the welfare of the residents. She said, “Therefore, the act of the defendant (conversion of land into residential plots) is arbitrary, unnecessary and also against the welfare of the residents. The court is of the opinion that the plaintiff, being a resident of E-block of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, is having a right to be heard or to make representation before putting the suit land in the auction being the occupant of adjoining land.”The judge said, “From the documents on record, it is prima facie established that suit land in question was earmarked for construction of primary school which was later proposed for construction of a community centre. The decision of the defendant made unilaterally for the ultimate use of plot allotting to private persons for their residence purpose without hearing the residents of the said locality is against the principle of natural justice. Hence, defendant is hereby restrained from converting the suit land for any other purposem except it was earmarked for, till next date of hearing (on August 6, 2021).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/court-stays-e-auction-of-five-residential-plots-on-school-site-in-shaheed-bhagat-singh-nagar-colony-290902
31-07-2021||Sports Correspondent||Gymkhana Club lads, Doraha Public School girls record wins||Ludhiana, July 30Gymkhana Club and Doraha Public School recorded victories in the boys and girls sections, respectively, on the opening day of the Ludhiana District Sub-Junior and Youth Basketball Championship for Boys and Girls which started at Guru Nanak Stadium here on Friday.In the boys U-17 category, Gymkhana Club players proved too good for their opponents from International Public School whom they outperformed 22-10 in which Abhey was the highest scorer who sank in 10 baskets.Likewise, in the girls’ youth category, Doraha Public School defeated BIS Club 15-10. Sanjot Kaur contributed 9 points to steer her side to wrap up the issue.In other matches, DAV Club beat BIS Kids Club 29-10 in the sub-junior boys’ section, while BIS Club outclassed DAV Club 56-37 in the girls’ youth category and Doraha Public School overpowered DAV Club 33-20.Earlier, JP Singh, president, District Basketball Association, Ludhiana, declared the championship open in which over thirty teams are taking part. Teja Singh Dhalial and Vijay Chopra, general secretary and vice president, respectively of the Punjab Basketball Association were guests of honour on the occasion.Office-bearers of the organising body, including Sukhbir Dhaliwal, general secretary, besides Somesh Chadha, Paramvir Bhogal and Avinish Aggarwal were also present there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gymkhana-club-lads-doraha-public-school-girls-record-wins-290903
31-07-2021||---||Residents protest as sewers overflow at Kirpal Nagar in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, July 30Residents of Kirpal Nagar in Ward No. 58 held a protest here on Friday as the Municipal Corporation (MC) Ludhiana has reportedly failed to resolve the problem of overflowing sewers. They said choked and overflowing sewers in the area were being ignored despite repeated complaints.They demanded that the civic body authorities resolve the problem at the earliest. Pawan Kumar, a resident of the area, said they had been complaining about the non-functional sewer system for a long time but to no avail. Residents were falling ill in the area while chances of water contamination always remained high.The protesters said water remained accumulated outside their houses and it was difficult even to step out.Suresh Goyal, president of Ludhiana AAP (urban), also participated in the protest. He said if the issue was not permanently resolved at the earliest, they would be forced to hold a larger protest.Councillor Rajesh Jain said MC staff was working to resolve the issue and it would be done by tomorrow. MC Superintending Engineer Rajinder Singh said they had deployed staff to clean the sewers with machines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/residents-protest-as-sewers-overflow-at-kirpal-nagar-in-ludhiana-290904
31-07-2021||Ludhiana||PSPCL to shift industrial connections free of cost||In keeping with the policy of the Punjab Government to encourage shifting of industries from residential areas or other non-conforming zones to approved industrial parks or industrial estates by October next year, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has taken a policy decision to shift connections of all such units without any additional charges. The concession would be available to the eligible industrial consumers for a period of one year (till July 26, 2022). In a commercial circular   PSPCL Chief Engineer (Commercial) has said that this one-time facility was being extended in accordance with a notification issued by the Department of Power (Energy Branch), Government of Punjab, with the objective of facilitating shifting of industries from residential and mix-land use areas to designated industrial areas. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pspcl-to-shift-industrial-connections-free-of-cost-290905
31-07-2021||Mahesh Sharma
||Villagers flay poor waste water disposal facility||Raikot, July 30 Residents of Hissowal village under Sudhar Development Block of the Ludhiana district have sought intervention of the district administration for provision of waste water disposal facility in the locality. Residents alleged that the sewerage treatment disposal tank constructed in the village in violation of extant instructions of the government had started leaking due to damage to its wall. They have demanded resumption of the old sewage treatment pond that was constructed 14 years ago. The village panchayat, led by Sarpanch Jaspreet Singh, maintained that the civic body had only provided land for construction of sewerage tanks and all decisions about construction and repair were being taken by the Panchayati Raj Department officials. Villagers, led by retired SDO Harmel Singh Saroya, lamented that the administration had not bothered to take remedial actions on their repeated complaints about the looming threat due to inadequate functioning of the sewerage system. “While extant instructions ban construction of sewerage treatment plant within 1 km of habitation, the department violated the instruction by constructing the tank in front of village school and along the village dharamsala,” Saroya rued. He alleged that the material used in constructing the tank was of poor quality,  resulting in leakage of untreated water and damage to its walls. He regretted that all complaints made to the Sudhar Block Development Panchayat Office and the office of the Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner had fallen on deaf ears. The retired SDO urged the higher authorities to conduct an inquiry into the sequence of events leading to the present state of affairs regarding mismanagement of waste water at the village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/villagers-flay-poor-waste-water-disposal-facility-290906
31-07-2021||Ludhiana||Poor road: Councillor from Ward 26 stages protest||Councillor from Ward 26 Surjit Singh Rai, along with his supporters, staged a protest over the poor condition of 33 Feet Road today.The councillor said earlier, pits for road gullies were dug up but the road was not recarpeted despite repeated demands of residents. He said the work on the road was stalled three months ago but not resumed till date. He has also written to the Mayor in this regard.He said: “On Wednesday, a child fell in a pit on the road. Due to the negligence of the civic body, people are facing a lot of inconvenience. The road is currently in a pathetic condition and mishaps are occurring due to the same. Hence, we are forced to hold a protest as the road was not being recarpeted.”In November 2020, the councillor, along with supporters, had also staged a protest against the MC, Ludhiana, and the Congress government for delaying the recarpeting work of 33 Feet Road. Questions are being raised as to why the civic body is delaying the project. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/poor-road-councillor-from-ward-26-stages-protest-290907
31-07-2021||---||GADVASU releases Act, Statutes||Ludhiana, July 30Inderjeet Singh, Vice-Chancellor, GADVASU, released the maiden edition of the Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University Act, 2005 and Statutes, 2021. The newly compiled Act and Statutes was discussed in a meeting of the Board of Management (BoM) of the university. The Act and Statutes took in its ambit the rules encompassing various new procedures and processes and amendments enacted over the period encompassing statutes for establishment of Directorate of Human Resource Management, Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) policy, handing over the charge, implementation of New Career Advancement Scheme, rules for employment of non-teaching staff, sabbatical leave, etc for smooth functioning of the university.The VC said the Statutes conglomerated with the University Act, 2005, comprising comprehensive rules and underpinning the procedures, and would serve as a living blueprint for the faculty and staff of the university to streamline the functioning of routine administrative and/or academic pursuits for overall ascendancy of the university.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gadvasu-releases-act-statutes-290908
31-07-2021||Manav Mander||Only two session sites for Covaxin, Ludhiana residents harried||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 30Residents wanting to get the second dose of Covaxin are a harried lot these days as only two session sites are left for its administration. Unaware of where to get the vaccine, people are visiting various session sites across the city while the vaccine is being administered only at Civil Surgeon’s Office and Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC), Model Town.Kokila’s second dose is due since two weeks. She got her first dose from UPHC, Sunet, and is visiting the same to get her second dose but in vain.“Earlier, the staff asked me to enquire after a few days, but now I am being told to go to Model Town for my second dose. It is not possible for me to go there. Sunet is close to my home but going to Model Town means both me and my husband will have to take half day leave, which is not possible. Now I don’t know how will I complete my vaccination,” Kokila said.Sarita, another city resident, rued that she got her vaccination from UPHC, Bhagwan Nagar, but now they did not have the vaccine stock. “I have visited the health centre but the staff is not able to answer my queries regarding availability of the vaccine,” she said.Pankaj Sethi, a businessman, said “The department should have administered only Covishield. I got Covaxin and now it is not available at the site near me. I cannot travel with Covaxin as it is not approved by the WHO and on the other hand, I have not even completed my vaccination. The situation is proving to be double whammy for me”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/only-two-session-sites-for-covaxin-ludhiana-residents-harried-290909
31-07-2021||Ludhiana||PAU signs pact for biogas plant||Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) has collaborated with Sunny Engineering Works, Patiala, for commercialisation of modified PAU fixed dome type janta model biogas plant having capacity from 25 m3/day to 500 m3/day technology. NS Bains, Director of Research, PAU, and Sunny Engineering Works, Patiala, signed the memorandum of agreement (MoA) on behalf of their organisations. Rajan Aggarwal, head, department of renewable energy engineering, said the technology helped in getting economical fuel, manure and maintaining cleanliness, especially, during rainy season.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pau-signs-pact-for-biogas-plant-290910
31-07-2021||Ludhiana||MC Commissioner forms team to check sale of single-use plastic in Ludhiana||MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal has formed a special team to check the sale and use of single-use plastic from August 1. The team comprising 13 members will be headed by MC Secretary Jasdev Singh Sekhon. It will ensure action against the sale and use of single-use plastic, including carry bags, in the city from August 1.After waterlogging occurred in various parts of the city, Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu had announced to impose a complete ban on the use of plastic carry bags from August 1. He had claimed that the dumping of plastic bags was a big reason behind the choking of sewer lines and road gullies in various localities. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mc-commissioner-forms-team-to-check-sale-of-single-use-plastic-in-ludhiana-290911
31-07-2021||Our Correspondent
||Ahmedgarh MC to hold sangat darshan regularly||Mandi Ahmedgarh, July 30 The Malerkotla District Administration has announced to hold regular sangat darshan programmes for expeditious redressal of grievances of residents in general and beneficiaries of social welfare schemes being launched by the government from time to time. Additional Deputy Commissioner Rajesh Tripathi, during a meeting of councillors held today, said the maiden sangat darshan camp would be organised at Municipal Town Hall on August 5. Councillors, led by Municipal Council chief Vikas Tandon, vowed to play an active role in identifying genuine beneficiaries of various schemes and enabling residents to lead a dignified life by providing ideal civic amenities. Municipal Council executive officer Chandar Prakash Wadhwa said the ADC had called upon the councillors and officials of the civic body to ensure that residents were provided the best civic amenities and beneficiaries of various welfare schemes received their dues without hassle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ahmedgarh-mc-to-hold-sangat-darshan-regularly-290912
31-07-2021||Ludhiana||Wife, paramour arrested for man’s murder||The Dehlon police have arrested a woman along with her paramour on the charges of killing her husband. The accused have been identified as Pancha Devi (45), her paramour Bengali Raut (46) of Jaspal Bangar village.Yesterday, the body of the victim, Vinod Kumar (45), was found in the bushes on Gill Road. It had severe head injuries. ADCP Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said when the police started a probe, the role of the deceased’s wife was found suspicious and further probe found illicit relationship of the woman with Bengali of same village.Bengali confessed that he had an illicit relationship with Pancha for a long time and recently, her husband had caught them in an objectionable position so they decided to kill him.On the night of July 27, he hit a heavy stick on the head of the deceased. After killing him, his body was thrown in the bushes on Gill Road. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/wife-paramour-arrested-for-mans-murder-290913
31-07-2021||Ludhiana||GLADA gets new addl chief administrator||Sandeep Kumar, Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC - Urban Development), Ludhiana, today took over the charge of Additional Chief Administrator (ACA) of Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA).  While assuming the office, the 2015-batch IAS officer said he would accord top priority to further implementing the policies and schemes of the Punjab government regarding urban areas in a better and effective manner.  All out efforts would be made to provide clean, transparent and responsive administration to the people and no stone would be left unturned to ensure the progress of the district and prosperity of its residents.  —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/glada-gets-new-addl-chief-administrator-290914
31-07-2021||Nitin Jain||Decline in dengue cases, Ludhiana reports only 5||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 30The incidence of dengue, a mosquito-borne viral disease occurring in tropical and subtropical areas, has registered a major decline in the state this year as only 64 cases have been reported so far as compared to 8,435 patients logged last year, the government has confirmed.However, no death due to dengue has been logged in the state this year so far.Ludhiana has reported only five dengue cases so far, which is fifth highest in the state, the official figures have revealed.The data compiled by the Health and Family Welfare Department, which is available with The Tribune, revealed that Muktsar reported the maximum of 12 dengue cases this year so far, followed by Mohali 11, Pathankot 8, Tarn Taran 6, Kapurthala 4, Gurdaspur and Fatehgarh Sahib 3 each, Nawanshahr, Bathinda and Amritsar 2 each, Sangrur, Patiala, Moga, Hoshiarpur, Ferozepur and Barnala 1 each.However, five districts — Ropar, Mansa, Jalandhar, Fazilka and Faridkot — logged no dengue case this year so far.The urban-rural categorisation of the dreaded disease suggested that urban areas have been reporting maximum dengue cases in the state for the past seven years.This year, 84 per cent cases were registered in urban and 16 per cent in rural areas, while 82 per cent urban and 18 per cent rural in 2020, 65 per cent urban and 35 per cent rural in 2019, 70 per cent urban and 30 per cent rural in 2018, 75 per cent urban and 25 per cent rural in 2017, 71 per cent urban and 29 per cent rural in 2016, and 81 per cent urban and 19 per cent rural cases were reported in the state in 2015.The year-wise trend of the dreaded disease in the state showed that the incidence of dengue registered a major jump in 2015 when 14,149 cases and 28 deaths due to it were reported in the state. This was up from only 472 cases and 25 dengue deaths logged in the state in 2014.In the past five years, the incidence of dengue remained high with 10,439 cases and 15 deaths in 2016, 15,398 cases and 18 deaths in 2017, 14,980 cases and 18 deaths in 2018, 10,170 cases and 14 deaths in 2019, 8,435 cases and 22 deaths in 2020, and 62 cases and no death due to dengue in the state so far this year.The official figures revealed that a maximum of 33 deaths due to dengue were reported in the state in 2012, while the highest number of 15,398 cases were registered in 2017.National trend also downThis year, the incidence of dengue registered a major decline in the country as well. So far, 6,837 cases and two deaths due to dengue were reported in India this year as compared to 39,419 cases and 56 cases in 2020; 1,57,315 cases and 166 deaths in 2019; 1,01,192 cases and 172 deaths in 2018; the highest-ever 1,88,401 cases and a maximum of 325 deaths in 2017; 1,29,166 cases and 245 deaths in 2016; 99,913 cases and 220 deaths in 2015; 40,571 cases and 137 deaths in 2014; 75,808 cases and 193 deaths in 2013; 50,222 cases and 242 deaths in 2012; 18,860 cases and 169 deaths in 2011; 28,292 cases and 110 deaths in 2010; 15,535 cases and 96 deaths in 2009; 12,561 cases and 80 deaths in 2008; 5,534 cases and 69 deaths in 2007; and 12,317 cases and 184 deaths in 2006.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/decline-in-dengue-cases-ludhiana-reports-only-5-290891
31-07-2021||Harshraj Singh
||Breach in Ludhiana's Buddha Nullah yet to be plugged||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, July 30 Even days after about 40-45 feet-long breach occurred on the banks of the Buddha Nullah near Talwara village, the stinking and polluted water of the drain is still flowing into fields. The breach could not be plugged even today as a large amount of water got accumulated in the fields adjoining the damaged embankment area. Officials of the Drainage Department on Friday visited the site and they said the breach would be plugged once the water level get reduced in the drain and adjoining fields. Meanwhile, the department staff was deployed to fill sand in bags to be placed at the damaged site. The residents of Talwara, Bagga Khurd and nearby Rajowal were still worried as they said the nullah’s polluted water could cause more destruction if the breach was not plugged at the earliest. They were keeping an eye on the water level in the drain day and night. The residents said the breach on the banks had occurred over a week ago, flooding the fields with polluted water when heavy rainfall lashed the city. “When the matter was brought into the notice of the officials concerned, a team had also visited the site. An official had then asked the villagers to contribute funds for the repair of the damaged portion as he claimed the department concerned had a shortage of funds. The damaged portion of the bank was not immediately repaired. Thus, a large amount of more polluted water entered the fields when rain lashed two days ago, damaging the paddy crops in more fields. The water from the nullah is still flowing towards the fields”, said Sonu of Talwara village. Satwinder Singh Bittu of Bagga Khurd said: “The work should be done on a war footing to plug the breach, otherwise if rainfall lashes again, people will have to suffer more. The nullah’s polluted water has already reached the fields of three villages — Talwara, Bagga Khurd and Rajjowal. We can’t even reach some fields due to the accumulation of black-coloured stinking water. We also want compensation should be paid to those whose crops have got damaged.” The villagers said a large amount of trash had collected near Jainpur village bridge due to which water in the drain was not flowing properly, resulting in damaging the embankment. When the breach occurred, the water flow was too high as it washed away a big portion of the adjoining panchayat land too, they said. On the other hand, the executive engineer of the Drainage Department, Harjot Singh Walia, blamed some villagers for the breach. He said the land adjoining the damaged bank portion was earlier excavated by some persons due to which the incident took place. He said the department was making all efforts to get the breach plugged as soon as possible. The executive engineer said he had already talked to the higher authorities for arranging a budget for the repair of the damaged portion of the embankment. Drainage Department SDO Rakesh Kumar said they would make an approach way to reach the damaged site of the bank and then work would be started to repair the damaged bank portion. Meanwhile, DC Varinder Kumar Sharma said instructions had been issued to the officials concerned to take action in the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/breach-in-ludhianas-buddha-nullah-yet-to-be-plugged-290892
31-07-2021||Ludhiana||Special Task Force wing of Ludhiana nabs truck driver with heroin||The Special Task Force (STF) wing of Ludhiana nabbed a truck driver and recovered 310 gm of heroin from him.He has been identified as Shamsher Singh Bunty (27) of Jandiala Guru.STF Ludhiana in-charge Harbans Singh said a police party was on the way to Tarn Taran and when they reached near the Jalandhar bypass, they got a tip-off following which they arrested the suspect with heroin.During questioning, he confessed that he used to buy heroin from a big supplier, Chacha, a resident of Amritsar. The STF launched further probe in the case to bust the entire supply line. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/special-task-force-wing-of-ludhiana-nabs-truck-driver-with-heroin-290893
31-07-2021||---||‘Duped’ by travel agent couple, Khanna-based man ends life||Ludhiana, July 30A Khanna-based man, who was allegedly duped by a travel agent couple of Rs 65,000, ended his life by consuming some poisonous substance at his home.The accused have been identified as Randhir Singh, alias Goldy, a resident of Rasulra village in Khanna and his wife.Complainant Hardeep Singh of Bagli Kalan village told the police that two years back his brother Ravideep Singh wanted to go Dubai on work visa and he had met the travel agent couple, who assured to arrange visa and took Rs 65,000 from him.Despite taking money, the accused failed to arrange visa and when after years his brother asked the agents to return his money, they refused.“On July 22, my brother told me that when he went to take his passport and money from the accused travel agent couple they behaved rudely and even thrashed him. Thereafter my brother consumed some poisonous substance to end his life,” alleged deceased’s brother Hardeep.Hardeep further said that he rushed his brother to hospital and after taking medicines they came back home. On July 25, the condition of my brother again deteriorated and he was rushed to the hospital where he breathed his last, Hardeep said.ASI Sukhdev Singh said that a case under abetment of suicide had been registered against the travel agent couple and raids were on to nab them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/duped-by-travel-agent-couple-khanna-based-man-ends-life-290894
31-07-2021||---||Minor gangraped, 2 brothers booked in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, July 30The Ludhiana police have booked two brothers for gang-raping their minor sister for several months at their residence in Guru Gobind Singh Nagar.Harjit Kaur, a teacher at a school on the Barota road, told the police that the 15-year-old girl was her student. Her brothers also study in the same school.“On July 27, the girl came to me and started crying. When I asked her the reason, she revealed that her two brothers had been raping her for months at home during the lockdown. She could not garner courage to reveal about the exploitation to her family,” the teacher revealed.Investigation officer SI Jaspreet Kaur of Shimlapuri Police Station said a case of gangrape under Section 376-D of the IPC and under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act had been registered against the accused and raids were being conducted to nab them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/minor-gangraped-2-brothers-booked-in-ludhiana-290895
31-07-2021||Ludhiana||Four test +ve in Ludhiana||Four persons tested positive for Covid, while no death due to the disease was reported in the district today. The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 97.54 per cent. Now only 52 active patients are there in the district. Total five patients — four from Ludhiana district and one from other states/districts — tested positive in the last 24 hours. The total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 87,296, while 11,607 patients belong to other districts/states. The total number of persons who lost their lives to the disease is 2,093 from Ludhiana and 1,047 from other districts. Till date, 19,92,120 samples have been taken and reports of all samples have been received. As many as 18,93,217 samples were found negative. Samples of 7,381 suspected patients were sent for testing today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/four-test-ve-in-ludhiana-290896
31-07-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Girls rule CBSE Class XII results again||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 30Results of the CBSE Class XII examinations, prepared on the basis of last three years’ performance, were declared by the board this afternoon. Physical exams were not held this year due to the pandemic. Once again, girls bagged the top positions.Ishroop Kaur Brar, a student of Sacred Heart Senior Secondary School, Sarabha Nagar, has scored 99.8 per cent marks, maximum amongst all streams. She is a student of humanities. Arshia Bansal of the same school has scored 99.2 per cent marks in commerce stream and Karanvir Singh Jhajj has scored 99.2 per cent marks in medical. Besides, Daman Dang from DAV Pakhowal and Kalpa from DAV BRS have scored 99.2 per cent marks in commerce stream.Not all happy with criteriaSchools have compiled the results on the basis of past performance of the students in Class X, XI and XII on 30:30:40 per cent basis. While majority of the students are elated with this procedure, many students are unhappy over the criteria because they feel that they had put in a lot of hard work in Class XI and XII as compared to Class X.In medical stream, Sayam Gupta and Khushbu Sharma from DAV BRS Nagar have also scored 99.2 per cent marks.In non-medical stream, Once Kaur from KVM scored maximum 99.2 per cent marks.In other streams, such as mass media, financial market management and food production, three students from BCM Arya School — Muskan Goel, Pareksha Sachdeva and Prapti Narag — have scored 98.6, 98.6 and 98.4 per cent, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/girls-rule-cbse-class-xii-results-again-290897
31-07-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Ishroop Kaur Brar scores overall maximum marks, wants to be civil servant||Talking to The Tribune, Ishroop said she wanted to be a civil servant. Though studies were online but her teachers and principal were very helpful in resolving the issues and problems being faced by the students. Her mother, Rana Brar, is a homemaker while father Maninderpal Singh Brar is a senior manager with Markfed. Her mother said Ishroop had topped her school in Class X while in Class XI she had scored 96.5 per cent marks. Meanwhile, Once Kaur from Kundan Vidya Mandir has scored 99.2 per cent marks in non medical, breaking the state record of the past 10 years in non-medical stream. Navita Puri, principal of Kundan Vidya Mandir, congratulated Once Kaur on her achievement. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-ishroop-kaur-brar-scores-overall-maximum-marks-wants-to-be-civil-servant-290898
31-07-2021||---||Servant abducts 6-yr-old from Rorh village in Meharban, demands Rs 4 lakh ransom||Ludhiana, July 30A migrant kidnapped a six-year-old child of Rorh village in Meharban today and demanded Rs 4 lakh ransom. The kidnapper was employed as a servant by the child’s family a few days ago.The accused has also taken away a scooter and CCTV cameras of the area have captured him doing so. The child’s parents are disabled and they had employed the migrant to take care of their cattle.As per the boy’s mother, the migrant was employed five days ago.On Thursday evening, he said he wanted to go to the market to buy a phone charger and took the child along.“I never thought that he would do something like that. When over two hours passed and they did not return, we started searching for them. As we reached the forest area in Mattehwara this morning, we found our scooter but my son was not there,” the boy’s mother added.Sonu Sarpanch, a relative of the boy, said the location of the accused was found to be Nawanshahr this morning and a police team have rushed there.“He also sent a message demanding Rs 4 lakh ransom. When we asked him the place where the ransom was to be delivered, he switched off the phone,” Sonu added.The police said teams were on a hunt and the boy would be recovered soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/servant-abducts-6-yr-old-from-rorh-village-in-meharban-demands-rs-4-lakh-ransom-290899
31-07-2021||---||PSEB declares Class XII results, no merit list issued||Ludhiana, July 30The Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) declared Class XII results today in which the overall result of government schools was 98.05 per cent this year. A total of 16,61,84 students passed the examinations, the percentage of which was determined on the basis of past performance of the students.In Ludhiana district, 34,092 students had appeared for the exams, out of which 33,385 passed and the pass percentage of the district was 97.93 per cent.However, the students did not look much enthusiastic this time, because neither a merit list was issued nor toppers were declared by the Board. Amongst all districts, Rupnagar has performed best with 99.57 per cent results.Teachers felt that because of Covid-19, students had to face many difficulties initially as many did not have smartphones or there were network issues while some poor and needy families had started sending their wards for work. “But still, they managed and passed by getting good marks,” a school teacher said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pseb-declares-class-xii-results-no-merit-list-issued-290900
31-07-2021||Ludhiana||Auto driver ends life, two financiers booked||A 49-year-old auto-rickshaw driver committed suicide due to the alleged harassment by two financiers.The duo have been identified as Pintu and Santosh, residents of Dholewal.Complainant Sunita, wife of the deceased and resident of New Balmiki Colony, told the police that her husband Manjit Singh had financed an auto-rickshaw through the accused. Despite clearing all instalments, the financiers were asking for more money and they had been mentally torturing him.On July 13, the health of her husband deteriorated and he breathed his last. Later, when his wallet was checked, the suicide note was recovered in which he held the two accused responsible for his death.SI Rachpal Singh said on the basis of the suicide note, a case of abetment to suicide was registered against him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/auto-driver-ends-life-two-financiers-booked-290901
31-07-2021||Ludhiana||CBSE Class XII results: Ludhiana, Amritsar girls joint toppers||The results of Class XII, prepared on the basis of last three years’ performance due to the Covid pandemic, were declared by the CBSE today. Two students, namely Ishroop Kaur Brar, from Sacred Heart Senior Secondary School, Sarabha Nagar, Ludhiana, and Vanshika Aggarwal from DAV Public School, Amritsar, scored highest 99.8 per cent marks in humanities and commerce streams, respectively.A student of DAV Public School, Amritsar, Vanshika now plans to aim for SRCC and prepare for CA. “If examinations were held, I was confident of scoring above 95 per cent. But this result was unexpected. The fact that I had good academic performance in Class XI throughout helped me today.”Ishroop Kaur said she was confident of getting good marks because in Classes X, XI and XII, she had scored well consistently. She wants to become an IAS officer. She said despite hard times due to Covid, her schoolteachers motivated her and solved all queries.Besides, Gagandeep Kaur, from Senior Study II, Amritsar, scored big with 99.6 per cent marks in commerce stream. She stood second in the state. In the non-medical stream, Once Kaur from KVM, Ludhiana, scored the maximum 99.2 per cent marks. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cbse-class-xii-results-ludhiana-amritsar-girls-joint-toppers-290623
