05-10-2020||Editorials||Unravelling the Bihar puzzle | HT Editorial||What appeared to be a predictable election in Bihar has suddenly taken a turn. National Democratic Alliance (NDA) partners — the Nitish Kumar-led Janata Dal (United) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) — have arrived at a tentative seat-sharing arrangement, but the third pillar of this alliance, the Ram Vilas Paswan-led Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), has decided to contest separately. Intriguingly, the LJP will remain a part of the central government; it has declared that its battle is with Mr Kumar and not with the BJP; it will contest on seats where JD(U) candidates are in the fray and avoid challenging the BJP; and it has reiterated its loyalty to Narendra Modi.The key to unravelling this puzzle is understanding the state of the Opposition. With Lalu Prasad out of action, Tejaswi Prasad unable to match up, and the Congress remaining marginal, there is a sense that the Opposition is not really in a position to displace the NDA. This has shifted the locus of the competition — from one between the ruling alliance and the Opposition to one within parties of the ruling alliance to enhance the strike rate in elections and maximise their post-poll bargaining position. Within the NDA, there is simmering resentment against Nitish Kumar in the BJP, which sees itself as the natural claimant for leadership in Bihar and believes Mr Modi’s popularity is enough to see it win power. The fact that Mr Kumar is facing serious anti-incumbency has only emboldened this view — but the BJP does not want to take the risk of a repeat of 2015, when Mr Kumar tied up with Lalu Yadav, and wants to keep JD(U) locked in till the election at least. The competition is also happening with an eye towards a post-Nitish Kumar landscape. From the BJP to Chirag Paswan to Tejaswi Yadav, the aim is to capture future political space.It is important not to overestimate the LJP. It is a relatively small party; its social base is limited to the Paswan caste, found in limited pockets; and its recent electoral success is primarily due to its association with Mr Modi. But the fact that the BJP is both a part of the incumbent formation, asking for votes for the continued leadership of Nitish Kumar, and has a friendly party in the Opposition, asking for votes to displace Nitish Kumar, means that Bihar’s election — and post-election scenario — may throw up surprises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/unravelling-the-bihar-puzzle-ht-editorial/story-oLWZQZXlInjrrdqBrc16iJ.html
05-10-2020||Editorials||End the conspiracy theories, now | HT Editorial||The forensic team of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has, according to media reports citing the doctor leading the team, concluded that Sushant Singh Rajput died by suicide. While the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is proceeding with its own enquiries, the AIIMS finding should put an end to the unfortunate and almost absurd drama that came to accompany Rajput’s tragic death.As this newspaper has argued, Rajput’s suicide should have been a moment to have a serious conversation in this country about mental health. Instead, elaborate conspiracy theories were constructed — placing the blame on either a set of powerful Bollywood figures or on Rajput’s partner, actor Rhea Chakraborty, or both. Television channels were at the forefront of declaring that Rajput’s death was, in fact, murder. Politicians, especially in Bihar, and of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, jumped into the fray — the former with an eye on the upcoming state elections and the latter with possibly a desire to send a message to cultural and movie figures to fall in line. The Maharashtra and Bihar police fought with each other. The judiciary stepped in. Drug and money laundering investigations were kicked off. And Ms Chakraborty was arrested.All of this was premised on the belief that Rajput was either murdered — it is now clear that there was no murder — or driven to suicide, all on the basis of almost non-existent evidence and an outright ignorance of mental health issues. India’s news television channels owe their audience an apology; politicians who stepped into the fray should introspect and pull back; and investigative agencies should learn to focus on their core job.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/end-the-conspiracy-theories-now-ht-editorial/story-41zv2aipEEvQLelozK0D9K.html
