12-10-2020||Editorials||There is an environment of fear in India. The State must renew the commitment to rights||Indian democracy has always been a work in progress. There is no doubt that unlike most post-colonial democracies, the idea of representative democracy, elections, free speech, free association and rule of law took deeper root in India. But while there may be a difference in degree, there has never been a golden period where individual rights were sacrosanct and protected as rigorously as the original drafters of the Constitution had in mind. This was symbolised in Jawaharlal Nehru’s push to bring in the first amendment, which restricted the scope for fundamental rights, Indira Gandhi’s Emergency, Rajiv Gandhi’s attempts at bringing in the anti-defamation bill, the curtailment of individual liberty under anti-terror laws, the fact that perpetrators of even mass crimes have often got away, and the crackdown on free expression for the fear of offending sensitivities. So no regime can claim it has been truly democratic.Yet, even in the backdrop of this mixed history, what appears to be happening now is an almost unprecedented attack on civil liberties of citizens, especially those citizens who the government finds inconvenient. From Bhima Koregaon to the Delhi riots, from the 2016 episode in Jawaharlal Nehru University to the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests to even Hathras, there appears to be a pattern where the fundamental right of citizens to life and liberty is increasingly under strain. If, in the past, political protection enabled distortions in the justice system to protect the powerful, what is now happening is that the political regime is using the justice system not just to protect its own, but to frame others under serious charges from sedition to inciting violence.The action against a range of intellectuals and activists and journalists — Sudha Bharadwaj, Anand Teltumbde, Stan Swamy, Apoorvanand, Harsh Mander are among the better-known examples — indicates that the space for free expression and dissent is jeopardised. It gives rise to apprehensions that the political dispensation does not view criticism as an essential ingredient of democracy. It empowers the police to be vindictive rather than fair. It erodes the rule of law. And it creates fear. This is not to suggest that critics must not be held accountable for any illegal or unlawful activity; nor is it to endorse the viewpoints of many of these activists. But it does mean that the regime must revise its approach and deepen its commitment to rights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/there-is-an-environment-of-fear-in-india-the-state-must-renew-the-commitment-to-rights/story-rVpiDb8UDZhrGzmhBlZjhO.html
12-10-2020||Editorials||The economy is still fragile | HT Editorial||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI)’s Monetary Policy Committee (MPC), in its first forecast after the Covid-19 pandemic, has projected a 9.5% contraction for the Indian economy in the current fiscal year. This number is in line with other projections and should settle the debate about the impact of the pandemic on the economy, for it is now clear that the Indian economy is going to face its worst-ever contraction. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das also ruled out any V-shaped recovery — which reflects an immediate revival in growth — and indicated that different sectors will follow different revival trajectories and the overall performance will be a sum of these parts. He also acknowledged the possibility of a second wave of the pandemic derailing the ongoing gradual revival from the 23.9% contractionary shock in the first quarter of the current fiscal year.The crux of RBI’s assessment is that while the worst is over, the economy is not out of the woods yet. Policy intervention, going forward, needs to have two objectives. It should ensure that things do not get worse. This will require controlling the pandemic (there is little RBI can do in this regard) and mitigating the impact of the pandemic’s current and future economic shocks on important economic institutions. The ongoing Supreme Court case where RBI is arguing against a stay on classifying loan defaults as non-performing assets is a critical factor vis-à-vis financial sector stability. Another factor, which has been highlighted by economist Pranjul Bhandari, is the risk of India facing another taper tantrum-like situation in the near future as advanced economies raise interest rates and inflation proves to be more than a transitory phase in India. A capital flight triggered by the coming together of these two factors could give a jolt to the stock market, which crossed the psychological 40,000-mark once again last week.To be sure, the government has undertaken critical reforms in sectors such as agriculture and labour during this period. This newspaper believes that they have the potential to unleash long-term gains. Any such gains, however, can be jeopardised if India’s financial sector problems, especially growing bad debt in banks is not addressed. If there is one lesson from India’s experience after the 2008 economic crisis and its aftermath, it is that a credit boost to unviable businesses cannot lead to a sustainable growth revival. This is also why the question of boosting demand continues to be critical.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-economy-is-still-fragile-ht-editorial/story-836pClZZEz0MvBeCoqjv3O.html
12-10-2020||Editorials||A reminder for China: India is free | HT Editorial||Last week, the Chinese embassy in India issued an advisory to the Indian media — asking it to follow the Government of India’s position on the Taiwan question and not violate the one-China policy. The advisory came in the run up to Taiwan’s National Day on Saturday. This, legitimately, sparked outrage among Indian journalists. It also prompted the ministry of external affairs to say that the Indian media is free and reports on issues as it sees fit. This was then, followed, with the appearance of posters greeting Taiwan in Delhi’s key diplomatic enclave, put up by a local Delhi leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). With the embassy complaining, they were taken down, but only because they weren’t authorised.The episode reflects the undemocratic orientation of the Chinese embassy — much in line with the nature of the one-party regime in China. India is a proud democracy. It has a free and vibrant media. There is a healthy foreign policy debate conducted out in the open. Beijing’s actions in recent years, and its military aggression in Ladakh, have antagonised the Indian street. There is today a strong view that India must speak up against Chinese efforts to institute its hegemony. The media will, as it must, give space to these views. The government will, as it must, respect diplomatic norms. In fact, many would suggest that it has too cautious in its approach to Chinese sensitivities. But the media is within its right to flag issues, and expand the foreign policy discourse. China should not think it can do in India what it does in its own country, and suppress the media. If it wants goodwill among Indians, it should instead reform its behaviour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/a-reminder-for-china-india-is-free-ht-editorial/story-eMkbVPTrvcFdnB97ceqGgN.html
