13-10-2020||Editorials||The new culture wars | HT Editorial||Thirty-four of Bollywood’s top production companies, many helmed by the biggest stars, and four industry bodies, on Monday, filed a lawsuit in the Delhi High Court against “media trials”. They have also sought directions against two news channels, seen as close to the ruling dispensation, for their “irresponsible, defamatory and derogatory” remarks against Bollywood and its personalities. Select media coverage, in the wake of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s suicide, portrayed the industry as a den of crime, drugs, and nepotism.The case is significant for two distinct reasons. One, it will throw open the question of free speech and its limits. While it is tempting to frame the issue only in terms of free expression — and media platforms must be allowed to publish and broadcast all forms of investigative stories and diverse views — the fact is that this right to free speech comes with a degree of responsibility as constitutionally stipulated. To accuse people of murder, without any evidence, cannot be constructed as free speech. Some media outlets have also, often, provided a platform for hate speech. While the State cannot be trusted to regulate the media — for it will become a way to exercise control — self-regulation has failed too. The case must trigger a conversation on the need for a statutory-but-independent regulatory mechanism for television news.India is also in the midst of a larger culture war. The political Right, which believes it is through culture that society and eventually politics is shaped, appears to view Bollywood as representative of the ancient regime, with its focus on pluralism and the presence of liberals as well as Muslim figures. The fact that the industry has a range of underlying issues — from a history of shady financing to nepotism — allows the Right to stoke public distrust. The effort appears to be to delegitimise existing Bollywood power structures and create a parallel, more pliant, “nationalist” industry which will shape ideological and cultural consciousness as desired by dominant political actors. This newspaper does not endorse any illegal activity that may be taking place in the film industry. But the fact is that Bollywood has been an internal unifying thread for citizens, a secular space, an important economic hub generating employment and revenue, and a huge asset for India’s soft power. It may need reform, but to paint the industry as evil is both wrong and dangerous. Bollywood unifying to defend itself is positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-new-culture-wars-ht-editorial/story-rwGehnGgBjFsbBtBErFL1H.html
13-10-2020||Editorials||Article 370 and 35-A: Why Farooq Abdullah is wrong | HT Editorial||Former Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) chief minister and National Conference (NC) chief Farooq Abdullah, while reiterating his opposition to the constitutional changes in J&K, particularly the effective nullification of Article 370, spoke about how China has opposed the changes too. He, then, added that, “May Allah wish that our people get help from their might and our Articles 370 and 35-A get restored.”This is a deeply disturbing statement from a leader who has served as a Union minister, a three-time chief minister, and a long-standing parliamentarian in both the Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha. The change in Kashmir is purely an internal matter of India. This newspaper has been critical of the Centre’s actions in Kashmir — particularly the detention of leaders and curtailment of liberty — and asked for a restoration of political normalcy. But this battle must be fought within the Indian constitutional and political scheme, through agitation, public opinion-building, political alliances and judicial recourse. To turn to a foreign power — which is at the moment an aggressor and has undermined India’s territorial integrity and sovereignty — is wrong and unwise. Mr Abdullah’s statement will deepen the mistrust that exists about Kashmir’s leaders among citizens elsewhere in the country. It will galvanise a nationalist backlash — and it is no surprise that the Bharatiya Janata Party has termed his remarks “seditious”. And it will erode the moral standing and political authority of Kashmir’s democratic parties. Mr Abdullah may be speaking out of pain and anger, but he would do well to revise his stand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/article-370-and-35-a-why-farooq-abdullah-is-wrong/story-boc9xegS78p9EpufnD1iFO.html
13-10-2020||Editorials||DU’s cut-offs reflect a broken system | HT Editorial||Delhi University (DU)’s first cut-off list for admission to its undergraduate programmes was announced on October 10, and it touched the 100% ceiling for the third time since 2011. Cut-offs are decided by calculating the best of four subjects’ marks in Class 12 board exams. This year, 1,57,934 students scored over 90% marks, while 38,686 got more than 95% marks in the Central Board of Secondary Education-conducted exams. Under pressure to give their students a fair chance, many other boards have also declared their results, based on the average of highest marks.What explains the high cut-offs? One, there is a higher number of applications vis-a-vis the number of seats. Two, the Class 12 evaluation process is distorted, leading to such high marks. Three, colleges set high cut-offs to prevent “over admissions”. Four, there is a paucity of good-quality public universities. And finally, students are attracted to Delhi due to its academic and physical infrastructure, extra-curricular activities, and scholarships; the opportunity to interact with a diverse student population; and eventually access better job opportunities. The phenomenon of high cut-offs is not just an academic-administrative problem. It is a subset of more critical issues that ail the education system, and the lack of democratisation of resources. To improve, the Centre and states must invest more in public education; boost academic infrastructure across the country; make the Class 12 evaluation process more holistic; and ensure that all students, irrespective of where they are studying, get a level-playing field when it comes to availing good teachers and infrastructure. Only then will the rush for DU will end.—||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/du-s-cut-offs-reflect-a-broken-system/story-B45GmgYov3RRox9glXEykI.html
