15-10-2020||Editorials||Why Pakistan is wrong, again | HT Editorial||The decision by Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s special assistant on national security issues, Moeed Yusuf, to do an interview with the Indian media (he spoke to The Wire) has generated debate on both sides of the border. Mr Yusuf contended that India has sent messages to Pakistan with a desire for conversation but didn’t say who had sent these communications and what had become of them. Indian officials have called his claim “fiction”. He laid pre-conditions for any dialogue between the two countries, most of them related to changes made to the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. This is solely India’s internal matter. Mr Yusuf also used the interview to trot out a string of accusations against India, from funding the Pakistani Taliban and Baloch activists to the more serious allegation of a hand in the 2014 terrorist attack on a school in Peshawar. These charges are baseless.But the interview was significant for several reasons — for the all-powerful military would have signed off on the interview since it still has a vice-like grip on foreign policy. This was also the first time a Pakistani official engaged with the Indian media since the changes in Kashmir more than a year ago, and it was seen by some in India as an attempt by the Pakistani side to open a channel of communication after the passage of a decade without any structured dialogue. The environment for talks, though, is hardly conducive. Not a week goes by without India and Pakistan taking swipes at each other at a multilateral forum — Mr Yusuf himself joined a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation meeting with an inaccurate map of Pakistan that triggered a walk-out by the Indian side. Pakistan may have decided to use its new-found utility in facilitating talks in Afghanistan to get others to prod India to join a dialogue, but these efforts aren’t likely to lead to a positive response from New Delhi. Mr Yusuf didn’t adequately address the sole issue holding up dialogue between the two countries — anti-India terror groups operating from Pakistani soil. Pakistan may have locked up a handful of terrorist leaders due to pressure from the Financial Action Task Force but India believes such actions aren’t irreversible. If Pakistan was expecting the interview to lead to a thaw, it will have to go back to the drawing board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/why-pakistan-is-wrong-again-ht-editorial/story-kj1xCF5miiD1fq0McBVFjI.html
15-10-2020||Editorials||A long, fragile winter in Ladakh | HT Editorial||With the seventh round of talks between Indian and Chinese military commanders failing to yield a breakthrough, yet again, over the impasse in Ladakh, it is now clear that the confrontation in the region will persist through the winter, and perhaps, even beyond. The standoff — caused entirely by Chinese aggression across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and its violation of border pacts — has posed the most serious national security challenge to India in recent years.New Delhi has deployed a range of diplomatic, economic, and military tools to enhance the pressure on China to pull back. This has involved dialogue; deepening international partnerships, particularly through Quad; announcing economic measures against Chinese companies; keeping the eligibility of Huawei for 5G trials hanging in balance; boosting Indian counter-mobilisation at the border; and taking pre-emptive steps, including occupying the heights on the southern banks of Pangong Tso. All of this has ruffled Beijing — but not enough to withdraw, for China now sees this as a battle of prestige symbolically and an attempt to gain a strategic advantage in a key geopolitically significant location substantively.This means that Beijing is not going to behave responsibly. This also means that just like Galwan, the possibility of a military standoff escalating into a clash is alive. Citing past standoffs which went on for years, Indian officials believe that the challenge is not to blink first and signal determination. This, indeed, must be the case and India must not let its guard down. But do remember that the China of 2020 is different from the China of the late 1980s and early 1990s. India will have to come up with more creative ways than just wait for a solution to present itself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/a-long-fragile-winter-in-ladakh-ht-editorial/story-rz2BTpN05OZFRu2t8VNE7H.html
15-10-2020||Editorials||In defence of secularism | HT Editorial||In a letter to the Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, urging him to open religious places for worship, the state governor, Bhagat Singh Koshyari, commented on Mr Thackeray’s politics of Hindutva and asked him, mockingly, if he had “turned secular”. In a separate development, an advertisement for the jewellery brand, Tanishq, which portrayed a multi-religious home where Muslim family members adopted rituals to make their Hindu daughter-in-law feel at home at her baby shower ceremony, drew a backlash on social media for ostensibly hurting Hindu sentiments. The ad, which was based on the theme of unity, was withdrawn.Both events — one related to the functioning of the Indian State and the other related to cultural trends in Indian society — are disturbing. Take the governor’s letter first. Mr Koshyari, as the constitutional head of the state, is perfectly within his rights to correspond with the chief minister, and even make suggestions — including the need to open religious places, though whether this is indeed wise in a state that has had the highest share of Covid-19 cases in India is open to question. But the problem is not the letter or its specific theme; the issue is the contempt with which Mr Koshyari used the term “secularism”, equating it with the closure of religious places. Secularism may be a controversial word for dominant sections of India’s polity, but it is a cherished constitutional value. There have been distortions in the practice of secularism, but this does not take away from the importance of the principle. To demean the word is not just to undermine the Preamble, but also encourage a majoritarian conception of the nation.But what is equally worrying is the controversy around what was an evocative advertisement, which was about love and warmth between communities. The Hindutva Right, based on its entirely flawed and incorrect idea of “love jihad”, frowns at Hindu-Muslim relationships, especially if the man is a Muslim. The fact that even a moving ad triggered a backlash, and that the company withdrew the ad, speaks of a deep divide that could threaten the very idea of India. Both the State and society must return to the original constitutional vision of pluralism, coexistence and integration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/in-defence-of-secularism-ht-editorial/story-5gNbFQO5Y8tlkXatQMIw8L.html
