19-10-2020||Editorials||The real battle in Bihar | HT Editorial||The political contours in the Bihar election are now clear. On one side is the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), of the Janata Dal (United) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and a range of smaller forces, with Nitish Kumar as the chief ministerial face. On the other is the Grand Alliance of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Congress and smaller Left parties. Then, there is the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) under Chirag Paswan — which is contesting against JD(U) and asking for support in the name of PM Narendra Modi. Despite strenuous denials by the BJP, the speculation that it encouraged the LJP refuses to fade away. And in small pockets of the state, a fourth force — of the Asaduddin Owaisi-led All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul-Muslimeen (AIMIM), in alliance with Bhaujan Samaj Party and a small regional force led by Upendra Kushwaha — will pose a challenge.This may come across as a rather fragmented political landscape, especially since Bihar has been largely bipolar. But one way to understand the situation is focusing on broad social groups. The ticket distribution patterns of all the forces in play indicate that they are primarily guided by identity-based political mobilisation with two objectives — consolidating their own social base, and expanding this base by sending a signal to communities outside their respective traditional umbrella.Take the BJP. It has given more tickets to upper castes than any other party, and reached out to extreme backward classes (EBCs); but it has also given a high number of tickets to Yadavs, hoping that it would be able to make a dent in the Yadav base. The one constituency conspicuously absent in the BJP’s outreach is Muslims. The JD(U) has focused on consolidating its EBC base, but also given tickets to Muslims — hoping that despite its alliance with the BJP, segments of the minority vote will still be loyal to Mr Kumar. Or take the RJD. Acutely conscious that its core base is Yadavs, it has given members of the community a high number of tickets — but it is also conscious that its inability to expand its base has limited its prospects, which is why it has given tickets to a large number of EBCs in a bid to create a broader Other Backward Classes (OBC) alliance with Muslims. The outcome of the Bihar election, thus, will depend on which party is most successfully able to retain its older social base and win over traditionally adverse social groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-real-battle-in-bihar-ht-editorial/story-2rSCtJJJkCyfgCSqeMBrIN.html
19-10-2020||Editorials||The significance of the Malabar exercise | HT Editorial||Australia is set to join the Malabar naval exercises, finally making it a drill which will see the participation of all four Quad countries — India, United States (US), Japan and Australia. While this was expected — especially after a sharp dip in China-Australia ties and a greater degree of convergence between all the four Quad countries on the need to signal determination against any Chinese attempts to impose its hegemony — it is testament to how quickly the international order is evolving.There is now a consensus, among every major liberal democracy in the world, that China is a threat — to political systems and open societies, economic self-reliance, and a rules-based regime, particularly in the international seas. India has traditionally sought to hedge its bets in larger geopolitics, but it does not have the luxury to do so anymore, because of its geography. The fact that India today faces Chinese aggression makes it incumbent on New Delhi to explore and deepen every international alliance which can serve as a source of symbolic and substantive support, including in the maritime domain where China has obvious vulnerabilities. There is a view that cementing the Quad, including through naval exercises, will alienate China even more — and make reconciliation difficult. But India’s experience shows that Beijing tends to respect power and strength. It is not a coincidence that as India-US ties improved in mid-2000s, China was better behaved. It is only with economic strength and partnerships such as the one that will be manifested in the Malabar exercise that India can broaden its options with China. The road to peace in the mountains may lie through the sea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-significance-of-the-malabar-exercise/story-GtJRK9jo4kpKiyb5TswbaI.html
19-10-2020||Editorials||Don’t undermine SC on Char Dham plan||The Supreme Court (SC)-appointed high-powered committee (HPC), which was formed in 2019 to review whether the Centre’s ambitious Char Dham Highway Project (CDHP) needs to be revised to minimise the ecological damage of the fragile Himalayan region, met on October 17 to decide the “future course of action” on the project. But what is surprising — and wrong — is that the meeting happened without HPC chairman Ravi Chopra’s approval and participation. The Rs 12,000 crore-CHDP aims to build an 889-km all-weather road, connecting Kedarnath, Badrinath, Yamunotri and Gangotri. According to a report in this newspaper, some HPC members have alleged that holding the meeting reeked of political interference. The allegation cannot be rejected completely because there have been several instances in the last few months when certain members of the independent 26-member panel have not only undermined Mr Chopra’s authority, but tried to weaken HPC so that the construction of CDHP continues as planned despite environmental costs. The panel is divided over how wide the highway should be — HPC recommended that the width of the road should be 5.5 metre tarred (MTR) instead of 10 MTR to SC in July. On September 8, SC upheld the recommendation and asked the Ministry of Road Transport & Highways to reduce the width of the road for the full project. Mr Chopra alleged that the Uttarakhand Public Works Department is not implementing the SC order. Government officials who are uncomfortable with the prescriptions of the SC-empowered panel must realise that undermining Mr Chopra means undermining the court itself, and putting the ecology and citizens of the state at risk. As this paper had said before, the Char Dham project needs to be reviewed, and the SC needs to take a strict view of those undermining its orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/don-t-undermine-sc-on-char-dham-plan/story-PaIdwfVOddz2kPz9LMLfhN.html
