21-10-2020||Editorials||The growing federal discord||In India’s governance scheme, both the Centre and the states derive their authority from the Constitution. A specific set of subjects, outlined in the Union and State Lists, delineates responsibilities, while both units of government have powers over areas in the Concurrent List. But beyond the technical division of powers, Centre-state relations have been governed by the political dynamics of the moment and gone through different phases — of a strong Centre and relatively pliant states, both ruled by the Congress, in the first four decades after Independence; of a weakening Centre and stronger states, with the emergence of the coalition era and regional parties between 1989 and 2014; and of a strong Centre and weaker states, both ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) post-2014. But this equilibrium is shaken, primarily because of the BJP’s growing unilateralism at the Centre and diminished control over states. Forces which are in the Opposition at the Centre govern a range of important states — including Punjab, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Kerala, and West Bengal. This means that when there are contentious legislations, which are opposed by these parties at the Centre, states governed by them begin asserting themselves and carving out their own policy positions. The sparring over the terms of reference of the Fifteenth Finance Commission (with southern states worried about allocation if new population figures are taken into account), the controversies around the Goods and Services Tax regime (with states unhappy with the Centre for failing to meet its commitments on compensation payments); the spate of resolutions in assemblies against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act; the debate around the role of governors; and now, Punjab’s decision to bring in its own legislative framework on the farm bills all point to a new trend. This new trend — of a fracture in ties between the Centre and states ruled by non-BJP formations — is worrying. A degree of political jostling is inevitable and parties have to take positions to protect the interests of their base. At the same time, on key governance and policy issues, the breakdown of the federal consensus can undermine the cohesion of administrative structures, bring in scattered and fragmented policies in different geographies depending on who is ruling, and deepen regional divisions. The BJP must be more consultative in its political approach; the other parties must be more respectful of constitutional norms and electoral mandates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-growing-federal-discord/story-2JH9pbCW9eudefYShGohiO.html
21-10-2020||Editorials||Being a woman politician in India||Madhya Pradesh (MP)’s former chief minister and Congress leader, Kamal Nath’s sexist remark against state minister, Imarti Devi, merits unequivocal condemnation. It is to the credit of the Congress’ former president, Rahul Gandhi, that he has pulled up his senior party colleague and expressed his disagreement with the language used by Mr Nath. And it is Mr Nath’s failure that he is yet to express an unqualified apology for the incident. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has used the remark to mount an aggressive campaign against what it calls the Congress’ anti-women attitude.The episode, however, throws up a larger question about the challenges faced by women in politics. At every step — joining a political party; participating in political programmes; working with male colleagues and experiencing varying degrees of harassment; getting a ticket; winning elections; finding space within power structures; and dealing with misogyny and often sexist taunts and accusations — women have it far more difficult than men in India’s political theatre. And no party is an exception.While the current Lok Sabha has the highest number of women representatives in its history, it still falls short of the promise of 33% seats (which is in the long-pending women’s reservation bill). But representation is only one, though critical, element of women’s participation in politics. How women politicians are perceived and how their colleagues and opponents frame their approach on the question of gender are equally important. Mr Nath’s statement reflects a larger mindset — and until this mindset is fought and defeated, the quest for gender equality in the political space will remain unmet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/being-a-woman-politician-in-india/story-oEElUcSw58jjyluuinqhoJ.html
21-10-2020||Editorials||Get the vaccine strategy right||Over the past week, India’s top leaders and officials have proffered more clues about when and how the country plans to begin vaccinations for Covid-19. Mass volumes are likely to begin shipping around March, if the trial and the approval process follow projected timelines. The first shots will likely be administered as the country heads into the next summer. Initially, somewhere around a fifth-to-a-quarter of the population, accounting for the most vulnerable and those at the highest risk, are likely to get it. The specifics are likely to be complicated, as they need to strike a balance between what India can achieve, given its institutional capacity, and what it must in a short period of time, to secure its citizens. Among the clues into India’s strategy is a crucial confirmation by Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi himself. On Monday, the PM said a vaccine delivery system was in the works and it will utilise the upcoming national digital health ID — an initiative that he first announced during his Independence Day speech. This is crucial for two reasons. First, it appears to address how authorities will administer and track the coronavirus immunisation of possibly each of the country’s 1.3 billion-plus citizens. The process, unprecedented in scale for any democracy, needs to be precise, efficient and quick. A viable vaccine is likely to be in two doses, with a predetermined gap in between.Second, it will mark the rollout of one of the world’s most ambitious public health management systems — the National Digital Health Mission. The idea behind the programme is to digitise the health records of citizens. Its benefits, especially in the context of the coronavirus immunisation, are clear, for it will provide easy access to standardised data. But its rollout in the context of the pandemic can also be controversial. India is yet to adopt a personal data protection legislative framework, and if access to a Covid-19 vaccine is made contingent on signing up for a national health ID, the programme becomes virtually mandatory. Till now, officials have said that sign-ups are voluntary. To be sure, the specifics of the vaccine delivery are still not final. These details will need to balance legal, ethical and, ultimately, public health considerations before they are set in stone. Getting the vaccine strategy right is critical for the entire edifice of the recovery process from the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/get-the-vaccine-strategy-right/story-1uCzov0lp48i32GZ5QVwFN.html
