25-10-2020||Editorials||The Sangh-BJP interface | HT Editorial||The Vijayadashmi speech by Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief is significant for it lays out the Sangh’s broader worldview, and its approach to contemporary issues. Given that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) derives its ideological inspiration from the RSS, and there is a close degree of coordination between the government, the party, and the larger “ideological family”, the speech has assumed even greater importance since 2014. On Sunday, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat praised India’s handling of the China threat; lauded the government and society’s battle against the coronavirus pandemic; defended the Citizenship (Amendment) Act; attacked forces which he claimed wanted to weaken and divide India internally; and sought to equate Hindutva with the nation. All of this indicates that there is a high degree of synergy between the government and the Sangh. This is not surprising, for after its victory in 2019, the BJP-led government at the Centre has been committed to the core ideological goals dear to the RSS. The speech should lay to rest speculation about the Sangh’s unhappiness with the government, notwithstanding occasional differences on policy and personnel. But the most significant element of the speech was the bit on the economy. Three things stand out. One, the Sangh is quite delighted with the focus on self-reliance, for it views this as a victory of its long-held swadeshi philosophy. Mr Bhagwat emphasised the importance of having the sites of production, workforce engaged in production, economic benefits from sales of production and rights of production under “national control”. This is a rather strong call for a return to the local. Two, in a message of moderation to the more extreme economic affiliates, he acknowledged the importance of foreign investment for technical knowledge-sharing, international cooperation, financial independence — but “on our terms” and “mutual consensus”. And finally, while supporting the government’s recent economic reforms, Mr Bhagwat emphasised that farmers must not get trapped by either corporates or middlemen, the government should provide an extra layer of protection to entrepreneurs, and development gains must percolate down — all of which marks a cautious warning. A close reading of the speech, thus, indicates that on political and cultural issues to a large extent and on the economy to a lesser extent, the government and the RSS have a close overlap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-sangh-bjp-interface-ht-editorial/story-bZ3RUOHeM3UPP1pOqyENKM.html
25-10-2020||Editorials||The threat from al Qaeda persists | HT Editorial||The reported killing of the al Qaeda number two serves as a reminder that the group that made jihad a household word is still alive. The terror group remains headquartered in the Afghanistan-Pakistan region, which explains why it was Afghan forces that found and killed Abu Muhsin Al-Masri. Since last year, al Qaeda’s leadership, including its chief Ayman al Zawahiri, has repeatedly called for a renewed jihad in Kashmir against India. Indian law and order agencies continue to apprehend a steady stream of al Qaeda suspects. More telling is that almost all of these al Qaeda recruits captured in India have been found to have come through Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) training camps. While Pakistan’s military insists it has no relationship with al Qaeda, the Lashkar link and the manner in which al Qaeda conveniently aligns itself with Islamabad’s interests seems more than just a coincidence. Kashmir rose to the top of al Qaeda’s agenda as New Delhi moved to marginalise Islamabad’s role in the future of the region. This March, al Qaeda publication, Nawai Afghan Jihad, declared its support for United States (US)-Taliban talks, echoing Pakistan’s position.Al Qaeda, the Islamic State, LeT and other such groups are different brands which draw from a common pool of terrorism. Al Qaeda keeps a low profile even as it spreads once again in Africa, Yemen, Syria and South Asia. One result of this deliberate strategy is that the US now downplays the group as a threat. But India cannot afford this luxury as long as al Qaeda remains domiciled in the subcontinent, covertly aligns itself with Pakistan and prepares for the US withdrawal from Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-threat-from-al-qaeda-persists-ht-editorial/story-dujNMrpotdnXkQzWaoobWN.html
