29-10-2020||Editorials||Be transparent on Aarogya Setu | HT Editorial||On April 2, the government launched the Aarogya Setu mobile application, pinning hopes on 21st century solutions to a crisis last seen 100 years ago. This meant moving quickly on coding, design and backend integration with the existing health surveillance system. It is of little surprise then that it relied on private collaborators.What is unusual, however, is that there has been little documentation of the process and the consultation, close to seven months since the launch. Three government departments — the ministry of electronics and information technology, National Informatics Centre, and National e-Governance Division — failed to respond on record to Right to Information requests for details of who helped build and launch the app. The ministry later issued a press release and pointed to a list of contributors contained in the Github (a code repository platform), clarifying that the app’s development included “volunteers from industry and academia”.The controversy and the response reinforce concerns about transparency on the project. Projects of national importance typically follow a detailed and open consultation process. This is paired with a legal framework, particularly if the process involves breaking out of typical departmental workflows. Particularly crucial is full disclosure on the identity of private sector collaborators and why they were chosen. In the case of Aarogya Setu, none of these have been adequately addressed – a reality that is possibly reflected in the government’s decision to walk back on efforts to make it mandatory. It is understandable that in April, the government rushed through these checkpoints. But over 162 million downloads later, it is about time that these disclosures are made.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/be-transparent-on-aarogya-setu-ht-editorial/story-KDCsuFniJxuIE2H67JkCZM.html
29-10-2020||Editorials||Where the United States takes on China | HT Editorial||During his visit to India, United States (US) Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo, mounted an aggressive critique of the “Chinese Communist Party (CCP)” and “General Secretary Xi Jinping”. This, he clarified in an interview with ThePrint, is an attempt to show that the actions of an authoritarian regime are not of the people of China. The clarity with which the US now views China is the most critical, recent, geopolitical shift in international politics, with enormous implications for the both the world and India. Two questions naturally arise: Is this a permanent rupture or a temporary shift in US policy? Washing-ton first read China’s rise wrong (believing economic growth will lead to greater democracy and more responsible behaviour); it then flirted with the idea of a concert between the two countries; and it has only now woken up to the threat posed by Beijing to the international order. There is reason to believe that while there may be nuanced differences in the approach adopted by different US administrations in dealing with China, this will be a fundamentally adversarial relationship. What, then, does this mean for India? As former national security adviser, Shivshankar Menon, once suggested, the ideal condition for India would be if it has better ties with both China and the US than the two countries have with each other. While this is desirable, it is only possible if Beijing does not pose a threat to Indian sovereignty. Given the adversarial nature of India-China ties, New Delhi has reason to be pleased with the US’s clarity. India doesn’t want a conflict and will have to fight its battles, but having a degree of geopolitical insurance is useful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/where-the-united-states-takes-on-china/story-pz7ve2O5GnLIfdog7fPzKM.html
29-10-2020||Editorials||From Bihar, a larger message | HT Editorial||The Bihar elections kicked off on Wednesday with the first phase of polling. The fact that this is the first time voters in any part of India are getting to express their political choice in the middle of the pandemic makes the election significant. But its political importance goes beyond that, due to the nature of political competition, the issues that have now become a part of the poll discourse, the personalities involved, and what the outcome will reveal about the preferences of the electorate. For one, the election, from being widely seen as a one-sided race in favour of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), has become a more open political contest. This is good for democracy because voters deserve options and alternatives, and only strong challengers to established parties can change incentives in favour of performance and delivery. The energy brought forth by Tejashwi Yadav, the critique of the government by Chirag Paswan, and the palpable fatigue with Nitish Kumar has opened up democratic space, irrespective of the outcome. It will keep the next government on its toes. Second, in a reflection of both the growing aspirations of citizens and the economic distress of contemporary times, there is a deep yearning for higher incomes and better living standards. This has manifested itself most sharply in the demand for jobs. To his credit, Mr Kumar has delivered on a range of public goods — particularly infrastructure and law and order — in the past, but was unable to move to the next stage of reforms. The electorate wants more, and rightly so. This shift in the discourse towards employment is positive, for it reflects the rise of a demanding voter. But the fact that the rhetoric revolves around government jobs is a sign that the public sector is still equated with stability and status, and the private sector is yet to make both deep economic and psychological inroads in Bihar. Three, the election has forced each party to look beyond its comfort zone of loyal social groups and create wider alliances. So, for instance, the NDA is giving tickets to Yadavs, while the Rashtriya Janata Dal has sought to give tickets to leaders from sub- groups belonging to the extremely backward classes, and even the upper castes in alliance with the Congress. This mix of a competitive election environment, a more demanding voter, and a new and more inclusive form of social engineering bodes well for democracy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/from-bihar-a-larger-message/story-LGm8KGIyNCzXU9AbF5wP0K.html
