07-01-2022||Pune||Mercury above normal, air quality moderate in Pune city||PUNE As day and night temperatures remain above normal, air quality in the city remains moderate. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), the temperature in Pune city may remain warmer than normal with cloudy conditions in the next few days. According to System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), the overall air quality for Pune city on Friday evening was 149 which was moderate. As per Safar, only Shivajinagar on Friday reported air quality index (AQI) at 197 which was borderline with poor air quality. Other areas in Pune namely Pashan, Hadapsar, Alandi, Bhumkar chowk in Wakad, Nigdi, Katraj and Kothrud reported moderate AQI on Friday. On Friday, the maximum temperature reported at Shivajinagar was 30.5 degrees Celsius which was 1.5 degrees warmer than normal. Also, night temperature was 14.6 degrees Celsius which was 3.6 degrees Celsius warmer than normal. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department of IMD Pune, said minimum temperatures over central India will be above normal by three to six degrees Celsius. “Pune city may see a rise in minimum temperature in the next few days. Day temperature will also see a gradual rise in the next few days,” he said. According to Safar officials, moderate air quality is likely to remain for the next few days. “There is a high moisture feeding from Arabian sea over northwest and adjoining central India in lower and middle tropospheric levels. This is very likely to continue till January 10. The confluence of winds from Arabian sea and Bay of Bengal at lower tropospheric levels are very likely over central India till January 11. This will bring isolated thunderstorms with lightning/hail very likely over Vidarbha in Maharashtra on January 9 and January 10,” said IMD officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mercury-above-normal-air-quality-moderate-in-pune-city-101641580127566.html
07-01-2022||Gurugram||Active Covid infections cross 5,000-mark in Gurugram; 1,879 fresh cases reported||With Gurugram recording 1,879 fresh cases of Covid-19, the active case tally crossed 5,000 on Friday after eight months. The positivity rate in the district was 17% on Friday. Of the total 5,356 active cases in the district, 36 patients are hospitalised and 5,320 are in home isolation. The last time the active case tally crossed 5,000 in the district was on May 22 last year with 7,001 active cases. On Friday, 743 people also recovered in the district, including two patients who were infected with the Omicron variant of the coronavirus. According to health department data, Gurugram has so far reported 51 cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus, of whom one is active. No fresh Omicron case was recorded on Friday.On Friday, the health department collected 11,008 samples for testing, which takes the total testing numbers to 2,355,327, according to the data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/active-covid-infections-cross-5-000-mark-in-gurugram-1-879-fresh-cases-reported-101641580007530.html
07-01-2022||Noida||10 AC city buses rolled out in Greater Noida to end commuting hassles||Jewar MLA Dhirendra Singh flagged off a city bus service comprising 10 air-conditioned buses to connect both rural and urban areas in Greater Noida, fulfilling one of the citizens’ long-standing demands.“The city bus service will cover dozens of sectors, villages, commercial spots, and important government offices so that the general public can make good use of this facility. We have asked the authority and the UPSRTC [Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation] to expand the service in the future to connect more sectors and villages so that all of Greater Noida and its villages can be covered,” said Dhirendra Singh.To begin with, the city bus service will comprise five routes connecting Greater Noida east and Greater Noida west, which is home to at least 400,000 newly built flats.“We will continue to seek feedback from citizens and revise the routes to provide connectivity in areas where it is needed. The authority will provide UPSRTC with the required support to run this service successfully,” said Amandeep Duli, additional chief executive officer of the Greater Noida authority.The Greater Noida authority and the UPSRTC together started the bus service on Thursday in the presence of Dhirendra Singh, Dadri MLA Tejpal Nagar, and MLC Shrichand Sharma at Kasna bus stand.The authority has agreed to bear the ₹30 lakh loss that is expected to take place while running this operation--according to the authority’s estimate, the service will initially witness a low passenger turn out on these five routes.“Initially, there will be a low number of passengers because of a lack of awareness of the routes. Most such services usually experience a loss in revenue due to this reason. But gradually when the general public becomes aware of the routes, more and more passengers will start using the service,” said a UPSRTC official, requesting anonymity.Initially, the bus service will provide connectivity from Raipur to Kasna via Greater Noida authority office, Surajpur, Sector P3, etc. (route number 1(, from Kasna to Metro stations like Delta 1, villages such as Bisrakh, Kisan Chowk, 18 industrial sectors and others (route number 2), 22 residential sectors, education hub (route number 3), Gharbhara village to GBU, Galgotia, Yeida office, etc. (route number 4), and Noida-Greater Noida border on Dadri road to Kulesra among other nearby villages and government offices (route number 5).“The city bus service is a much-needed service in Greater Noida. But the routes should be decided as per the feedback of citizens,” said Anendra Chauhan, a teacher and resident of Sector Delta 1.
07-01-2022||Pune||International flight operations resume from Pune airport||PUNE After a gap of 21 months, international flight operations from Lohegaon airport in Pune resumed with the flight taking off for Sharjah on Friday at 10pm.“SpiceJet now connects Pune to Sharjah from January 7, 2022. Passengers are requested to reconfirm timings from the concerned airline,” Pune airport wrote in a tweet.SpiceJet flight no SG 8938/788 departed for Sharjah at 21:50 hours. The flight came from Delhi.The service is being launched under the ‘Air bubble agreement’ and will be the first flight to Sharjah (UAE) after the Covid-19 break.The ‘Air bubble’ agreement says, “Both countries agree with certain conditions that they have no objection to operating the airline even during the pandemic”.In the pre-Covid times, SpiceJet had flights for Sharjah.SpiceJet spokesperson said, “The response of Pune- Sharjah is good, we are getting good loads on the flight.”“The flight is almost full,” said the Pune airport official on condition of anonymity. The number of passengers travelling for Sharjah was not shared by the official or SpiceJet.Since December 2020, the administration has been trying to get approval by sending proposals at various levels.“More flights for other international centres will also start soon. Passengers must follow all the Covid-19 appropriate behaviour,” said the official.Before the first lockdown, Pune airport had two international flights to Dubai which were operated by SpiceJet and Air India Express.As per fresh guidelines for international travellers issued on Friday, all travellers should submit complete and factual information in self-declaration form on the air Suvidha portal.Uploading the negative RT-PCR report is a must. The test should have been conducted within 72 hours before undertaking the journey. Travellers coming from high-risk countries to undergo RT-PCR test – If the flyer is positive then the sample will be sent to genome sequencing after being admitted to an isolation facility.If tested negative, home quarantine for seven days and then RT-PCR test on the eighth day which is to be uploaded again on Air Suvidha portal.The flyers who are coming from other countries – A random sample of 2% of travellers to undergo RT-PCR testing on arrival. Home quarantine for seven days is compulsory.Children under five years of age are exempted from pre and post-arrival testing. However, if found symptomatic for Covid-19 on arrival or during the home quarantine period, they shall undergo testing and be treated as per laid down protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/international-flight-operations-resume-from-pune-airport-101641579827504.html
07-01-2022||Lucknow||DM Abhishek Prakash conducts surprise checks of community health centres||In view of the constantly increasing number of Covid 19 cases, district magistrate Abhishek Prakash inspected the community health centre and the UCHC Silver Jubilee on Friday and instructed the officials to focus on the three Ts - tracking, testing, and treating. As he reviewed ongoing anti-Covid exercises, the fever clinic, and check the distribution of medicine, he also interacted with people.The community health centre in Aliganj was first to witness the surprise check on the day where DM reviewed the ongoing anti-Covid exercises including surveillance, contact tracing, medicine distribution and ongoing vaccination. He also reviewed the performance of Rapid Response Teams (RRTs) and contract tracing and others. The DM then inspected the community health centre in Silver Jubilee where too he interacted with the people and assessed the anti-Covid preparedness. “It’s very important to break the chain in order to check the virus outbreak. Hence, the focus should be more on 3 T’s-tracking, testing and treatment formula,” the DM said. Besides, the DM also appealed to people to get their children, aged between 15 to 18 years to get vaccinated. The DM also inspected the premises of the health centre and directed the officials to carry out thorough sanitisation, covering the houses of all those who are under home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/dm-abhishek-prakash-conducts-surprise-checks-of-community-health-centres-101641579587362.html
07-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram picks up pace of Covid vaccination after state government’s jab mandate||The pace of Covid-19 vaccination, especially for the first dose, has increased rapidly in Gurugram in the past four days compared to that of the second dose, due to the impact of the state government’s order on mandatory vaccination certificates, said officials.According to the order issued on December 22, 2021, only people fully vaccinated against Covid-19 are allowed in public places such as malls and markets in Haryana from January 1.Officials of the health department said from January 1, 55,859 first doses of the vaccine have been administered to adults in the district. Including doses for children in the 15-17 age group, 111,085 first doses have been administered between January 1-7, they said. Over 70,200 second doses have been administered in the district between January 1-7, they added.Officials said that the increase is mainly because of the Haryana government’s vaccination mandate as well as several migrant workers coming forward to get vaccinated.“Till last month, we were administering around 1,500-2,500 first doses daily, which has increased to 8,000-9,000 doses now, as many people are coming forward to take the vaccine. One of the main reasons is the strict direction issued by the state government. Plus, many who had not taken the vaccine despite door-to-door campaigns are also coming forward,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer.He said that at present, the rate of first dose vaccination is 140% and will increase further. According to officials, in the district, first dose vaccination has crossed 100% as several people from other districts and a migrating population have also been vaccinated in Gurugram.“From the feedback we received from different doctors of the department, we have also learnt that many migrant workers who came back after the festive season are getting vaccinated now,” added Singh.On Friday, 13,883 children were vaccinated in the district, of whom 13,508 received their first dose in government centres and 375 in private vaccination centres. Till now, over 55,100 children have been vaccinated in Gurugram.A total of 33,317 doses were administered on Friday, including 23,711 first doses and 9,606 second doses. With this, over 4.44 million doses have been administered in the Gurugram district till now.Meanwhile, as more people are coming forward to get vaccinated, vaccination centres are witnessing heavy crowds, especially Civil Hospital in Sector 10 and Poly Clinic in Sector 31. On Friday morning, a spot check by HT found at least 300-500 people waiting in line to get vaccinated at these centres without social distancing.Naresh, a 34-year-old labourer who came to get vaccinated at Polyclinic Sector 31, said, “I had not taken the vaccine earlier as I had gone to my village. Now with the new rule in place, benefits from the state government will be stopped and contractors will also not hire me for work, so I am taking the vaccine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-picks-up-pace-of-covid-vaccination-after-state-government-s-jab-mandate-101641579467465.html
07-01-2022||Pune||Pune dist reports 4,437 new Covid cases, 7 deaths||As of Friday, Pune district reported 4,437 new Covid-19 cases and seven deaths due to the infection. This takes the progressive count to 1.18 million of which 1.15 million have recovered. The death toll stands at 20,202 and 11,675 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment, or in home isolation. Pune also saw 96,809 vaccinations on Friday. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 654 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 372,024. The death toll stands at 7,046, as one more death was reported on Friday. Pune city reported 2,804 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 536,029. The death toll went up to 9,279 as six deaths were reported on Friday. PCMC reported 979 new Covid-19 cases with which the progressive count goes up to 274,453. The death toll stands at 3,528 as no more deaths were reported on the day. Pune district also saw 96,809 vaccinations on the day as per CoWin dashboard on Friday. In total, 15 million doses have been administered in the district, of which 8.97 million are first doses and 6.58 million are second doses. A total of 696 sites saw vaccinations of which 554 are government centres and 142 private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-dist-reports-4-437-new-covid-cases-7-deaths-101641579167336.html
07-01-2022||Delhi||In green budget, NDMC says it will only buy e-cars, renewable energy||In a major push to make its operations energy efficient and pollution-free, the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) on Friday said that all official cars from now on will be electric vehicles, and that it will purchase power produced from renewable sources only.The announcements were part of the council’s budget for 2022-23 that showed a net surplus of ₹178 crore with an anticipated increase of 15% in its receipts at ₹4381.43 crore. NDMC administers the New Delhi area, including the Lutyens’ zone.NDMC chairman Dharmendra, who goes by a single name, while tabling the budget in a special meeting of the council on Friday, said, “NDMC continues to take lead in pollution mitigation measures and has resolved to stop purchase of petrol or diesel based passenger cars and will acquire electric cars in future, converting its existing fleet too in a phased manner. NDMC has already introduced more than 60 e-charging stations in its area and is augmenting by more than 100 in this year itself.”“We have embarked upon on ambitious journey of shifting to 100% renewable energy municipal body of the country. To ensure it, the NDMC has not renewed its power purchase agreement with thermal power generating stations after its expiry, but has also taken up fresh purchase agreements with only renewable power providers including hydel and solar energy,” he added.He said it was a forward looking budget, adding that the council was committed to a “well governed and financially sustainable municipal body”. “We have resolved to provide uninterrupted services to our citizens and keep New Delhi in a state that is befitting of the national capital,” he said.He added that NDMC has not proposed any increase in property tax rates for the year 2022-23. “The tax revenue is projected at an all-time high of ₹960 crore in this budget. Licence fees projections are at an all-time high of ₹764 crore maintaining a continuous growth streak, despite no annual enhancement in last two years,” he said.Adding to the green initiatives that the council was planning, Dharmendra said that a fleet of e-scooters will also be deployed this year, complementing the smart bikes.Listing the consumer friendly steps that the council proposes to implement in the next financial year, the NDMC chairman said common payment portals will be provided for the convenience of the residents. He added that a new website of all 49 council schools will be made by March 2022. “While the new electricity-water billing system in NDMC will be completed by 2023, we have also implemented smart classrooms in all NDMC schools from classes 6 to 12 to provide e-learning solutions. Now, we have decided to extend this facility to primary section. Also, all schools will be provided higher bandwidth connections,” he said.Unlike the fully elected municipalities -- East, South and North Municipal Corporations, NDMC is a 13-member council that is headed by a chairperson. Of the 13 members, 2 come from the Delhi assembly, including the New Delhi constituency legislator, five are nominated by the central government, four are nominated in consultation with the Delhi chief minister and the Member of Parliament from New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/in-green-budget-ndmc-says-it-will-only-buy-e-cars-renewable-energy-101641579107229.html
07-01-2022||Delhi||Marital rape a crime of cruelty in India, Delhi govt tells high court||While stating that courts do not have the power to legislate into effect a new criminal offence, the Delhi government on Friday told the Delhi high court that martial rape is treated as a “crime of cruelty” in India.The high court is hearing a bunch of pleas seeking to criminalise marital rape in India. Exceptions to Section 375 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), which deals with rape, decriminalises marital rape and mandates that sexual intercourse that a man has with his own wife (the wife not being under fifteen years of age) is not rape.A bench of justices Rajiv Shakdher and C Hari Shankar was hearing public interest pleas by NGOs RIT Foundation and All India Democratic Women’s Association and two individuals, a man and a woman, who sought the striking down of the exception to Section 375, arguing that it discriminated against married women who were sexually assaulted by their husbands.The petitions were heard after a gap of two years owing to the Covid-19 pandemic when only extremely urgent matters were being heard by courts.During the hearing on Friday, the Delhi government’s additional standing counsel Nandita Rao told the court that married women and unmarried women were placed differently under every single law.“Marital rape is a crime of cruelty in India. Married women and unmarried women are different under every single law,” Rao said.She also contended that even in the case of one of the petitioners, who claimed to be a victim of repeated marital rape, the FIR stood registered for an offence under Section 498A of the IPC (Husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty).Senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, representing the petitioner woman, argued that courts all over the world have recognised marital rape as an offence and abrogated the concept of a wife’s irrevocable consent for establishing sexual relations.He also said the value system and women rights have evolved with the passage of time and relied on a series of judgments passed by courts in the United Kingdom, the United States, Canada, the European Union and Nepal as well as international treaties to submit that an argument of a wife’s assumed consent was untenable.He also said the Nepal Supreme Court has observed that the Hindu religion did not exempt the “heinous act of rape of a wife”.Gonsalves further objected to the notion that marital rape was a “western concept” and highlighted a United Nations report which indicated the prevalence of sexual violence among married couples in certain Indian states.“Marital rape is the biggest form of sexual violence which happens in the confines of our homes. How many times does rape take place in the institution of marriage and is never reported? This figure is not reported or analysed,” he submitted.In 2018, the Delhi government had told the predecessor bench hearing the case -- headed by then acting chief justice Gita Mittal -- that wherever a spouse indulged in sexual relations without the willingness of the other, it was already an offence under the IPC and a woman was entitled to refuse sexual relations with her husband as the right to body integrity and privacy under Article 21 (protection of life and personal liberty) of the Constitution.The central government, in its affidavit, said marital rape cannot be made a criminal offence as it could become a phenomenon that may destabilise the institution of marriage and an easy tool for harassing husbands.The hearing in the case will continue on January 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/marital-rape-a-crime-of-cruelty-in-india-delhi-govt-tells-high-court-101641579049116.html
07-01-2022||Delhi||No disruptions for second week, people offer namaz at 10 locations in Gurugram||Muslims offered Friday namaz at 10 locations in Gurugram, with no disruption reported from anywhere, police said, adding that adequate deployment was made at all places. Senior police officers aware of the deployment said the community prayers were performed at Shankar Chowk, Udyog Vihar, Palam Vihar, and sectors 12, 29, 44, 10, 37 and 45. They also said that Hindu right-wing activists were kept away from the namaz, and the Muslims were asked to observe appropriate social distancing. This was the second consecutive week when Friday namaz being performed in public places were not disrupted by the Hindu outfits who have maintained that the weekly prayers cannot be allowed in open spaces and described it as encroachment. They have been protesting against it since 2018. The Muslims have said that they were forced to perform community namaz on Fridays since there were not enough mosques in Gurugram.To be sure, currently there are no designated sites (open public spaces) for performing namaz in Gurugram. There were 37 sites initially which were earmarked by the Gurugram administration. These were brought down to 20 last year. However, after the Haryana chief minister Mahohar Lal Khattar announced on December 10 that performing namaz cannot be tolerated in open spaces, all sites were cancelled. The administration is yet to earmark new places for prayers. Senior officers quoted above said some members of Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti, an umbrella body of Hindu groups which is leading protests against namaz in open spaces, gathered at Sector 44, Sector 37, Udyog Vihar and Shankar Chowk before the namaz in the afternoon, but were turned away by police teams deployed there. Rajiv Yadav, assistant commissioner of police, said teams were deployed at all sites and Muslims offered prayers peacefully. “We did not let anyone near the namaz sites, and teams were on alert until the prayers were finished,” he said. Yadav said they had cautioned the Hindu groups in advance not to create a ruckus, and parked police vans near the locations to detain them. “We also ensured that everyone coming for namaz followed Covid-19 protocol and maintained social distance and were wearing masks,” he said. At Shankar Chowk, at least 500 people performed namaz in six batches (jamaat), and 300 prayed in different batches at the nearby Shyam Chowk, according to Mohammad Shamoon and Qari Aarif, who led the prayers at these two sites. At a park in Udyog Vihar, around 350 people performed prayers in different groups to ensure social distancing. Shamoon, associated with Gurugram Imam Sangathan, said they need at least 15 places in the city to accommodate the rush of people on Friday. “This is the fourth Friday prayer offered at this spot (Shankar Chowk). It remained peaceful. There was no disruption. Earlier, we offered namaz at Peepal Chowk, but it was shifted after the protest. Since the six spots have been fixed, police ensured security till the end of prayers,” he said. Mohammed Akil, one of those who had come for prayers at Shankar Chowk, said working people even from Delhi come to offer Friday prayers. “We are working professionals, and we congregate only on Fridays. You can see that we are praying peacefully, and following social distancing norms,” he said. Maulana Aarif, who also prayed at the same place, said the number of people who join the prayers has reduced. “Earlier, at least 1,000 persons used to gather, but now hardly 300 come for prayers due to Covid-19. There are 12 to 13 mosques in the city, but all of them are in old Gurugram. A large number of Muslims work in Udyog Vihar, it is not possible for them to go there,” he said. Hindu groups said despite the chief minister saying that namaz cannot be allowed in open spaces, the police did not take any action. Mahavir Bhardwaj, state president of the Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti, said, “We will write to the chief minister regarding the violation of his directions, and will request him to take action against people offering prayers in open. We are not disrupting anymore but this cannot continue. Police and administration will have to take some serious action, else they (the Muslims) will continue to encroach upon public places,” he said. Altaf Ahmad, spokesperson, Gurgaon Muslim Council, which has been spearheading the Muslim side so far, said that namaz was being offered peacefully for the last two weeks. “There were no disruptions reported from any sites on Friday. Police and administration have been kind to us, and we hope that we will continue to get their support,” he said. Ahmad appealed to Muslims in the city to avoid Friday congregations in view of the latest wave of Covid-19 cases. “Muslims have shown restraint during the first and second Covid wave, I expect them to show the same now as well, and not come out for namaz congregations,” he said.Right-wing groups have been protesting against Friday namaz in open public spaces in Gurugram for the past three years. The Muslims have asked the administration to allot them spaces to build new mosques. 
07-01-2022||Pune||21 PSA oxygen plants in Pune to boost supply during third Covid wave||PUNE If hospitalisations due to Covid-19 increases exponentially the administration estimates that the daily oxygen requirement in the Pune district could go up to 1,080 metric tonnes per day assuming if admissions rise three times more than they did during the second wave peak. In view of this, it had proposed to build 21 more pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants to boost supply.During the second wave peak shortage of oxygen led to many losing their lives as demand for oxygen went up multi-folds.The proposed plants are to come up in Pune city, six with a production capacity of 12.7 metric tonnes per day, two in Pimpri-Chinchwad with a production capacity of 3.1 metric tonnes and 13 in Pimpri-Chinchwad with a capacity of nine metric tonnes daily.In order to ensure that there is no shortage of essentials necessary for the treatment of Covid-19 patients, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has written to the state government that there is enough availability of affordable resources.The IMA has urged the government to bring in one drug one price policy for all the important drugs required for the treatment of Covid-19 patients.In its letter to the state, the IMA has written, ‘ It would be difficult for the hospitals to deliver the healthcare with very high costs against low unsustainable capping of hospital charges.’The letter also draws attention to the fact that although the government has capped the price on most essentials on the ground the marketed price of all these essentials is exponentially high making it difficult for hospitals to sustain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/21-psa-oxygen-plants-in-pune-to-boost-supply-during-third-covid-wave-101641578867322.html
07-01-2022||Delhi||Two malls in Saket are Delhi’s fully vaccinated markets||Delhi government declared two malls – Select City Walk and DLF Avenue, Saket – as the Capital’s first fully vaccinated markets, a south district administration official said on Friday, adding that everyone working in these malls, from sanitation workers, guards and parking staff to management officials, was vaccinated with both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine.Yogeshwar Sharma, CEO, Select City Walk, confirmed that everyone on their staff, whether on the payroll or hired by agencies, as well as those working in the mall stores was fully vaccinated.Authorities said the Delhi government is running a campaign wherein everyone working at popular markets across the city is encouraged to get vaccinated at the earliest. All districts have been asked to organise camps in markets with a high footfall and ensure that all staff members are vaccinated at the earliest so that the markets can be declared fully vaccinated. GK-1 M Block and South Extension 1 markets (both under the jurisdiction of the south district) are likely to be soon declared fully vaccinated markets.A south district official said that posters announcing that the mall staff is fully vaccinated have been put up at both malls to increase visitors’ confidence and make the place safer for them. “We are organising vaccination camps in markets wherein the staff is not fully vaccinated. Soon GK-1 M Block market and South Extension 1 market will get the fully vaccinated tag, and all big markets in the district will be declared fully vaccinated very soon,” said the official, seeking anonymity.A revenue department official said that shopkeepers and market associations are encouraging their staff to get fully vaccinated and district authorities are also organising vaccination camps. “The purpose is to make markets safer for people working there and the customers visiting the markets. All districts have been asked to encourage the malls and markets to expedite the second dose for all those eligible for vaccination,” the official said.Brijesh Goyal, chairman of the Chamber of Trade and Industry, an association of traders, said it was a welcome move and every trader will support it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-malls-in-saket-are-delhi-s-fully-vaccinated-markets-101641578687540.html
07-01-2022||Pune||Covid cases continue to rise in Pune district, hospitalisations still low||PUNE Even as Pune district is experiencing a surge in Covid-19 cases since mid-December, the number of those admitted to hospitals is still low, as per the district health office.In the week from December 16-22, when the number of active patients stood at 1,837, 553 patients were admitted to hospitals. In the following week, when the number of active patients rose to 2,194 the number of hospitalised persons stood at 549. Out of 549 hospitalised active Covid19 cases, 63 are in ICU, and 31 needed ventilators, as per the district health office data.Most of the new Covid-19 cases being reported were breakthrough infections who report mild symptoms and so do not require hospitalisation, said officials.Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant health officer, said, “It is true that the number of new cases is rising rapidly, but the hospitalisations are not going up in proportion which is a good sign. Increased hospitalisation would add load to the already exhausted hospital infrastructure.”“On Friday too, the city reported over 2,700 new cases which took the active caseload to 9,792 cases, however out of those active cases, only 7.71% required hospitalisation. Currently, there are 95 patients on oxygen treatment, 21 on the invasive ventilator and 19 on the non-invasive ventilator,” he said.By the end of December, as the number of cases had already started rising rapidly, only two per cent of the active cases in the district required ventilators, and 35 of them needed ICU beds. To ensure that if hospitalisations continue to rise and there is no shortage of beds at the last minute, the district administration has prepared about 3,337 ICU beds and 1,825 ventilators. Also, 15,575 oxygen beds are available in various hospitals in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-cases-continue-to-rise-in-pune-district-hospitalisations-still-low-101641578507318.html
07-01-2022||Delhi||Father beats son to death in south Delhi’s Khanpur||Allegedly angry at his five-year-old son for playing games on a mobile phone instead of studying, a man beat him to death at their home in south Delhi’s Khanpur village on Thursday evening, the police said.The suspect allegedly used a wooden stick to hit the boy, eventually knocking him unconscious. “The beating left visible bluish-black marks on the boy’s back, legs, hands and neck,” said Benita Mary Jaiker, deputy commissioner of police (south).The 27-year-old man, who works for a dairy firm, was arrested and booked for murder by the Neb Sarai police.The DCP said that the questioning of neighbours revealed that he would often get angry at the boy for not studying, scold him frequently and occasionally beat him up.The boy lived with his parents and three-year-old sister in a one-room rented house in Khanpur village. He was studying in Class 1. His mother works as a receptionist.She was away at work when her husband returned home around 6pm on Thursday to find the boy playing a game on his mobile phone instead of studying. ”The man told us that when he scolded his son, he didn’t listen. That angered him so much that he began beating the boy,” the DCP said.The boy eventually collapsed. A while after the man left the unconscious boy in the house and walked out, his wife walked in.Helped by a neighbour, she rushed the child to Max Hospital in Saket where he was declared dead on arrival. Hospital authorities informed the police that the boy’s body bore several injuries. The police reached the hospital to find the boy’s parents, sister and a neighbour in attendance.Around the same time, an anonymous person dialled the child helpline number to alert them about a boy being taken to Max Hospital after a thrashing by his father, the DCP said.The police began a probe, but the man denied beating the boy even as his wife seemed unaware of the incident. “We then enquired in the neighbourhood to learn of the man’s violent behaviour towards his son. When we confronted him, he confessed to the crime,” the DCP said.Investigations have not found any abuse by the boy’s mother or her role in the death. The police have recovered the stick allegedly used in the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/father-beats-son-to-death-in-south-delhi-s-khanpur-101641578447870.html
07-01-2022||Delhi||AIIMS, Safdarjung hospital curtail OPD services as Covid cases rise||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and Safdarjung hospital issued orders restricting non-Covid services for outpatient discharge (OPD), speciality clinics and centres till further notice, in view of the rising Covid-19 infections in the national capital.An order issued by the AIIMS administration on Friday said OPD services in the hospital will function only with restricted registrations, limited to only prior appointment patients, including new and follow-up.“All speciality clinics to be stopped for the time being and speciality clinics follow-up patients will be registered within follow-up appointment slots only,” said the order.“All routine inpatient admissions and all routine procedures/non-essential surgeries will be temporarily stopped till further orders,” the administration said.Similar directions were also issued by the Safdarjung Hospital on Thursday, restricting OPD registration timings in view of the Covid-19 surge.The AIIMS administration on January 4 also ordered the conversion of the hospital’s Trauma Centre into a Covid care facility. This was met with protests from the Resident Doctors’ Association (RDA), which said that trauma services should not be ignored as most of victims are young and often the sole breadwinners of their families.In a letter to the director, the RDA said that avenues like the surgical block, MCh block, geriatric block, burns and plastics block should be used to render services to Covid-19 patients.The hospital on Friday released a circular informing the public that trauma services will be shifted to the ground floor of AIIMS’ Old Rajkumari Amrit Kaur Building from 2pm on Friday. Staff and doctors of the hospital were asked to make the requisite arrangements to receive new patients and transfer existing patients to the building.“We have been battling the pandemic for nearly two years now and the government and the hospital administration should have made arrangements to increase beds in the hospital. During the pandemic where will other patients go? How can we compromise patient care?” said a doctor at AIIMS hospital, who asked not to be named.Dr JA Jayalal, former head of the Indian Medical Association, said that during the peak pandemic situation, some measures need to be taken to augment beds.“We know that the number of cases is going to go up in the coming days and it is alright if the administration is deciding to reserve some hospitals exclusively for Covid care. That said, non-Covid patients should also not be neglected,” Dr Jayalal said.
07-01-2022||Lucknow||They avoided, but now compelled to take Ram’s name: Yogi in Ayodhya||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday attacked the Samajwadi Party (SP) over the Ram temple issue and targeted the Congress government in Rajasthan for not doing enough during the second wave of Covid-19 to ensure the safe return of Uttar Pradesh’s 15,000 students from Kota. He added that these students were brought back home safely by the BJP government despite resistance by the Ashok Gehlot government.Yogi Adityanath was addressing gatherings in Ayodhya and Gorakhpur where he distributed smartphones and tablets to about 3000 students.“They used to avoid taking the name of Lord Ram. Now, they are compelled to take Ram’s name,” he said in an apparent reference to the Samajwadi Party in Ayodhya. He also inaugurated ₹49.74 lakh Integrated Traffic Management System for Ayodhya under which 10 prominent crossings in the city will have traffic signals, 14 will have public address systems and four will have free Wi-Fi systems. Yogi Adityanath assured that Ayodhya would be developed into a world class city, so much so that people will say “muskuraiya ki app Ayodhya mein hai (Smile because you are in Ayodhya).”The chief minister also laid the foundation stone of a Ayodhya Development Authority housing project that will come up on the 14-Kosi Parikrama route. “Now, opposition leaders are also talking about visiting Ayodhya,” Yogi Adityanath said.In Gorakhpur, he inaugurated 20 projects worth ₹62 crore. These included a hotel management institute.Continuing his attack during the Ayodhya visit, Yogi said , “Under previous governments, there used to be riots every third day (in UP). Now, even after five years, there has been no riot.” “Some people are seeing Lord Krishna in their dreams. Lord must be cursing these people as when they were in power, the first riot took place in Mathura. Then after sometime, Jawahar Bagh incident happened,” Yogi Adityanath said. At an event organised at the Government Inter College in Ayodhya, chief minister distributed tablets and smartphones to students of Ram Manohar Lohia Awadh University, Saket PG College, Government Polytechnic and ITI among others. He also talked about his government’s stern action against the mafia. In Gorakhpur, smartphones and tablets were distributed to 1,000 students. Twenty-two students received tablets and smartphones on stage from the CM.“We brought back 15,000 students of UP by sending buses despite opposition to Rajasthan’s Congress government,” he said on the occasion.The chief minister said that the state government had decided to distribute smartphones and tablets to one crore students enrolled in undergraduate, postgraduate, ITIs, Polytechnic and other skill development courses. The drive began on December 25,the birth anniversary of former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee, when these gadgets were distributed to 60,000 students in Lucknow.He said that free digital access with best curriculum content will also be provided free of cost to beneficiaries so that they can seek help in studies and prepare for competitive exams. The tablets and smartphones will also be provided with employment related information about state and central government schemes, he said.In addition, the government has offered Abhyuday, free civil service and competitive exam coaching, both through offline and online. With such initiatives, students will no longer be required to go outside the state for preparation of competitive exams, he told the audience.The chief minister said that in its almost five-year tenure, his government had given jobs to 4.5 lakh youth, and given self-employment to another 60 lakh, and was working relentlessly for the better future of the youth.Describing the Omicron variant as less dangerous but highly contagious, the chief minister asked the crowd that students above 15 years of age should get vaccinated to avoid any untoward situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/they-avoided-but-now-compelled-to-take-ram-s-name-yogi-in-ayodhya-101641578327367.html
07-01-2022||Delhi||Resident doctors of Delhi’s largest municipal hospital threaten strike||At a time when Covid-19 cases are surging and health-care facilities in the national capital are bracing for a third wave of infections, the resident doctors’ association (RDA) of Hindu Rao Hospital, the largest municipal health-care facility, has threatened to go on a strike over non-payment of salaries and arrears. In the strike notice submitted to the North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Friday, the Hindu Rao RDA has stated that salaries for the last 83 days is currently pending and if funds are not released by January 15, doctors will withdraw from services. The development comes on a day when the north corporation announced that 100 beds in Hindu Rao and 50 beds in RBIPMT Hospital will be reserved for Covid patients. The order issued by the director, hospital administration, states that hospitals should make Covid beds functional immediately while other services will continue as usual.The doctors at the hospital had last announced a strike over salary delays in November 2021, but they later withdrew the strike on being assured timely payments. Dr Tanuraj Tyagi, president, RDA, said in another week, it would be three months since they received salaries. “Salaries are our right and while urging us to call off the strike in November, the administration had assured us that salaries will be credited to our accounts before 15th of every month. They (administration) have once again gone back on their word. We have not been paid for since October. Similar backlogs exist in all north corporation run facilities,” he said.The strike notice submitted to the medical superintendent said, “We the resident doctors deployed at North Delhi Municipal Corporation and Hindu Rao Hospital wish to express our anguish and despair. We are sadly bound to write this letter to put into your cognizance about the ongoing delay in salary disbursement. It has been more than 83 days of diligent duties performed without hard earned salary.” Dr Sridhar Mudhiraj, vice president, RDA, said doctors have already exhausted the savings and are no longer in a position to meet their day-to-day needs. “Last time, residents had called off the strike based on promises given by the administration which have not been kept. If salaries for two months is not disbursed before January 15, 2022, unwillingly, we will have to withdraw from non-emergency services,” he said. The development comes at a time when the North MCD administration had already announced that it plans to utilise the hospital as Covid designated facility in case the need for hospital beds rises.Hindu Rao has a provision of 250 oxygen beds and 50 ventilator beds and an 1000LPM oxygen generation plant which was set up after the second wave of Covid-19 in April-May 2021. The nurses and paramedics are also expected to join the strike. Indu Jamwal, who heads the nurses association at Hindu Rao, said their strike notice will be submitted on Saturday. “Our salary is pending for two months and we are acutely short of staff. During the last strike, the administration assured us that vacancies will be filled but no action has been taken in this regard. With rising number of Covid cases, the caseload burden will be transferred to the existing staff,” she said. “At least the sanctioned posts should be filled. There are 144 sanctioned posts of senior nursing officer of which only 17 are occupied. There are 304 posts for nursing officers and only 253 are currently occupied,” Jamwal said.Leader of the house, North corporation, Chhail Bihari Goswami said the civic body has completed the preparation for meeting the Covid surge at two hospitals and other units will be added soon. “We are working to release the pending salaries of health workers and a resolution will be found soon,” he said, when asked about the strike notice.The three civic bodies continue to reel under a severe financial crisis with staff and health workers having to work without salaries, which could prove a hurdle in expanding the Covid facilities. Last year, in October the doctors and healthcare staff at Hindu Rao Hospital had gone on strike over non-payment of dues and Covid patients had to be transferred to LN hospital and Aruna Asaf Ali hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/resident-doctors-of-delhi-s-largest-municipal-hospital-threaten-strike-101641578267386.html
07-01-2022||Gurugram||Retired bank manager loses ₹12.25 lakh to cyber fraudster in Gurugram, probe on||Police booked an unidentified man on Thursday evening for allegedly impersonating as an employee of the telecom company and duping a retired senior bank manager in Gurugram of ₹12.25 lakh on December 13 last year, officials said on Friday.The victim, Ashoka Kumar Srivastava, 65, and a resident of Gurugram Sector 70A, on December 13, 2021, received a text message for verifying know your customer (KYC) details for his SIM card. When he called on that number, no one responded. Later that day, Srivastava got a phone call from the suspect, who asked the retired senior bank manager to install a remote access software application on his cellphone. After Srivastava downloaded the app, ₹12,25 lakh was transferred from his three bank accounts and a credit card, without his knowledge. “I am a retired bank manager... I had no idea that I was becoming a victim of cyber fraud. The caller told me if I did not verify the KYC details, my SIM card would get blocked. I trusted him,” Srivastava said. Srivastava told the caller that he was a senior citizen and did not have much knowledge about the technicality of verifying the KYC details for his SIM card. “He won my confidence by the way he conducted with me, and asked me to install the remote access software application on my cellphone, following which I lost ₹12,25 lakh from my accounts and credit card,” he added. A big amount of the total money being stolen was transferred from Srivastava’s bank accounts after he was asked to log into his Internet banking app, police said.“As the suspect had the control of my cellphone with the help of the remote access software application, he deleted all the text messages about the bank transactions and also the call log,” said an officer of the cybercrime police station in Gurugram Sector 43.An FIR was registered against the suspect under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 420 (cheating) and Section 66 (punishment for dishonest or fraudulent act) of the Information Technology (Amendment) Act, 2008, at the cybercrime police station in Sector 43 on Thursday evening, police said.An investigation has been launched and we are trying to nab the suspect at the earliest, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/retired-bank-manager-loses-12-25-lakh-to-cyber-fraudster-in-gurugram-probe-on-101641578147083.html
07-01-2022||Lucknow||UP cabinet nod to slash VAT on aviation fuel||The state cabinet on Friday approved a proposal to bring down the rate of value added tax (VAT) from 21 percent to one percent on Aviation Turbine Fuel (ATF) in Uttar Pradesh.Confirming it, a senior officer of the state government it was done with the objective of promoting tourism in the state. The state government had decided to cut down the rate of VAT on ATF w. e. f. January 4, 2022 and the state cabinet’s approval was sought post implementation, said the officer.
07-01-2022||Lucknow||Muslims in Uttar Pradesh faced discrimination under successive governments: Owaisi||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Friday alleged Muslims in Uttar Pradesh faced discrimination and exploitation under successive governments of the Congress, Samajwadi Party (SP), the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP).There was no uplift or appeasement of Muslims in Uttar Pradesh, he asserted.Owaisi was speaking at a conference “Muslims in Uttar Pradesh” organised by the AIMIM in the state capital . He released the document, “Situating Development of the Muslims in Uttar Pradesh Policy Implications”, prepared by Centre for Development Policy and Practice (CDPP). The document highlights the socio- economic condition of Muslims in UP.Owaisi said the report prepared on the data of the Central and state governments clearly indicates that post-independence, Muslims have been denied their share in government, administration, education, business, employment as well as in welfare schemes. Although the BJP launched its election campaign on the “sabka saath- sabka vikas’ slogan, Muslims remained a neglected lot under five years of its rule in UP, Owaisi said. AIMIM will highlight impoverishment of 19.25% of Muslims in UP in its election campaign, Owaisi said. The document on the socio-economic condition of Muslims prepared by scholars Amitabh Kundu, PC Mohanan, Amir Ullah Khan, Venkatanarayana Motkuri, Abdul Shaban and Anjana Diwakar shows that 71.2% of Muslims above 15 years age are illiterate or educated below the primary level, he said. It also said 48.05% of Muslims households were landless and per capita consumer expenditure among Muslim households was ₹752 compared to the national figure of ₹988. The proportion of regular wage employment of Muslims in UP is 25.6%, migration at 51% is the highest among Muslims in UP, Owaisi said.The Sachar Committee, Kundu Committee and the Rangnath Mishra Commission had earlier submitted reports on the miserable condition of Muslims in the country but governments overlooked these reports, he said. Injustice has been done to Muslims by successive governments in UP, he said, alleging the community was deliberately kept backward as political parties wished to use them as a vote bank.The AIMIM will seek a reply from its rival political parties on the plight of the Muslim community, Owaisi further said.“We will raise the demand for share of Muslims in power, administration and welfare schemes to improve their condition. We will also demand an end to injustice to Muslims,” he said. AIMIM will raise the issue of opening of more schools and banks in Muslim dominated areas across UP, he added. To check the large-scale migration of Muslims, the government should launch employment schemes and development projects, he said. 
07-01-2022||Delhi||Rain, strong winds in store for Delhi this weekend: Met||Delhi is likely to witness light to moderate thundershowers and winds blowing at a speed of 30-40km/hour on Saturday, the India Meterological Department (IMD) has forecast, and sounded a ‘yellow’ alert’.The IMD forecast said the maximum temperature may drop to 16-17 degrees Celsius on Saturday and the minimum may settle around 14 degrees, as the city is in store for yet another relatively warm night.Back-to-back western disturbances are not only bringing rain, but leading to an improvement in the air quality too, with Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) recorded in the ‘moderate’ category on Thursday, with a reading of 182, according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily 4 pm bulletin. The capital recorded the last moderate air day on October 26, 2021, when the AQI was 139.According to the IMD forecast, light showers are also likely in some parts of the capital on Friday night. “Delhi has seen two western disturbances in this short window. The first, which brought rain on January 5, impacted Delhi between January 3 and 5. The second western disturbance will impact the city between January 7 and January 9, hitting the peak on on Saturday,” said RK Jenamani, scientist at IMD.He added that this spell of rain is expected to be more intense than what hit the city on January 5. The city has recorded 9.2mm of early January rainfall. “There will be more rain, and the wind speeds could go up to 40 km/hr. Some parts of Delhi may also record moderate showers,” he said.A yellow alert is generally issued by the IMD, asking the general public to ‘be aware’ of a weather situation developing in the next 24 to 48 hours. It issues an orange alert to ‘be prepared and alert’ for a weather event and a red alert – the highest form of alert, asking the public to be prepared to ‘take action’ against a weather event.Delhi recorded a maximum of 20.3 degrees Celsius on Friday, one degree above normal, while the minimum was six degrees above normal, at 13.5 degrees Celsius. At the same time last year, Delhi had recorded a minimum as high as 14.4 degrees. During a western disturbance, the minimum temperature tends to rise, owing to clouds which do not allow the heat to escape at night, however, this also makes the days cooler.According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar), Delhi could even see ‘good’ air quality by Sunday, with a continued improvement in air quality expected in the next 48 hours, due to good winds and rain.“Prevailing weather with drizzle and rain spells are causing effective wet deposition and improving AQI. On 8th, it is likely to rain with high wind speeds, leading to further improvement of AQI to the ‘satisfactory’ or ‘good’ category due to wet deposition and strong dispersion,” Safar said in its bulletin on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rain-strong-winds-in-store-for-delhi-this-weekend-met-101641577787264.html
07-01-2022||Lucknow||Kiren Rijiju lauds Yogi Adityanath government over law and order in Uttar Pradesh||Union law minister Kiren Rijiju on Friday applauded the Yogi Adityanath government for the improved law and order scenario in the state. The Union minister was in Lucknow to attend a lawyers’ conference. “Before 2017, the law and order scenario in Uttar Pradesh was bad. However, after 2017, it has improved,” Kiren Rijiju said, addressing the gathering.“Land grabbing and organised crime have come to an end in the state and Uttar Pradesh is on the path of development,” Kiren Rijiju said.Uttar Pradesh law minister Brajesh Pathak, who was also present, said long-pending projects were being completed in the state. After the drive against mafias, the common man has reposed faith in law and order, Pathak said. He also listed achievements of the state government, including laying of the foundation stone of a BrahMos missile unit in Lucknow and the ongoing construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. Sudhanshu Trivedi, BJP Rajya Sabha MP, stated the Yogi government must come back to power for the overall development of Uttar Pradesh. Raghvendra Singh, advocate general of the Uttar Pradesh government, spoke about the contribution of lawyers like the first home minister of the country, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. Prashant Singh “Atal”, chief standing counsel, state government, also expressed his views.Vinod Kumar Shahi, additional advocate general, state government, welcomed the guests. A large number of lawyers attended the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kiren-rijiju-lauds-yogi-adityanath-government-over-law-and-order-in-uttar-pradesh-101641577727163.html
07-01-2022||Lucknow||Helpline number back in Varanasi as Covid cases’ tally crosses 600-mark||In the wake of spike in Covid cases in Varanasi, the district administration and the health department on Friday issued toll-free number 1077 of Integrated Covid Command and Control Centre here. Anyone having Covid symptoms or their families may dial this number to get help and Covid-related information. As many as 210 new Covid cases were detected in Varanasi on Friday. With this, the tally of active Covid cases in the district rose to 630.Giving this information, chief medical officer Dr Sandeep Choudhary said help can also be sought by dialling 0542-2221937, 0542-2221941, 0542-2221942, 0542-2221944 as well as 0542-2720005. He further said if anyone suffering from Covid needs an ambulance or hospitalisation, they can get help by making a call on mobile number 7307413510.Dr Choudhary has also appealed to people that there is no need to panic because of new Covid variant Omicron. “Do not forget to wear mask, follow distance of two yards and sanitise hands frequently besides getting vaccination done for protection,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/helpline-number-back-in-varanasi-as-covid-cases-tally-crosses-600mark-101641577547395.html
07-01-2022||Delhi||Two die as roof collapses in outer Delhi’s Begumpur||Two men were killed and two more injured when the roof of a house they were sleeping in collapsed in outer Delhi’s Begumpur in the early hours of Friday, the police said.One of the dead, Sonu Sharma, and the two injured, Anil and Pramod, were siblings. The police said while Pramod suffered head injuries, Anil escaped with relatively minor wounds. Both are expected to recover, said the police.The other deceased man was identified as 55-year-old Kedar Sharma.Pranav Tayal, deputy commissioner of police (Rohini), said the building was in a dilapidated condition, but the investigators were yet to identify the immediate trigger for the collapse. “We have registered a case of causing death due to negligence and are investigating,” said Tayal.Local residents told the police that the single-storey building was at least three decades old and pointed to waterlogging in its immediate surroundings, but the police haven’t found any visible impact to the building’s foundations. The room, about 10 square foot, was occupied by the three brothers who worked as daily wage labourers, and their friend Kedar, who worked as a carpenter. Atul Garg, chief of the Delhi Fire Services, said the collapse occurred a little after 4pm, upon which fire fighting teams were sent to the spot. Local residents recounted waking up to a loud sound of the collapse. They checked the collapse site to hear voices of some of the men trapped under the rubble and began rescuing them even as firefighters and the local police arrived at the scene to take over the operation.The four men were taken to Dr Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital where Sonu and Kedar were declared brought dead.No arrests have been made yet, and police are yet to identify people culpable for the collapse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-die-as-roof-collapses-in-outer-delhi-s-begumpur-101641577427127.html
07-01-2022||Mumbai||State reports 40,925 cases, no new curbs yet||Mumbai The Covid cases in Maharashtra rose to 40,925 on Friday, which was the highest tally since the previous high of 42,582 on May 13 2021. This surge in numbers prompted the state government to indicate that it may tighten enforcement measures, restrict non-essential services and impose a night curfew in Mumbai.The state also saw a marginally higher death count of 20, as against 13 mortalities on the previous day, though no fresh cases of the Omicron variant were detected. So far, 1,41,614 people have lost their lives to the virus.Mumbai led the tally of cases, followed by Pune city at 2,804 and urban agglomerations in the larger metropolitan region like Navi Mumbai (2,664), Thane (2,612), and Panvel (1,423). The state’s tally of active cases is 1,41,492.Dr Pradeep Awate, the state’s surveillance officer, said that the spike was expected to last for around three weeks before tapering. At present, the average positivity in the gold-standard RT-PCR tests was about 20 per cent for Maharashtra, with Mumbai city at over 25 per cent, and some districts like Ahmednagar at a lower three per cent. This average was expected to climb to 30 per cent. The cases in Mumbai and Thane, which was peaking faster than the rest of the state, are expected to decline sooner.Health minister Rajesh Tope warned that those not following Covid-appropriate behaviour may face punitive action and fines. He indicated that non-essential services could be restricted to an extent considering the rise in infections, and a night curfew may be imposed in Mumbai.“In Mumbai, we have already prevented a gathering of over five people at night. There should be no problem if non-essential services are restricted from 11 PM to 5 AM,” he added, stating that this proposal would be submitted to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. The health minister said that curbs could be imposed on non-essential activities to stem the spread of Covid, but stressed that local train services would not be restricted.“Restrictions regarding weddings and funerals are already in place, but they must be implemented stringently…the police and the district and municipal administrations shall be asked to take action. Our decision to fine those without masks will be implemented,” warned Tope, adding that “cases will be lodged if needed.”The caseload was rising due to the higher infection rate, but hospitalisation numbers and oxygen requirement was lower. “If the consumption of oxygen touches 700 metric tons (per day), and if 40 per cent hospital beds in Maharashtra are occupied, then a lockdown will be imposed in auto-mode,” said Tope, adding that at present, there was no such situation yet despite the growth.Talking about vaccinated teenagers between the age group of 15 to 17 years, Tope said, “I am appealing to these teenagers that if they want to protect themselves and others, they must understand that the norms are being tightened…f they want to go to a hotel, they cannot do so if they are not jabbed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/state-reports-40-925-cases-no-new-curbs-yet-101641577007196.html
07-01-2022||Other||ECI withdraws Sonu Sood as state icon of Punjab||Chandigarh The Election Commission of India (ECI) has withdrawn the appointment of actor Sonu Sood as a state icon of Punjab. The commission had appointed him in November 2020. Punjab chief electoral officer (CEO) Dr S Karuna Raju said the ECI withdrew the appointment of Sood as a state icon of Punjab on January 4. The actor’s appointment has been withdrawn as he has been political active in Punjab over the past few days, and has been seeking a ticket for his sister from the Moga assembly segment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/eci-withdraws-sonu-sood-as-state-icon-of-punjab-101641576887251.html
07-01-2022||Lucknow||Lakhimpur violence: CJM rejects bail pleas of 12 accused||Chief judicial magistrate (CJM), Kheri, Chinta Ram on Friday rejected the second bail applications of 12 accused of Tikunia violence case named in FIR number 219/2021 which is related with the killings of four farmers and a journalist on October 3 last year under Tikunia kotwali area of UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri district. A total of eight people had lost their lives in the incident. Senior prosecution officer (SPO) SP Yadav said hearing on the bail applications of Ankit Das, Latif alias Kale, Shekhar Bharti, Nandan Singh Bisht, Satya Prakash alias Satyam Tripathi, Sumit Jaiswal, Rinku Rana, Dharmendra Banjara, Ashish Pandey, Lavkush Rana, Ullas alias Mohit Trivedi and Shishu Pal was held in the court of CJM Chinta Ram.Yadav said after hearing the arguments of the prosecution and the defence counsel, the CJM rejected the second bail applications of all 12 accused on the grounds that charges were of serious nature and triable by the sessions court.The bail applications of five of the aforesaid 12 accused had been moved on Thursday while of remaining seven were moved on Wednesday. However, they could not be listed for hearing on Thursday as required affidavits had not been filed with them. Yadav further said the court had instructed all applicants to file affidavits that no other bail applications were pending for decision at the sessions or the high court.The bail applications had to be moved after the police filed their chargesheet in Tikunia violence case on January 3 against 14 accused, including Union MoS home Ajay Kumar Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra, adding some other sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Motor Vehicles Act.In the chargesheet, sections 427 (mischief causing damage), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC and section 177 of the Motor Vehicles Act were added against the 13 accused apart from existing sections 147, 148, 149, 307, 326, 302, 120B, said SPO SP Yadav.Accused Sumit Jaiswal was charged under section 3/25 of the Arms Act while Ashish Mishra, Ankit Das, Latif and Satyam were charged under section 30 of the Arms Act and Nandan Singh Bisht under section 5/27 of the Arms Act, Yadav added.In the chargesheet, 14th accused Virendra Shukla, a close relative of MoS home Ajay Kumar Mishra, was charged under section 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) of the IPC only, Yadav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-violence-cjm-rejects-bail-pleas-of-12-accused-101641576770027.html
07-01-2022||Lucknow||With 303 fresh Covid cases, Meerut’s active count nearly double overnight||The Meerut district witnessed a surge in fresh Covid cases on Thursday when it recorded almost double the active cases under treatment in the past 24 hours.The district had recorded 92 new Covid cases on Wednesday, taking its active case tally to 341. On Thursday, 303 positive cases were reported, and the total active cases under treatment surged to 643.It is the biggest surge in a day in the district. The district has witnessed more than 300 positive cases in a day after a gap of almost seven months.Saharanpur reported 94 new cases, while there were 29 fresh cases reported in Shamli. Bagpat (21) and Bijnor (19) also came on the Covid radar showing that the virus was spreading fast in all the districts of the region.The health department tested samples of 7237 persons in the district on Thursday, and 303 of them, including SP (City) Vineet Bhatnagar, tested positive for Covid. An ophthalmologist at the district hospital, three paramedics staff of district hospital pathology lab, 14 policemen and eight employees in Urja Bhavan have tested positive for Covid.As many as 621 patients out of 643 active cases are undergoing treatment in home isolation, while nine are admitted to the Covid block of LLRM Medical College, and 19 are under treatment at different private hospitals.Divisional surveillance officer Dr Subhash Taliyan said that new cases were detected in Shastrinagar, Budhana Gate, Subhash Nagar, Islamabad, Rajban, Jaibheem Nagar, Kankarkhera, Sardhana, Daurala, Mawana, Machra, Palhera, Rajendra Nagar, Tarapuri and Lallapura localities of the district.Meanwhile, a training session for paramedic staff was organised in the district hospital to provide treatment to Covid patients. The district hospital has reserved 150 beds for Covid patients, including 25 ICU beds and 23 ventilators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/with-303-fresh-covid-cases-meerut-s-active-count-nearly-double-overnight-101641576768032.html
07-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi monuments closed: Walk conductors call off tours||Among the last few public places that were open, until recently, were historical monuments in Delhi. These spots in the Capital witnessed a huge footfall on January 1. But now, according to the latest notice of Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), they have been closed for public from January 6 to 20 or till the next order. An ASI official tell us: “Considering the surge in cases as a precautionary measure, all centrally protected monument will remain closed. Those who have made advance bookings will be refunded.” The Capital has more than 170 monuments under ASI, including Red Fort, Humayun’s Tomb, Safdarjung Tomb and Qutub Minar, which were reopened on June 16 last year, after remaining closed during the previously intense Covid waves. Calling it “a very good step seeing the rise in Covid cases”, author-historian Rana Safvi says, “Considering the amount of suffering that we have already experienced in the past two years due to Covid, I think it’s an excellent step to curb congregations — social, ritual, religious, academic, entertainment, political etc — and also to keep the monuments closed because some of the monuments see a huge footfall and it’s better to be safe.”This decision has led to the cancellation of many heritage walks and other such events. Abu Sufiyan, a city-based heritage walk conductor and founder of Purani Dilli Walo Ki Baatein, informs, “Considering the current rising case, many other community and heritage-based organisations have called off heritage walks, baithaks and micro tours in the city and around these monuments. I’m constantly in touch with friends who have got affected with Omicron (Covid variant), and their condition is not so good. Before things go out of hand, this is a wise decision.”And Asif Khan Dehlvi, heritage walk leader at Delhi Karavan, opines: “Monuments and heritage walks have been few of the places where people were able to unwind since the last two years. We had already reduced our heritage walk attendance numbers from about 50 people before Covid to 10-12 people in the Covid times. I had something big planned for the anniversary of Mirza Ghalib, which falls on December 27, but that was the time when Covid cases began to rise so had cancelled that, too. But we wanted to do something for the first weekend of the New Year. Not organising anything now.”“Since winters are the peak tourist season, and a time when most people step out to explore, most groups who run heritage walks or tours earn a major share of their livelihood during this time,” says Anas Khan, a Delhi-based blogger and heritage walk leader, adding, “Over the last two years, the frequent lockdowns and closing of monuments has affected the local tourism industry quite badly. However, with the current surge in cases, I think this move was necessary. The monuments remain quite crowded during the daytime especially on the weekends. The last weekend also saw a huge turnout in some of the main monument complexes like Qutab Minar, Red Fort, and Humayun’s Tomb. In such a scenario, it’s necessary for such action to be taken to avoid a further rise in infection... I have stopped the walks since last weekend, in view of the increasing cases and was already planning to organise virtual sessions instead of in-person walks.” Author tweets @siddhijainnFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-monuments-closed-walk-conductors-call-off-tours-101641576471642.html
07-01-2022||Lucknow||IIT Kanpur filed a record-breaking 107 patents in 2021||The Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, (IIT-K) filed 107 patents, including 97 national and 10 international, in the calendar year 2021, making it the highest number of Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) ever filed by the institute by breaking its earlier record of 76 patents filed in 2019, said IIT Kanpur director prof Abhay Karandikar in a press release.Among the IPRs filed, the different IPR prospects included 62 patents, 15 design registrations, 2 copyrights, and 24 trademark applications along with 4 US patent applications. This was achieved despite the catastrophic impact of the second wave of the pandemic, he said.“IIT Kanpur has not only crossed a century in terms of patent filing in 2021 but has also reached a gross total of 810 IPRs over the period of time. With an exceptional technology transfer rate of 15.2% to industry partners from the total patents filed, the institute filed a record-breaking 107 patents in this calendar year,” prof Karandikar added.“This is quite an achievement for the institute and is also indicative of the fact that, despite the pandemic, IIT Kanpur has diligently driven structural initiatives strengthening translational and transformational research contributing to a self-reliant India,” he said.According to him, the patents included inventions ranging from MedTech to Nano technology. In view of the institute’s relentless contribution to the national efforts of mitigating the novel coronavirus pandemic, several Covid-related measures and inventions were protected through patent applications during the calendar year, he said.Two of the prominent inventions developed at IIT Kanpur are the reusable facemask consisting PVDF composite nano fibres and nasal spray formulation against Covid and related respiratory viruses.Moreover, the institute brought out some other inventions like methods for treatment of industrial wastewater and biodegradable magnesium-based alloys for orthopaedic applications in the healthcare field, to name a few, he said.The landmark of filing 107 IPRs was achieved with the presence of a supportive policy framework and synergistic teamwork at the IPR cell of the institute. The IP & Technology Transfer Office not only filed the highest number of IPRs but has also facilitated the highest number of technology transfer transactions, disseminating technologies from the institute laboratory to the assembly line of industries in the form of products, the director said.“The commercialisation activities at IIT Kanpur have witnessed a two-fold increase in revenues from IP licensing. The institute addressed the nation’s oxygen crisis during the second wave of Covid by developing and commercialising two types of oxygen concentrators by transferring the said technology to six different companies,” the press release said.The technology transfer was part of the Mission Bharat O2 project wherein thousands of oxygen concentrators were manufactured having capacity ranging from 10 litre per minute (LPM) to 500 LPM, an official said.Another prominent technology transfer that found mention in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speech at the 54th convocation of IIT Kanpur, is the recently launched “Bhu Parikshak”— a portable, app-linked soil testing device that bears the potential to detect soil health within 90 seconds. “This device can be a milestone in revolutionising agricultural practices in the country,” he said.“The exceptional technology transfer rate of 15.2% to industry partners from the total patents filed and the record-breaking filing of 107 patents in 2021 bear testimony to the flourishing and dynamic R&D eco-system of the institute,” prof Karandikar said.
07-01-2022||Lucknow||Notorious liquor smuggler held in Lucknow, CM issue directives to curb illegal sale of alcohol||Special Task Force (STF) on Thursday night arrested a wanted liquor smuggler Kamlesh Yadav, who carried a reward of ₹25,000 on his head, from the state capital while launching a crackdown on the sale of illegal alcohol ahead of the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, said police officials.On Friday, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath also issued a stern directive to curb the sale of illegal liquor across the state in view of the upcoming UP assembly polls. The state government press note stated that additional chief secretary (ACS) home Awanish Awasthi had issued the directives to the police and other law enforcement agencies to step up vigilance on state borders and porous India-Nepal border.Awasthi has asked the state agencies to maintain coordination with agencies of other states like Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Jharkhand to curb liquor smuggling in UP from gangs operating from there. He also directed the state agencies to conduct checks to curb the sale of illegal liquor.Sharing further details about the arrest, the STF press note stated that the notorious liquor smuggler Kamlesh Yadav was arrested on the specific tip-off about his presence at an under-construction house in Sarsawa locality near Shaheed Path on Sultanpur road.The press note further stated that Yadav, who is a resident of Balia, is in the liquor smuggling business for at least the past six years and had as many as 14 cases registered against him since 2016. He operated his gang in the state through his links with liquor smugglers in Haryana and Madhya Pradesh. His gang is registered as a D-5 gang in the state police records, and the STF is collecting details about his other gang members and accomplices to arrest them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/notorious-liquor-smuggler-held-in-lucknow-cm-issue-directives-to-curb-illegal-sale-of-alcohol-101641575867291.html
07-01-2022||Lucknow||UP polls: 150 companies of paramilitary forces allotted for free and fair election||As many as 150 companies of paramilitary forces have been allotted for deployment in all 75 districts and four police commissionerates across the state for the upcoming UP assembly polls, said additional director general (ADG), law and order, Prashant Kumar here on Friday. He said this allotted force will be available from January 10 while further allotment will be done after having availability of more companies of paramilitary forces. The 150 companies of paramilitary forces, include 50 companies of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), 30 companies each of Shashastra Seema Bal (SSB) and Border Security Force (BSF) and 20 companies each of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP). He said the maximum number of four companies of CRPF was allotted to Prayagraj, three companies each of different paramilitary forces to 14 districts and four police commissionerate of Lucknow, Varanasi, Kanpur and Gautam Buddh Nagar. He said two companies each were allotted to 34 districts while one company each was allotted to remaining 33 districts. The ADG said the officials concerned of different districts and commissionerates have been directed to deploy the forces accordingly to maintain law and order as well as conduct free and fair assembly elections. He said the officials have been asked to carry out flag marches of paramilitary forces in their respective jurisdiction areas to instill sense of security among the public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-polls-150-companies-of-paramilitary-forces-allotted-for-free-and-fair-election-101641575389537.html
07-01-2022||Lucknow||UP’s first joyride train to start its maiden journey today||Uttar Pradesh’s first joyride train on the 107 km-long meter-gauge route between Mailani (Lakhimpur Kheri) and Bichia (Bahraich) via Dudhwa Tiger Reserve will embark upon its first official trip on Saturday. Officials with NE Railways said train is packed with luxurious, see-through vistadome coaches that would provide passengers a glimpse of the scenic Dudhwa National Park. The heritage special train (05319\20) that is designed to run on over 100-year-old meter gauge railway line would run thrice a week on Saturday, Sunday and Monday. “The train (05319) would depart from Bichia at 1:45pm and reach Mailani at 5:55pm. Similarly, the train (05320) would depart from Mailani at 7am and reach Bichia at 11:30am,” said Pankaj Kumar Singh chief public relation officer (CPRO), NER.The train was initially flagged off by railway minister Ashwini Vaishnaw during a programme organised at Gomti Nagar railway station in Lucknow on Thursday. However, the official run of the train would start from Saturday onwards. Singh said the fare of the train would be around ₹265.As of now, two vistadome coaches that were brought from Mhow Coaching Depot would be attached to the train. Each coach has a seating capacity of 60 passengers.What makes these coaches different? The wide glass windows enables passengers to enjoy the scenic view to the maximum. The coaches have the capacity to ply at a speed of 180kmph though they would be operated at a lower speed. The seats can rotate up to 180 degrees and coaches are equipped with wi-fi connectivity, pantry, modular toilets, LED destination board, multi-tier luggage racks, CCTV cameras and appliances like microwave, coffee maker, refrigerator, bottle cooler etc, said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ups-first-joyride-train-to-start-its-maiden-journey-today-101641575387593.html
07-01-2022||Other||IGNOU postpones December term-end exams||Chandigarh Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) has postponed term-end examination of December 2021, scheduled to be held from January 20, 2022, to February 23, 2022, till further orders due to the increase in Covid-19 cases. The headquarters of the varsity issued thee notification, which adds that the new schedule will be issued 15 days before the exam. Dr Anil K Dimri, senior regional director, Regional Centre, Chandigarh, advised candidates to regularly check status of the exam on the varsity’s website (ignou.ac.in) and the Regional Centre, Chandigarh’s, (rcchandigarh.ac.in) websites. The Regional Centre, Chandigarh Facebook Page can also be checked at short intervals to stay abreast with the exam schedule, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ignou-postpones-december-term-end-exams-101641575148302.html
07-01-2022||Mumbai||Mumbai crosses 20k-mark, experts say tally inching towards peak of spike||Mumbai Mumbai’s case tally breached the 20,000-mark on Friday, with 20,971 fresh infections reported in the last 24 hours. With these figures, the city recorded the highest single-day spike for the third time this week.Taking into consideration the steady rise in cases, experts said that the city’s tally could be inching towards its peak and the Covid graph may have reached a saturation point owing to the high number of tests conducted. The experts also maintained that they need to wait for at least one more week to make a concrete conclusion on the intensity of the new variant.“With over 20,000 cases being reported regularly, we can say that we are at the peak of the spike. Cases may further increase by next week. The city has also reached a saturation point as laboratories are now overwhelmed with samples and it is taking more time than usual to get the RT-PCR test reports,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state Covid task force.“However, the key takeaway, for now, is that the demand for hospital beds is still not very high and most of the cases are mild. Also, we need to be safe with ourselves because the delta variant is still prevalent and most serious cases are because of the Delta,” Joshi added.“While the spread is similar to the characteristics of the Omicron variant, it is still too early to comment on the intensity. The cases had started to spike from December 20 and we will have to wait and watch the situation till January 15, because it usually takes the variant of a virus two-three weeks to show its actual symptoms,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, director of critical care in Fortis Hospital and member of the national Covid task force and Maharashtra Covid task force.Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal also said on Friday that the South African model showed that the cases peaked and began dropping after five-six weeks. Chahal said that Mumbai is already on the third week and after the next 10 days, the daily case tally may start to decline. At present, the active case tally in Mumbai stands at 91,731.Out of the fresh infections reported on Friday, 17,616 (84%) patients were asymptomatic. The city also reported six Covid deaths on Friday, taking the overall toll to 16,394.The daily positivity rate also declined by one per cent on Friday. With 72,442 tests done in Mumbai in the last 24 hours, the positivity rate stood at 28.94 per cent, while on Thursday, the positivity rate was around 29.90 per cent.Meanwhile, Dharavi also reported 150 cases on Friday, making it the highest-ever single day spike since the outbreak of the pandemic.Kiran Dighavkar, the assistant municipal commissioner from G/North ward, said that equal amount of cases are now being reported from both slum areas and residential towers.“We are doing maximum tests possible in a day. Even though the transmission rate of the spread is high, the symptoms are very mild and nearly 75 per cent of the overall active cases in Dharavi are asymptomatic. We are also transferring the patients who are unable to isolate themselves at their home to the institutional quarantine centres,” Dighavkar said.He also maintained that a general hospital in Dharavi has been converted into a Covid Hospital to meet the demand for beds.Suresh Kakani, the additional municipal commissioner and in charge of public health, said that the pattern of spread is still fluctuating and it’s too early to say if the daily case tally has reached the maximum point.“We are getting 15,000 plus cases from the last three days and the difference between Thursday’s case tally and Friday’s case tally is not very high. The pattern needs to be still watched closely in case the daily case figures start fluctuating again,” Kakani said.Meanwhile, the figures also showed that 1,395 patients were hospitalised in the last 24 hours, due to which the bed occupancy in Mumbai also increased by 2 per cent during this period. On Friday, with 6,531 beds occupied out of the 35,645 beds, the occupancy rate stood at 18 per cent, while on Thursday the occupancy was around 16 per cent.To ensure more Covid beds are available in Mumbai, the BMC on Friday shut all the OPD facilities in the Balasaheb Thackeray Hospital (Trauma Care Centre) at Jogeshwari and converted it into an entire Covid Hospital.“More than 80 per cent of the beds are vacant. At present, we have 35,000 beds activated and if the need arises, the bed capacity could be increased to one lakh,” said Kakani.Dr Mangala Gomare, the executive health officer in the BMC, said that the civic body is equipped to tackle the surge and there are enough beds in the city.“In the recent guidelines, we have also increased the duration of home isolation. This will also help us manage beds more efficiently,” said Gomare.He further added that many of the beds are occupied by international passengers during their isolation period and other high-risk contacts. The recovery rate in Mumbai stood at 87 per cent, with a total of 8,490 patients discharged on Friday, taking the total number of recovered patients to 7,64,053.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-crosses-20k-mark-experts-say-tally-inching-towards-peak-of-spike-101641574906927.html
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid surge: Amid Omicron scare, Punjab awaits genome sequencing reports||Amid fears of the new variant Omicron driving the third wave of Covid-19 pandemic across India, the Punjab health department is left waiting for genome sequencing reports of positive samples to establish the dominant variant.So far, only seven Omicron cases have been confirmed in Punjab, even as the state has seen a massive surge is infection and positivity rates in the past couple of weeks.The Punjab government in December inaugurated the first state-run Covid-19 whole genome sequencing laboratory at the Government Medical College, Patiala, but still samples are being sent to Virus Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) labs in New Delhi, which are already overburdened.Reason: Most of the employees at the Patiala lab, including its in-charge Dr Rupinder Bakshi, tested positive last week, according to a state health official, who did not wish to be named. Due to this, as many as 95 samples are pending for testing at the lab, while another 140 reports (including of international travellers) are awaited from Delhi. Usually, it takes around five to six days for the reports to come, but there has been up to three-week lag, said the official. At present, the health department is focusing on international returnees and sending the samples of all of them testing positive for genome sequencing, said Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, state nodal officer for Covid-19.Meanwhile, only 10-15% of samples of others testing positive in the state are being sent for genome sequencing on random basis. Dr Bhaskar said the delay is on the part of New Delhi labs as the state department is completely dependent upon them for genome sequencing. “Moreover, the laboratory in Patiala is overloaded and is presently working with fewer staff,” he said.Director, health, Punjab, GB Singh said labs have been asked to speed up testing, so that Omicron cases could be detected at the earliest. “Seeing the manner in which the infection is rising in the state, the prevalence of Omicron cannot be ruled out,” he said.
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid: 172 more Italy returnees test positive at Amritsar airport||The Punjab health department has ordered a probe into Covid-19 testing being conducted by a private laboratory at Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport in Amritsar after 172 more Italy returnees were found positive on Friday, taking the total to 297 in two days. The inquiry was necessitated seeing the huge numbers and questions raised by passengers on the veracity of tests, said officials. All 285 passengers who landed at the airport on a EuroAtlantic Airways flight chartered by SpiceJet from Italy, an “at-risk” country, underwent RT-PCR testing on their arrival on Friday. Of them, 172 were found positive for Covid-19, said airport director VK Seth. This happens a day after 125 out of 179 Italy returnees on another chartered flight had tested positive for Covid-19, leading to chaos at the airport and posing a major quarantine challenge to the authorities. However, no such chaos was reported on Friday. “As passengers have tested positive for Covid-19 in such a huge number on second consecutive day, it has raised a question on their testing procedure. In view of this, we have decided to conduct tests of 75 passengers again and probe the lab,” said Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh, who ordered the inquiry. All +ve returnees quarantined Meanwhile, three of Thursday’s 13 positive returnees who belong to Amritsar district got admitted to the quarantine centre at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital on Friday. The remaining 10 are isolated at home, said a government spokesperson. All those who testing positive on Friday were allowed to isolate at home under the surveillance of the health department’ teams. After the positive returnees had left for their homes on Thursday in violation of rules, the Amritsar deputy commissioner had warned of booking them under the Epidemic Act and Disaster Management Act if they fail to comply by Friday. 
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: AAP Punjab co-incharge faces protest over ticket distribution in Jalandhar||The brewing discontent among the Aam Aadmi Party cadre of the Jalandhar unit took an ugly turn on Friday after the party’s Punjab affairs co-incharge and Delhi legislator Raghav Chadha was shown black flags over ticket allocation for the upcoming Punjab assembly polls. Former AAP district chief Shiv Dyal Mali along with his supporters as well as aides of Dr Sanjeev Sharma, both of whom were ticket aspirants from two different segments in Jalandhar, reached the local Press Club where Chadha was to induct Congress leader Dinesh Dhall and others into the party. The protesters showed black flags to Chadha when he arrived at the venue and blocked the front gate, forcing the AAP leader to enter the club through a rear gate.Mali, a long associate of the party, was denied ticket from Jalandhar West in favour of former BJP leader Sheetal Aungral, who had joined the AAP a few days ago. Sheetal has also been facing serious criminal charges. Similarly, Dr Sanjeev Sharma, who unsuccessfully contested the 2017 polls from Jalandhar Central and was working in the segment for the past five years, was denied the ticket as the party picked Raman Arora instead. Supporters of Mali and Sharma continued to protest throughout the event, and followed Chadha till his car after the event and showed him black flags. Later, a scuffle broke out between supporters of Dhall and Mali on the Press Club premises, but police intervened timely. Mali said that he had come to the venue to question Chadha on why the party denied ticket to a volunteer and chose a candidate with “notorious criminal background”. He also accused Chadha of striking deals over the distribution of tickets for the polls. He said the Delhi leadership is forcing parachute candidates on the Punjab cadre, and it would bear the brunt of ignoring its volunteers.Even in Banga segment of the neighbouring SBS Nagar district, there is discontent among the AAP cadre after the party gave the ticket to Kuljit Singh Sarhaal, son of former MLA Balwant Singh Sarhaal. Meanwhile, Chadha remained unavailable for comment. 
07-01-2022||Other||Key SSM constituent unsure of poll plunge, forms panel for field survey||Chandigarh Bhartiya Kisan Union (Kadian), a key constituent of the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM), is indecisive on contesting the upcoming Punjab assembly polls, saying that it needs to reassure itself before taking the political plunge. Nineteen farm organisations had floated the SSM, two weeks ago on December 25, to contest the Punjab polls, the announcement of which could come any day now.“We want to reassure ourselves by going to our cadre and the farmers. We want to know how many candidates the SSM has in a winning position,” said Harmeet Singh Kadian, president, BKU (Kadian), adding that a five-member committee had been formed to submit a report to the SSM after conducting a field survey. BKU (Kadian), based in Ludhiana, was the driving force in formation of the SSM and had also called upon other unions to join the political outfit and take on mainstream political parties. Now, Harmeet says, “The SSM is not a purely a political body, but could act as pressure group.” The committee, according to Kadian, will take seven-eight days to submit its report after holding meetings at the block and district levels in 18 districts of the state, where the farm body has a solid support base. Other than the farm bodies that had announced taking the electoral plunge last month, there are five other organisations, which are fence sitters. These bodies can be divided into two major ideological categories, the Left-oriented and the moderates.“We will analyse whether the SSM can take a political plunge or not? What is the mood among the state peasantry, our major support base. Are people from other sections willing to join the SSM? What is the political scenario, particularly, when a 4-5 cornered contest is on the cards. We will present a report to the SSM on these issues,” said Kadian. BKU (Dakounda), till now a fence sitter, is holding a meeting of its cadre in Barnala on Monday (January 10). In addition to the political scenario, it will also discuss farmers’ demands that the Centre is yet to respond upon. 
07-01-2022||Ranchi||Three of 13 named accused held in Simdega lynching case||Three of the 13 named accused in the Simdega lynching case have been arrested and raids are on to nab the others involved in the crime, police said on Friday.Simdega superintendent of police (SP) Shams Tabrez said, “Three named accused were arrested on Thursday. The three belong to the same village as the victim. We are conducting raids for further arrests. We will not reveal the identities of other named accused as it could affect their arrests.”On Tuesday, Sanju Pradhan, in his 30s, was allegedly lynched by a mob of locals at Besrabazar village in Simdega district, accusing him of being involved in the illegal felling of trees and trading stolen wood.Sources in the police department said the three arrested were identified as Lorhe Pradhan, Tripati Pradhan and Maheshwar Pradhan. “These three had alleged that the trees that Sanju had cut belonged to them,” said a police officer.A day after the gruesome lynching of Sanju, his wife Sapna Devi alleged that her husband was killed by the mob in presence of policemen who did nothing to save her husband despite her repeated requests.BJP demands probe, action against copsA BJP delegation led by legislature party leader Babulal Marandi visited Sanju’s family at his village. Marandi said that the crime was a part of a conspiracy and innocent people have been arrested in the case. “This entire issue of tree cutting is an eyewash because that issue was stepped last year itself. There is a deep-rooted conspiracy. The entire crime happened in front of the police. They have now arrested members of the victim’s own family. He has been killed as he had raised his voice against the illegal activities of some people here. We demand action against the Simdega SP and Kolebira police station in charge,” said Marandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/three-of-13-named-accused-held-in-simdega-lynching-case-101641572392218.html
07-01-2022||Mumbai||71% of current active Covid cases in Thane concentrated in 3 wards alone||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has reported 2,442 new cases on Friday, a 12% increase from Thursday. As per the data submitted by the civic body, around 71% of the total active cases are concentrated in three wards – Majiwada-Manpada, Vartak Nagar and Uthalsar – with Majiwada-Manpada contributing to over 41% of the active cases.The civic officials also informed that over 91.73% of the active cases are in home quarantine and merely 9% to 10% require hospitalisation so far. The city at present has 10,086 active cases while the doubling days are now 81. An officer from the health department said, “Most of the positive cases are from these three wards mainly because the Majiwada-Manpada and Vartak Nagar wards comprise areas like Ghodbunder, Pokhran and Manpada that have many high-rise buildings. Here, people travel a lot for work. Moreover, the population of these wards is also high. We have over eight health centres in Majiwada-Manpada ward alone. Uthalsar, though does not have high rises, our testing lab is located here and that could be the reason.”He added that while samples were still being given for genome sequencing, it will soon stop as most of the cases are now of the new variant as per the symptoms. “It also does not mean that the Delta variant is suppressed. We have severe cases of this variant too, but we have to follow the same protocol in both variants.”Dr Tejas Ghude, pulmonologist, Thane, said, “The cases are more in areas where people have a travel history. A lot of people from the high-rises travel not only internationally but also to different states in India. We have patients who are positive after travel history to Delhi or Kolkata. The infection rate of the new variant is high, so even if one person travels, the entire family is infected and the cases in that particular area increases.” He added that contract tracing is the key to curb the rise in these particular areas. He said, “By tracing more and more positive cases and isolating them in time, we can curb the surge.” The civic chief has requested people to get vaccinated, wear masks and observe social distancing. In a statement released, Dr Vipin Sharma, TMC commissioner, said, “The vaccination drive in the city is going on at 78 centres. We have vaccinated 25.36 lakh people so far. The current wave has proved that vaccination is the only effective way to fight the virus.”Sandeep Malvi, additional municipal commissioner, added that around 91% of the people are home quarantined. He said, “Out of the 4,725 beds, merely 834 are occupied while 3,891 are vacant as per the data on January 7. Over 9,252 people out of the 10,086 active cases are in home quarantine as they have mild symptoms.” Talking about the increase in home quarantine compared to the second wave, Ghude added, “Most cases are symptomatic. However, over 91% have mild symptoms as the new variant is comparatively less severe. There are, however, few cases that are severe, which might be infected with the Delta variant. Moreover, the severe cases also include those who are not vaccinated, old or have comorbidities.”Unlike the first and second waves, there are very few cases with shortness of breath of reduced oxygen level, Ghude said. “Most patients we see since the last two weeks have symptoms like headache, throat ache, dry cough that advances to wet cough, fever, fatigue, diarrhoea and vomiting.”
07-01-2022||Ranchi||Video of mob thrashing Muslim man goes viral, Soren orders probe||A Muslim man was beaten and forced to chant “Jai Shri Ram” allegedly by a group of BJP workers who were protesting on Friday near city centre in Dhanbad against the security breach in Prime Minister’s security in Punjab. As videos went viral on social media showing a group, including a woman, thrashing and abusing the man, chief minister Hemant Soren directed Dhanbad deputy commissioner to conduct a probe and take appropriate action. In the video, the man is seen being forced to do sit-ups, lick the road after spitting on it, besides being slapped and kicked by the group, even as he is heard saying repeatedly he was a Muslim. The man was beaten allegedly for abusing party leaders. “Dhanbad DC should probe the incident and revert with action taken report. There is no space for animosity in the state where people love to live in peace,” the CM said in a tweet, in response to a Twitter post on the incident. The victim has been identified as Zeeshan Khan, resident of Shamsher Nagar in Wasseypur in Dhanbad. His younger brother Rehan Khan told Hindustan Times that Zesshan was mentally unstable and is under treatment at Central Institute of Psychiatry in Ranchi. “Only three of us live in our home. Both me and my mother have private jobs. We were out when my brother left home. He has returned home after the incident. Though we are yet to decide on lodging a formal complaint, but they should not have done what they did. Even if he abused them, they could have handed him over to police,” said Rehan. BJP legislator from Dhanbad, Raj Sinha, who was present at the protest, said the incident should be probed in entirety. “This man came in front of us and started abusing our state president taking his name. We asked him to leave. I don’t know what exactly happened with him after the party workers pushed him away from where we were sitting. However, it needs to be probed whether this entire thing was a conspiracy. Otherwise why would anyone just come and start abusing us,” said Sinha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/video-of-mob-thrashing-muslim-man-goes-viral-soren-orders-probe-101641572206759.html
07-01-2022||Patna||Gati-Shakti lays out 5-yr infra road map for Bihar||Bihar and Jharkhand will see major development projects over the next five years as part of the PM Gati Shakti for Eastern Region (ER), which will involve coordinated work by 16 departments of central and state governments to avoid duplicity and unnecessary delays, officials familiar with the matter said after the first zonal conference for Eastern Region held in Patna on Friday.The ER includes Bihar, Jharkhand, Orissa, West Bengal and Chhattisgarh. The Gati Shakti is a ₹100-lakh crore national infrastructure master plan announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last year to “make a foundation for holistic infrastructure and give an integrated pathway to our economy”.The list of projects in ER for next five years include doubling of railway tracks, gauge conversion of rail tracks and rebuilding bridges“The ultimate objective is to bring down cost of logistics and help central and state governments prioritise while planning for the future,” Amrit Lal Meena, additional secretary, union ministry of commerce and industry, said while speaking at the conference where Bihar’s deputy chief ministers Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi and road construction minister Nitin Navin were also present. Eastern Central Railway general manager Anup Sharma said the country was developing basic infrastructure with multi-dimensional approach. “It will include railway, roads and waterways,” he said. The conference also saw participation from ministers and officials of West Bengal, Jharkhand, Orissa and Chhattisgarh through online mode. “Each and every department will now have visibility of each other’s activities,” Navin said. Doubling of railway tracks in BiharMuzaffarpur-Sagauli: 100.6 km Sagauli-Valmikinagar: 109.7 km 
07-01-2022||Patna||Bihar Assembly premises shut till Jan 18 amid Covid surge||Amid the continuing spread of Covid-19 in Bihar, state's Legislative Assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha on Friday announced complete closure of the Vidhan Sabha premises from January 8-16. The decision was taken after nearly 30 staff members tested positive in the testing in the last three days.Sinha said Covid had snatched some staff members and their kin in the past. “Safety of the staff is paramount,” he said.The speaker also ordered a thorough sanitisation of the premises during the closure period and directed the officials to remain in headquarters with their mobiles switched on so that any unavoidable work could not suffer.Last year too, Assembly premises had to be closed from April 17 to April 25 amid the deadly second wave of the pandemic, during which 44 Vidhan Sabha secretariat officials and staff members had tested positive within three days of testing.The Speaker has also issued direction for restarting the Covid control room developed last year for timely medical assistance to the staff and their family members as well as former and present legislators and their families. The control room would also coordinate with health department for timely assistance to the needy.“The time demands utmost precaution and adherence to Covid protocol. People must wear masks and maintain social distancing. Self awareness and precaution hold the key,” he said.
07-01-2022||Patna||1/3rd of PSA oxygen plants under PM Cares in Bihar face teething problems||More than one-third of the 62 pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen generation plants installed in government facilities of Bihar under the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM Cares) fund are facing operational issues, a month after their commissioning, officials privy to the matter said. As many as 44 of the total 119 PSA plants commissioned in the state so far, against the total of 127 planned, were non-functional on Friday during an audit by the state health department. At least 55% of the 44 non-functional PSA plants are from the PM Cares fund, said officials quoted above. Seven of the faulty 24 PSA plants under PM CARES face oxygen purity issue, six have leakage problem, two have encountered zeolite problem (it absorbs nitrogen and separates oxygen from atmospheric air) and white dust issue in their oxygen tanks, two need replacement of auto changeover (required to maintain uninterrupted supply of oxygen in event of power failure), one has pressure issue, while six others face ignition problem, compressor, stabiliser, alarm, suction jar and valve issues. “The figure is dynamic and likely to change every day. The Centre is monitoring the performance of the PSA plants on a daily basis and has asked the vendors of Central agencies, which installed them, to urgently attend to the snag,” said an official. The 500 LPM (litres per minute) PSA plants at subdivisional hospitals (SDH) Benipur in Darbhanga district and Narkatiaganj in West Champaran, 1,000 LPM plants at subdivisional hospital Buxar and the sadar (district) hospitals of Khagaria, Munger and Siwan, 2,000 LPM plant at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Patna, face oxygen purity issue, said the official. The SDH Benipur plant reported the lowest oxygen purity level of 65% while the SDH Narkatiaganj plant had 89%. As per Centre’s guidelines, PSA plants need to maintain a minimum oxygen purity level of 93% with a variation of plus or minus 3%, said officials aware of the matter. The 1,000 LPM PSA plant at Darbhanga Medical College Hospital (DMCH), 500 LPM plant at the SDH Tekari in Gaya district, 200 LPM plant at SDH Tarapur in Munger district, 1,000 LPM plant at district hospitals of Purnia and 200 LPM plant at Sheohar, and the 250 LPM plant at SDH Vikramganj in Rohtas district have leakage in either their medical gas pipeline system (MGPS) or oxygen tanks, said the officials. The SDH Mahua plant at Vaishali district has pressure issues. A PSA plant has to maintain 4-6 bar oxygen pressure. The desired level of oxygen pressure, prescribed at hospital bed of patient is 4.2 bar, as per the Centre’s guidelines. The PSA plants at SDH Pusa and Jagdishpur in Bhojpur district require replacement of auto-changeover. Of the 62 PSA plants under PM Cares in the state, the DRDO has installed 44, the HLL Infra Tech Services Limited (HITES) and the Central Medical Services Society (CMSS) nine each. Only 79 of the 119 PSA plants available in the state were found to be fully functional during a mock drill on December 23. As many as 14 PSA plants, including those at the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College Hospital, Bhagalpur, and the Government Medical College, Bettiah, had reported oxygen purity issues. These also included a few PSA plants at Bhojpur, Darbhanga, East Champaran, Gaya, Lakhisarai, Madhepura, Madhubani, Munger, Nalanda, Purnia, Rohtas and West Champaran districts. Twelve PSA plants, including in Araria, East Champaran, Gaya, Gopalganj, Katihar, Khagaria, Madhubani, Nalanda, Purnia, Saharsa and Bhagalpur districts, have reported leakage. There were pressure issues in 15 PSA plants, including some installed at Bhojpur, Gaya, Kaimur, Kishanganj, Lakhisarai, Madhepura, Madhubani, Munger, Nalanda, Purnia, Rohtas and West Champaran districts. A Central team had recently noted that ill-trained personnel were running the PSA plants in government facilities of the state. “We are hiring trained personnel from the Industrial Training Institute (ITI) to operate the PSA plants. They have already begun joining their place of posting and all of them should be in place by next week,” said an official of the health department who requested anonymity. “We will not allow oxygen supply to hospital bedside through any PSA plant which does not conform to the prescribed purity level prescribed by the Centre,” he said. Only six of the 62 PSA plants under PM Cares and seven of the 60 PSA plants of the state government or those put up by private and public sector firms under corporate social responsibility, have diesel generator sets as back-up for power supply. The state government on Thursday issued orders for installation of diesel generator sets against each PSA plant, the officer said. The PSA plants, which generate oxygen from gases in the atmosphere, have been installed at medical colleges, district hospitals, subdivisional hospitals and community health centres to tide over the oxygen crisis, as the Delta and Omicron variants of Covid-19 loom in the apparent third wave of the coronavirus. Bihar has scaled up its oxygen capacity to 448 metric tonnes against its assessed oxygen requirement projection of 377 metric tonnes during the peak active cases last year. Of this, 140 metric tonnes will be generated through 122 PSA oxygen generation plants and 308 metric tonnes of oxygen can be stored in cryogenic liquid medical oxygen tanks at 10 state-run medical college hospitals. The state has 15,178 total available beds against a total bed capacity of 19,383 for management of Covid-19 patients. Of these, 12,000 beds have oxygen supply through centralised pipeline, said senior state health officials. The Centre had allocated Bihar a daily quota of 214 metric tonnes of medical oxygen, but it was able to lift only 167 metric tonnes because of logistic issues in the first week of May last year. The state’s maximum oxygen requirement was then assessed at 240-250 metric tonnes, said the official quoted above. This led to one of the worst medical oxygen crises during the peak of the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic between April and May last year when the Delta variant claimed many lives. Meanwhile, union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan reviewed the preparedness status of oxygen infrastructure, including PSA plants, oxygen concentrators and oxygen cylinders, ventilators with states and union territories on Friday.
07-01-2022||Mumbai||Bulli Bai case: Two arrested from Uttarakhand brought to Mumbai, remanded to police custody till Monday||Mumbai. The two Uttarakhand youths arrested in the Bulli Bai app case - Shweta Singh (18) and Mayank Rawat (20) were brought to Mumbai on transit remand. They were produced before a court on Friday at Bandra by the west region cyber police station officials. Police sought their remand for custodial interrogation following which the court remanded the two in police custody till Monday. Earlier arrested accused Vishal Kumar Jha (21) is already in the police custody till Monday. Police sources said that the trio would be confronted in custody.Bulli Bai app was uploaded on open-source host platform GitHub on December 31, 2021. In this app, morphed images of more than 100 Muslim women were published in an attempt to “auction” them. Five Twitter handles were promoting the Bulli Bai app on Twitter and Jha, Singh and Rawat are suspected to be operating these handles. Cyber police are checking if the main accused Niraj Bishnoi, arrested from Assam by the Delhi police Special Cell on Thursday, was giving them instructions or they were doing things on their own.Police are also checking if the three accused were involved in the Sulli Deals matter that came to light in June 2021.Bishnoi, suspected to be the mastermind of the entire matter, before his arrest, on Wednesday posted a comment on Maharashtra MoS Home Satej Patil’s tweet saying the accused arrested by Mumbai police are innocent.Bishnoi used the twitter handle @giyu44 for posting the comment, which was created by him on January 3, 2022 with specific agenda to demean the arrest by Mumbai police and to throw open challenges to law enforcement agencies to nab him. In this attempt he had tried to show his identity from Nepal and subsequently, as proof posted notices and communications received from Github regarding the bullibai app investigation on one of the online news portals. Bishnoi is also suspected to be linked to the Sulli deal. Mumbai police would also seek his custody in future as he is also an accused in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bulli-bai-case-two-arrested-from-uttarakhand-brought-to-mumbai-remanded-to-police-custody-till-monday-101641571008150.html
07-01-2022||Mumbai||Daughter joins mother in killing father in Kalyan over marriage issues||A 45-year old woman, along with her 26-year-old daughter, allegedly killed her 55-year-old husband with a mortar and pestle in Kalyan on Thursday. The family was having fights on a daily basis on the issue of their daughter’s broken marriage. The Kolsewadi police arrested the woman and daughter on Friday.The deceased, identified as Prakash Borse, worked as a constable. The incident occurred on Thursday night after 8pm, when Borse, attached to Kurla police station, returned home after finishing his duty. Borse’s daughter was married but didn’t want to stay with her husband and demanded divorce. The deceased was trying to convince her to go back to her in-laws’ house.According to Kolsewadi police, on Thursday, while the wife, Jyoti, and daughter, Bhagyashree Pawar, were cooking dinner, Borse initiated the talk again about the daughter’s marriage and an altercation broke out between them, the neighbours told police officials. Once again, the deceased asked his daughter to go back to her in-laws’ home when the furious Jyoti came with an iron mortar and pestle and hit his head several times. The daughter also started hitting her father and made him unconscious.Police inspector Kisan Gavali of Kolsewadi police station said, “Borse was taken to a hospital by the accused and neighbours but was declared dead on arrival. Their arguments on their daughter’s marriage had been intense for the past few weeks, according to neighbours. We have arrested both the women under IPC 302.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/daughter-joins-mother-in-killing-father-in-kalyan-over-marriage-issues-101641570106514.html
07-01-2022||Lucknow||IIT-BHU assistant professor bags ICMR prize for biomedical and clinical research||Dr Pranjal Chandra, assistant professor at the School of Biochemical Engineering (IIT-BHU) Varanasi has received the prestigious Shakuntala Amir Chand Prize 2020 by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for groundbreaking work in the area of biomedical and clinical research. The Shakuntala Amir Chand Prize recognizes significant contributions to biomedical sciences and clinical research by young scientists and was instituted by (late) major general Amir Chand in the memory of his daughter in 1953. Chandra has been selected for developing several simple hand-held bio-sensing devices that can detect bio-molecules like alkaline phosphatase, cancer biomarkers, drugs etc in complex biological fluids. All such targets have a tremendous role in disease diagnosis and analyzing therapeutic interventions in pathological laboratories globally. “The bio-electronic device is palm sized and very handy for the onsite detection of molecules in miniaturized settings. Such devices can be deployed in hospitals and also be used in personalized settings,” said Chandra and added that the system is ultrafast and able to give readout signals in a short span of time compared to other conventional methods. IIT-BHU director prof Pramod Kumar Jain congratulated Chandra and said such devices can be of use for the common man and assist toward improving human health. “Such devices falls under the visionary national missions of “Make in India” and “Start-up India” of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and can compete with other similar imported devices. Several such devices and advanced analytical systems are under development at IIT-BHU. A team of researchers led by Dr Chandra has already filed the patent through IIT-BHU and the goal is to bring them to the market in coming years,” Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/iitbhu-assistant-professor-bags-icmr-prize-for-biomedical-and-clinical-research-101641568306551.html
07-01-2022||Mumbai||Kenya returnee booked in Ulhasnagar for not following quarantine protocols after testing positive for Omicron||The Vithalwadi police have registered a case against a man under Section 188 after he returned from Kenya with his family in mid-December but did not follow any of the quarantine protocols.Instead, he travelled to Punjab, Amritsar, Delhi and Kashmir. Along with his two family members, he has now tested positive with the Omicron variant.On December 17, a family of four – a couple and their two children – came back from Kenya. Accordingly, Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation got the list of travellers and they went to their home to conduct their tests.The department took their sample for RT-PCR and Omicron tests but before the report came, the family went for a trip. On December 21, they tested positive while the genome sequencing detected Omicron variant in the couple and the son whereas the daughter was only Covid positive. When the corporation officials went to their home to check their quarantine facility, they found that the family had gone for a trip.A Vithalwadi police officer said, “The corporation officials called the man and asked them to self-quarantine wherever they are but later, through some investigation, officials found the family has been roaming around Vaishno Devi, Amritsar and other tourist places without following any pandemic rules. They returned on December 31 and still continued to do the same. Therefore, the corporation officials came to file complaints against the family member. We have registered a case against the man under Section 188 and 51B of IPC.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kenya-returnee-booked-in-ulhasnagar-for-not-following-quarantine-protocols-after-testing-positive-for-omicron-101641567466521.html
07-01-2022||Other||BJP enacting drama to escape low Ferozepur turnout: Sidhu||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), alleging that the party’s security lapse drama was an attempt to save itself from humiliation due to the poor turnout at Ferozepur rally and reap political benefits in other poll-bound states.Sidhu said the Prime Minister (PM) is defaming Punjab and Punjabiyat by claiming that there was a threat to his life. “It is an attempt to save himself from humiliation. Because it must not have happened in history that the PM of a nation would have to address 500 people, where arrangements had been made for 70,000,” he said at a press conference at the Punjab Congress Bhawan, supporting his own government which is under fire for the unprecedented security breach. He was accompanied by Congress national spokesperson and media in-charge for Punjab elections Alka Lamba.The PM’s cavalcade was stuck on a flyover on the Moga-Ferozepur highway for 15-20 minutes during his first visit to poll-bound Punjab in almost two years on Wednesday, as protesters blocked his route. The Union home ministry has promised action for the security breach, and the BJP has accused the Congress of conspiring to put the PM in harm’s way. The Charanjit Singh Channi-led Congress government has repeatedly denied any security lapse.Accusing the BJP of playing dirty politics, Sidhu said their attempt to put the onus of the entire security on Punjab Police was not correct because there are 10,000 persons of the Special Protection Group (SPG), IB, RAW and other agencies who are involved in the PM’s security paraphernalia and the state police takes instructions from them. There was no plan for the PM to travel by road, how it was changed suddenly, he asked, stating that their (BJP’s) attempts to defame the state would not succeed.The Congress leader said the BJP has no vote or support in Punjab, adding that this is why they are trying to defame the state, and fight elections in Uttar Pradesh and other states and reap political benefits. “Wherever the BJP does this drama, issues get sidetracked. Has anyone talked about unemployment, agriculture or future of the next generations for four days?” he asked. Sidhu added that all those seeking President’s rule in Punjab are parrots like former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who says what the BJP asks him to say.Capt Amarinder has floated own party, Punjab Lok Congress, after quitting the Congress and has entered into an electoral alliance with the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/security-lapse-bjp-enacting-drama-to-escape-low-ferozepur-turnout-sidhu-101641567046439.html
07-01-2022||Mumbai||Subordinate courts to work four hours, to take up urgent matters only||Mumbai: According to a circular issued by the Bombay High Court (HC) on Thursday, subordinate courts in Mumbai, Pune, Raigad and Thane districts will go back to pandemic-time functioning (four hours a day) from January 10, due to skyrocketing Covid-19 cases. The new way of functioning will remain in force till Jan 28. The courts will only take up urgent matters and matters of bail, remand, etc. and conduct work in two shifts of two hours each. The court staff too will work on rotation at 50% capacity.The circular was issued after a meeting of the administrative committee of the high court that comprised the chief justice and other senior judges. The judicial working hours will be 2 hours in each shift, 11 am to 1 pm and 2 pm to 4 pm, the office working hours will be 10.30am to 4.30pm.The circular further said that other matters fixed for recording of evidence, hearing of arguments etc., should be taken via virtual platform. The courts may take up matters physically which are either scheduled for compromise or compounding.Courts can take in the first session’s cases which are fixed for evidence and in the second shift, cases which are fixed for judgement, order or hearing of arguments may be taken up.Only those advocates, witnesses, accused persons and party-in-persons whose matters are listed on that day’s board or whose presence is required by the court for any specific purpose like verification etc. will be permitted to have access in the court building. “No one should enter the court halls unless their matter is called out and shall leave the court premises as soon as hearing of their case /work is over,” said the circular.“All persons entering the court premises shall compulsorily wear face mask covering the nose and mouth (including at the time of arguments or giving evidence) and shall also observe physical distancing norms as set out from time to time HC, central government and state government regarding precautions to be taken to prevent the spread of Covid-19,” read a part of the three page letter send to various courts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/subordinate-courts-to-work-four-hours-to-take-up-urgent-matters-only-101641566146205.html
07-01-2022||Mumbai||BMC to resume Coastal Road work as fishers remain staunch in opposition||Mumbai Officials in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) coastal roads department on Friday said that they will resume work on the disputed interchange between the Coastal Road and the Bandra-Worli Sea Link in south Mumbai. Construction of the same has been stalled on at least 10 occasions since October 30, by protesting fisherfolk, who maintain that the interchange, if built as per current design specifications, will cut them off from their traditional fishing grounds.This development follows on the heels of a meeting on Thursday between representatives of two registered fishing societies in Worli Koliwada, state environment minister and MLA from Worli Aaditya Thackeray, fisheries minister Aslam Shaikh, BMC commissioner Iqbal Chahal, additional municipal commissioner Ashwini Bhide, industries minister Subhash Desai, and transport minister Anil Parab.Vijay Nighot, chief engineer (coastal roads department), who was also present during the meeting, said, “We had a very fruitful discussion with the fishers led by Aaditya Thackeray, and they are ready to cooperate with us. It has been agreed that the BMC will start construction on pillar numbers 1 to 5 of the interchange and that the fisherfolk will suggest experts independently review their grievances within 15 days. We will examine that report and take a call regarding their navigation route issue. Our jack-up barge has been moved to the construction site today to resume the work.”Fisherfolk, however, gave a contrary view of Thursday’s meeting. In a written response to the BMC via their legal representative, the Worli fishers have expressed further disappointment at the state government’s approach to their demands, which include a span of at least 200 metres under the proposed interchange, as opposed to the BMC’s designs which provide a span of only 60 metres. “My clients reject the conclusion that seems to have been drawn by the MCGM from the meeting held on January 6 2022, that the MCGM should proceed with construction of five pillars, leaving the construction of some pillars in abeyance till further deliberation. Such consolations are not in favour of the community and a way of deflecting their demand,” wrote advocate Meenaz Kakalia to the BMC, adding that “No further work on the interchange should commence till a concrete decision about the navigation span is made by the Government.” BMC officials did not provide any comment regarding this statement.Nitesh Patil, secretary of the Worli Koliwada Matsyavyavsay Sahakari Sangathan, said, “In Thursday’s meeting, our words were twisted to imply that we are consenting to the BMC starting work again. Today, barges and tugboats have started moving in the area and several fishing nets have been damaged. We will take an assessment tomorrow and halt the work again if our demand for a redesign of the interchange is not agreed to.” Delays in construction of the interchange have cost the BMC at least ₹30 crore over two months. As per the 2021-22 BMC budget, the cost of this project is ₹12,950 crore including construction and other consultancy charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-to-resume-coastal-road-work-as-fishers-remain-staunch-in-opposition-101641565486111.html
07-01-2022||Mumbai||Clean, hygienic street food hubs to come up outside Vashi railway station||Soon, commuters and residents can enjoy clean street food outside the Vashi railway station as the CIDCO has undertaken to revamp the area.The Food Safety Standard Authority of India (FSSAI) has decided to set up clean street food hubs at different places of Mumbai, Thane, Mira-Bhayandar as well as Navi Mumbai. The popular eatery outside Vashi railway station has over 30 stalls and hundreds of people have food there on a daily basis. The FSSAI has chosen this eatery to turn into one such hub and has asked the local authorities to take care of the basic infrastructure. As the area belongs to CIDCO, they are now renovating that place to meet the standards set by the FSSAI.A senior CIDCO officer said, “The FSSAI officials initially explained their plans to the people working in the eatery and then conducted an online training programme last month. During the programme, they trained the people on how to cook hygienic food with less oil, sugar or salt, how to store and serve those at their stalls. Recently, FSSAI set up one such hub in Juhu, Mumbai, and reportedly it has received very good response from the people.“Meanwhile, they also asked us to take care of the cleanliness and basic infrastructure of that area. So, we are now changing the old paver blocks with new ones in the area between the station premises and the eatery. We have already repaired the old sewage lines and covered the uncovered parts. We have also put some umbrella-type structures where people can stand and have their food. If required, we will also do some minor paintings at some places.”The daily commuters and employees of the nearby offices say that this initiative would help thousands of people who have food at the eatery.Manish Tiwari, 37, who works at a nearby office, said, “Several people come and have breakfast, lunch or evening snacks at these stalls. Many of the stalls, however, do not follow the basic cleanliness rules. We also cannot protest as the options are limited. So, the initiative taken by FSSAI and CIDCO will ensure hygienic food for the people.”
07-01-2022||Mumbai||Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation chief directs all private hospitals to keep beds ready as Covid cases rise||The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) commissioner has directed all the private hospitals to keep the beds ready, do the fire audit and keep the required oxygen in stock considering the surge in Covid cases.A meeting was held with the doctors by the KDMC chief, Vijay Suryavanshi. On Friday, Suryavanshi, along with MP Shrikant Shinde and MLA Ravindra Chavan, inspected the newly-prepared Covid Care Centre at Vibha Company in Dombivli MIDC, which has 500-plus beds for Covid patients.“More cases of pregnant women and children are detected these days. We have asked the doctors in the city to make sure that all the facilities including the beds and oxygen supply are ready. If children are infected, there is no need for institutional quarantine for them. They can be home isolated by following proper protocols,” said Suryavanshi.Suryavanshi also urged the hospitals in the city to do fire, oxygen and electric audits in order to ensure the safety of the patients. The newly-opened Covid centre at Vibha Company has 50 dedicated beds for children. To tackle the third wave, the civic body has made the arrangements of around 9,000 beds in its vicinity.
07-01-2022||Indore||'Close all Jawed Habib centres in Indore or else…': BJP MLA warns of protests||All saloons run by Jawed Habib in Indore should be closed within 48 hours, BJP leader and MLA from Indore, Akash Vijayvargiya, warned on Friday, as the celebrity hair stylist found himself in trouble over a clip from Uttar Pradesh’s Muzaffarnagar in which he is seen spitting on a woman’s hair during a workshop.Also Read | NCW summons Jawed Habib for spitting on woman's hair; asks him to explain his actionFailure to shut all Jawed Habib centres in the city will result in an agitation, Vijayvargiya warned.The politician took to Twitter to demand closure of all saloons and centres of the hairstylist in Indore. “This video is for all responsible administrative officers of the city, including collector, commissioner, police commissioner, among others. Recently we saw a video in which hair stylist Jawed Habib invited a woman, Puja Gupta, on the stage, and spat on her hair while styling it. I strongly object to this act, and request you all that at least in Indore, within 48 hours, all Jawed Habib centres should be closed,” he said. इंदौर प्रशासन ध्यान दे...@IndoreCollector @comindore pic.twitter.com/EG3pgLTdOzVijayvargiya further said that he has taken a ‘resolve’ not to let the hair stylist operate any centre in Madhya Pradesh’s largest city. “I once again request you all that within the next two days, all his institutes in Indore be shut,” the BJP leader said.Also Read | Case of assault, insult filed against Jawed Habib for spitting on woman's hairAkash Vijayvargiya, the son of senior party leader Kailash Vijayvargiya, made headlines in June 2019, when he assaulted an Indore Municipal Corporation official with a cricket bat.Also Read | Jawed Habib apologises for spitting on woman's hair, cites ‘humorous’ intentIncidentally, Jawed Habib, too, is a leader of the BJP. He joined the party in April 2019 during Lok Sabha elections that year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/close-all-jawed-habib-centres-in-indore-or-else-bjp-mla-warns-of-protests-101641561886298.html
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Sikhs being ‘terrorised’ on social media after PM security breach: Akal Takht jathedar||Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Friday said that Sikhs are being “terrorised” on social media platforms following the security breach during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Punjab on Wednesday.In a video message, while condemning the incident and blaming the “lack of coordination” between central and state officials for it, the jathedar said: “What happened in regard to the visit of the Prime Minister is not good... It is being seen that after this incident, Sikhs are being targeted and hateful remarks are being passed to them over social media. This is very unfortunate”.Giani Harpreet Singh said that normally an act to kill unarmed and innocent civilians is considered terrorism, but “verbally targeting and vilifying any particular community is also a type of terrorism”.“Surprisingly, the government is not containing the elements indulging in spreading this kind of terrorism. Even some responsible persons have indulged in making such remarks and threatening the community to repeat 1984-like tragedies (anti-Sikh violence). This is not good in any way. This is kind of hate terrorism. The Government of India must rein in this kind of terrorism that is worse and more dangerous than ordinary terrorism in the world,” he said.The Akal Takht jathedar said that what happened with the PM has no link with Sikhs. “Yet, they are facing such vilification. Action should be taken against those behind it. They should be booked under sedition charges,” he said.Giani Harpreet Singh said that Sikhs were vilified even during the farmers’ agitation even as it was a dispute between farmers and the government. “Now, again Sikhs are being dragged into this fresh dispute, while it is one between two governments or political parties. The Union Government should pay attention to it,” he said, adding, “What happened with the Prime Minister should not have happened, because he is an honourable leader of the country. However, what is happening after it is worse”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sikhs-being-terrorised-on-social-media-after-pm-security-breach-akal-takht-jathedar-101641562126117.html
07-01-2022||Mumbai||Children make up 5% to 6% of Covid positive cases in Navi Mumbai: NMMC||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation has stated that around 150 to 200 new Covid cases among children are registered daily. This is around 5% to 6% of the total positive cases.In this month so far, 683 paediatric cases were found positive. Presently, of the total 6,758 active patients, 433 are paediatric cases.Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, said, “Compared to the second wave, there is a slight increase in the percentage of paediatric cases but overall percentage of 0-18 years age group remains less. But the absolute numbers of positive paediatric cases are indeed more.”The CIDCO Exhibition Centre-II facility is converted into a paediatric facility to isolate and treat the paediatric cases exclusively. “Though there are no critical paediatric cases, it is important for the children between 15 years and 18 years to get vaccinated. This third wave is a proof of how vaccination has helped in reducing the severity of the Covid cases even in patients with comorbidities,” a health officer from NMMC said. In the span of four days, NMMC has been able to vaccinate 36,356 youth aged between 15 years and 18 years. “The response from the youth is good and we expect a similar response even in the coming days,” the officer added.Of the 36,356 youth, only 560 of them opted to get vaccinated from private hospitals while the rest got their first jabs from the drive organised by the NMMC in 206 schools. A total of 72,823 children in this age group are expected to get jabbed by the corporation.Dr Vijay Yewale, member of Maharashtra paediatric task force and a practicing paediatrician in Navi Mumbai, said, “During the third wave, the Covid spread is faster than what it was during the second wave. Yet, the criticality of the cases and deaths reported are far less than what it was during the second wave. The reason behind it is only vaccination. Almost 100% of the eligible population above 18 years in Navi Mumbai have received their vaccination. But now, even those above 15 years can get vaccinated and every child in that age group should get their jabs. The vaccine is extremely safe, just like other vaccinations. No vaccine is ever recommended to the public without being sure that it is safe. There is no reason for anyone to have any kind of doubts or suspicions regarding the vaccine and even if anyone faces any doubt, they should get in touch with their respective doctors.”Dr Upendra Kinjawdekar, National President of Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP) and a practicing doctor from Navi Mumbai, said, “Every child is being vaccinated right from the birth in a time-bound manner for various diseases. After various trials and ensuring the safety, the vaccine is now permitted for above 15 years as well and in Navi Mumbai, apart from the schools, it is also available at mobile vans totally free of cost. Every parent should encourage their eligible child to take vaccination.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/children-make-up-5-to-6-of-covid-positive-cases-in-navi-mumbai-nmmc-101641561469398.html
07-01-2022||Mumbai||Alumni of Mahatma Gandhi School in Ambernath make Maths easy and fun to learn||To make Mathematics easy and fun for school students, the alumni of Education Society’s Mahatma Gandhi School in Ambernath have set up a Mathematics laboratory in their school.The lab is equipped with several geometrical shapes, models, measuring units, weights and blocks that can aid the students and teachers in learning or teaching the subject. It also has a digital board for the teachers. The lab, gifted by the alumni of the 1977 batch, will be useful for students of Classes 1 to 10. The laboratory is gifted in the memory of Bharat Karmarkar, who had passed out from the same batch. He taught Mathematics to children of different villages till the end and used money from his own pockets for the same. The batch has also named the laboratory after their 1977 batch Mathematics teacher, PK Chaudhari, 80, who they claimed made the subject easy for them. Owing to him, most of them had taken Mathematics for their further studies and did PhD in the subject and have become Maths professors.Ashok Kulkarni, 65, one of the alumni, said, “We thought of this concept after we lost Karmarkar, who had dedicated his entire life for the subject. He educated the children of different villages in the state and ensured that everything he earned was spent on education. He only kept the bare minimum of his earnings that helped his wife and him to survive. Mathematics was his favourite subject. All of us together collected ₹5.66 lakh for the laboratory.”The group had another Mathematics teacher, a PhD graduate, who started working on the plan for the lab before the pandemic. Kulkarni added, “It took us three months to set up the lab. We got all the different weights used to weigh groceries, vegetables, food and some old measures used to weigh kerosene and milk. We also got measuring tapes, blocks, several different geometric shapes and models for the students to develop interest in the subject.” The group conducted a few workshops with the school teachers and formulated written and digital projects for them. The projects also focussed on tricks to solve the major problems easily and are very innovative. One room of the school is completely dedicated for this laboratory. A digital board consisting of Maths learning videos will help children to try different ideas to learn this subject, he said. The school principal, Dr. Balasaheb Gaikwad and other teachers appreciated the efforts done by the 1977 batch. A school teacher said, “When they put forth the idea, we were not aware that it would be on such a large scale. Despite all of them from the batch being in their sixties, they used to wait here till late in the night to work on the projects. They have put forth 50 to 60 innovative ideas for several concepts that have made our work easy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/alumni-of-mahatma-gandhi-school-in-ambernath-make-maths-easy-and-fun-to-learn-101641559191533.html
07-01-2022||Mumbai||Ambernath resident collects leftover food to feed needy, homeless||The leftover dinner that usually finds its way into the dustbin will now be put to good use, thanks to a 43-year-old resident of Ambernath (E).The Good Samaritan, Mony Panicker, collects leftover food from people’s homes and distributes it to the needy and the homeless in the city every night.Panicker, who started this initiative on December 31, 2021, has inspired many persons from his residential society to come forward and donate their leftover food. A resident of Mohan Puram Housing Complex in Ambernath, Panicker started this initiative ‘Feed the Needy’ and has put up a banner in the complex premises with a box and hooks for people to drop the food daily.Panicker said, “I start distributing the leftovers every night around 10.30pm. Most of the people staying on the streets are hungry and are happy to receive the food. Ambernath has many homeless people who sleep on empty stomachs every day. This is my small effort to help them.”The residents of the society and the nearby premises can drop the food during the day up to 10.30pm. “I have asked others from the housing complex to join me in this cause. The leftover food from our house that ends up in the dustbin can satisfy someone’s hunger. After I started doing this, I have got many responses from my housing complex. People are also ready to join me in distributing the food,” he added.Another resident, Pramod Sharma, a 59-year-old who joined the initiative, said, “When we started with this idea, there were concerns if people would drop the leftover food. Within a day, many have come down to drop the food. This is truly motivating. There are around 400 flats in the complex and the amount of food collected is plentiful.”
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||3 accomplices of Canada-based Khalistan Tiger Force operative held in Moga||Three accomplices of Canada-based Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF) operative Arshdeep Singh, alias Arsh Dala, an aide of KTF’s Canada-based chief Hardeep Singh Nijjar, were arrested with two hand-grenades and two pistols from Chogawan village in Moga district on Friday. Also read: 173 more passengers, who arrived in Amritsar from Rome, test Covid-19 positiveThey had planned to attack a church in Moga to disturb the law and order situation, police said. The accused have been identified as Gurpreet Singh, alias Gopi, of Shadiwala village, Varinder Singh, alias Vinda, of Makhu and Baljeet Singh of Fatehgarh Panjtoor village in Moga district. A senior police official said, “The accused had done a recce of a church and planned a grenade attack on it. However, we caught them and averted the attack.” Moga senior superintendent of police Charanjeet Singh Sohal said, “First the accused tried to run over the police team with their vehicle when they were intercepted and then they tried to throw grenades at them. They also pointed pistols at the police personnel. However, the police managed to catch them.” A .9mm pistol, a magazine and six cartridges were recovered from Gurpreet Singh, while a .9mm pistol, two magazines and 12 cartridges were found with Varinder Singh and two hand-grenades were recovered from Baljeet Singh. “During interrogation, they said that they were in regular touch with Arsh Dala, who provided them the grenades to throw at a religious place. He had also given them money for this task,” the SSP said. According to the police, Dala along with KTF’s Canada-based chief Nijjar is a co-conspirator behind the targeted killings in Punjab, including the murder of a dera follower and firing on a priest in Nijjar’s village. Besides, he was the prime accused in the murder of gangster Sukha Lamme and a trader in Moga. At present, he is hiding in Surrey, British Columbia, Canada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-accomplices-of-canada-based-khalistan-tiger-force-operative-held-in-moga-101641558586135.html
07-01-2022||Mumbai||HC sets aside proclamation against Param Bir Singh’s co-accused Riyaz Bhati||Mumbai The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday set aside the proclamation by the magistrate court declaring Riyaz Bhati an accused of former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh in the extortion case, as an absconding accused on grounds of parity. Bhati’s counsel had relied on the HC order which set aside the written proclamation of another accused Vinay Singh based on which magistrate court had set aside the proclamation against Singh as well. The single-judge bench of justice Revati Mohite-Dere while hearing Bhati’s petition challenging the November 17, 2021 magistrate order which had directed issuance of a written proclamation that Param Bir Singh, Vinay Singh and Riyaz Bhati were absconding accused in the complaint filed by Bimal Agarwal, a hotelier and civic contractor. The Goregaon police had booked Singh along with Riyaz Bhati, Vinay Singh, Sumit Singh, Alpesh Patel and dismissed Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze as accused in the case. The magistrate had permitted the application by the Mumbai police to issue a written proclamation for the appearance of Singh as per section 82 of the CrPC. In his complaint, Agarwal had alleged that Singh along with Vaze had resorted to extortion, criminal conspiracy and common intention. Though initially the case was registered by Goregaon police station it was later transferred to the Crime Branch Unit XI of Mumbai police. Advocate Taraq Sayed, representing Bhati, informed the Court that a bench of justice S K Shinde on December 1 had passed an order setting aside the written proclamation by the magistrate court declaring Vinay Singh as an absconding accused as the same was not passed after following proper procedure as mandated under the CrPC. Sayed sought similar relief to Bhati who was similarly placed as Vinay Singh. On December 2, based on the HC order a magistrate court had cancelled the proclamation issued against Param Bir Singh. Special Public Prosecutor Shekhar Jagtap submitted an affidavit in reply by DCP, CID opposing the petition wherein it was conceded that the December 1 order of HC had not been challenged. The bench noted that as the December 1 order had not been challenged, the same would cover Riyaz Bhati too. The court noted, “The order publishing proclamation, being contrary to section 82 of CrPC, is accordingly quashed and set aside. The application is accordingly allowed and disposed of in aforesaid terms. Needless to say, that prosecution is at liberty to take steps in accordance with the law.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-sets-aside-proclamation-against-param-bir-singh-s-co-accused-riyaz-bhati-101641558465542.html
07-01-2022||Mumbai||No one has a fundamental right to a public holiday, says Bombay high court||MUMBAI: It is time to reduce public holidays in India rather than increase their numbers, the Bombay high court has observed as it rejected a petition by a resident of Dadra and Nagar Haveli to declare August 2 as a public holiday to commemorate its liberation from the Portuguese in 1954.“As it is, we have far too many public holidays in this country. Perhaps the time has come to reduce, not increase the number of public holidays. We do not see any substance in the petition. It is rejected,” a bench of justices Gautam Patel and justice Madhav Jamdar said on a petition filed by Kishnabhai Ghutia.To be sure, the central government, which has a five-day week, has 17 gazetted holidays including three national holidays, and 2 restricted holidays every year.Lawyers Bhavesh Parmar and Devmani Shukla, appearing for the petitioner, said the union territory administration discontinued the practice of declaring a public holiday on August 2 in 2021 and sought directions to reinstate the holiday.The lawyers also argued that if August 15 could be a public holiday to mark the nation’s Independence Day, there is no reason why August 2 should not be declared a public holiday for Dadra & Nagar Haveli.They also referred to an April 15, 2019 order of another bench of the high court which ordered the government to observe ‘Good Friday’ as a public holiday in the union territories of Diu, Daman, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, and not a restricted (optional) holiday.The high court ruled that the 2019 verdict stands on a different footing.“That PIL was about the failure to gazette i.e. make compulsory, a public holiday rather than keep it optional. Whether or not to declare a particular day as a public holiday or an optional holiday or no holiday at all is a matter of government policy. There is no legally enforceable right that can be said to have been infringed. Nobody has a fundamental right to a public holiday,” the two-judge bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-one-has-a-fundamental-right-to-a-public-holiday-says-bombay-high-court-101641555885446.html
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||PM security breach in Punjab: FIR against over 100 unidentified people in Ferozepur||The Ferozepur police have registered a case against unidentified persons for blocking the Ferozepur-Moga national highway and leading to the security breach during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Punjab visit on Wednesday. Also read: Security agency sounded out ‘grave threat’ prior to PM Modi’s Ferozepur rallyKulgarhi station house officer Birbal Singh said on Friday afternoon that an FIR was registered against more than 100 people. He declined to share any details. “We have instructions not to divulge any further details of the sensitive case. The matter is being probed. No person has been detained or arrested,” said the SHO. Even as the police registered a case against unknown persons, activists of the Bharti Kisan Union (Krantikari) on Wednesday evening claimed responsibility for stalling the movement of the PM’s convoy. Ferozepur range deputy inspector general Inderbir Singh and Ferozepur senior superintendent of police Harmandeep Singh Hans were unavailable for comment. The SHO evaded reply when asked if videos in the public domain are being taken into consideration to identify those who violated rules that led to Modi’s convoy being stuck on the flyover for 15-20 minutes. BKU (Krantikari) general secretary Baldev Singh Zira first owned responsibility of leading the dharna at Piareana village on the Moga-Ferozepur highway that blocked the PM’s convoy. In a video posted on social media on Thursday, the ultra-Left farmer union chief, Surjit Singh Phul, claimed that there were about 1,000 activists at the dharna. He admitted that the protesters did not allow BJP supporters’ buses to pass by to reach the rally that Modi was to address in Ferozepur. Some farmer unions lauded BKU (Krantikari) for stopping the PM, while others termed the blockade of his convoy “avoidable”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pm-security-breach-in-punjab-fir-against-over-100-unidentified-people-in-ferozepur-101641555165333.html
07-01-2022||Pune||Global Village Idiot: How to walk 5km... indoors||Monday was a disappointing day. A disappointing, disappointing day. All I did was walk 2.6-kilometre and that’s way below my average, way way below. And it wasn’t even a weekend.But let me start from the beginning. Every individual has an internal logic on various matters that they would have built since childhood, and they would have come to some decisions about life, living, learning, health, well-being ... as also fitness.I have never been into ‘fitness’. Never. As in there’s been no phase in my life where I was watching what I eat, pumping iron or steel, dancing to music to tone muscles, or walking round and round and back around to address a health issue, perceived or otherwise.Nor have I ever been a gym member.Well, once - or rather, one day in 1988 - my friend Satyan and I did walk into a gym near our colony in Santacruz, Mumbai. The then Mr Mumbai University was in that gym (great guy, also happened to be a family friend and lived in our colony). We looked at the toned muscles of everyone around, which while extremely impressive did not distract us from the hard, physical labour that seemed to be required to get those results. The instructor told us to do 20 push-ups each. I think we gave him 10 between us with take-it-or-leave-it exhaustion and he took it and asked us to do 10 pull-ups each. To which we responded with two - Satyan did one pull-up and I did the other one. We walked around a bit after that, flexed our forearms on a contraption and then we left, telling the gym owner we would think about joining.Satyan and I were satisfied with our visit to the gym and being quick on our feet, we looked ahead a few years and the decision was quite unanimous: there was no way either of us could sustain that kind of hard labour for no apparent reason (part of my internal logic).That was the only day I have ever spent in a gym for deliberate exercise.It’s not that I am reckless with my health. I played cricket and football and badminton and when there was no one to play with, ran around any available space at a clip for hours - every day ... and that’s how I stayed healthy: sports. So, while I couldn’t do five pull-ups in a gym, I was a rock climber, and dangling a few hundred feet above bleak Himalayan rocks always gave me a rush and a natural motivation to haul myself up to the top on fingerhold.If it wasn’t fun, I didn’t see the purpose of the hard work. Just as I didn’t see the purpose of being on a treadmill, walking 20 kilometres and not going anywhere. Plus, I have natural-born morbidity that always makes me ask: will I be able to do this when I am injured or crippled or older or closer to death but not quite there yet?In the recent two decades, I have had less opportunity for sports so I have been walking daily and also mountain-walking three or four times a year. Last two years I made no trips up any mountain and the year before (2019) I did only one trip, that too early in January. Till June, July that year there was hope there would be another trip. But by October it was clear that I wouldn’t be doing another one till 2020, so in November, I started monitoring my daily walk. That was before the pandemic.I walk a good bit every day because I enjoy walking, enjoy feeling the muscles at work, and out of sheer habit I walk with my whole body, stretching the muscles in my neck, shoulders, arms, chest, back, glutes, hamstrings, calf, feet and extending my joints, pushing them to do a little bit more than they are capable of.The health app on my phone informs me of the kilometres I walk every day, the number of steps I take. In general, I know the approximate distance I have walked from the fatigue or tenseness in my muscles. But the app helps me set and monitor a goal: In 2020 it was to walk a daily average of five kilometres (2019 was 3.6). I closed 2020 at 5.2 kilometres on average and set 5.5 kilometres as the goal for 2021. An ACL tear and subsequent surgery in July meant that I closed 2021 at an average of four kilometres per day. For 2022, I have set a goal to get back to the annual average of 5.2 kilometres.A few days ago, a friend asked me how I am walking five kilometres indoors, so here’s the long answer: I am a restless person and thanks to a few health conditions, I am incapable of sitting in one place or one position for more than ten minutes at a stretch. So, I get up and walk from one room to the other, or pace around the room or walk the terrace when I am on calls. (This is normal behaviour for me, even in the office or at home in regular, non-lockdown situations. It drives people mad and some have even asked me to stop pacing because it makes them dizzy).Calls are great for walking because I can walk 1-1.5 kilometres on a single call. A client call could give me three kilometres. The constraint of space is in the mind. Since the lockdown, I have set a routine and milestones, exactly as I would on a trek or a village to village walk - a kilometre before 9 am, another before noon, two more during evening playtime with the children and so on.But here’s the answer to the question that my friend wanted to but didn’t ask. It’s not about walking. Nor is it about keeping occupied or focused or sane. Being a restless person, I learned the hard way that the mind will keep me awake for days on end if I engage it all the time. It thrives on meaningful engagement. Which is what reading books or watching Netflix or interesting work does to me. The body must be tired and overworked beyond its daily capacity for my mind to switch off. And that’s what a day has always been about for me: to work mind and body to 10% beyond what they did yesterday. Any given day. Good day or bad day. That’s the focus. Why?Because even on disappointing days, it’s important to leave it all behind and get a good night’s sleep.Sanjay Mukherjee, author, learning-tech designer and management consultant, is founder of Mountain Walker and chief strategy advisor, Peak Pacific. He can be reached @ thebengali@icloud.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/global-village-idiot-how-to-walk-5km-indoors-101641552165303.html
07-01-2022||Delhi||Weekend curfew in Delhi: Eateries feel the pinch||As Delhi witnessed a surge in fresh cases of Covid-19 infections, the Delhi government imposed a weekend curfew, starting this Saturday. The hospitality industry that had just managed to make a staggering recovery, is fearing the worst for their business due to the weekend curfew. Presently, restaurants and bars are allowed to open with 50% capacity with restricted timings. With the weekend curfew, many feel that it will have an unsettling impact to the badly hit industry. They are hoping to pursue rent waivers and get some support. Many are pinning the hopes on their outlets in Gurugram and Noida to keep the business afloat.“This is another blow to the industry. We were just recovering from our losses and this hit again is hard,” says Vikrant Batra, co-founder, Cafe Delhi Heights. “Partial restrictions just affects business badly as we operate with no support , no revenues and incur same expenses,” adds, Umang Tewari, founder, Local. Restaurateur Priyank Sukhija feels that restaurants are being singled out with night curfew and with weekend curfew it’s going to be worse.For Zorawar Kalra, director, Massive Restaurants, the priority for the industry has always been the safety of its patrons and colleagues and shall be fully abiding by the guidelines issued by the authorities, he says. However, he adds, “That being said, the restrictions such as the weekend lockdown will have a very unsettling and deep socio-economic impact on the already beleaguered industry that is the second largest employer of human capital in India. Already over the past two years there has been a permanent closure of 30% of all restaurants and 25% permanent loss of employment.”A few also plan to pursue rent waivers to the malls, and landlords and eventually take the decision of reducing manpower. Amit Bagga, co-founder, Daryaganj says, “Restaurants like ours which have high fixed costs and revenue share with malls, and commissions to aggregators will suffer major losses. We will have to reduce our manpower cost and also expecting a relief from our real estate partners as they did before.” Sukhija also adds, “Rent waivers will definitely be pursued and we are hopeful that landlords and large mall owners will lend adequate support so that this situation can be dealt with amicably.”The key players in the industry which is massively hit with the Covid-19 also want to appeal for restaurants to be exempted from weekend curfew. “The night curfew already hit our business. What we can request government is to let 50% occupancy still be preferred in restaurants and a little relaxation over weekends can be given,” says Udit Bagga, co-founder -OTB. Some eatery owners feel that the crowds will be moving to dine in at neighbouring states. “Gurugram is not very far whatever happens in Delhi is followed by the city,” says Udit Bhasin, co-founder. Another restaurateur adds, “The night curfew imposed in the city will let people go again to home delivers or spend weekends in Gurugram” says Mohit Ahuja, owner, of Shakespeare cafe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/weekend-curfew-in-delhi-eateries-feel-the-pinch-101641551565365.html
07-01-2022||Delhi||DDMA says shops in markets and malls flouting its 'odd-even' directive||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Friday objected to what it described as shops in market complexes, malls and weekly markets flouting its directions with respect to their working hours and days on which they are allowed to function. The body directed officials to ensure compliance with its order within 24 hours.In a circular, as shared by news agency ANI, the lieutenant governor Anil Baijal-headed DDMA referred to its order from December 28 last year, in which it announced certain conditions for business establishments dealing with non-essential goods, owing to a surge in the city’s Covid-19 cases. “Shops in markets, market complexes and malls are allowed between 10am to 8pm on odd-even basis viz. shops would open on alternate days depending on the shop number,” the December 28 order read. Govt of NCT of Delhi: Shops in markets/complexes and malls dealing with non essential goods, shall be allowed to open on odd-even basis between 10 am to 8 pm. Only one authorized weekly market (up to 50% limit of allowed vendors at normal time) per day zone shall be allowed pic.twitter.com/csZkPWGo0uThe agency had also allowed one authorised weekly market (up to the limit of 50 per cent of the allowed vendors in normal times) per day per zone in all three municipal corporation of the national capital.These guidelines, the DDMA said today, are being violated. “Therefore, all district magistrates, municipal corporations shall carry out the exercise of numbering all shops under their jurisdiction within 24 hours, and shall ensure that shops and establishments are open strictly as per odd-even system. Also, only one weekly market should be allowed to function per day per zone up to 50 per cent of vendors allowed in normal times,” it said.Friday’s instructions come at a time when daily Covid-19 infections have grown exponentially in Delhi, primarily due to the Omicron variant, prompting authorities to impose restrictions to curb the spread of the virus. A 11pm-5am night curfew is already in effect here. A weekend curfew will come into effect from tonight, and be in place till early hours of Monday next week.Also Read | Delhi: Weekend curfew begins tonight, here's what you can avail, what you can'tAccording to Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain, the capital city may today see 17,000 fresh infections, up from more than 15,000 on January 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ddma-says-shops-in-markets-and-malls-flouting-its-odd-even-directive-101641547559815.html
07-01-2022||Bangalore||Karnataka reports 107 new Omicron cases, state tally rises to 333||Karnataka reported 107 Omicron variant of Covid-19 cases on Thursday taking the tally in the state to 333, informed state Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Friday."107 new Omicron cases have been confirmed in Karnataka on Jan 6th taking the overall tally to 333," Sudhakar tweeted.Meanwhile, the country has reported 3,007 cases of Omicron variant so far, said the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Friday.Maharashtra accounts for the highest number of Omicron cases (876), followed by Delhi (465).India has reported two deaths due to the Omicron variant so far, one being in Rajasthan and the other in Odisha.India reported 1,17,100 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the daily positivity rate in the country to 7.74 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry.With this, the country's Covid-19 case tally has gone up to 3,52,26,386.The Ministry informed that India's active caseload presently is at 3,71,363. It accounts for 1.05 per cent of the country's total cases.The weekly positivity rate is at 4.54 per cent, while the daily positivity rate is at 7.74 per cent.With the recovery of 30,836 patients in the last 24 hours, the cumulative tally of Covid recovered patients, since the beginning of the pandemic, now stands at 3,43,71,845. The current recovery rate is at 97.57 per cent.The country also reported 302 new fatalities in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 4,83,178.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-reports-107-new-omicron-cases-state-tally-rises-to-333-101641545239023.html
07-01-2022||Dehradun||Man arrested for brandishing knife at Harish Rawat’s event||The Uttarakhand Police have arrested a 45-year-old man for allegedly brandishing a knife after climbing the stage of an event of former chief minister Harish Rawat at Kashipur in Udham Singh Nagar district on Thursday evening.The man was present in the crowd gathered for the Congress event where Rawat was the chief guest, said police superintendent Chandramohan Singh. “ After Rawat’s address, the man went on to the stage brandishing the knife. But he was stopped by people present on the stage and handed over to police there.”Singh added that the accused has been booked under the Arms Act for illegally carrying the knife.Singh cited the initial probe and said the accused seemed to be mentally unstable. “A week ago, he (the accused) climbed on an overhead water tank in Kashipur for no reason. He also had regular altercations with his wife and visited a police station urging the police to solve their issues. A probe is on and he would be produced in a court later on Friday where, after medical examination, police would seek his treatment.”Rawat’s spokesman Surendra Agarwal claimed that the accused raised the “Jai Shri Ram” slogan and wore a saffron scarf. “Police are probing the matter, but a conspiracy cannot be ruled out.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/man-arrested-for-brandishing-knife-at-harish-rawat-s-event-101641544964532.html
07-01-2022||Mumbai||Case filed against BJP leader for ‘derogatory’ remark against Rashmi Thackeray||A case was registered against one Jiten Gajaria from the social media cell of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for allegedly posting objectionable content against Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray's wife Rashmi Thackeray and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) supremo Sharad Pawar.According to an ANI input, police officers from Pune were on their way to Mumbai to arrest him.Earlier in the day, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar hit out at Gajaria saying the BJP is passing derogatory comments on the daughter-in-law of Shiv Sena founder Balasaheb Thackeray who helped the BJP become a big name in politics.She added that Gajaraia is a turncoat who is now passing derogatory comments on Maharashtra women. "Who is Jiten Gajaraia? He has jumped from the NCP to the BJP like a kangaroo and today he is passing such derogatory comments about women of Maharashtra, about Rashmi Bhabhi," Pednekar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.On January 4, Gajaria had reportedly posted a photo of Rashmi Thackeray with the caption "Marathi Rabri Devi". He deleted the tweet following a massive uproar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/case-filed-against-bjp-leader-for-derogatory-remark-against-rashmi-thackeray-101641542478563.html
07-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi may see 17,000 Covid cases today, positivity rate at 17%: Health minister||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said the national capital is expected to add nearly 17,000 new Covid-19 cases on Friday with a positivity rate of around 17 per cent.A day ago, Delhi logged 15,097 fresh infections, pushing the active caseload to 31,498 and the cumulative tally to 14,89,463.Jain said Delhi is the first to witness a surge in infections because most of the international flights come to the capital. "That is the reason we have implemented stricter measures to contain the spread of Covid-19 as compared to other states. Some people may say that this is not needed but it is better than repenting later," Jain was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Also read | India's daily Covid tally crosses 1-lakh mark, Omicron count at 3,000Regarding the World Health Organisation terming the Omicron variant of coronavirus "mild", the minister said only experts will be able to tell if it is mild or not."I can give you the data I have. Delhi has around 31,498 active cases and only 1,091 hospital beds are occupied. When we had an equal number of cases last time, around 7,000 beds were occupied," Jain said.Delhi will implement a weekend curfew from Friday night and it will remain in place throughout Saturday and Sunday as part of the latest restrictions imposed by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) to contain the rapid resurgence of the coronavirus disease, driven by the highly transmissible Omicron variant.The capital remained the second top contributor of Omicron cases in the country with 465 detections so far. Of these, only 57 have been discharged.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-may-see-17-000-covid-cases-today-positivity-rate-at-17-health-minister-101641540588163.html
07-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi: Weekend curfew begins tonight, here's what you can avail, what you can't||A weekend curfew will be implemented in the national capital from Friday night and remain in place throughout Saturday and Sunday as part of the latest restrictions imposed by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) to contain the rapid resurgence of the coronavirus disease, driven by the highly transmissible Omicron variant.The curfew will remain in force every weekend henceforth unless otherwise directed, the DDMA has said.As part of the new curfew orders, most private and government establishments in Delhi will face fresh restrictions, such as a cap on employee attendance in offices and the movement of people via transport facilities.Here's everything you need to know about the weekend curfew in Delhi which kicks in from tonight:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weekend-curfew-begins-tonight-here-s-what-you-can-avail-what-you-cant-101641534530291.html
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||PM security breach: Punjab govt submits preliminary status report to MHA||The Punjab government has submitted its preliminary status report into Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s security breach in Ferozepur on January 5 to the Union home ministry. Also read: PM security breach: Central panel summons Punjab DGP, 13 other officers in FerozepurAccording to a senior Punjab government official, the status report was submitted by chief secretary Anirudh Tewari to the Union home ministry on Thursday night, citing the sequence of events leading up to the security breach. The report, it is learnt, has termed the gathering of protesters where the Prime Minister’s convoy was stuck as “spontaneous”. The report suggested that enough efforts were made to clear the road leading to the rally venue and other places where the Prime Minister was to visit. The Punjab government has also claimed that a first information report (FIR) has been registered against protesters who had blocked the PM’s convoy at the flyover. However, senior Punjab Police officials and the Ferozepur police are tight-lipped about the contents of the FIR. The status report has assured the MHA that a detailed probe has already been ordered by the Punjab government. A two-member panel led by Justice Mehtab Singh Gill (retd) and principal secretary, home affairs and justice, Anurag Verma, are looking into the lapses. The panel will submit its report within three days and the outcome will be shared with the MHA as soon as it is received, the status report said. The status report was made after consulting top police officials of the state, who were in charge of the PM’s security and senior Punjab government functionaries in Chandigarh. It is learnt that the status report is on the lines of chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s stand that the protesters had suddenly arrived on the road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pm-security-breach-punjab-govt-submits-preliminary-status-report-to-mha-101641536564200.html
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: AAP names 3 more candidates, all eyes now on Mann’s candidature||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday released the names of three more candidates for the upcoming Punjab assembly elections. Also read: PM security breach: Central panel summons Punjab DGP, 13 other officers in FerozepurRaman Arora has been fielded from Jalandhar Central, Fauza Singh Sarari from Guru Harsahai and Deep Kamboj from Abohar, according to the eighth list of candidates released by AAP state unit chief Bhagwant Mann and Punjab affairs in-charge Jarnail Singh. With this, the AAP has named its candidates for 104 of the 117 assembly seats in the state, putting to rest speculation about a poll alliance with the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha, a political outfit floated by 22 of the 32 farmer unions that waged the year-long struggle against the three controversial farm laws enacted by the Centre. All eyes are now on the announcement regarding the candidature of Mann, a two-time Sangrur member of Parliament, who is likely to be named the party’s chief ministerial face. Mann is likely to be fielded from Dhuri assembly seat, which falls in his parliamentary constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-aap-names-3-more-candidates-all-eyes-now-on-mann-s-candidature-101641536144157.html
07-01-2022||Bhopal||CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan reviews urban, housing development projects in Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday chaired a review meeting of the Urban development and housing department.Speaking in the meeting here in Bhopal, CM Chouhan instructed the authorities to study models from other states like 'Amma Rasoi' and follow best practices. "Startup incubation centres should work properly."CM further instructed, "We should generate new entrepreneurs through startups. We had made efforts to ensure that sewage does not get into the river. By Narmada Jayanti, let us decide that we are in the right position."He added, "Work to celebrate 'City Day' to carry forward the pride, tradition, culture, value of the life of the city and to make sure to give the benefits of all the welfare schemes of the centre including PM Suraksha Bima Yojana, Maandhan, Matru Vandana to the beneficiaries."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-reviews-urban-housing-development-projects-in-bhopal-101641532485081.html
07-01-2022||Jaipur||Rajasthan records 2,656 new Covid cases, over half of them in Jaipur||Rajasthan recorded 2,656 new coronavirus cases on Thursday, including 1,438 cases in state capital Jaipur, according to official data.Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said on Thursday that he has tested positive for Covid-19. Recently, his son Vaibhav Gehlot was also confirmed to be infected with the coronavirus.According to the data of the Medical and Health Department, out of 2,656 new coronavirus cases found in the state on Thursday, 1,439 were in Jaipur, 360 in Jodhpur, 144 in Alwar, 90 in Chittorgarh, 89 in Udaipur, 87 in Ajmer, 82 in Bikaner, 79 in Bharatpur, 58 in Kota.At present, 7,268 infected patients are under treatment in the state. A total of 9,63,109 people have been infected with the coronavirus in the state so far. The state has also seen 9,46,874 recoveries from the infection, including 404 on Thursday.The death toll from the pandemic remained unchanged at 8,967 as no new fatality was reported due to the virus in the state.A Health Department spokesman said as of Thursday evening, 8,45,67,427 people have been given a dose of the Covid vaccine in the state. This includes 8,31,73,748 beneficiaries in the age group above 18 years and 13,93,679 in the age group of 15 to 18 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-records-2-656-new-covid-cases-over-half-of-them-in-jaipur-101641531664706.html
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||PM security breach: Central panel summons Punjab DGP, 13 other officers in Ferozepur||The three-member committee constituted by the Union home ministry to probe the security breach during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Punjab visit on January 5 has summoned state police chief S Chattopadhyaya and 13 other senior officials in Ferozepur on Friday. Also watch: PM security scare: Modi govt & Channi govt form separate probe panels | DetailsBesides DGP Chattopadhyaya, the officials summoned are additional director general of police (ADGP) G Nageshwar Rao, ADGP Jitendra Jain, inspector general of police (IGP), Patiala, Mukhwinder Singh Chinna, Ferozepur deputy inspector general Inderbir Singh, Faridkot DIG Surjeet Singh, Ferozepur deputy commissioner Davinder Singh, Ferozepur senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harmandeep Hans, Moga SSP Charanjit Singh Sohal, Kotkapura duty magistrate Varinder Singh, Ludhiana joint commissioner Ankur Mahendru, Bathinda deputy commissioner ASP Sandhu, Bathinda SSP Ajay Maluja and the Ferozepur VVIP control room in-charge. The communiqué sent by Punjab chief secretary Anirudh Tewari said, “You are requested to meet the committee on January 7 at 10am onwards at BSF Campus, Ferozepur, along with the relevant orders/documents/records with reference to the above subject.” The committee announced by the Union home ministry will inquire into “serious lapses” in security arrangements which exposed the VVIP to “grave risk”. The panel is led by Sudhir Kumar Saxena, secretary (Security) in the Cabinet Secretariat. Its other members are Intelligence Bureau joint director Balbir Singh and Special Protection Group IG S Suresh. In what the Centre described as a “major security lapse”, Modi’s convoy was stranded Wednesday for 20 minutes on a flyover due to a blockade by farm protesters in Ferozepur. He returned from poll-bound Punjab without attending any event, including a BJP rally, and the Centre blamed the Congress government in Punjab for the security breach. Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, however, claimed that a last-minute change of travel plans by Modi led to the situation. On Thursday, Channi’s government also constituted a committee of retired Justice Mehtab Singh Gill and principal secretary, home affairs and justice, Anurag Verma to conduct an investigation. The committee was asked to submit its report in three days. 
07-01-2022||Mumbai||Covid scare: Over 300 doctors test positive in four days in Maharashtra||As many as 338 resident doctors from different hospitals have tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) over the last four days in Maharashtra.The information was shared by the president of the Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors, Dr Avinash Dahiphale.A large number of healthcare professionals across the country have been infected by the virus amid the latest resurgence of Covid-19 and the outbreak of its highly transmissible Omicron variant, which was first discovered in South Africa last year.Earlier this week, at least 50 doctors of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, went into isolation after some tested positive for Covid-19 and others showed symptoms of the disease. Over 23 doctors of the Safdarjung Hospital, Delhi, have also tested positive in the last one week.In Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, Delhi, 45 healthcare workers, including 38 doctors, ended up contracting Covid-19 in the past few days, an ANI report said.Also Read | Mumbai hospitals face staff crunch as doctors, nurses are Covid positiveMeanwhile, the authorities in AIIMS have cancelled the remaining duration of winter vacation from January 5 to January 10 for all faculty members and have asked them to join duty ‘with immediate effect'.In Chandigarh’s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), 196 healthcare workers, including doctors, have contracted coronavirus in 10 days between December 26 and January 4, hospital authorities told Hindustan Times on Wednesday.The grim situation comes as India breached the one-lakh mark (1,17,100 to be exact) in fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday and 302 deaths.Maharashtra remains one of the worst-affected states in India having recorded a major spike in daily caseload with over 36,000 infections, according to last available updates.The state is also the leading contributor in India's Omicron tally with 876 cases confirmed since the new variant was first detected in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-scare-over-300-doctors-test-positive-in-four-days-in-maharashtra-101641524358629.html
07-01-2022||Pune||Pune: Three held for cheating by promising jobs with BRO||Pimpri Chinchwad Police in Pune district on Thursday arrested a retired Army soldier and two others for allegedly cheating three youngsters by promising to arrange jobs for them in the Border Roads Organization (BRO).The arrests followed after sleuths of Military Intelligence apprehended the accused from Aundh military camp area. The accused were identified as Satish Dahane, Sriram Kadam and Akshay Wankhede. Dahane, a retired Army soldier, runs a shop inside a military establishment in Aundh area of Pune, whereas Kadam, a retired employee of the General Reserve Engineer Force, runs coaching classes. According to police, the accused promised the complainant and his friends jobs with the BRO and took ₹70,000 from them. Military Intelligence personnel nabbed them in the Aundh military camp and informed police. "We have recovered some documents, forged defense identity cards, some cash, rubber stamps, application forms and a pen drive," said a police official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-three-held-for-cheating-by-promising-jobs-with-bro-101641529235784.html
07-01-2022||Kolkata||Mamata-Modi to hold virtual meet today as Bengal's single-day Covid cases top 15,000||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee will hold a virtual meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday in wake of a rapid rise in single-day cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) amid the Omicron outbreak.Addressing a press conference in Howrah district on Thursday, Banerjee informed media persons about her meeting with Modi.Bengal logged 15,421 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, up from 14,022 on the preceding day. Of the 15,421, a total of 6,569 were reported from Kolkata. The active case count in the state has climbed to 8,059, according to the state Covid-19 bulletin data.The number of coronavirus patients at hospitals in the state also increased to 2,228 on Thursday from Wednesday's 2,009, the health bulletin data showed. The death toll in the state touched 19,846 after as many as 19 patients succumbed to the virus during the day.Also Read | Mamata Banerjee ‘very offended’ as her brother roams around despite wife Covid positiveThere are as many as 14 active Omicron patients in the state. So far, 20 cases of the highly transmissible variant of the virus have been detected in Bengal.The state government on Thursday made an RT-PCR test mandatory for interstate movement. Banerjee said the next 15 days are vital and more restrictions may be imposed depending on the Covid-19 situation in the state.The Banerjee-led government has imposed multiple curbs, which came into effect on January 3. As part of the latest restrictions, all educational institutions, swimming pools and entertainment parks have been shut again. Shopping malls, market complexes, restaurants and bars have been directed to function at 50 per cent capacity up to 10pm. Attendees at weddings and funerals have been capped at 50 and 20, respectively.The state has also cut incoming domestic flights from Mumbai and Delhi - two of the worst-hit regions in the country following the Omicron outbreak, to thrice a week - Monday, Wednesday and Friday. The rule came into effect on January 5 and will remain in place until further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-to-hold-virtual-meeting-with-modi-today-over-bengal-covid-crisis-101641518318600.html
07-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi HC declines to postpone UPSC mains exam||The Delhi high court on Thursday declined to postpone the civil services mains examination, 2021, scheduled to start on Friday.The court said it was not inclined to interfere with the schedule of the exam while hearing a plea by 19 candidates appearing for the mains exams.The aspirants had sought postponement of the examination in view of the rising cases of Covid-19 and spread of the new Omicron variant.“I am dismissing the petition. I am not interfering with the decision. I will pass the orders,” justice V Kameswar Rao said.The case was mentioned urgently on Wednesday before a bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh.The petition has been filed by candidates who have cleared their preliminary examination.Advocate Naresh Kaushik, appearing for UPSC, told the court that all preparations have been made. “We have lost precious time. It will have a cascading effect. Impractical, hypothetical situations are being projected by the candidates. Tomorrow the exam is starting. All preparations are complete. Our supervisors have reached. These are 9000 candidates across various centers,” the counsel said.
07-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi: 2 civil defence volunteers face abetment to suicide case||A case of abetment to suicide has been registered against two civil defence personnel after a woman died by suicide in outer Delhi on Wednesday because one of them was allegedly sexually harassing her, police said on Thursday.Police said they are also probing the role of the second civil defence volunteer, who allegedly stopped the woman’s written complaints from reaching her superiors.DCP (Outer North) Brijender Yadav said, “The woman’s family said one of her colleagues was harassing her. The woman was working at the office of a government for the last 20 days. We have filed a case on the complaint of the woman’s family members.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-2-civil-defence-volunteers-face-abetment-to-suicide-case-101641514645627.html
07-01-2022||Delhi||Delhiwale: Flight mode in CP||It is late morning. The N Block sky over Connaught Place is blue and sunny. The icy air is echoing with the peep-peep of traffic horns. Most of the pedestrians are walking down CP’s tunnel-like corridors with eyes firmly fixed on their mobile phones.Suddenly, a different kind of sound makes it to this placid world. As if it were a great fluttering of many feathers. Indeed, up in the sky, a huge dark cloud has surfaced — of pigeons flying along an imaginary arch. The birds soar above the busy road. After some moments, they retrace that arch, as if somebody abruptly ordered them to return along the same track. The cloud disappears as swiftly as it had appeared.The pigeons are now gathered on a gigantic road divider, hobnobbing around like New Year holiday-makers on a Goa beach. The only odd one in the great crowd is a solitary woman sitting on the tip of the divider. One of the birds is perched atop her head. Turns out that the woman runs a stall on the spot — she sells grains and other bird food. A scooterist stops by, purchases fistfuls of grains from the woman, and tosses them towards the pigeons. The birds fatten themselves on the free buffet, occasionally making deep gurgling sounds.Watching fellow citizens deal with their conscience by feeding urban birds is not rare. You see such scenes across Delhi. The breathtaking vision was that airborne parade of these birds. They repeat the act after a few minutes. As these birds climb high up in the air and start to fly forward along CP’s radial, their moving shadows run on the road directly underneath.For the best experience, a birdwatcher must lean against one of the sturdy columns that line the colonial-era corridor, and patiently wait, like an angler, for the procession of birds that punctuate the CP sky every now and then.The gap between the two flights though is frustrating — it can be very brief or very long (the photo above only managed to capture the tail-end of a flight, comprising a handful of lazy back-benchers). Meanwhile, more than ten minutes have passed and the pigeons haven’t taken off again. It is also fascinating to observe CP’s high-altitude architecture — Statesman House, American Center, Gopaldas Bhawan, the new multi-storey (Parsvanaths) that came up on KG Marg during the pandemic.Suddenly, the birds become a cloud and N Block again becomes ethereal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-flight-mode-in-cp-101641514869633.html
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Molestation allegations: Ludhiana Dy DEO’s report clears PT teacher of ‘wrong intentions’||With the controversy over the alleged molestation of a government school student rapidly snowballing, the deputy district education officer, who was probing the case, has cleared the accused physical training teacher of any “wrong intention” in tickling the Class 7 student. In the probe dated December 27, the deputy DEO Charanjit Singh said that though the teacher in question did tickle the minor female student, there was no “solid proof” of him harbouring “wrong intentions.” He also castigated the government school principal of not immediately alerting the department of the incident. As per the report, the incident took place on November 17, 2021, but the officials were informed after a month.Asked on what basis had the deputy DEO cleared the teacher of “wrong intentions” when he had apologised before a panchayat, Charanjit Singh refused to comment on the matter, and termed his probe “honest.”Ten days after a probe was marked to the deputy DEO, a member of the parents’ union had garlanded the DEO, Lakhvir Singh Samra, with slippers, triggering outrage among the teaching community, which had staged a protest demanding the culprit’s arrest. The teachers had also found support in the farmers who joined the protest outside the DC office. The union member, Rajinder Ghai, has been booked, but is yet to be arrested.A senior official, requesting anonymity, blamed the inquiry officer, who he said, had submitted a “diluted report.” “The DEO could not suspend the teacher or recommend a strong action against him to the higher authorities since he was not held guilty by the inquiry officer. Moreover, the DEO had already transferred the teacher and forwarded the inquiry report to his seniors for further action”, said the senior official.
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Bovine killings: 2 Meerut men held, four aides at large||Around a month after cow carcasses were found in a vacant plot in Jeevan Nagar, the police arrested two Meerut residents on Wednesday. The arrested accused, Kalim Ahmad, 41, and Mohammad Rehan, 26, said they sold beef in Shahdara, New Delhi. Their vehicle, a Bolero Pickup Jeep, has been impounded, while five sacks of salt, three hammers, and other sharp-edged weapons used by the accused to kill and cut the cows have been seized. Their accomplices, Aman alias Arman – the gang leader, Alam of Meerut, Iqbal of New Delhi and Ravi of Ludhiana, are on the run. Commissioner of police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said, “Bearing in mind the sensitivity of the issue, we are investigating the case from all aspects. Acting on a tip-off, we arrested the accused, who have confessed to committing cow slaughter.” “The accused would roam the city in search of stray cattle. They would load the animals in their pick up jeep and kill them after taking them to an isolated place. They would then bury the remains in pits, and sprinkle salt over it to speed up decomposition. The beef was then sold in Shahdara, New Delhi. A hunt is on for the arrest of the accused. A case has been registered under Sections 295A (outrage religious feelings), 428 (killing, poisoning, maiming or rendering useless any animal or animals), 153A (promoting disharmony, enmity or feelings of hatred between different groups), 429 (killing or maiming cattle) of the Indian Penal Code, and Sections of the Cow Slaughter Act at the Focal Point police station. After different Hindu organisations staged a protest, seeking arrest of the accused, the police had formed a special investigation team on November 28.On December 21, the cops had arrested three people, including a woman, for allegedly smuggling beef into the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bovine-killings-2-meerut-men-held-four-aides-at-large-101641515022983.html
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Ambulance driver robbed of ₹40,000 cash||An ambulance driver was targeted by some muggers, who robbed him of ₹40,000 after thrashing at Haibowal Main Road on January 5 night. The victim Sunny Thapar of Durgapuri, Haibowal, said on January 5 night, he was returning home in his ambulance. When he reached Haibowal main road a car intercepted his way. Two men alighted from the car and tried to drag him outside the vehicle. Meanwhile, their four more aides turned up at the spot.When he resisted, the accused assaulted him and also damaged his vehicle. Thapar alleged that the accused snatched ₹40,000 and fled, after which he made a complaint to the police.Sub-inspector Harpreet Singh said the police are scanning CCTV cameras to know what exactly had happened. The police will lodge an FIR after investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-ambulance-driver-robbed-of-40-000-cash-101641514781879.html
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Inmate procures drugs while in court for hearing||Despite tight security at the district court complex, an undertrial managed to procure 10g charas (cannabis) during his hearing on Thursday. The accused, Deepak Balu of Khanna, is lodged at the Ludhiana Central Jail. The contraband was found when he was frisked after returning from court. Ludhiana central jail assistant superintendent Binny Tank said the accused got the contraband from someone at the court complex. The accused has been booked under sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and Prisons Act. Assistant sub-inspector Suresh Kumar, who is investigating the case, said a production warrant will be sought to interrogate the accused. Security had been tightened at the Court Complex after a bomb blast on its premises, and all visitors are scanned before being allowed to enter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-inmate-procures-drugs-while-in-court-for-hearing-101641514722004.html
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana sees 292 more Covid cases, 1 fatality||Amid a surge in coronavirus cases across the state, the district reported 292 fresh cases on Thursday. Among those who tested positive were a hosteller at Guru Angad Dev Veterinary And Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), a Punjab Agricultural University vegetable department employee, and a Canada returnee. Around 184 newly diagnosed Covid patients had visited OPD counters of different hospital. It was last on May 30, 2021, at the height of the second wave of the pandemic, that 298 cases had been reported in the district. Meanwhile, a 42-year-old man, a resident of Bhagwan Chowk near Millar Gunj, succumbed to the virus. He was undergoing treatment at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMC&H). His death has taken the total fatalities in the district since the virus outbreak two years ago to 2,120. No new Omicron cases were reported in the district. The new cases have taken the district’s Covid count to 88,539, of which 85,643 people have recovered, while 776 cases are active. Around 750 people are under home isolation, while 22 patients are undergoing treatment at private hospitals, four at government health facilities, and one patient is on ventilator.To grapple with the sudden spurt in cases, the health department has established eight micro-containment zones – Prem Nagar, Baba Than Singh Chowk, Basant Vihar, Maya Nagar, Pakhowal Road, Madhopur, Shdhwan Bet and Aggar Nagar.Covid tests carried out at CM’s rallyWith the number of Covid cases on the rise in the district, the health department carried out 102 random RT PCR tests on people who turned up for chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi in Machhiwara. Government Hospital, Machhiwara, senior medical officer Jaspreet Kaur said, “Two teams from Machhiwara and Samrala randomly collected samples from people visiting the rally. Around 1,000 masks were distributed among people visiting the rally. Virus’ trajectory The new cases have taken the district’s Covid count to 88,539, of which 776 cases are active. Date Cases January 6: 292January 5:203January 4:103January 3: 56January 2:40January 1: 37December 31: 18December 30: 17||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-sees-292-more-covid-cases-1-fatality-101641514482200.html
07-01-2022||Delhi||Deadline to register kids for entry-level classes extended||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday extended the last date for registration for admissions to entry-level classes in private schools by two weeks in view of the latest surge of Covid-19 cases in the city.The process of registrations for admission to entry-level classes — nursery, kindergarten, and Class 1 — for the 2022-23 academic session in private schools across the Capital began on December 15.Earlier, the last date for submission of forms was January 7 this year.“Keeping in view the prevailing Covid conditions, the last date for filing applications for admission in nursery/ entry level classes in private schools of Delhi is being extended for further two weeks,” tweeted Sisodia, who also holds the state education portfolio.Sudha Acharya, principal of ITL Public School in Dwarka, and the chairperson of the National Progressive School’s Conference, which has over 120 private Delhi schools as its members, said the extension will help those parents who cannot avail of online services.“Due to a surge in Omicron cases, some parents in the city might not have got the chance to submit forms [offline]. The extension will help them,” said Acharya.Bharat Arora, general secretary, Action Committee of Unaided Private Schools, called the extension “a welcome step”.Arora said that while many parents in the Capital were hesitant to register this year because of the uncertainty surrounding the Covid-19 pandemic, formal education could not be replaced.“All private schools are of the view that learning must continue irrespective of the situation. They must not miss this opportunity to get their child registered. We have tried our best to minimise learning losses in all sorts of challenging situations and will continue to do so. Formal schooling cannot be ruled out because of any sort of pandemic,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/deadline-to-register-kids-for-entry-level-classes-extended-101641514190892.html
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Despite security threat, scanners at Ludhiana railway station remain defunct||In the aftermath of the Ludhiana court complex blast, new luggage scanners were installed at the railway station. However, some of these scanners remain non-functional. A scanner on the entry, another scanner on the extreme right of the Civil Lines entry point, and two newly installed scanners on the foot over bridge leading to the platforms were found to be non-functional on Thursday. While security personnel were seen randomly frisking passengers’ luggage, many passengers were seen altogether bypassing checking. A security personnel said a power connection to the new machines was yet to be established..In the past, intelligence reports have indicated that the station is on the radar of Pakistan-sponsored terrorists, and a few national rebel groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-lessons-learnt-despite-security-threat-scanners-at-railway-station-remain-defunct-101641514121904.html
07-01-2022||Delhi||Additional ₹50,000 aid for kin of Covid-19 victims in Delhi||Over 20,000 people who lost a family member to Covid-19 and have already received ₹50,000 as ex gratia under the Mukhyamantri Covid-19 Pariwar Aarthik Sahayata Yojna, will now be given an additional ₹50,000 each under the Delhi Disaster Response Fund.An official of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), which issued an order to this effect on Wednesday, said the ex gratia amount will be released to all eligible families without seeking any application as their eligibility and payment credentials are already verified. In one week, the payment may be disbursed to their bank accounts, the official said.Apart from that, any Delhi resident who loses or has lost a family member to Covid-19 and is yet to get any ex gratia can submit an application for ₹50,000 as assistance. Delhi now has two Covid compensation schemes -- one under the chief minister’s scheme and the other under Delhi Disaster Response Fund, each for a sum of ₹50,000.“In compliance of a Supreme Court order if November 29, 2021, fresh guidelines have been issued for release of ex gratia from the Delhi Disaster Response Fund (DDRF) to the next of the kin of a person who died of Covid-19,” a DDMA official told Hindustan Times.“Ex gratia assistance of ₹50,000 from DDRF will be released without calling for any fresh application in respect of all those cases in which compensation of ₹50,000 has been released by the districts under the Mukhyamantri Covid-19 Pariwar Aarthik Sahayata Yojna,” said a DDMA order issued on Wednesday.“Applicants are required to apply directly to the district magistrate concerned for Covid-19 death related ex gratia assistance and DDMA will release fund directly to the beneficiary after verifying the eligibility and other necessary criteria,” the DDMA order said.A link will be created on https://edistrict.delhigovt.nic.in/ to enable applicants to submit their application. The district magistrate offices will also accept hard copy applications from those applicants who are unable to apply on th e-district portal.In June 2021, the Supreme Court directed the National Disaster Management Authority to recommend guidelines for ex gratia assistance to kin of those who lost their lives to Covid-19. The order came against petitions seeking directions to the Central and state governments to provide ex gratia compensation under the Disaster Management Act (DMA) for Covid deaths.In December, the apex court sought information from the Delhi government and other states on the progress with regard to receiving applications and releasing payment under the scheme.In its order, DDMA outlined the fresh guidelines for release of ex gratia assistance from the Delhi Disaster Response Fund to eligible families.The guidelines say that for the purpose of considering a death as due to Covid 19, the person should have been diagnosed through a positive RT-PCR or other tests or clinically determined through investigations in a hospital or in-patient facility by a treating physician.Deaths occurring within 30 days from the date of testing Covid-19 positive or from the date of being clinically determined as a Covid-19 case will be treated as deaths due to Covid-19 even if the death takes place outside the hospital or in-patient facility.The patient who was admitted in the hospital and who continued to be admitted beyond 30 days and died subsequently of Covid-19 will also be treated as a Covid-19 death.A family member of the deceased who died by suicide within 30 days of being diagnosed as Covid-19 positive will also be entitled to ex gratia assistance of ₹50,000.An official, who did not want to be identified, said all claims will be settled within 30 days of submission of required documents and disbursed through Aadhaar linked direct benefit transfer procedure. “The central government contributes 75% to the Delhi Disaster Response Fund and the 25% is contributed by the Delhi government. It is a standing fund,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/additional-rs-50-000-aid-for-kin-of-covid-19-victims-in-delhi-101641513652784.html
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Vax camp for government employees to be held in Ludhiana||Ludhiana The district administration on Friday announced the decision to organise a special vaccination camp for all government departments at the Government College for Girls (GCG) in the wake of the upcoming assembly elections.Assistant district commissioner (ADC) Jagraon-cum-nodal officer vaccination Dr Nayan Jassal made the announcement, highlighting the need for all government officials to be fully vaccinated given that they will be assigned election duty. She further said the head of the respective government department will need to accompany the staff for the vaccination camp, which starts at 10 am on Friday, adding that deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma would take department-wise vaccination status review meetings at the venue.The ADC added all the department heads had already been issued formal letters in this regard and disciplinary action, under the Election Act, would be taken against any absentees. She further said if any official was to test positive for Covid during the election duty, it would be the sole responsibility of the department head and the concerned official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vax-camp-for-government-employees-to-be-held-in-ludhiana-101641513941882.html
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Despite collecting ₹30-cr cow cess in four years, LudhianaMC fails to rein in stray cattle||Ludhiana Local residents and commuters have expressed their displeasure at the Municipal Corporation’s (MC) inability to curb the problems being faced on the roads because of the increasing number of stray cattle. Several rued the civic body’s failure to tie reflective tapes around the cattle, which pose a heightened risk for commuters in the foggy weather conditions.The civic body, which had collected around ₹30 crores as cow cess since January 2017, had bought 500 reflective tapes and initiated a drive to tie them around bovines in the month of October last year, but frequent commuters of Hambran road, Tajpur road, Jalandhar bypass, Dugri, BRS Nagar and neighbouring areas claim that no visible change has been witnessed at ground level.An official, requesting anonymity, said the work was carried out only for a few days under the drive.A resident from the vicinity of Bhamiyan road, Manjit Singh said a large number of stray bovines can be found in the locality and near the Jalandhar bypass area, making it difficult to see the cattle, especially in the fog. “Years have elapsed and a number of fatal accidents have also taken place, but the authorities have failed to find a solution for the problem,” he said.Citing the civic body’s failure to carry out the drive effectively, Gursharan Singh, another local resident, suggested that a private company be hired for the task. “The lives of residents are at risk, but the authorities are adopting an indifferent approach, which is condemnable. No one is held responsible for the accidents and neither any compensation is provided to the victims if any accidents take place,” he added.Speaking on the issue, the MC joint commissioner Ankur Mahindroo said the concerned veterinary officials had commenced another drive and reflective taps were being tied around the cattle. “I will check the status with the concerned officials and the drive will be intensified to tie tapes around the stray animals, while the department is working to find a solution to remove them from roads,” he added.MC struggles to find shelter for stray cattleThe civic body officials also complained about the amount of space required to build a shelter for the stray cattle, due to which agreements are being made with management of different gaushalas to shelter in exchange of a certain fee. As per reports, around ₹8 crore have been spent by the civic body on sheltering and upkeep of animals. The officials stated that last year, the civic body had established a shed in Burj Poway village for sheltering 150 cattle before adding that an additional 1500 cattle had also been put in different gaushalas across the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/despite-collecting-30-cr-cow-cess-in-four-years-ludhianamc-fails-to-rein-in-stray-cattle-101641513821760.html
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Two arrested for stealing 117 street lights||The Moti Nagar police arrested two accused on January 5 for stealing street lights in ward 22 of Zone B . The accused Manpreet Singh of Sanjay Gandhi Colony and Neeraj of Bhamian, said they had sold the stolen lights further to a person, whom the police are trying to trace.An FIR has been lodged following the statement of Kushaldeep Singh of Abohar of Fazilka, who said he has contract to maintain street lights installed in ward number 22 and other areas of Zone B of municipal corporation (MC).Kushaldeep added that he found 50 street lights from ward number 22 missing. On checking, he found that 67 street lights from other areas of MC were also stolen from December 16 to January 2. Inspector Surinder Kumar, station house officer at Moti Nagar Police Station said the police have arrested the accused. but the lights are yet to be recovered.A case under Section 379 (punishment for theft) of Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-two-arrested-for-stealing-117-street-lights-101641513761796.html
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Siblings held for snatching, vehicle lifting||The Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) staff 1 on Thursday arrested two siblings for snatching and vehicle lifting, near Gill Chowk, when they were roaming around the area riding a bike bearing fake number plate.During investigation the police found that they had stolen the vehicle from the city area. The accused Yuvraj Sahota, 25, of Mohalla Balmiki Sarda Nagar, and his brother Vishal Sahota, 22,arrested following a tip off, used to sell the stolen vehicles to a scrap dealer Bittu of Village Rasulpur of Phillaur, who has also been arrested.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Boota Singh, who is investigating the case, said two mobile phones, one bike, one scooter and parts of numerous vehicles have been recovered from their possession.The ASI added that the accused also told police that they used to snatch mobile phones, cash and other valuables from commuters. Yuvraj Sahota is 12 pass and works at a salon, while Vishal Sahota is a school drop out. He works as a salesman at a garment shop.A case under Sections 379 (punishment for theft), 379-B (snatching and use of force), 411(dishonestly receiving stolen property.) and 473 (making or counterfeiting a seal, plate) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been lodged against the accused at Division Number 6 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-siblings-held-for-snatching-vehicle-lifting-101641513701761.html
07-01-2022||Delhi||Funeral homes detail plans to ease last rites||The municipal corporations in Delhi have ordered enhanced vigilance at Covid designated funeral homes with the city reporting 20 deaths of the infections so far this month.A senior North Delhi Municipal Corporation official said they have designed a new standard operating procedure (SOP) in view of the Omicron coronavirus variant.The SOP issued by the office of deputy health officer on Wednesday mandates that funeral managers and the management overseeing the operations of cremation grounds should try to minimise the time spent on rituals and registration formalities. “...You are directed to take all precautionary measures mentioned in this order,” the directive issued by the nodal local body said.The order said that all Covid cremations should preferably be carried out in CNG furnaces. “A CNG furnace cremation takes 1.5-2 hours -- almost half of a traditional wood method,” a senior funeral manager at Nigambodh Ghat said.A committee will be constituted at each designated facility to ensure the cap on attendance (20) is maintained, and that Covid protocols are followed, the order said.Former north MCD mayor Jai Prakash said the new SOP has been formulated by discussing the problems faced during the fourth wave, and facilities are being upgraded keeping in mind the stress on resources during that time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/funeral-homes-detail-plans-to-ease-last-rites-101641513177108.html
07-01-2022||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar reports 600 fresh Covid infections, positivity rate now 3%||Gautam Budh Nagar reported 600 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the highest number of new infections reported in a day, surpassing the previous day’s record of 510 cases, a nearly four times jump in the single-day tally of infections, as compared to 140 infections reported on Tuesday.The last time this many fresh cases were reported in a single day was on May 17 last year, when the district had recorded 457 new cases in a day. With more than 500 cases being reported in the last two days,a total of 1,529 cases have already been reported in the first six days of January. The number of active cases in the district stood at 1,706 on Thursday at a positivity rate of 3%. According to officials, as many as six patients have recovered in the last 24 hours. As of now, all active patients in the district have mild symptoms or are asymptomatic. “Out of the 600 new cases, four are travellers from other states. As many as 20 Covid-19 patients are currently admitted to Noida Covid Hospital as per information available with the health department. One patient is admitted to the ICU as he has comorbidities, such as diabetes and hypertension,” said Sunil Kumar Sharma, chief medical officer, Gautam Budh Nagar. He added that the new cases also include those testing positive during contact tracing. “However, there are no clusters in the district as of now,” he added. No new cases of the Omicron variant was reported on Thursday. Gautam Budh Nagar’s first case of Omicron variant was confirmed by the health department on Tuesday in a 35-year-old resident of Sector 137, who had no travel history. Meanwhile, the district health department on Thursday carried out training of oxygen plant operators from government hospitals. “A state-mandated training of 20 technicians handling oxygen plants at ESIC Hospital, Government Institute of Medical Sciences, Noida Covid Hospital (NCH), Post Graduate Institute of Child Health, Community Health Centres Bisrakh and Dadri was conducted at Sector 39’s Noida Covid Hospital on Thursday. The ten-hour training is being conducted by technicians from Lucknow. While five-hour session was taken on Thursday, another five hour session will be carried out on Friday,” said Dr Shweta Khurana, oxygen supply in-charge of district health department.
07-01-2022||Noida||DM orders inquiry into death of four women in GB Nagar’s shelter home||District magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar Suhas L Y has ordered a judicial probe into the death of four inmates, who died at Gautam Budh Nagar’s only shelter for abandoned and homeless women in Sector 34 in the last 15 days. According to the district probationary officer Atul Soni, who is in-charge of the women’s shelter, also known as Nari Niketan, the first death occurred on December 20, 2021.“An inmate Sunita (45) died on December 20, following which another inmate Aradhna (55) passed away on December 23. On December 30, a 25-year-old woman, identified as Priyanka, also passed away. All these deaths occurred at the district hospital where the women were admitted for treatment two-three days before their demise. On January 3, a 30-year-old woman identified as Ruby passed away at the women’s shelter,” said Soni.He added the women were admitted to the shelter home in the last six months and several attempts to reconnect with their family members had failed. Their post-mortem was conducted by police after which, their last rites were done.“According to the post mortem reports, while Sunita and Aradhna died due to heart attack, Priyanka died due to a prolonged illness and Ruby’s cause of death has been identified as tuberculosis,” said Gyan Singh, station house officer of Sector 24 police station, Noida.Soni added all the four women were designated as MR (mentally retarded) after their medical checkups during admission. “These women were mentally challenged and suffered from occasional bouts of seizures as well,” he said.The shelter home currently has 116 inmates, against a capacity of 150, and has 14 caretakers. However, the facility is running without a warden since the last one month.“The last warden left in the first week of December while the new warden is yet to join the shelter home. The four deaths have happened here in the absence of a warden. Out of the 116 inmates, 70% are designated MR,” he said. He added the shelter home is a state-designated special home for mentally challenged women.Alarmed by the sudden spate of deaths, Suhas L Y has ordered a judicial inquiry into the matter.“A probe has been ordered to find out if there was any negligence on the part of the staff working at the shelter home,” he said. 
07-01-2022||Noida||Greater Noida: NGT asks authorities to end water pollution in urban villages||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has asked the Greater Noida authority, agencies monitoring pollution and the Gautam Budh Nagar administration to look into the issues of water pollution plaguing the urban villages in Greater Noida and take remedial steps to address the matter. The move comes after an environmentalist, advocate Akash Vashishtha, filed a plea before the NGT. The Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 provisions are being violated by the Greater Noida authority, thereby contaminating the ground water and creating health issues, alleged the petitioner. “In view of above, let a joint committee of CPCB, state pollution control board, the Greater Noida authority, district magistrate Gautam Budh Nagar and secretary, urban development of UP, look into the matter and take remedial action,” said a bench headed by NGT chairperson Adarsh Kumar Goel, justice Sudhir Agarwal and expert member Dr. Nagin Nanda in an order delivered on January 4. The case will be heard again on April 8. The NGT said that the CPCB and the UPPCB will be the nodal agencies for compliance and coordination. “The committee may meet within two weeks, undertake visit to the site, interact with the stakeholders and ascertain the action plan for remedial action, if any. The action plan may cover septage management, sewerage plant with STP(s). The Committee may also identify the authorities responsible for the failure and action to be taken against the violators or erring authorities,” said the order.In 1992, the Uttar Pradesh government established the Greater Noida authority with an aim to acquire agricultural land from farmers, develop it and allot the same for residential, industrial and other urban schemes. Spread on 38,000 hectares of land between Noida and Dadri, Greater Noida was developed by roping in land from at least 93 villages. Currently, no urban village sewer is connected to the sewage treatment plant for treatment. As a result, the sewage goes untreated into village ponds or spills over internal roads of rural areas, thereby polluting waterbodies and posing health risks to villagers. “The Greater Noida authority is yet to lay the storm water drains and sewer network in at least 93 villages. As a result, we are failing to conserve rain water and also letting untreated sewage seep into the ground water table and pollute the source of drinking water. The villages are full of filth and untreated sewer causing several health issues,” said Vashishtha. The petitioner alleged that the authorities are not paying heed to their demands with regard to water needs and protection of natural resources.The NGT observed that “The above averments depict unsatisfactory state of affairs and rampant violation of provisions of Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 and “Public Trust Doctrine” laid down in M.C. Mehta v. Kamal Nath, (1997) 1 SCC 388. There is also failure of the authorities to enforce citizens’ right to clean environment and the principle of sustainable development.”Officials from the Gautam Budh Nagar administration, the Greater Noida authority and other agencies said they will do the needful as per the NGT order and take steps appropriately. 
07-01-2022||Noida||Rain gives Ghaziabad its first moderate air day in over 2 months||Light rainfall since Wednesday had positively impacted the overall air quality in Ghaziabad to give the city its first “moderate” air quality day in over two months on Thursday. The last time the city saw a moderate day was on October 26, and since then, the air quality index (AQI) has been oscillating between “severe” and “very poor” categories. According to the Central Pollution Control Board’s 4pm bulletin on Thursday, the Ghaziabad city recorded an AQI of 179, while Greater Noida recorded an AQI of 182, both in the “moderate” category. The AQI for Noida was 252, in the “poor” category. An AQI reading between 0 and 50 is considered ”good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 ”moderate”, 201 and 300 ”poor”, 301 and 400 ”very poor”, and 401 and 500 ”severe”. The officials of the UP pollution control board (UPPCB) said that favourable meteorological conditions has helped improve the city improve its AQI on Thursday and the impact was largely due to the light rainfall triggered by a western disturbance. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has already predicted that the better conditions are likely to prevail till January 9, under the influence of another western disturbance. “The dip in pollution levels is a result of light rainfall and favourable meteorological conditions. On our part, we are still carrying out measures listed under the Graded Response Action Plan. Since light rain may continue over the days, it is likely that the air quality will improve even further,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer, UPPCB. According to IMD statistics, the Ghaziabad district recorded 2.5mm of rainfall on January 6 and about the same amount of rainfall between January 1 and January 5. On October 26, 2021, the Ghaziabad city recorded an AQI of 176, in the “moderate” category, and later, the pollution levels spiked to “severe” levels for 10 consecutive days (starting November 4, 2021) during the post-Diwali period. Thursday ended this long spell of high pollution levels that had lasted for over two months, pollution control board officials said. “The city achieving “moderate” air quality is a big achievement in itself. But it is due to rainfall activity and not due to any effort by local agencies. During the initial days of winter, the officials blamed stubble burning for pollution and later the festival season. But the pollution failed to reduce even after all that and additional efforts at the local level were required. But that did not happen, and now it is the rain that has ended the continued spell of high pollution,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist.
07-01-2022||Noida||Ghaziabad: 63 centres, 76 camps in schools to vaccinate children aged 15-18||Ghaziabad: The district health department has increased the number of vaccination centres for children from existing eight to 63 to increase vaccination coverage for those in the 15-18 age group. The district has a target of vaccinating 234,488 children with Covaxin. According to data available on the CoWIN portal, the district completed administering the first dose to 46,367 children till 6.30pm on Thursday. For the other categories, the district has an overall target of vaccinating 2,702,167 beneficiaries, of whom 2,675,798 (99.02%) have been administered the first dose. “With this rate, we are hoping to achieve the first dose target for different categories (excluding children) within next two days. For children, we have increased the number of centres with Covaxin allotment from eight to 63. This will help children get vaccines at their nearest centre. If they have camps scheduled in schools, they should take vaccine at their respective schools,” said Dr GP Mathuria, nodal officer for Covid vaccination. Overall, the district on Thursday operated 228 vaccination centres. According to the state guidelines, children will be administered only Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin as it is the only vaccine with Emergency Use Listing (EUL) for the 15-18 years age group and recommended by ‘Covid -19 Working Group’ of the National Technical Advisory Group on immunisation.“Beneficiaries, who are to get first dose, will be mandatorily given Covaxin at the 63 centres. For all other beneficiaries scheduled to get the second dose, the vaccine they received as the second dose will be given. This arrangement has been done to increase vaccination coverage for children as well as for people who have been left out of the immunization programme and have not taken any of the vaccine doses,” said Dr Mathuria. Apart from the 63 vaccination centres, the health department is also conducting vaccination camps at 76 schools to inoculate children. “We expect the vaccination for children to be completed in two weeks. We have already covered 67.9% of our targeted beneficiaries with the second doses. This has given enhanced protection to people against Covid infection. It is also vital that people who have their second dose due get it at the earliest and also those, who have not taken any dose so far, should get vaccinated on priority” said Dr Bhavtosh Shankhdhar, chief medical officer. “We have also started preparations for the precaution dose for healthcare workers, frontline workers and senior citizens having co-morbid conditions. Their vaccination will start from January 10,” said the CMO.  According to the estimates of the department, the district has about 300,000 beneficiaries whose second dose is due for now.
07-01-2022||Noida||Ghaziabad reports over 1,000 fresh Covid cases in first six days of January||The tally of fresh Covid cases reported in the month of January as well the active cases in the district crossed the 1,000-mark as 360 new infections were reported on Thursday on the back of 8,007 samples. Ghaziabad reported 160 fresh cases two days ago on Tuesday (January 4). Officials from the district health department attribute the rise in the number of cases to increased testing in the past two days. According to official data, so far in the first six days of January, 1,020 fresh cases have been reported in the district compared to 235 cases which were reported in December. Currently, there are 1,180 active cases in the district. “There has been rise in cases as we have increased daily testing for past two days. According to our estimates, a majority of the present cases, about 80%, are people in the age group of 21-50 years. These are people who have to travel for work. Testing is mostly being done for people having symptoms or a travel history from different states/countries. Most of the patients are asymptomatic,” said Dr Bhavtosh Shankhdhar, chief medical officer. He said that the department will further increase testing and is planning to conduct about 5,000 RT-PCR tests, besides rapid antigen tests. The state government has already given a target of conducting 3,900 RT-PCR tests and 3,500 tests using rapid antigen kits daily. From Wednesday onwards, the district has increased testing and collected 7,892 samples on the day, of which 255 tested positive for Covid-19. With the increase in fresh cases, the sample positivity rate (number of samples testing positive per 100 samples tested) in the month of January (till Thursday) stood at 3.64% while it was 1.89% in the first three days of the month. The positivity rate increased to 2.56% on January 4. The current positivity rate is higher than the overall positivity rate of the district, which is about 2.64%, since the start of pandemic. Officials said with the sudden rise in cases, they are expecting the Covid-19 infection to reach its peak in January/February and decline thereafter. “We are ensuring that proper medical kits and medicines are prescribed to patients in home isolation. This is being done by our rapid response teams, which we have now increased to 102 from the existing 82 teams. It has been observed that in the current wave, symptoms in patients are persisting for about 2-3 days. However, we are tracking all cases and taking samples of patients who have a travel history for genome-sequencing . About 323 samples have been taken so far and only two have tested positive for the Omicron variant of Covid-19,” said the CMO. Health experts said the positivity rate surging with the increase in tests indicates that the infection is widespread. “It also indicates that it is headed towards community transmission even if the authorities do not admit it. The way the infection is spreading also indicates that it maybe the Omicron variant. But it is major relief that patients are recovering early with mild symptoms and there has been almost no need for hospitalization,” said Dr Ashish Aggarwal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad chapter).According to state control room figure released on Thursday evening, Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad had 1,706 and 1,180 active cases respectively. The two districts occupy the first and second spot among the 75 districts in UP having the highest number of active cases. Collectively, the two districts make up 35.09% of the total active case load of the state, which had total 8,224 active cases till Thursday evening.According to official records for December, 2021 and January this year, Indirapuram (with 241 cases), Crossings Republik (168 cases), Kaushambi (92 cases, Vaishali (78 cases), Vasundhara (77 cases), Sahibabad (74 cases), Raj Nagar Extension (73 cases), Nehru Nagar (57 cases) besides Kavi Nagar and Raj Nagar with 49 cases each, are among the high case load localities in Ghaziabad.
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||349 Covid cases, 3 deaths in Jammu and Kashmir; Srinagar logs 80 infections||Jammu and Kashmir is reporting an increase in daily cases after recording 349 Covid-19 cases and three deaths on Thursday a day after witnessing six-month-high of 418 infections, an official health bulletin said. The first four days of January had recorded daily cases ranging between 165 and 199 while in December the union territory had reported 143 average cases daily.Of the total cases on Thursday, 202 cases and two deaths were reported in Jammu division while Kashmir valley saw 147 infections and a fatality.Jammu division’s Jammu district reported the highest 119 cases followed by 33 in Reasi.Kashmir valley witnessed 80 cases in summer capital Srinagar followed by 21 in Baramulla and 16 in Budgam. As many as 13 districts saw single digit or zero cases.Jammu district has taken over from Srinagar with the highest number of active cases at 589 followed by Srinagar and Reasi districts with 515 and 226 active cases respectively.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 116 with active positive cases crossing 2000-mark to reach 2,049, first time since July 17.The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 98,575 vaccine doses were administered taking overall doses administered in the UT to 1.908 crores.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,36,186 prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.07%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,42,768 and the death toll has reached 4,533.The officials said that 51,763 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,158 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 884 deaths.6 micro-containment zones declared in Jammu’s urban areasAmid spike in Covid 19 cases, District Magistrate, Jammu, Anshul Garg on Thursday declared six micro-containment zones in Jammu city.They are lane near House Number 100, Sector No 4, Roop Nagar in Janipur, area in and around J&K Bank, Amphalla - Pacca Danga, Lane near House Number 127, Sector Number 2, Trikuta Nagar Extension, Trikuta Nagar, Lane Number 7, Channi Himmat, Lane Number 2 near Sector Number 2, Shant Nagar, Janipur and Lane Near House Number 47, Sector Number 6, Trikuta Nagar, Jammu following detection of covid19 positive cases.“These areas shall remain under strict llockdownand tight perimeter control, except for essential needs,” reads the order issued by DM Jammu. It further states that no movement whatsoever in and out of the micro containment zones shall be allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/349-covid-cases-3-deaths-in-jammu-and-kashmir-srinagar-logs-80-infections-101641503802495.html
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||BJP councillors from Shimla, Chandigarh burn Punjab government’s effigy||In a joint protest, the newly elected councillors of the Chandigarh Municipal Council, who are staying in Shimla to escape poaching for the mayoral election, along with their Shimla counterparts took out a funeral procession of the Punjab Government. The protesting councillors also burnt the effigy of the Punjab government after a protest march from Chaura Maidan to the Himachal Pradesh Vidhan Sabha. The march was led by BJP’s Chandigarh general Secretary Ramvir Bhatti and Shimla mayor Satya Kaundal. The BJP councillors demanded the imposition of the President’s Rule in Punjab and alleged that threatened by the popularity of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Punjab chief minister resorted to such tactics and termed it as a failure of Punjab chief minister.They alleged that the security lapses during which the Prime Minister’s convoy was stuck on a flyover in Ferozepur was a conspiracy to compromise his safety. The protesters demanded to impose President’s Rule in Punjab.Fearing poaching ahead of mayoral elections, the BJP has sent its one dozen councillors to Shimla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-councillors-from-shimla-chandigarh-burn-punjab-government-s-effigy-101641503801069.html
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Mehbooba Mufti, three other Jammu and Kashmir ex-chief ministers to lose special security cover||Four former chief ministers of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, Farooq Abdullah, Omar Abdullah, Ghulam Nabi Azad and Mehbooba Mufti, are likely to lose their Special Security Group (SSG) protection as the union territory’s administration has decided to “right-size” the elite unit established in 2000, officials said on Thursday. In a recent communication to the additional director general of police (ADGP), security, the UT administration said, “The competent authority has also approved to right-size the SSG and, accordingly, I am directed to convey to reduce the posted strength of SSG to the bare minimum, preferably headed by a DSP, for maintaining continuity.” “All the resources, including vehicles, access control gadgets, etc, of the SSG, except such resources as may be required by SSF, be transferred to the security wing,” the order, issued by Rashid Raina, undersecretary to the J&K administration, added. The move comes a little over 19 months after the Centre had issued a gazette notification -- Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Adaptation of State Laws) Order, 2020 -- on March 31, 2020, amending the Special Security Group Act of the erstwhile J&K government by omitting a clause that provided former chief ministers and their families with SSG security. Officials said the decision was taken by the Security Review Coordination Committee, a group that oversees the threat perception of important leaders in Jammu and Kashmir. The officials said the SSG will be “right-sized” by reducing the number of the elite force to the “bare minimum”. It will be headed by an officer below the rank of superintendent of police as against director, who is of the rank of inspector general of police and above. However, the officials feel there was a re-think over the downsizing of the SSG as some experts within the police force feel that this may hamper the preparedness of the elite unit. The decision will entail the withdrawal of the security cover of Farooq Abdullah, Ghulam Nabi Azad and two other former chief ministers Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti at a time when a number of terror incidents have taken place in Srinagar. All these former chief ministers except Azad reside in Srinagar. However, Farooq Abdullah and Azad will continue to be provided the security cover of the National Security Guard, also known as Black Cat commandoes, as both of them are Z-plus protectees. Omar and Mehbooba will continue to have Z-plus security cover while in Jammu and Kashmir, but are likely to have reduced security outside the Union territory. The leaders will be provided security by the district police as well as the security wing based on the threat assessment, the officials said. Meanwhile, the National Conference and the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) alleged that the Centre was trying to curtail movement of their leaders. PDP chief spokesperson Suhail Bukhari said this is “not going to deter them from speaking the truth for their own people”. “We will continue to speak for our people. Even when PM Modi got stopped in Punjab, they (BJP) created hue and cry on the security issue and everyone is aware about the security situation in Kashmir, especially targeted killings and other factors,” Bukhari said, referring to the alleged security lapse in Punjab that resulted in PM Modi’s convoy getting stuck on a flyover for 15-20 minutes on Wednesday. National Conference spokesperson Imran Nabi Dar said, “Considering the security situation in Kashmir and the accompanying circumstances, it will not be wrong to say that this new directive is aimed to curtail the movement of Dr Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah.” ---With inputs from agencies
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Soldier found dead in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch||A soldier was found dead under mysterious circumstances along the LoC in Poonch district on Thursday, said officials. The deceased has a gunshot wound. He was from Uttarakhand. “The soldier was posted with the 8 Garhwal in the Balnoi area of the KG sector along the LoC. He had suffered a gunshot wound. We have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of CrPc,” said a police official. The army has also ordered a court of inquiry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/soldier-found-dead-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-poonch-101641503680167.html
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Police bust module responsible for targeted killings in Srinagar city, 4 held||The police on Thursday claimed to have busted a module that was responsible for some targeted killings in Srinagar city and arrested four persons, including two active militants associated with Lashkar-e-Toiba/Jaish and TRF.The police said that on December 22, last month militants targeted and killed a property dealer in the Safakadal area.“After the incident, the police started investigation into this killing. During the course of the investigation, movement of some suspects was detected in the city. Based on further analysis and credible human intelligence, the police detected suspicious movement of terrorists in Bhagat Barzulla area. On this police along with the CRPF laid special nakas and apprehended two terrorists of TRF/ MGH offshoots of LET/JeM near Barzulla bridge,” the spokesman said, adding that the arrested persons have been identified as Suhail Qadir Khanday of Tral Pulwama (active terrorist), Suhail Mushtaq of Niklora (active Terrorist). “During the search, two pistols along with two magazines and 30 bullets were recovered on the spot,” the spokesman said.He said on questioning of militants, incriminating material, arms and ammunition, including two pistols, six magazines, 69 rounds and two silencers, have been recovered from their hideout in Srinagar.“So far four pistols, eight magazines, 99 live rounds, 2 silencers have been recovered in the case,” the spokesman said.The spokesman further identified two associates as Basit Bilal Makaya of Qamar Abad Qamarwari and Naikoo Imad Nasar of Kiloora Shopian, who were operating with them as overground workers.“Both associates have been arrested. In this connection, a case under the Arms Act and Sections 18 and 23 of the UAP Act has been registered.”The spokesman said during the questioning, the arrested militants disclosed that they were operating in Srinagar city on the direction of Asif Maqbool Dar of MIG, Bemina, at present Dhamam, Saudi Arabia, and Sajjad Gul of HMT, Parimpora, at present Pakistan.“ Both the handlers from Saudi Arabia and Pakistan were providing them weapons and money through a network of OGWs being identified. This module has also done recce of security installations like the NIA office, Delhi Police Headquarters, etc. and shared same with handlers in Pakistan,” the spokesman said.He said as per the investigation the targets in city for killings were also selected and conveyed to them by Asif Dar and Sajad Gul. “Suhail Qadar Khandy was working in Suadi Arabia with Asif and in August 2021 on the direction of Asif he came back and started working as an operative of the TRF/MGH/ for coordinating the collection of arms/ammunition, money and terror attack in Srinagar City,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/police-bust-module-responsible-for-targeted-killings-in-srinagar-city-4-held-101641503678692.html
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Centre converting Jammu and Kashmir into military garrison: Mehbooba Mufti||Two top J&K mainstream political leaders, including former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, has said that the Government of India is converting J&K into a garrison.The leaders were reacting to allocation of land to the army at tourist resorts of Sonmarg and Gulmarg.“Allocating thousands of kanals to armed forces that too in tourist areas confirms GOIs intention to convert J&K into a military garrison. Under the ‘state land’ pretext, our land is up for grabs and to add insult to injury locals are being evicted from their homes,” said Mehbooba Mufti in a tweet on Wednesday night.CPI (M) leader and Peoples Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) spokesman Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami said the Jammu and Kashmir government must review its decision to declare 1,034 kanals of land at the famous ski-resort of Gulmarg and 354 kanals in another popular tourist destination Sonmarg as “strategic areas” for the use of armed forces as these are two most popular tourist destinations in the Valley.“There are already a lot of areas with the army for such purposes. Gulmarg and Sonamarg along with Pahalgam are the three most popular tourist destinations in the Valley which need to be promoted for tourism purposes,” Tarigami said in a statement.The CPI (M) general secretary said the need of the hour is to develop tourism infrastructure in Kashmir which can generate employment for burgeoning numbers of unemployed youths.“So-called real estate development by the government can’t generate employment or create livelihood opportunities, but are only meant for giving benefits to the corporate sector,” he said.Tarigami hoped that the government will review its decision and focus on developing tourism in Gulmarg, Sonamarg and other tourist destinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/centre-converting-jammu-and-kashmir-into-military-garrison-mehbooba-mufti-101641503625888.html
07-01-2022||Noida||Contractor beaten up in road rage case in Noida, hunt on for four suspects||A 35-year-old contractor was thrashed by four people in a suspected road rage case in Noida’s Sector 108 on Wednesday night. The victim, Kailash Sharma, a resident of Sector Alpha 2 in Greater Noida, was admitted to a private hospital with a fracture in his right hand. Sharma works as a contractor with the Noida Authority. On Wednesday night, he was going from Noida to his home in Greater Noida in his Maruti Vitara Brezza car. “A speeding Swift Dzire came from the opposite direction and hit my vehicle. I got down from my car to enquire when four suspects caught hold of me and started beating without any provocation,” he saidSharma said he received a fracture on his right hand and sustained injuries on his head and legs. “Locals informed police and a team soon reached the spot. I was rushed to a private hospital,” he said adding that the incident took place around 200 metres away from the police commissionerate office in Noida. Rajeev Kumar, station house officer of Sector 39 police station, said Sharma was going from Noida to Greater Noida. “On the way, he had stopped at a station to refuel his car. He then left for home and was taking a U-turn near Sector 108 when another car collided with his vehicle from the front. There were four people in that car and they got into an argument with him. The suspects attacked him with a wooden stick and fled the spot,” he said. The SHO said that the victim has not filed a written complaint yet. “We are scanning the CCTV footage from the neighbouring areas to identify the suspects and arrest them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/contractor-beaten-up-in-road-rage-case-in-noida-hunt-on-for-four-suspects-101641503620322.html
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||MeT predicts heavy snowfall in Jammu and Kashmir; may disrupt surface, air traffic||As the weather improved on Thursday across Kashmir after the snowfall, the Met office has predicted another spell of heavy snowfall as another western disturbance is heading towards J&K in the next 24 hours.The MeT office has issued an orange level warning and predicted fresh heavy to very heavy snowfall.“As expected, the weather improved significantly in J&K and Ladakh. Another spell of heavy to very heavy rain/snow most likely during January 7 (evening/night) and 8,” said the MeT in an advisory issued on Thursday afternoon.The MeT office further said that weather could register gradual improvement from January 9 onwards in J&K. “The snow/rainfall may affect surface and air transportation on January 8. It may cause avalanche/landslide in vulnerable spots. People are requested not to venture in the avalanche-prone area,” it said.On Wednesday, the Valley witnessed heavy snowfall on the upper reaches and at the tourist resorts of Gulmarg, Pahalgam, Sonmarg, northern and southern parts of Kashmir. The upper areas of Gulmarg and north Kashmir witnessed more than three feet of snow causing the closure of Srinagar-Gurez, Kupwara-Tanghdar and Srinagar-Leh highways. Due to heavy snowfall, men and machinery were put to service to clear snow from the roads and highways.Even on Thursday, due to poor visibility, many flights could not land or take-off from the Srinagar airport in the morning hours. However, with the improvement in the weather, the airport became operational.“The weather has improved now. We are commencing our operations,” tweeted the official handle of Srinagar airport.Due to fresh snowfall, there was a slight improvement in cold weather but Gulmarg was the coldest place in Kashmir as it recorded minus 3.5 degrees Celsius during the night followed by minus 0.8 at Pahalgam during the night.Srinagar recorded 0.3 degrees Celsius during the night. Leh in Ladakh recorded minus 7.6 degrees Celsius.Kashmir’s winter pans out in three stages starting with the harsh period of Chillai Kalan from December 21 which brings most of the snowfall and sub-zero temperatures during the season followed by 20 more days from Feb 1 which are less intense (called Chillai Khurd) and then lastly 10 days of mild cold (Chille Bache).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/met-predicts-heavy-snowfall-in-jammu-and-kashmir-may-disrupt-surface-air-traffic-101641503560252.html
07-01-2022||Noida||36 arrested for partying in violation of Covid norms in Greater Noida||Police on Wednesday night busted musical parties being held in two guest houses in Greater Noida and arrested 36 persons, including five women. These people had gathered for celebrations in violation of the Covid protocols and night curfew restrictions, police said, adding that one of the arrested women is from Nepal. Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP), Greater Noida, said around 11.30pm Wednesday, the Beta 2 police station received information that some people had gathered at a guest house for some illegal activities in Nat Ki Madhaiya village. “The police team conducted a search and found five persons there -- guest house owner Anuj Kumar,30, his business partner Amit Kumar Mittal,32, their friend Abhishek,28, and two women.” “During questioning, the five suspects said there was a mujra (dance) programme in another guest house in Sector Sigma 1 and they were about to go there. The police detained these five suspects and conducted a search at another guest house from where 31 people, including three women, were arrested,” he said. The police said the women were dancing while the people watching were throwing currency notes at them. The police recovered ₹1,30,500 cash, a music system, 30 smartphones, four walkie-talkies, 10 purses, three wrist watches, eight cars, and other items from their possession. Anil Kumar, station house officer, Beta 2 police station, said the programme was organised by the management of a wall putty company. “The company manager Vipul Sethi, 45, had invited some of his distributors to attend the programme. All people in attendance, including Sethi and the second guest house’s event manager Rohit Sishodiya,30, have been arrested,” he said. A case has been registered against them under Sections 3,4,5,7 (2)(1) of Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956 and Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), Section 269 (negligent act) and Section 270 (malignant act) of the Indian Penal Code. “The suspects were produced before the court and sent to judicial custody,” he said. The Uttar Pradesh government has imposed a night curfew in the state from December 25, 2021, and it is in effect from 11pm to 5am daily as part of the government efforts to curb the spread of Covid variant Omicron. The district police has also extended prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) till January 31, 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/36-arrested-for-partying-in-violation-of-covid-norms-in-greater-noida-101641503558607.html
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Night curfew in Jammu and Kashmir amid rise in Covid cases||The Jammu and Kashmir government has imposed restrictions on the non-essential movement of people during the nights after the union territory witnessed a sudden jump in Covid-19 cases on Wednesday.An order was issued by state executive committee on Wednesday night following a meeting held under the chairmanship of chief secretary of J&K, Arun Kumar Mehta along with additional chief secretary of health and medical education, Vivek Bharadvaj. “It is hereby ordered that there shall be a complete restriction on non-essential movement in the entire union territory of J&K from 9 pm to 6 am till further orders,” the order said.Jammu and Kashmir witnessed a major jump in Covid-19 cases after reporting 418 infections on Wednesday, an official health bulletin said. This was after six months that the union territory reported over 400 cases.The first four days of January saw daily cases ranging between 165 and 199.However, the jump on Wednesday was more in the Jammu division where 311 cases were reported while Kashmir valley saw 107 infections. For the past more than a month, the Jammu division had been reporting less than 100 daily cases.On Wednesday, the Jammu division’s two districts, Reasi and Jammu, reported 156 and 109 cases, respectively.Kashmir valley witnessed 52 cases in summer capital Srinagar followed by 16 in Budgam and 13 in Baramulla. As many as 13 districts saw single-digit or zero cases.Jammu district has taken over from Srinagar with the highest number of active cases at 486 followed by Srinagar and Reasi districts with 478 and 194 active cases, respectively.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 140 with active positive cases reaching 1,819.The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 83,611 vaccine doses were administered taking overall doses administered in the UT to 1.897 crore.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,36,070 prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.14%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,42,419 and the death stands at 4,530.The officials said that 59,716 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,157 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 883 deaths.Amid the looming threat of new variants, government data revealed that the monthly Covid cases and the test positivity rate (TPR) in Jammu and Kashmir decreased in the month of December as compared to November.A compilation and analysis of the government’s daily Covid figures brought to the fore that the UT recorded 4,438 infections in December against 4,603 in November – a decrease of 3.5%. From 153 average daily infections in November, it reduced to 143 average daily cases in December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/night-curfew-in-jammu-and-kashmir-amid-rise-in-covid-cases-101641503499068.html
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Snow, rain continue to disrupt supply of essential services in Himachal||The supply of essential services was disrupted in Himachal Pradesh on Thursday as the higher reaches continued to experience heavy snowfall for the third consecutive day. Two deaths due to snow and rain-related incidents have also been reported in Chamba and Sirmaur while one person died in a fire incident in Mandi. More than 350 roads, including two national highways are blocked, and the remote areas have been experiencing a power cut as 440 transformers have developed snags. Besides, 44 power supply schemes have been fully or partially affected, mostly in Chamba and Lahaul and Spiti districts. Lahaul and Spiti superintendent of police Manav Verma said Sissu near the North Portal of the Atal Tunnel got around 2 ft of snowfall, which was still continuing. “Towards the South Portal, there is about 4-ft snow and the tunnel is closed for traffic,” he said, advising people to avoid the route and contact the disaster management authorities and police control room in case of an emergency. The Kullu police also imposed travel restrictions given the heavy snowfall in the district. Kullu SP Gurdev Chand Sharma said no vehicle is being allowed beyond Kothi, 13 km from Manali. Also, no vehicle is allowed to go towards the Jalori Pass. People asked to avoid unnecessary travelAccording to the State Emergency Operation Centre, Rajgundha, the Chotta Bhangal valley got 2-ft of snow, while Triund and Multhan got 1-ft snowfall. Kalpa in Kinnaur got around a foot of snow, Nako and Nichar 8 inches each, Rakchham 2-ft and Sangla 1.6-ft of snow. Gulaba in Kullu got 10 inches of snow, Jalori Pass 1 ft, Maali 4 inches and Palchan 6 inches. Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti got 2 inches of snowfall and Kaza 5 inches, while Koksar got 2-ft snow. Prashar Lake and Kamrunag in Mandi were buried under 2-ft snow. In Shimla, Chanshal peak and the remote Dodra-Kwar got around 1-ft of snow, Chirgaon 3 inches, Rohru 2 inches, Fagu 5 inches, Kufri 7 inches and Narkanda 6 inches. Shimla Deputy Commissioner Aditya Negi said vehicular traffic on the Kufri-Fagu stretch has been restored. The Shimla-Rampur, Shimla-Rohru and Theog-Chopal roads have also been opened. He advised people to be cautious while driving as road conditions were slippery. Meanwhile, the middle hills got heavy rain. Palampur was the wettest place receiving 60 mm of rain. Una got 50 mm, Nahan 47 mm, Kangra 42 mm, Chamba 39 mm, Dalhousie 29 mm, Sundernagar 28 mm, Mandi 27 mm, Paonta Sahib 25 mm, Solan 22 mm and Shimla 20 mm of rain. Mercury falls by five degreesThe day temperature fell by five to six degrees. However, the minimum temperature was above normal. Keylong was coldest with a low of minus 3.1 degrees Celsius followed by Kalpa at minus 3 degrees C, Kufri minus 1.8 degrees C, Dalhousie minus 0.9 degrees C and Manali minus 0.2-degree C. The Met department has issued a yellow alert for heavy rains and snowfall on January 8 and 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/snow-rain-continue-to-disrupt-supply-of-essential-services-in-himachal-101641503438739.html
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||On his 57th b’day, Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur launches 3 health schemes, 6 PSA plants||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur virtually inaugurated six PSA plants and three health programmes under the National Health Mission on Thursday, which was also his 57th birthday.The six PSA plants were set up at Medical College, Chamba, Civil Hospital, Chowari, DDU, Shimla, KNH, Shimla, Regional Hospital, Rampur, and Civil Hospital, Rohru.Five plants were set up through the PM CAREs and one through the CSR. He also inaugurated two 128-slice CT scan machines at Medical College, Chamba, and Nahan, besides digital X-ray machine for Nahan Medical College. He also launched three new health programmes under the National Health Mission. Under the Mission Drishti, eye check-up of children of Classes VI to XII would be done and free spectacles will be given to them if required.Under the School Health and Wellness Programme under the Ayushman Bharat Scheme, two teachers would be nominated as health and wellness ambassadors from each school and would be trained on 11 aspects of adolescent health. These ambassadors would further prepare at least two students of each class as health and wellness messengers. The scheme would be initially implemented in 3,017 schools of six districts of Mandi, Kangra, Bilaspur, Una, Chamba and Sirmaur and will be extended later.Apart from it, he also launched the National TB eradication programme which aims to make the state TB-free by 2025.Speaking on the occasion, Jai Ram Thakur said that Himachal Pradesh has 41 functional PSA plants, nearly 17,000 different types of oxygen cylinders and more than 5,000 oxygen concentrators with a capacity to produce more than 95 metric tonnes of oxygen.He said that at one stage, the state had only two oxygen plants at Shimla and Tanda.He said that the state government was working vigorously for the eradication of TB, for which number of CB-NAT machines was being increased in the state. He said TB patients were being given financial assistance of ₹ 1,500 per month by the state. Besides, ₹500 were being provided to them by the Central government during the treatment period.He further said that during the last three days, more than two lakh children in the age group of 15 to 18 years have been vaccinated in the state and expressed hope that the state would be first to complete the vaccination of children of eligible age group.The chief minister said that the number of cases of Covid-19 was increasing which was a matter of concern. He also urged the people to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour. He said that the state government has imposed few restrictions to check the spread of the virus. He said that the state government was well aware of the situation and was ready to tackle any eventuality. Health Minister Rajiv Saizal said that the three programmes launched by the chief minister would go a long way in strengthening the health services in the state. He said that a new technology medicine event and reminder monitor (MERM) box was also being launched in the state. He said that Himachal Pradesh was performing best in the TB eradication programme and expressed hope that the state definitely would achieve the goal of becoming the first TB-free state in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/on-his-57th-b-day-himachal-chief-minister-jai-ram-thakur-launches-3-health-schemes-6-psa-plants-101641503378854.html
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ladakh again disputes Himachal’s claims over Sarchu||Even as Himachal Pradesh has stepped up efforts to resolve the long-standing interstate dispute with its bordering states, its neighbour, Ladakh, has raised fresh rows claiming grazing rights over the pastures in Shinkula. The ministry of home affairs held a meeting on January 5 to resolve the border dispute between Himachal Pradesh and the union territory of Ladakh. The border dispute between the erstwhile at Sarchu between Lahaul-Spiti and Leh, then a part of erstwhile Jammu and Kashmir, erupted in 2013 when people from Leh set up temporary sheds at Sarchu with a commercial purpose. Sarchu, 13 km inside Himachal, is the last station of Lahaul-Spiti district on the Manali-Leh highway which attracts a large number of tourists. Ladakh placed pre-Independence revenue records to stake its claim over the disputed boundary at Sarchu and Sumdoh in tribal Lahaul and Spiti district. Himachal too placed old records to claim that the local shepherds have grazing rights in Shinkula. “We placed our own records while they submitted their own records. The dispute has to end somewhere now. That’s what I requested the Centre,” said deputy commissioner, Lahaul and Spiti, Neeraj Kumar. “Now both sides have agreed for demarcation in the summer months. It’s the time when tourists rush to the tribal regions,” he said. The stand of HP throughout this dispute has been that the boundary be demarcated according to the relevant maps prepared by the office of the Survey General of India. After the dispute in 2013, deputy commissioner, Lahaul and Spiti, and deputy commissioner, Leh, carried out a joint spot visit during which the Himachal authorities presented revenue records and indexed sheets of Survey of India as evidence to buttress their claim on the territory. The records presented revealed that the boundary was 12-13 km ahead of the disputed point and both sides agreed on a demarcation. The district administration of Leh suggested that they will present relevant forest and revenue records later to press forth their claim, but no tangible evidence was given by them. There is also an unfinished gate structure at the site of the inter-state boundary along the highway. This location is also reflected in the Survey of India maps. The boundary dispute issue was further agitated before the National Commission for Scheduled Tribes by Tanzin Sonam, councillor Lugnak block, LAHDC, Kargil. The NCST convened meetings in 2015 and 2016. The NCST gave direction that demarcation to be done by the Survey of India at the spot. The meeting was also attended by the joint secretary, ministry of home affairs, who directed the Surveyor General of India to demarcate the border as per Survey of India’s maps. In 2016, a team of the Surveyor General of India visited the disputed border in the presence in presence of high officials from both sides. Survey of India substantiated Himachal’s claim on the territory still no solution to the issue was found as the officials representing the then Jammu and Kashmir government rejected the validity of the maps presented by officials of Surveyor General of India. 
07-01-2022||Noida||Noida: Man booked for rape threat to minor on social media||A man was booked in Noida for threatening to rape a 16-year-old student of Class 11 on social media. The police have registered a case against the suspect and launched an investigation. The student’s mother, an advocate, filed the complaint in this regard. “On November 23, 2021, my daughter posted some photos on her social media account. On November 25, she found that a man threatened to rape her in the comment section,” she said. The student blocked the user and informed her mother about the matter. “The suspect started messaging her from multiple IDs. We then filed a complaint in the cyber cell,” she said. In the complaint she added, “I am a single mother and an advocate. My daughter and I live in an all-woman household, and in light of such threats against my daughter, I am extremely scared and apprehensive about her safety,” she said. The advocate said that she later found that the same suspect had threatened to rape and assault other children on social media in the past. The cyber cell investigated the matter and asked the Sector 49 police to register an FIR on Wednesday. Vinod Kumar, SHO Sector 49 police station, said that a case has been registered against the suspect under Section 66C and 67A of IT Act. “We have launched an investigation into the matter,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-man-booked-for-rape-threat-to-minor-on-social-media-101641502838306.html
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||2015 sacrilege cases: Question Dera Sacha Sauda head at Rohtak jail, high court tells Punjab Police||Punjab and Haryana high court has said that if Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim is directed to appear before a Punjab court, it may create “a lot of law and order problems”, hence, if required, the special investigation team (SIT) of Punjab Police probing the sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib in 2015 can question him at Sunaria jail in Rohtak. The high court bench of justice Arvind Sangwan said the apprehension on law and order assumes significance, especially in view of the recent incidents in Punjab ahead of the assembly polls and the state police is already under heavy pressure. The court was hearing Dera head’s anticipatory bail plea filed on October 28 and another plea against his production warrants issued by a Faridkot court. The order on asking police to go to Sunaria jail was passed as state’s advocate general DS Patwalia made a special request for the same in view of high court not allowing to bring him to Punjab. The bench observed that it is a matter of fact that when Ram Rahim was convicted by the CBI Court, Panchkula, in August 2017, widespread violence had erupted, causing loss of life and property. It further recorded that even the state’s affidavit reflects that they are apprehending the law-and-order problem in case Ram Rahim is directed to appear before the trial court. The court was referring to AG’s submissions that arrangements will be made for bringing him from Sunaria jail to Punjab through a helicopter. It was also submitted that proper security arrangements will be made by deploying 3,200 police personnel, jammers, etc. if he is brought to Punjab. “(it)..will unnecessarily put heavy expenses on state exchequer in a state like Punjab, which is already facing financial crunch,” the bench observed. The SIT has been pressing for bringing him to Punjab arguing that it has visited Rohtak jail twice to question him. But his “replies were evasive and he pretended to be ignorant”. The SIT says he is bound to be involved in the 2015 sacrilege cases. Confessional statements of the accused of these cases clearly indicate that a conspiracy was hatched at the dera headquarters in Sirsa, claims the SIT. “…it is an open secret that the members of the dera did not do a single act without the permission of the petitioner and were willing to lay down their lives for him,” the SIT says. The dera head is lodged in Sunaria jail since August 25, 2017, after he was awarded 20-year jail term for the rape of two disciples. Subsequently, he was also convicted in two murder cases, those of journalist Ram Chander Chhatrapati and former dera manager Ranjit Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2015-sacrilege-cases-question-dera-sacha-sauda-head-at-rohtak-jail-high-court-tells-punjab-police-101641500797129.html
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||‘Life threat gimmick’ aimed at imposing President’s rule in Punjab, says Channi||Tanda (Hoshiarpur)/Ludhiana: Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi has said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘life threat gimmick’ was aimed at toppling a democratically elected state government.Addressing a gathering at Tanda after laying foundation stones of development works worth ₹18 crore at the new grain market, the CM said there was no threat to the life of the Prime Minister, claiming the latter cancelled his programme on Wednesday because of the thin presence of people at the BJP rally he was to address. He said that empty chairs chided the PM due to which he went back to Delhi, citing security threat as the reason. He said the false pretext on which the PM cancelled his visit was part of a larger conspiracy to defame Punjab and “murder democracy” in the state like it was done in Jammu and Kashmir.The CM questioned as to how the life of the PM was threatened if the protesters were more than a kilometre away. He said the Punjabis had sacrificed their lives for the unity, integrity and sovereignty of the country and they would never pose any threat to the life and security of their Prime Minister. He said it did not behove of a leader of Modi’s stature to indulge in such ‘cheap theatricals’. “The gimmick played by Modi and his coterie was aimed at imposing President’s rule in the state,” the CM said.Calling former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh a ‘political deadwood’, Channi said he had backstabbed Punjabis, predicting a resounding defeat for the candidates of Captain’s party in the coming elections.Earlier, the CM inaugurated an environment park in the memory of Giani Kartar Singh and a road constructed at a cost of ₹8.21 crore, besides laying foundation stone of development works, including upgrade of primary health centre at Gardhiwala, tehsil complex at Tanda Urmur, 66KV sub-station at Sansarpur village and a synthetic athletics track at Tanda.The chief minister also addressed a rally at Macchiwara, which is part of the Samrala assembly segment, in Ludhiana district. “Today there are 70,000 people here, yesterday (Wednesday) there were only 7,000 in Ferozepur. Protesters block my routes as well, but instead of running away, I take the alternative road,” he said in his address at the rally. Channi said had there been any danger to the life of the Prime Minister, Punjabis are nationalist enough to shed their blood to ensure his (PM) safety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/life-threat-gimmick-aimed-at-imposing-president-s-rule-in-punjab-says-channi-101641500497201.html
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||PM Modi’s security breach: ADGP had directed SSPs to ensure routes are clear on Ferozepur rally day||Road blockade by farmers that resulted in breach of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s security on Wednesday was much anticipated by Punjab Police as ADGP (law and order) Naresh Kumar had warned of such an exigency a day before the rally. As per letters sent by the ADGP to district police chiefs between January 3 and January 5, police were tipped about farmers’ plan to stage dharnas and block roads on the day of PM Modi’s rally. On January 4, a day before PM’s arrival, the ADGP had asked all SSPs involved in the security duty to personally assess the plan of farmers. “Farmers should not be allowed to move to Ferozepur district to disrupt the rally,” the letter said. In one such letter dated January 2, the ADGP mentioned that around 1 lakh people are being mobilised for the programme and a lot of public traffic, as well as a large number of VIPs, will be moving to Ferozepur. “You are requested to make necessary arrangements in your area by deploying force at important points. Recovery vans should also be in place. Farmers are also likely to hold dharnas on January 5. These dharnas may result in road blocks at many places. Please make necessary arrangements accordingly,” the letter said. The same letter also said since rain was expected on January 5, Punjab CM and other VIPs may also be moving, so the plan and alternate route arrangements should also be made in advance. “How it is possible that the police had alternate plan for the CM in mind but not for the PM,” questioned a retired Punjab DGP. All five letters gave clear instructions to the DIGs, IGPs, SSPs in Punjab to clear the protesters and make necessary traffic diversion plans in advance to ensure the smooth movement of traffic to the rally site. A senior official said some senior cops took the directions casually and there was also a tiff between an SSP-rank official and intelligence wing’s senior official over attending a drill in Ferozepur. 
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police bust illegal arms supply ring, three arrested||A gang of illegal weapon suppliers, who had become more active ahead of the Assembly elections in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, has been busted by the crime cell of the Chandigarh Police.Police have recovered two desi kattas, two country made pistols, one country made revolver and eight live cartridges from the gang. The arrested members are Rohan Kumar, 21, from Hallomajra; and Abhishek Kumar, 18, and Saksham Verma, 19, from Saharanpur, Uttar Pradesh (UP). While Rohan works as a peon at a bank in Elante Mall, Chandigarh, Abhishek works at a sugar mill back home and Saksham at a relative’s sweet shop in UP, the police said.“The accused used to get the weapons from manufacturers and suppliers in Saharanpur and Muzaffarnagar, UP, and further sold these weapons for commission,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police, Chandigarh. “For bigger profits, they had taken to supplying weapons in poll-bound states,” said a senior police officer privy to investigation. “The possibility of using these illegal weapons in the upcoming Vidhan Sabha elections in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab cannot be ruled out,” said Chahal. The police have identified the main manufacturer, but no arrest has been made. Accused Rohan spilled the beans Rohan was the first to be arrested on December 31. The district crime cell had arrested him from a naka in Ram Darbar following a tip-off and recovered a desi katta, along with a live cartridge, from him. On his disclosure, a country made revolver was also recovered from his house in Hallomajra. During questioning, he revealed that he had procured the weapons from Abhishek, whose supplier was Saksham. Acting on the information, police contacted the other accused for weapons and caught them when they arrived for delivery. A desi katta, a country made pistol and a live cartridge was found in Abhishek’s possession and Saksham was nabbed with a country made pistol and six live cartridges. Deals done through WhatsAppGiving details about the gang’s modus operandi, a senior police official said, “They finalised all deals through WhatsApp calls and received payments online to avoid being traced. The weapons were delivered at the time and place chosen by the customer.” The official added that the gang earned commission from each sale. They would sell a pistol for ₹23,000, a revolver for ₹15,000 and desi katta for ₹8,000.The trio was produced before a court and sent to judicial custody. They have been booked under the Arms Act at the Sector 31 police station. 
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Owners of 29 immigration firms booked for skipping registration||Police have booked the owners of 29 immigration and consultancy companies in Sector 34 for operating without mandatory registration. According to police, the firms were found running without registration during physical verification, a violation of the district magistrate’s orders. All violators were booked under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 34 police station. To keep a check on the activities of immigration, emigration and student visa companies, the UT administration had made it mandatory for such firms to provide their complete antecedents in writing to the police. Police sources said since a licence for student visa consultancy was not required, the firms also start providing immigration and emigration consultancy. They invite customers through advertisements in leading newspapers and close their offices after duping innocent people. Therefore, owners of such companies were directed to provide complete antecedents in writing to the police at the Public Window or Police Headquarters within seven days of starting their business in the city. “Complaints of frauds by immigrations firms have been pouring in. We have started a physical verification drive to keep a check on their activities,” said Shruti Arora, assistant superintendent of police (ASP, South), Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-owners-of-29-immigration-firms-booked-for-skipping-registration-101641499901908.html
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: With 30.9mm rain, Thursday was wettest January day since 2017||The city received 30.9mm rain since Wednesday night, making Thursday the wettest January day since 2017, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). This spell of rainfall comes after all of December and most of November in 2021 remained dry. Just one day in November received 0.6mm rain, while December recorded only trace rainfall (less than 0.1mm). According to IMD records, Thursday’s rain was the highest in a 24-hour period in January since 2017 when 59.2mm rain was recorded on January 7. Interestingly, the 30.9mm showers also surpassed the 5.5mm rain received in the entire January last year.Speaking about this, IMD Chandigarh director Manmohan Singh said, “Rain in winters is only dependant on western disturbances (WD). The latest WD was highly active and was also being fed moisture by the Arabian Sea, which is why it brought more rain than the weaker WDs in December 2021.”More rain expected from tomorrowWhile the current WD has passed, another will affect the city from Saturday onwards. “There is again a chance of up to 30mm rain on Saturday and Sunday in the city. There is also a warning of heavy rain in the northern parts of Punjab.”Mercury risesAfter rain in the morning, the day turned sunny by afternoon, causing the maximum temperature to jump by over four notches, rising from 15.2°C on Wednesday to 19.5°C on Thursday, but was still one degree below normal. The cloud cover at night also caused the minimum temperature to increase slightly from 12.3°C to 12.5°C, seven notches above normal. Over the next three days, the day temperature will remain between 17°C and 20°C, while the minimum temperature may go up to 14°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhwith-30-9mm-rain-thursday-was-wettest-january-day-since-2017-101641499900640.html
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Mohali MLA hands over job letters to 733 sanitation workers||Two days after the Mohali municipal corporation (MC) House approved the agenda, local MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu handed over appointment letters to 733 sanitation employees and sewermen on Thursday. Speaking on the occasion, Sidhu said after approving the agenda to recruit the sanitation employees directly on Tuesday, MC forwarded it to the Punjab local government department. He said these employees had been hired on DC rates, adding that their recruitment will further strengthen the sanitation services in the city. President of Mohali Sweepers’ Union, Pawan Godyal welcomed MC’s decision to provide more jobs to sanitation workers and thanked chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi. Mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu, senior deputy mayor Amrik Singh Somal, deputy mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi, municipal commissioner Kamal Garg and other MC officials were also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-mla-hands-over-job-letters-to-733-sanitation-workers-101641499898172.html
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh cops nab snatcher fleeing with labourer’s mobile phone||Alert traffic policemen nabbed a snatcher who was escaping with a labourer’s mobile phone near the Sector 45/46/49/50 light point on Wednesday. The accused was identified as Sarvesh, 20, of Chaudhary Mohalla in Burail village, Chandigarh. According to police, the victim, Kallu, a resident of Faidan Nizampur village, Chandigarh, was waiting for work at Labour Chowk in Sector 45. After waiting for long, he started walking towards Sector 46, when Sarvesh snatched his mobile phone and ran off. Hearing Kallu screams for help, traffic policemen on duty, ASI Vedpal and constable Manjit Singh, apprehended the snatcher near the Sector 45/46/49/50 light point apprehended the accused. The mobile phone was recovered from his possession. A case under Sections 379A (snatching) and 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against him at the Sector 49 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-cops-nab-snatcher-fleeing-with-labourer-s-mobile-phone-101641499896817.html
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||PGIMER Chandigarh suspends walk-in OPDs from January 10||With 67 more healthcare workers, including 35 doctors, testing positive for Covid-19 at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) on Thursday, the institute decided to suspend walk-in out-patient department (OPD) facilities from January 10.Patients will have to utilise tele-consultation and will be provided prior appointments if physical evaluation at OPDs is required. PGIMER authorities said the decision had also been taken to prevent exposure of co-morbid patients to the infection.At present, around 8,000 patients visit the institute’s OPDs daily, leading to a footfall of over 20,000 individuals, including patients’ attendants.“Overcrowding increases the risk of infection spread among patients, attendants and healthcare workers in OPDs. Hence, it has been decided that tele-consultation will be used as the first point of contact between patients and doctors. Only patients requiring further evaluation and examination will be called to the OPD by appointment,” PGIMER authorities said in an official release.The orders will be applicable to all OPDs of the institute, including New OPD, Advanced Eye Centre, Advanced Cardiac Centre, Advanced Paediatrics Centre, Drug De-addiction Treatment Centre and Oral Health Sciences Centre (dental OPD).“More and more healthcare workers at PGIMER are being infected, while the positivity rate among patients is also high. Therefore, the walk-in OPD facilities will remain suspended till further orders,” said PGIMER director Dr Surjit Singh. Elective surgeries to be curtailedThough PGIMER is not suspending the elective surgeries, authorities have decided to curtail their number. “Patients, who have already been given appointments for various elective procedures and surgeries, are requested to re-confirm the dates with their respective departments or consultants before arriving at the hospital,” authorities said.Walk-in OPDs resumed in Sept 2021When the pandemic first broke out in March 2020, PGIMER had suspended walk-in consultation and online appointments, and had been providing only tele-consultation. From June 21, 2021, physical consultations resumed, but only after prior appointment through telephone.On September 6, 2021, the institute had resumed the online appointment facility for OPDs, through its official website, but with a cap of 30 patients per department to ensure adherence to Covid protocols.Walk-in facility at OPDs was fully resumed only on September 27, 2021.‘Infected PGI staffers have mild symptoms’Since December 20, 264 healthcare workers, including 123 doctors, have been found infected in the institute, the hospital authorities confirmed.A total of 2,367 employees of the institute, including doctors, nurses and sanitary staff, have contracted the infection since March 2020, with some also getting re-infected in the second wave and current spike.Dr PVM Lakshmi, professor, community medicine and School of Public Health, PGIMER, said, “Doctors and nurses come in direct contact with hundreds of patients daily. Not only from the Covid or emergency wards, staffers of almost all departments are being found infected. All those testing positive on Thursday have mild symptoms and are isolated at home or in institutional quarantine facilities. Almost all of them are fully vaccinated, reducing the number of hospitalisations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pgimerchandigarh-suspends-walk-in-opds-from-january-10-101641499844291.html
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh equipped with adequate Covid infrastructure: Health secretary||Amid the rapid surge in Covid-19 cases, the UT health department has assured that it has adequate facilities to tackle another surge.“During the peak of infection, the state must have adequate beds, ventilators, medicines and medical oxygen to cater to the patient load. The UT health department has enough of these facilities to tackle another surge,” said UT health secretary Yashpal Garg. Giving details, Garg said, “In various government and private hospitals of Chandigarh, 1,206 beds have been reserved for Covid-19 patients. Besides, 606 beds are also available in Covid care centres, taking the total count to 1,812. In the first wave, 3,163 beds were reserved for Covid, while the count was 3,740 in the second wave. Since hospitalisations are low at present, the beds reserved are limited and the number will be increased as per requirement.”‘Oxygen capacity increased’Chandigarh presently has 53.8 million tonnes (MT) of daily medical oxygen generation capacity, against the requirement of 49.5 MT during peak Covid spread.“We will get 40 MT oxygen from central allocation, while we will be generating 6.7MT through pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen generation plants. Also, 4.7 MT will be available from oxygen concentrators and 3.4 MT from air separation units,” the health secretary saidHe added that the PSA plants’ capacity had been increased from 1,600 litres per minute (LPM) during second wave to 2,050 LPM at present. Also, projects are in pipeline to increase the capacity to 2,240 LPM.Essential medicines kept in stockThe UT health department has also procured essential medicines for emergency use. Currently, UT has a stock of 43,923 injections of dexamethasone, 31,371 enoxaparin, 18,756 remdesivir, 5,090 methylprednisolone, 4,811 amphotericin B deoxycholate, 470 posaconazole, 241 tocilizumab and 173 intravenous immunoglobulin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-equipped-with-adequate-covid-infrastructure-health-secretary-101641499842217.html
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity’s 24-hr Covid tally climbs to 857, woman dies in Mohali||Covid’s relentless march in the tricity continued on Thursday, as 857 people tested positive, 24% higher than Wednesday’s tally of 692.A 41-year-old woman from Mohali also lost the battle to the virus. A resident of Sector 117, she was admitted at PGIMER, Chandigarh. This is the fourth Covid death in the tricity this year and second in Mohali.Apart from 331 cases in Chandigarh, tricity’s Thursday tally included 364 infections from Mohali and 162 from Panchkula.On Wednesday, the three jurisdictions had logged 229, 292 and 171 cases, respectively.Active cases surge past 2,000In an over five-fold increase in active cases in the first six days of January, tricity’s active cases reached 2,439. At the beginning of the month, the figure stood at 457. At 979, the highest number of infected patients is in Chandigarh, followed by 960 in Mohali and 500 in Panchkula.UT’s positivity rate hits 14.4%Chandigarh’s daily positivity rate - proportion of samples testing positive – rose to 14.4%, compared to 12.1% the day before.In Mohali, it lowered from 14.6% to 10.7%, while Panchkula also saw the figure reducing from 8% to 6.5%.Curbs in 11 more areas in UTThe Chandigarh administration declared 11 new micro-containment zones in the city, pushing their number to 58.The areas sealed are located in parts of Sectors 37, 37-D, 44-A, 38, 40, 44, 45 and 50, and Uppal Marble Arch, Manimajra.“The strategy behind micro-containment zones is to limit the spread of Covid. With curbs, we want to contain the infection in these zones, while imposing limited restrictions in the rest of the city. We want a more localised approach rather than a pan-city lockdown,” said UT adviser Dharam Pal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-s-24-hr-covid-tally-climbs-to-857-woman-dies-in-mohali-101641499839884.html
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Daily Covid cases soar to 331, Chandigarh clamps night curfew||The UT administration reintroduced night curfew in the city after a gap of nearly five months as the daily Covid-19 cases surged to 331 on Thursday, a 331% spike from 70 cases on New Year day.The administration had eased the last night curfew on August 17, 2021, after the second wave waned.However, noticing the sharp rise in cases once again, the UT administration imposed a slew of fresh restrictions on public movement and also closed down all educational institutions till further orders. The decisions follow the latest restrictions imposed by Punjab and Haryana.As per the order issued by UT adviser Dharam Pal, movement of individuals for all non-essential activities will remain prohibited between 10pm and 5am.However, essential activities, including emergency and health services, transport of essential goods; operation of multiple shifts in industries and offices, movement of people and goods on national and state highways, unloading of cargo, and travel to destinations after disembarking from buses, trains and airplanes will be permitted.The decisions were taken in the Covid review meeting chaired by UT administrator Banwari Lal Purohit.Only online teaching at educational institutesAll educational institutions, including schools, colleges, universities and coaching institutions, have been closed and told to maintain their academic schedule through online teaching. However, medical and nursing colleges may continue to function normally.Government schools were set to reopen on January 8 after the winter vacations, while private schools were reopening gradually with different schedules.At Panjab University, most classes are already being held online and due to the ongoing protest by teachers, the December semester exams had been postponed.Market restrictionsCongested markets, including Palika Bazar and Sadar Bazar in Sector 19, Patel Market in Sector 15, Shastri Market and mobile market in Sector 22, Krishna Market in Sector 41 and all apni mandis will close by 5pm.At the Sector 26 grain and vegetable market, only fully vaccinated vendors will be allowed, and entry of retail customers and general public will be prohibited from January 10.Offices to work with 50% staffAll government offices in Chandigarh, except essential services and departments, will function with 50% staff. All heads of offices will devise rosters to implement the order.Services of any staff of the UT administration can be utilised in the essential services and departments, including health, revenue, municipal corporation and police.All private offices will also function with 50% staff and rest will be required to work from home.Restrictions on hospitality industryAll bars, cinema halls, multiplexes, malls, restaurants, spas, museums, etc., will operate at 50% capacity with fully vaccinated staff.Gatherings for any purpose have been restricted to 50 persons for indoor and 100 persons for outdoor events. However, the total number of persons should not exceed 50% of the venue’s capacitySwimming pools and gyms have been ordered shut, while sports complexes can remain open only for organising and training for national and international events.Thrust on vaccinationDuring the review meeting, Purohit directed the officials to place maximum thrust on vaccination.Ordering vaccination on a war footing, he directed that 100% of the eligible 15 to 18 years population be administered the first dose of vaccine within a month and simultaneously, in the same period, the eligible people aged over 18 be covered with the second dose.“It has been brought to my notice that most of the testing burden as of now is on PGIMER, which needs to be rationally divided among various health facilities,” said Purohit and directed that by the end of the month, facility for RTPCR testing be made functional at GMSH-16.Creating testing infrastructure at the civil hospitals in Sectors 22 and 45, and Manimajra may also be explored, Purohit told the health secretary.Expressing serious concern over a number of doctors of PGIMER testing positive in the past few days, the administrator, at the behest of the director, approved tele-consultation as well as curtailing of elective surgeries.Incomplete Covid testing data on the requisite portal, resulting in projection of high-positivity rate, was taken seriously by the administrator.“Incorrect data can cause undue panic in public. It also obstructs research of scientists working on different aspects of the third wave of pandemic and will mandate imposition of uncalled-for restrictions,” said Purohit, while directing the health authorities to rope in more data entry operators for immediate uploading of data on the portal.Earlier, he reviewed the availability of medical infrastructure, including oxygen and beds, and expressed satisfaction over the arrangements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/daily-covid-cases-soar-to-331-chandigarh-clamps-night-curfew-101641499838415.html
07-01-2022||Other||Bajrang Dal claims putting up controversial posters at Varanasi ghats||Controversial posters came up at several ghats of Varanasi including Asi Ghat, stating that entry of non-Hindus to the ghats is prohibited, on Thursday. The posters carry the names of ‘Vishwa Hindu Parishad and Bajrang Dal Kashi’.The posters read, ‘Ganga, ghats of Varanasi and temples here are symbols of Sanatan Dharma, Indian culture and centre of our faith. Those who follow Sanatan Dharma are welcome at the ghats. These are not picnic spots’.“This is not a request. This is a warning,” said Nikhil Tripathi Rudra, Varanasi convener, Bajrang Dal and accepted that the posters had been put up by them. He said that the Bajarang Dal workers would stage a demonstration if people don’t stop using the ghats as a picnic spot.Meanwhile, Vishwa Hindu Parishad worker Rakesh Ranjan Tripathi expressed no knowledge of the posters and said that everyone was free to visit the ghats.Lallu Yadav, senior Samajwadi Party worker echoed those sentiments and said that this is against the Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb of Varanasi. “Ghats are a public place and anyone can go there and sit,” he said.After coming to know about the posters, the police removed them from various ghats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bajrang-dal-claims-putting-up-controversial-posters-at-varanasi-ghats-101641499057600.html
07-01-2022||Other||Farm voice takes centre stage in Punjab, BJP unlikely to have it easy||Bathinda The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) may face an uphill task ahead of the forthcoming Punjab assembly elections as farmer unions have, again, started consolidating against it. Political observers say the anti-BJP voice has, paradoxically, gained centre stage after Wednesday’s events, when a security breach forced Prime Minister Narendra Modi to cancel his Ferozepur visit. This is the first election that the BJP is fighting independently in the state, after its old ally, the Shiromani Akal Dal (SAD), parted ways with it over the farm laws. Modi’s rally was expected to be show of strength, but these hopes were, however, dashed as there was a low turnout at the BJP rally.Modi was to launch the BJP’s campaign by formally announcing projects worth over ₹42,000 crore. He was also expected to announce a special package to win over electors, who have been resentful against the party over the farm laws. On Thursday, farmer unions came out in support of the BKU (Krantikari) for blocking the cavalcade of Modi and other BJP leaders and not allowing them to reach the rally in Ferozepur city. Four-time Congress legislator Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, who joined the saffron front less than a month ago, said, “The BJP leadership is not disheartened. By hindering the PM’s movement, the Congress government has been exposed. We will only gain sympathy due to this attitude. The government used anti-social elements and the police to jeopardise an official function to launch a mega health care facility in the border town of Ferozepur.” He added that Wednesday’s events had jeopardised a much-awaited boost to infrastructure works in Ferozepur and elsewhere in the state. In a video message posted to journalists on Thursday, Surjeet Singh Phul, president, ultra-Left leaning body BKU (Krantikari), said, “A gathering of nearly 1,000 activists blocked the Ferozepur-Moga highway near Piareana village on Wednesday. We did not allow BJP supporters’ buses to pass.” BJP legislator from Abohar Arun Narang alleged that under state government pressure, police had instigated people to block roads leading to the rally. “The model code of conduct can be invoked anytime, and by not allowing the PM to visit Ferozepur, Punjab may have missed expected welfare announcements. Worried over the BJP’s growing electoral strength, the Congress government has abused state machinery,” said Narang, who had been thrashed by farmer activists at Malout in Muktsar last year. Political analyst Dr Jagrup Singh Sekhon, state coordinator of Lokniti, a social science research programme of New Delhi-based Centre for the Study of Developing Societies (CSDS), said, “The BJP has no support base in rural areas and it may continue to face the ire of agrarians. It has traditional acceptance in urban pockets, but it may not be an easy task for it to make major electoral gains in cities. Disruption of the PM’s convoy indicates strong sentiment against the Centre,” said Sekhon, ex-head of political science department, GNDU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farm-voice-takes-centre-stage-in-punjab-bjp-unlikely-to-have-it-easy-101641499056365.html
07-01-2022||Other||Punjab asks Covid-hit families to move DC office for financial relief||Chandigarh To provide financial relief to Covid-19 affected families of the state, the Punjab government has asked such families to submit applications to their deputy commissioner’s office at the earliest. A spokesperson of the revenue and disaster management department said ₹50,000 will be provided to legal heirs of the victims of coronavirus pandemic. “The affected families should submit their applications (representations) to the DC office of their district to get the monetary assistance,” the spokesperson said. The state government had made an announcement of providing ex gratia compensation of ₹50,000 to families of all those who lost their lives to coronavirus in the state in October 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-asks-covid-hit-families-to-move-dc-office-for-financial-relief-101641498756134.html
07-01-2022||Lucknow||UP reports 3,121 new Covid-19 cases, one death in Meerut||Uttar Pradesh reported 3,121 new Covid-19 cases including 408 in Lucknow and 600 in Gautam Buddh Nagar on Thursday, taking the number of active cases under treatment to 8,224, close to the number on June 14, 2021, when the state had 8,111 active cases.“In all, 1,96,502 Covid-19 samples were tested and 3,121 tested positive for Covid-19. Districts have sent 1,19,397 RT-PCR samples to labs for testing in the past 24-hours,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical and health, in a press statement.One death was reported from Meerut, taking the total number of fatalities in UP to 22,916. The total Covid-19 caseload in UP reached 17,19,246. On January 1 there were 1,211 active cases in UP.The state capital reported 408 new Covid-19 cases including a dozen medical staff, taking the active cases to 1,180. Among the new cases, 96 are travellers from other states or countries who tested positive. These travellers gave samples on arrival and were asked to stay in home isolation till their report arrived.Apart from the travellers, 72 others who had mild symptoms got themselves tested and the report came positive. These Lucknowites went to hospitals due to mild symptoms and got themselves checked by a medical staff, who recommended a Covid-19 test.Besides, 113 other infected people are contacts of Covid-19 patients and were tested during contact tracing of patients. In all, 26 patients tested positive at the Command Hospital. At present, 11 patients are admitted to hospitals in Lucknow. There are 7 at King George’s Medical University, 4 at PGI and 21 others at Command Hospital.Two doctors, one pharmacist working at the Lok Bandhu Hospital tested positive for Covid-19, while 10 medical staff, four residents and a faculty member have tested positive at KGMU. Among areas that reported cases included a maximum of 69 in Chinhat and 44 in Kaiserbagh.“Lucknow has till now reported 2,40,150 Covid-19 cases and there are 1,153 active cases under treatment,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary-general, Association of International Doctors.During the day, Gaziabad reported 382 new cases, Meerut 401, Varanasi 126, Moradabad 111, Agra 131 and Prayagraj 128 cases, according to data from the state health department. The state has tested 9,39,89,785 Covid-19 samples till now and the test positivity rate is 1.82%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-reports-3-121-new-covid-19-cases-one-death-in-meerut-101641498696540.html
07-01-2022||Other||Congress CEC to meet tomorrow||Chandigarh The Congress has convened a meeting of its Central Election Committee (CEC) on January 8 to discuss the first list of party candidates for Punjab assembly elections. The meeting, to be chaired by Congress president Sonia Gandhi, will be held through video conferencing, a state unit leader familiar the development said. The screening committee that Congress national general secretary Ajay Maken heads has held four meetings and arrived at consensus for 60 seats, mostly held by the party in the present assembly. On Tuesday, Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Chaudhary had stated that the party would release the first list of candidates in a week. The screening committee, which has CM Charanjit Singh Channi, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, state campaign committee chairman Sunil Jakhar as members, has also decided to hold its meetings through video conferencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/congress-cec-to-meet-tomorrow-101641498279998.html
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Karnal violence: Commission of inquiry terminated, will not submit report||The commission of inquiry headed by former Punjab and Haryana high court judge justice SN Aggarwal to inquire into the sequence of events leading to violence including police lathi-charge on protesting farmers at Bastara toll plaza in Karnal on August 28 last year has been wound up.The inquiry report of the one-man commission of inquiry will not see the light of the day as the farmers have withdrawn their complaint about the Bastara incident.“The farmers’ unions have reached an agreement with the state government. The government will withdraw all the cases registered against the farmers and we have decided to withdraw our complaint. So, we have taken back the complaint regarding the Bastara incident,” Haryana BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni said.A notification announcing that the commission of inquiry ceases to exist with effect from January 5 has been issued by the Haryana home department.Chairman of the commission of inquiry, justice (retd) SN Aggarwal said having completed the inquiry and finalised the report, he tendered his resignation on January 3.“I have informed the high court as well that the inquiry report is ready and will be submitted whenever the state government asks me to do so,” justice (retd) Aggarwal said.As per the Commissions of Inquiry Act, the state government has to lay the report of the commission along with a memorandum of the action taken before the state assembly within six months of the submission of the report by the commission.“So, if the commission submits a report, the state government has to lay it in the assembly along with an action taken report within six months. If it doesn’t, the matter ends,” said an official.The commission of inquiry set up on September 25 last year was mandated by the cabinet to inquire into the circumstances leading up to and including the action by the police in Karnal on August 28 and the use of force against the demonstrators.The commission was also asked to find the persons responsible for the violent situation and the role of the then Karnal sub-divisional magistrate Ayush Sinha, a 2018-batch IAS officer, in the episode.Sinha was purportedly heard in a video instructing the cops to thrash farmers if they tried to breach the barricades near the spot where a BJP event was going on. Sinha later said the video was edited and selective portions of his instructions were shown to create a controversy.The agitating farmers, led by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders, had on September 7 last year had laid siege at the Karnal mini-secretariat. The farmers had demanded registration of a criminal case against IAS officer Ayush Sinha and compensation for the injured farmers.Even as the talks remained inconclusive for a couple of days, a breakthrough was achieved when the state government deputed additional chief secretary Devender Singh to hold negotiations.The farmers had called-off the protest after the state government made a commitment to hold a judicial inquiry into the incident.Ayush Sinha posted as Panchkula additional deputy commissionerMeanwhile, the state government on Thursday posted 2018-batch IAS officer Ayush Sinha as Panchkula additional deputy commissioner. Sinha was Karnal sub-divisional magistrate when the Bastara violence took place and was subsequently transferred to Chandigarh as additional secretary in the citizen resources information department (CRID) to placate the agitating farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/karnal-violence-commission-of-inquiry-terminated-will-not-submit-report-101641498278794.html
07-01-2022||Other||Take all steps to deal with Covid-19 outbreak: Yogi||Instructing top health officials to activate surveillance teams to full capacity and to increase the number of beds for Covid-19 patients in hospitals, chief minister Yogi Adityanath told them to take all steps to deal with the outbreak of Covid-19 and its effective control, on Thursday.Yogi reviewed preparations to deal with the third wave of Covid-19 in Varanasi. During the review, district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma made a presentation about the efforts and preparations made to deal with the third wave.The CM laid emphasis on increasing the speed of testing and investigation and directed officials to conduct more and more tests. Public awareness should be raised through loudspeakers and people should be made aware about the importance of wearing masks, and they should be asked to follow physical distancing.All individuals between 15 and 18 years should be vaccinated, said Yogi.Describing the rise in Covid-19 cases as a big challenge for election preparations, Yogi said that the police force has been specially told that they have to keep themselves safe and also play a role in the elections.The chief minister offered prayers to Baba Kashi Vishwanath at Kashi Vishwanath temple and offered prayers for the long life of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/take-all-steps-to-deal-with-covid-19-outbreak-yogi-101641498276320.html
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||ITF World Juniors tennis tournament: Yuvan, Saheb enter quarter-finals||Second seed Yuvan Nadal and Saheb Sodhi won their respective boys’ U-18 singles matches to enter the quarter-finals of the ongoing ITF World Tennis Tour Juniors (Grade-3) Tournament being held at the Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association Stadium in Sector 10 on Thursday.Nandal defeated Poonthong Komopisut of Thailand in a three-set match, 1-4, 5-3, 10-8. Third seed Sodhi outplayed Shingo Masuda of Japan 4-1, 4-1 in straight sets. Muni Ananth, Daksh Ashok, Rushil Khosla, Ayush P Bhat and Bhushan Haobam also advanced into the quarter-finals.In the girls’ singles pre-quarterfinals, Anya Murthy upset top seed Suhitha Maruri in a three-set marathon match. Second seed of Thailand L Tararudee also advanced into the quarter-finals. L Tararudee defeated qualifier Janani Ramesh in one-sided match 4-1, 4-0. Fourth seed S Sirimalla, Vaishnavi Adkar and Renne Singla also entered the quarter-finals.Pre-quarterfinals resultsBoys’ U-18: Muni Ananth Mani (IND) bt T Boosarawongse (THA) 4-5(9) 5-4(3) 10-6; Daksh Ashok Agarwal (IND) bt Monil Lotlikar (IND) 5-3, 4-1; Rushil Khosla (IND) [4] bt Krish Tyagi (IND) 4-2, 5-4(5); Aayush P Bhat (USA) [5] bt Anish Kundu (IND) 4-0, 4-0; Bushan Haobam (IND) bt Akarsh Gaonkar (IND) (Q) 4-1, 4-0; Saheb Sodhi (IND) [3] bt Shingo Masuda (JPN) 4-1, 4-1; Fadi Bidan (LBN) bt Aryan Shah (IND) [8] 3-5, 5-4(6), 11-9; Yuvan Nandal (IND) [2] bt Poonthong Komopisut (THA) 1-4, 5-3, 10-8.Girls’ U-18: Anya Murthy (USA) bt Suhitha Maruri (IND) [1] 2-4, 4-2, 10-1; Tamanna Takoria (IND) bt Madhurima Sawant (IND) 5-3, 4-2; S Sirimalla (IND) [4] bt Chahana Budhbhatti (IND) 4-1, 4-1; Tejasvi Dabas (IND) bt A Prabha Lakshmi [6] 5-4, 5-4(1); Pushti Laddha (IND) (Q) bt Sonal Patil (IND) [8] 5-3, 2-4, 10-7; Vaishnavi Adkar (IND) [3] bt Rutuja Chaphalkar (USA) 4-0, 4-2; Renne Singla (IND) bt R Gaikaiwari (IND) [5] 3-5, 4-1, 14-12; L Tararudee (THA) [2] bt Janani Ramesh (IND) (Q) 4-1, 4-0.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/itf-world-juniors-tennis-tournament-yuvan-saheb-enter-quarterfinals-101641498036046.html
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC organises play to raise awareness on waste segregation||The municipal corporation on Thursday organised a street play to create awareness about the “Swachh Chandigarh Mission” at Elante Mall in Industrial Area, Phase 1.The play was staged by the “Paigaam” dramatics club of Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26, on the theme of segregation of waste at source level. Swachh Bharat Mission brand ambassador for Chandigarh, Kajal Mangalmukhi, also encouraged citizens to participate in home composting through a play, along with other artists.The performers and audience took a “Swachhata Pledge” to segregate dry, wet, hazardous and sanitary waste at their homes, so that it can be disposed of scientifically.Ward no. 20, comprising areas of Sector 29 and Industrial area Phase 1, strives to be an Aatmanirbhar ward . According to the guidelines, at an Aatmanirbhar ward, all wet waste will be processed within the ward and dry waste will be sent to the material recovery facility station in the same locality.MORE NEWS IN BRIEFMandi resident held with 1kg charas
07-01-2022||Other||Principally opposed to President’s rule, says SAD president Sukhbir||Tarn Taran Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday said his party was opposed to any move to impose President’s rule in Punjab. “The SAD is a strong votary of federalism and is principally opposed to Central measures like the imposition of President’s rule. It should be left to the Punjabis to shunt out this corrupt, scam-tainted government. This government has not only failed on all fronts, but is also incapable of maintaining law and order in the state,” he claimed. Sukhbir added that a major security breach had occurred during the PM’s visit to the state, and chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi was squarely responsible for this. He added that it was condemnable that security lapses had not been identified and no action had been taken. “The state should have given utmost importance to the security of the PM; this matter is not to be politicised,” he said, adding that the Congress government had politicised the state police force, leading to the current state of affairs. “The state has witnessed multiple change of officers at the top level, including state police chiefs, purely to satisfy the vendetta that the Punjab Congress has unleashed against the SAD. This has led to a paralysis in the chain of command. There is now politicisation of policing decisions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/principally-opposed-to-president-s-rule-says-sad-president-sukhbir-101641497855959.html
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh mayoral elections: AAP believes in positive politics, not horse-trading, says Chhabra||Lashing out at the BJP, Chandigarh AAP co-in-charge Pradeep Chhabra on Thursday said they did not believe in horse-trading politics, but development and positive politics. In a statement issued from the party headquarters on Wednesday, Chhabra said it was not hidden from anyone who was indulging in horse-trading.“After registering a massive victory with 14 seats in the MC polls, AAP turned out to be the largest party in the city, which the BJP leaders are not embracing. Therefore, they are making rhetoric statements. If all BJP councilors are together, why were they sent to Shimla overnight?” Chhabra questioned. He also termed the decision of Congress councillors to not file nominations in the mayoral election a betrayal of the public: “All councillors, irrespective of the party, were elected with public support.”SAD yet to decide on strategyWith just one day to go for the Chandigarh mayoral elections, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) is yet to take a final call on its stand.The lone councillor from the party, Hardeep Singh, met party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday, but a decision on the party’s strategy was not finalised. It is still not clear whether the party will vote or not, though there is a strong buzz that it might abstain from it.With the Congress declaring that it will not participate in the voting, the one SAD vote might decide the fate of the election. Both Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have 14 votes each. Congress has seven, after its councillor Harpreet Kaur switched sides to BJP.The full strength of the house is 36, which includes 35 councillors and the Chandigarh member of Parliament (currently from BJP). On Tuesday, both BJP and AAP had filed nominations for mayoral polls, while the Congress abstained. Anju Katyal is in the fray from the AAP, and the BJP has fielded Sarabjit Kaur Dhillon. To get elected, they will need 19 votes of the total 36.Allegations of horse-trading have been flying high since the declaration of MC election results on December 27. Fearing poaching, first AAP took its councillors to Delhi and Congress to Jaipur, Rajasthan, and then on Wednesday, BJP shifted all its elected councillors to Shimla.Though AAP councillors have now returned to Chandigarh, Congress ones are still in Jaipur. Congress councillors are expected to return on January 8, while most of the BJP councillors are scheduled to return on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mayoral-elections-aap-believes-in-positive-politics-not-horse-trading-says-chhabra-101641497682161.html
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Nutritional support disbursed to fake TB patients in Karnal||A racket involving disbursement of monthly financial assistance of lakhs by creating fake IDs of tuberculosis (TB) patients has come to fore in Karnal district.Following a complaint by the district TB officer, police have registered a first information report (FIR) under Sections 120B, 409 and 420 of the IPC against unknown persons.The officials also provided 34 pages containing the suspected IDs of fake patients. As per the FIR, financial assistance of lakhs meant for the TB patients was transferred to the fake patient IDs created on the Nikshay Poshan Yojana portal in the TB office of the health department in district.A sum of ₹500 per month is given to TB patients under Nikshay Poshan Yojana to patients for six months till they get treatment.Karnal CMO Dr Yogesh Sharma said officials dealing with the patients have suspected repetition of some names of patients on the portal in the list of beneficiaries. He said a team was formed to verify the beneficiaries and many of them were found to be fake following which the police complaint was filed.However, the CMO did not confirm the exact amount fraudulently transferred into the accounts of fake beneficiaries and said this is part of the investigation. Police said soon after registration of FIR, the inquiry was handed over to the economic offence wing of the district police.The CMO said the possibility of involvement of the staff cannot be ruled out. As per the district health department officials, Karnal has 2,009 active TB patients while 58 MDR-TB cases were detected last year.
07-01-2022||Other||Another spike in Covid, 2,427 new cases, 5 deaths; Patiala worst-hit||Chandigarh In yet another spike in Covid cases, Punjab on Thursday registered 2,427 fresh cases with five people losing their lives to the disease. The state’s positivity rate also touch a seven-month high of 10.2%. On Wednesday, 1,811 cases were registered with positivity rate of 7.95%. Patiala, alone, accounted for nearly 30% of the cases in the state, with 687 persons found to be infected; the district also recorded one of the five deaths in the state, the first here in four months. With 26 cases reported from the National Institute of Sports (NIS) alone, the premier institute, has been declared a containment zone. District epidemiologist Dr Sumeet Singh said Patiala city reported 579 cases; Nabha (19); Samana (17) and 72 in rural areas.SAS Nagar followed Patiala with 364 cases, followed by 294 in Jalandhar and 292 in Ludhiana. With these fresh cases, state’s total tally of positive cases has reached 6,11,102 cases, according to the medical bulletin; the number of active cases are 6,687. With 121 persons recovering from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,87,753, the bulleting added. To date, 16,662 persons have lost their lives to the virus. On Thursday, the state administered 1,48,491 doses of the vaccine and tested 22,794 samples. The total number of samples collected in the state is 1,69,05,814 samples.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/another-spike-in-covid-2-427-new-cases-5-deaths-patiala-worsthit-101641497495899.html
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||PU senate: Notification for seven candidates of arts constituency can be issued, says legal opinion||A legal opinion obtained by Panjab University has recommended that the notification of seven candidates from the constituency of teachers of affiliated arts colleges to the senate can be issued, subject to final decision of the high court.The legal opinion was obtained from advocate Indresh Goel (senior panel counsel, government of India) and has been submitted to the chancellor’s office, after Tarun Ghai’s election was declared ineligible on November 26 by vice chancellor Raj Kumar. An earlier legal opinion submitted to the chancellor’s office, prior to Ghai being declared ineligible, had advised that the notification of the constituency can be kept on hold till the final decision of the HC in the matter of Ghai’s termination by his college management. The copies of the legal opinions were accessed by Hindustan Times. A total of eight members have been elected to the PU senate from this constituency.On November 2, HC had directed the vice-chancellor to take a call on Ghai’s election. Manoj Kumar, who was also a candidate from the same constituency, had raised objections over Ghai’s eligibility after he was declared elected and had approached HC.While Ghai’s election was declared ineligible, pleas of the petitioners to be declared elected in his place were also declared not tenable. The V-C’s order was again challenged by the petitioners in the HC, after which fresh legal opinion was sought“Now, there is no other alternative but to await the outcome of those petitions,” the legal opinion states, while also suggesting that the notification of the seven candidates of this constituency can be issued subject to the final decision of the high court.The sources at the varsity also said that another legal opinion has been given by the additional solicitor general of India, Satya Pal Jain, which he has submitted to the chancellor’s office. PU registrar Vikram Nayyar was not available for comments.Till now, 71 of the senate’s 91 members have been notified.
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Jind achieves 25% target in vaccinating kids in first three days||Haryana’s Jind district, which was among three laggard districts in administering the first dose of both vaccines, have shown a great performance by inoculating 25% of the children in the 15-18 age group from January 3 to 5.Jind immunisation officer Dr Navneet Singh said 15,009 children of 60,000 have received the first dose of Covaxin from January 3 to 5.“We are planning to achieve a 100% target in the 15-18 age bracket by January 9. Children and their parents are more enthusiastic and children are coming up in large numbers at designated sites in schools. There are nearly 380 schools in district and our health workers will visit every school in the next two to three days and achieve the maximum target,” the Jind immunisation officer added.He said to avoid mixing up of vaccines during administration, the health workers are visiting schools after informing the school heads, village heads, children and parents after prior announcement a day before the visit.“Our motive behind the success was a joint collaboration of administrative officials, school teachers, children, their parents and villagers. After witnessing cases of Omicron variant, parents are in no mood of relaxation while administering vaccine to kids. Some elderly were reluctant in receiving the jabs but they are concerned about the safety and health of their grandchildren,” he said.“We noticed one thing during vaccination that parents of most children are accompanying them and enquiring health workers about the period for the second dose and other questions related to vaccination. Our target is to achieve 100% vaccination in the 15-18 age bracket before we roll out booster doses for frontline workers and the elderly from January 10,” he added.Rohtak Kumar, a resident of Jind, said he is feeling safe after his sons, aged 15 and 17, received the first dose of Covaxin. “Amid rise in cases, it is necessary to protect our children and they are at high risk amid the possible third wave,” he added.He said locals have been making announcements from the village temple loudspeaker that health workers will visit the government school the next day and children in the 15-18 age bracket should attend the vaccination session.Sonak Sihag, 16, a Class 10 student, said, “We lost nearly two years and it is difficult to be confined at home. I feel safe after getting the first dose. Health workers came to our school and vaccinated us after seeing our aadhaar card and filing the details on the government portal.”“We want the government to open schools after the situation improves. We need to take precautionary measures,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jind-achieves-25-target-in-vaccinating-kids-in-first-three-days-101641497319019.html
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Kurukshetra University hostellers caught in Catch-22 situation following suspension of physical classes||Hundreds of students from across country staying in the hostels of the Kurukshetra University are now caught in a Catch-22 situation following suspension of physical classes due to surge in Covid-19 cases.Students had returned to the university on November 22 after physical classes were resumed after a gap of one-and-a-half-years but now, classes are once again suspended in all educational institutions of Haryana from January 3.Moreover, on Wednesday, curbs were imposed in six more districts including Kurukshetra, extending the mini-lockdown in 11 districts of the state till January 12.According to students, the number of Covid cases is increasing and they are worried that the restrictions might be extended beyond January 12.Students said the university had also increased hostel fee and they cannot afford hostel and mess expenses just to attend online classes.“In December last week, I paid the first instalment of hostel expenses of ₹13,833, besides ₹3,000 monthly for canteen. Now, physical classes are suspended and we are left with no other option but to wait and watch,” said a student staying at Shaheed Bhagat Singh Hostel.Student unions also held a protest against the university management and demanded that the hostel fee of students be refunded if the restrictions on physical classes are extended further.Mandeep Singh, a student leader of KU, said they will submit a memorandum to the vice-chancellor’s office in this regard that either the classes should be resumed or the hostel fee should be refunded. If the varsity fails to do so, they will hold protests, he said.Dean students’ welfare Dr Anil Vashisth said, “The university management has allowed students to return if they want and their hostel fee will be refunded as per the varsity guidelines. Students who are from other states want to wait for a few more days to see whether the restrictions will be lifted.”He said they are committed for the welfare of student.Prof Brajesh Sawhney, director (public relations) of the university, said only fully-vaccinated students were allowed to return to the hostels. Also, the occupancy is below 30% of the total capacity and all Covid norms are being followed. Students were allowed to stay in hostels as per capacity of the rooms.
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||2018 Mohali road accident: MACT awards ₹13.7 lakh relief to victim||The Motor Accident Claims Tribunal, Chandigarh, has awarded compensation of ₹13.69 lakh to a Mohali-based carpenter, who lost his eye after his bike was hit by a pick-up truck in 2018.Manjeet Singh, 34, a resident Chuhar Majra village in Kharar, had filed a petition against Ranjeet Singh and Satish Kumar from Fatehgarh Sahib and Mohali, respectively, who are the owner and the co-owner of the pick-up truck. The petition was also filed against the driver, Krishan Pal from Mohali, and insurer HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited, Chandigarh.Manjeet stated that he had suffered grievous injuries in an accident that took place due to the negligence of the driver on April, 16, 2018. He was left with multiple fractures on his face and ribs and shifted to civil hospital, Kharar, from where he was referred to PGIMER. He claimed that he has already spent ₹2 lakh on his treatment and has been left permanently disabled and unable to work.In his petition, Ranjeet stated that he had sold the vehicle to Satish Kumar, who had not got its ownership transferred. Kumar and the driver in their joint reply stated that the vehicle was insured and denied any such accident taking place. The insurance company controverted the entire version of petition and prayed for dismissal of petition.The court directed Ranjeet Singh, the driver and the insurer to jointly pay total compensation of Rs.13,69,904.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2018-mohali-road-accident-mact-awards-13-69l-relief-to-victim-101641497075663.html
07-01-2022||Other||{Lakhimpur Kheri violence} Ashish’s lawyer given copies of documents related to charge-sheet||Lucknow Three days after a Special Investigation Team (SIT) filed its 5,000-page charge-sheet in the court of Lakhimpur Kheri chief judicial magistrate (CJM) on Monday (January 3), naming Union minister of state Ajay Mishra Teni’s son, Ashish Mishra, as the main accused in Lakhimpur Kheri violence of October 3, 2021, Ashish’s lawyer was provided with documents related to the charge-sheet. In October 2021, violence had erupted after four farmers and a journalist were allegedly mowed down by Ashish’s car and others during a farm protest. In the violence that followed, three more people, including two BJP workers and Mishra’s driver, were killed. Significantly, the charge-sheet cites witnesses’ statements to claim Ashish’s presence on the spot during the incident.Senior prosecution officer (SPO) SP Yadav told the media that under Section 207 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), details of the charge-sheet and evidence have to be provided to the defence counsel, to prepare for the trial. Another prosecution official said the defence counsel had been given carbon copies of statements of nearly 200 witnesses, details of physical and scientific evidences, including copies of forensic reports, call detail records and ballistic reports of firearms of the accused.The official said the initial complaint had named only Ashish. After investigation, the SIT charge-sheeted 13 accused. Ashish’s relative Virendra Shukla’s name was added to the charge-sheet under Section 201 of the IPC (disappearance of evidence) as the 14th accused. The court has fixed January 11 as the next date of hearing, and summoned Shukla. The prosecution official added, “The court could order his arrest, if he does not appear on this date.”12 ACCUSED SEEK BAILWith the charge-sheet now in court, 12 accused filed their bail applications over Wednesday and Thursday. Five accused — Ankit Das, Latif alias Kale, Shekhar Bharti, Nandan Singh Bisht and Satya Prakash alias Satyam Tripathi — moved their bail applications in the court of the Lakhimpur Kheri CJM on Thursday through their lawyer, Shailendra Singh Gaur. On Wednesday, seven accused —Sumit Jaiswal, Rinku Rana, Dharmendra Banjara, Ashish Pandey, Lavkush Rana, Ullas alias Mohit Trivedi, and Shishu Pal — had moved the CJM’s court. SPO Yadav said the court had instructed all applicants to file affidavits stating that no other bail applications were pending neither in the sessions nor in the high court. The bail applications were likely to be heard on Friday, provided the required affidavits were also filed, he added. Defence counsel Gaur said, “After the addition of Sections of the IPC and of other acts, fresh bail applications are required to be moved in the court of the CJM.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-ashish-s-lawyer-given-copies-of-documents-related-to-chargesheet-101641496115468.html
07-01-2022||Lucknow||UP chief secy , DGP review Ram temple security||Lucknow: Chief secretary Durga Shankar Mishra and director general of police (DGP) Mukul Goel reviewed security arrangements of Ram temple in Ayodhya and progress of development projects on Thursday. Mishra and Goel inspected the Ram Janmabhoomi campus and inquired about the ongoing temple construction work. The two senior most officials of the state government also interacted with security staff and inquired about footfall of visitors. Champat Rai, general secretary of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust, was also present. Both officials stressed on making security of the temple foolproof without causing any discomfort to pilgrims. District magistrate Nitish Kumar apprised the chief secretary about the 110 ongoing projects in Ayodhya and their progress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-chief-secy-dgp-review-ram-temple-security-101641495995345.html
07-01-2022||Delhi||Covid-19: HC asks Delhi govt for status report on Omicron infections||The Delhi high court on Thursday sought to know from the Delhi government the number of patients who are gravely ill in the national capital, after contracting the new Covid-19 variant Omicron, and how many of them were in need of ventilator support and oxygen beds.“We would want to know the situation of omicron. The patients who are in ICU, who are on ventilators, oxygen support? How many of those are omicron cases? Because we would want to know the percentage of the severe cases,” a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said.Appearing for the Delhi government, senior advocate Rahul Mehra said he would take instructions and inform the court on the next date of hearing the status of these patients.The court was hearing a bunch of pleas, including one by advocate Rakesh Malhotra, seeking better facilities for the Covid-19 patients in the city.During the hearing, the court said, “So your chief minister is also down with Covid-19. What is the position otherwise? Hospitalization is not much.”Apprising the court about the figures, Mehra said there were 10,986 active cases of Covid-19 in Delhi as on January 3. He submitted that the period of home isolation has been reduced to seven days from 10 and the governments, both central and state, are closely monitoring the situation.During the hearing, central government standing counsel Anurag Ahluwalia informed the court that the Union government has already come out with a policy for a ”precautionary dose” of Covid-19 vaccine.The Centre on Wednesday said the same vaccine will be administered as the third dose of booster or precaution dose of vaccine and no mix and match will be allowed as of now. This means those who have received Covishield as their first and second dose will receive Covishield as their third dose. Similarly, those who have received Covaxin in their first two doses will receive Covaxin in the third dose, Niti Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul said during the press briefing of the health ministry. The court said since the government has already declared the policy regarding the “precautionary dose”, no further consideration on this aspect is needed at this stage.The matter will next be heard on February 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-hc-asks-delhi-govt-for-status-report-on-omicron-infections-101641491915095.html
07-01-2022||Delhi||Covid-19: Free ration scheme in Delhi extended till May 31||Weeks after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that the Delhi government has extended the distribution of free ration in the city for six months till May 31, state food and civil supplies minister Imran Hussain chaired a high-level meeting with officials of his department to review the programme.Hussain directed officers to ensure there are no bumps in the ration distribution process. “Strict action will be taken against FPS dealers who refuse the distribution of complete ration to the beneficiaries. The decision is benefitting about 1,778,632 households covering about 72.77 lakh [7.2 million] beneficiaries, which include 68,732 Antyodaya Anna Yojna (AAY) households that have 281,006 beneficiaries,” he said. The government in a statement later said the minister is keeping a close watch on the price trends of essential commodities and assured that wherever considered necessary, Delhi government will undertake market intervention to stabilise prices of essential commodities in Delhi during the pandemic. “To bring relief to the consumers, the F & S Minister directed the Commissioner (F&S) to convene weekly meetings with stakeholders departments and agencies viz APMC, Delhi Agriculture Marketing Board(DAMB), Nafed to ensure that prices of essential commodities stay in range. The Minister also asked the Department to keep a strict vigil on the availability and movement of prices of essential commodities. The minister directed that the intelligence teams should also gather information about instances of hoarding and/ or black marketing of essential commodities during the corona pandemic if any so that the concerned departments could initiate necessary action against them under the essential commodities Act,” read the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-free-ration-scheme-in-delhi-extended-till-may-31-101641491734925.html
07-01-2022||Delhi||Uphaar case: Police oppose suggestion to release Ansal brothers||The Delhi Police on Thursday strongly objected after the Delhi high court suggested releasing real estate barons Sushil and Gopal Ansal, citing their advanced age, on interim bail in a case of tampering with the evidence in the Uphaar fire tragedy.Justice Subramonium Prasad was hearing a plea by the Ansal brothers for suspension of their seven-year jail terms. The judge suggested releasing them on an interim basis given their age and the prevailing Covid-19 situation, and asked the trial court to decide their petition against conviction in the case. Gopal Ansal is 79 years old, and his bother Sushil is 82 years old.The judge also observed that even during the previous two waves of the pandemic, persons involved in offences for which the two petitioners are convicted, were released on bail.Opposing the suggestion, senior advocate Dayan Krishnan, who was representing the prosecution, said the petitioners would get the benefit of any policy of release of inmates after it is formulated by the authorities concerned, and assured that the jail doctors were taking all possible care of the petitioners who had “nothing special about them”.“Whether there is a second wave or a third wave, it is really something which is a policy decision and not about an individual person. A convict cannot be better than the other. When a policy (on release due to Covid-19) comes, they will get the benefit,” Krishnan submitted.Krishnan argued that the nature of offences by the Ansal brothers was such that the “entire system was put in peril” and the medical condition of the petitioner during the pandemic cannot be a ground for their release.“We have serious objections. There are jail doctors, jail hospitals...they are taking every possible care.It can’t be a ground for suspension..The nature of offence (was such that) it is shocking to one’s conscience. The entire system was put in peril,” he added.On December 3, a sessions court rejected a plea by the two brothers to suspend their conviction and jail term in the case related to tampering with the evidence, and refused to release them on bail. Subsequently, the Ansals moved the high court which sought responses from the city police and the complainant, Association of Victims of Uphaar Tragedy (AVUT).Senior advocate Arvind Nigam, representing Sushil Ansal, contended that the “mutilated” documents were not even relevant to his culpability in the main Uphaar trial and his conviction in the evidence tampering case was a “travesty of justice”.The senior lawyer submitted that secondary evidence was recorded on the missing issues and the same was not objected to during trial. He said that his client was over 80 years of age, and suffered from various ailments.Senior counsel Abhishek Manu Singhvi, appearing for Gopal Ansal, also argued that his client was over 70 years and the court should exercise its wide and liberal discretion to release him. He emphasised that there was an “inevitable long pendency of appeals” before the trial courts and even during trial, Gopal Ansal was on bail.A magisterial court sentenced them on November 8 last year to seven-year in jail and imposed a fine of ₹2.25 crore each on them. The case was lodged on the direction of the Delhi high court on a petition by AVUT chairperson Neelam Krishnamoorthy.A fire broke out at the Uphaar cinema on June 13, 1997, claiming 59 lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/uphaar-case-police-oppose-suggestion-to-release-ansal-brothers-101641491436489.html
07-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi may get more rain from Friday, says weather office||After a cold and overcast Wednesday that saw Delhi record its lowest maximum temperature of the season, there was some respite from the day-time chill on Thursday, with the city’s weather gauges recording readings of 21.1 degrees Celsius (°C), two notches above normal. While the skies were still overcast over parts of the Capital, rain eluded the city on Thursday, with intermittent periods of sunshine punctuating an otherwise cloudy day. Delhi’s maximum temperature fell to 15.7°C on Wednesday.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that while one western disturbance - which influenced Delhi from January 3 until January 5 - has left, a fresh one will bring the city more showers from Friday. “Unlike Wednesday, winds will be stronger, with speeds expected to touch 30-40 km/hr. We may also see moderate showers as well in parts of Delhi. This western disturbance will bring rain from Friday night and we may see some drizzle on Sunday as well,” said RK Jenamani, scientist at IMD.Delhi recorded 9.2mm of rainfall till 8.30am on Thursday, a spell that significantly cleaned up the city’s air.The city’s air quality index (AQI) was back in the ‘poor’ category on Thursday, with a 24-hour average reading of 258 at 4pm – a sharp drop from 397 (very poor) on Wednesday, showed data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).The Capital meanwhile recorded a minimum of 11.7°C – five degrees above normal. This is expected to rise even further in the next two days. “A western disturbance makes nights less cold, while the days are chilly due to overcast conditions and rain. The minimum temperature could rise to 13°C by Saturday, but the maximum, which is around 21°C now, is expected to fall below 18°C by then,” said Jenamani.According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), the AQI could improve to the ‘moderate’ range by Saturday. “On Friday, AQI is likely to be in the ‘poor’ or lower end of the ‘very poor’ category. On January 8, it is likely to rain with high wind speeds, leading to an improvement in AQI due to wet deposition and strong dispersion resulting in the AQI to be in the lower end of ‘poor’ or ‘moderate’ category,” said Safar on Thursday.An AQI between 101 and 200 is classified as ‘moderate’ by the CPCB, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is ‘very poor’ and over 400 is ‘severe’ as per CPCB’s daily index.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-may-get-more-rain-from-friday-says-weather-office-101641491194873.html
07-01-2022||Delhi||Union home secretary reviews Covid situation in Delhi-NCR||Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Thursday chaired a meeting to review the spike in Covid-19 cases in the national capital region, and asked the local authorities to ramp up testing, officials aware of the matter said.Several states including Delhi are recording a sharp spike in the number of daily Covid infections, particularly due to the new, highly transmissible Omicron variant of the Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19.States in NCR have imposed a series of restrictions on social gatherings and movement of people to break the transmission chain. A night curfew between 10pm and 5am, and an additional weekend curfew is in force in Delhi. In Gurugram, only fully vaccinated people are being allowed in public spaces such as grain markets, bus stand and railway stations, parks, religious places, bars, restaurants and hotels. Malls and markets are allowed to open only til 5pm.Among those who attended the meeting on Thursday include chief secretaries of Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Haryana or their representatives along with senior police and health officials of the NCR states. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan and NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul were also present.Officials said Bhalla asked the authorities in Delhi, Gurugram, Noida, Ghaziabad and Faridabad to monitor the availability of hospital beds, oxygen and other facilities in case there is a spike in hospitalisations and make arrangements in respective areas to avoid any crowding.He also touched upon enforcing rules pertaining to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and conducting tests.A total of 90,928 fresh Covid-19 cases and 325 deaths were registered across the country in the last 24 hours. The active caseload also went up to 285,401 during the same period, according to the Union health ministry data. The total number of Omicron cases in the country has reached 2,630. Also, the first Omicron-related death in the country was recorded on Wednesday in Rajasthan’s Udaipur.On December 27, Bhalla issued an advisory asking states and union territories to not let their guard down.The home secretary asked the states and UTs to refer to his earlier order, issued on December 21, which focuses on the five-fold strategy of Test-Track-Treat-Vaccination and Adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour to avoid any surge in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/union-home-secretary-reviews-covid-situation-in-delhincr-101641491134928.html
07-01-2022||Delhi||Sushil Kumar case: 1 more held in murder of wrestler at Delhi stadium||New Delhi: A 24-year-old man, who was wanted for the murder of wrestler Sagar Dhankar inside the Chhatarsal Stadium on May 4 last year, and was absconding for the past nine months, has been arrested from outer Delhi, Delhi Police said on Thursday.Police said Parveen Dabas, along with other accused persons in the case, including two-time Olympic medalist Sushil Kumar murdered Dhankar. He was arrested in the early hours of Tuesday, officers said, adding Dabas had a reward of ₹50,000 on his arrest.“The special cell team received information about the movement of fugitive Parveen Dabas, an associate of Olympic medalist Sushil Kumar near his village Madanpur Dabas. We laid a trap and arrested him when he was coming to the village at night,” said Jasmeet Singh, deputy commissioner of police(special cell). DCP Singh said Dabas told the police that he, along with Sushil Kumar and other persons, who were armed with hockey sticks and rods, assaulted the members of their rival group during the intervening night of May 4 and 5 inside the Chhatarsal Stadium in north Delhi.“Sagar Dhankar, Sonu Mahaal, Amit and others of rival group suffered serious injuries during the attack. He said that the assault was orchestrated by Sushil Kumar and his associates to settle their personal scores with the members of rival group, and to prove their dominance. Later, Dhankar succumbed to his injuries in the hospital. A case of murder was then registered at the Model Town police station,” said DCP Singh.Police said they have arrested 18 persons in the case so far. Police have also filed a charge sheet against the arrest persons, including Kumar.In the charge sheet, the police have said that Kumar killed Dhankar because his ego was bruised by rumours of his diminishing clout and he wanted to re-establish his authority among younger athletes. Kumar’s lawyers have denied the allegations.Kumar, who won medals at the Beijing and London Olympics, is facing charges of murdering 23-year-old Dhankar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sushil-kumar-case-1-more-held-in-murder-of-wrestler-at-delhi-stadium-101641490834641.html
07-01-2022||Delhi||Over 15,000 new Covid cases in Delhi||Fresh Covid-19 infections in Delhi have nearly tripled in two days, with the city adding 15,097 cases on Thursday, up from 5,481 on Tuesday, as the pandemic continued to expand its footprint across the Capital at a rapid pace, likely fuelled by the extremely transmissible Omicron variant of the coronavirus.Thursday’s fresh cases came at a test positivity rate of 15.34%, with the statistic now at its highest since May 12 last year, when just over 17% of all collected samples in Delhi returned positive results.The national capital also added six deaths of the infection, according to data released by the state health department on Thursday.Covid-19 fatalities have crept up in the city over the past three days. Delhi recorded eight deaths of the infection (the most since late June last year) on Wednesday, and three the day before that.Delhi added an average of 6,150 fresh cases of Covid-19 each day over the past week, up nearly 12 times from the 540 cases it logged on average in the seven days ending December 30.However, despite the surge, hospitalisations in Delhi have risen at a far slower pace, in keeping with global trends and studies which indicate that while the Omicron variant of the Sars-CoV-2 virus may be extremely infectious, it causes milder symptoms and leads to far fewer hospital admissions than the previously dominant Delta variant.Nearly 11,500 Covid-19 beds in Delhi continue to be vacant, with 1,091 people hospitalised as on Thursday evening. Over 31,000 people in the city are currently battling the infection, the state bulletin saidDelhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday urged people not to panic and to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour thoroughly.“Patients infected with the Omicron variant can be treated at home. Do not panic, go to the hospital only if the symptoms are severe,” said Jain.The Delhi government on Thursday released an official order asking all 11 revenue districts in the Capital to allow asymptomatic and mild cases to isolate at home, as per the Centre’s revised home isolation guidelines released on Wednesday.“The Omicron variant is highly infectious. Our intensive care units (ICUs) are full. We are observing that patients are coming to get checked for different issues but are testing positive. Home isolation needs to be the focus to reduce the burden on hospitals during the surge period,” said Dr Vikas Maurya, pulmonologist at Fortis HospitalTo be sure, testing also jumped significantly on Thursday, with the state collecting 98,434 samples, up from 89,742 the previous day. These were also the most tests in a single day since Delhi conducted just short of 100,000 tests on April 17 last year.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has previously said that the state is amping up its testing infrastructure, and will soon be able to collect 300,000 samples a day.The city’s fifth wave of Covid-19 has seen cases rocket at a pace previously unseen during the previous surges. Daily cases have gone from breaching the 1,000 mark (1,313 infections on December 30) to over 15,000 in just eight days.During the fourth wave of infections (between April and May last year), fresh infections took 23 days to go from over 1,000 to the 15,000 mark..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-15-000-new-covid-cases-in-delhi-101641490474742.html
07-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi: Monuments shut due to surge in Covid-19 cases||The Archaeological Survey of India on Thursday said all centrally protected monuments,museums and sites in its Delhi circle will be closed till January 20, owing to the uptick in Covid-19 cases in the city.While citing a recent order by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), ASI said the DDMA had restricted all kinds of gatherings and congregations (social, ritual, academic, entertainment, religious, political, festival related etc) in the national capital from January 4.“Accordingly, it is decided to close the centrally protected monuments under the jurisdiction of Delhi circle from 06-20 January, 2022 or till prohibition is lifted whichever is earlier. All the directives / SoPs issued by state /district administration shall be scrupulously adhered in the matter,” said the ASI order issued on Thursday.Delhi has over 173 monuments under ASI including Red Fort, Humayun’s Tomb, Qutub Minar, Purana Qila. Monuments reopened on June 16 last year, after being shut for nearly two months owing to the city’s fourth wave of Covid-19 infections between April and May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-monuments-shut-due-to-surge-in-covid-19-cases-101641490175185.html
07-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi plans mesh of sensors to monitor pollution air hot spots||The national capital’s 40 real-time ambient air quality monitoring stations (CAAQMS) account for a network that roughly covers every 37 sq km of Delhi’s 1,484 sq km area, if these stations were spread out at equal distance from each other across the city.While this network is considerably denser than the four stations functional each in Gurugram, Ghaziabad, Noida and Faridabad, and the two stations in Greater Noida, the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) is now considering deploying multiple low-cost sensors to enhance the coverage further.The idea is to install these sensors at the neighbourhood level to create a spatial grid alerting the anti-pollution body of changes in air quality levels in different parts of the same area, to enable local interventions in places where spikes are reported, DPCC officials aware of the matter said. If approved, the plan is start by using these sensors in Delhi’s 13 pollution hot spots, where urgent corrective action in needed, they added.“These sensors function in a similar way to an automatic real-time stations present in Delhi, but they will also be able to identify local sources of pollution, which otherwise cannot be detected by a real-time station as it covers a substantially larger area. Depending on which sensor is showing high-levels of pollution, we can take corrective action, for example acting on dust in its vicinity or any kind of garbage burning,” said a senior DPCC official who asked not to be named.Pollution is one of the biggest problems dogging the national capital, and the city experiences a public health emergency every winter with the air quality deteriorating to hazardous levels. Between November and December last year, for example, the city witnessed 17 “severe” days, and even “very poor” and “poor” days on the Air Quality Index (AQI) rating scale are considered periods of respite. To be sure, this problem is not restricted to winter. Delhi’s average PM2.5 level in 2021 was 87 micrograms per cubic metre, 17 times higher than safety levels prescribed by the World Health Organization (WHO).In 2018, DPCC identified 13 pollution hot spots, which have a substantially higher annual PM 2.5 concentration than the city’s mean average. These are Jahangirpuri, Anand Vihar, Ashok Vihar, Wazirpur, Punjabi Bagh, Dwarka Sector 8, Rohini Sector 16, RK Puram, Bawana, Mundka, Narela, Okhla Phase II and Vivek Vihar.Initially, it is these areas that DPCC wants to target with the network of low-cost sensors.While an automatic monitoring station costs around ₹1-1.5 crore, a low-cost sensor costs only ₹50,000, if it is to measure both PM 2.5 and PM 10 particulate matter. For each additional sensor to measure gases such as SO2, O3 and NOx, the cost goes up by ₹25,000 per filter.In Delhi, the 40 real-time stations have been installed by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the India Meteorological Department (IMD) and DPCC, each measuring PM 10, PM 2.5, SO2, NOx, NH3, CO, O3 and benzene.The low-cost sensors are relatively less accurate but experts said that the data can be used very effectively for analysis and intervention.Ronak Sutaria, founder, Respirer Living Sciences, who specialises in gathering local-level data from low-cost sensors, says while a real-time station influences area of 3-5 sq km, low-cost sensors could cover a radius of 1 sq km easily, creating both a spatial and temporal grid that can be analysed by DPCC.“If we have to assume each pollution hot spot in Delhi is spread over an area of 5 sq km, five such low-cost sensors can be installed covering a kilometre each and you can then identify in which grid the pollution levels are higher. The denser the grid, the more accurate the readings will be,” he says, stating while costing nearly 30-40 times lesser than an ambient air quality station, these low-cost sensors still have an accuracy that is only around 10-15% apart from a real-time station.“If the real-time station is showing “severe” air, then these sensors will show”severe” air too, and the actual concentration may be 10-20 micrograms apart, but it will still give a good idea of the concentration levels in the area,” he added, pointing out that local data also gives a better idea of spike of bad air spikes during different times of the day.Professor SN Tripathi from IIT Kanpur, who is part of a committee formed by CPCB to look at ways to utilise both low-cost sensors and ambient air quality monitoring stations together, says Delhi could benefit with a low-cost network in addition to the existing stations. “While the existing network of 40 stations in Delhi is good enough for policy-level decisions, low-cost sensors will be able to give an idea of certain locations at the neighbourhood-level which have a higher concentration level. Based on this, you could strategically act on the sources of pollution around that sensor,” he said, adding that Beijing is uses a network of over 3,000 low-cost sensors.Anumita Roychowdhury says the approach to use low-cost sensors to tackle hots pot pollution can help coordinate ground-level action better. “Only once we know the source, can we act on it. Ground-level action such as high readings from burning of waste or dust can be easily captured,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-plans-mesh-of-sensors-to-monitor-pollution-air-hot-spots-101641490054822.html
07-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi zoo shut as Covid cases spiral||The Delhi zoo has been shut temporarily, in keeping with state guidelines that require entertainment parks in the city to down shutters amid a fifth wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. “The zoo has been shut indefinitely as per the latest Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) guidelines. Regular operations behind the scenes to take care of the animals will continue, but no visitors are allowed now,” said Anamika, joint director of the Delhi zoo. The DDMA order was issued on Tuesday,and the zoo was closed the day after that.Delhi’s National Zoological Park was reopened on April 1 last year after being shut for over a year owing to the pandemic. However, it was shut weeks later as a bird flu outbreak spread across the city. The zoo then reopened on August 1 last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-zoo-shut-as-covid-cases-spiral-101641489394577.html
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||PM security breach: Channi, Randhawa behaving like cowards, says Amarinder||Former Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday lashed out at the incumbent, Charanjit Singh Channi, and his deputy and home minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa for “behaving like cowards” and running away from their responsibilities, in view of the security breach during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to the state on WednesdayAmarinder, who has entered into a pre-poll alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party after floating the Punjab Lok Congress, was addressing media after inducting senior Congress leaders Surinder Singh Kherki and Sandeep Singla into his party at Samana in Patiala district. “Punjab is in hands of inexperienced leaders. The security breach of PM’s convoy has highlighted their inexperience in how to handle such issues. As the CM, I had attended to the PM and President several times, without any flaw. They (Channi and Randhawa) have caused a loss to Punjab, as the PM was going to announce economic package for the state,” said Amarinder. Asking Channi and Randhawa to take responsibility for the lapses, he said: “True leaders own responsibilities and do not pass the buck on others. This is no leadership, it is cowardice.” Amarinder also criticised Channi for not receiving the PM personally at the Bathinda airport, and reiterated that the President Rule was the best option in Punjab as those at the helm of affair are “novice”. He also appealed to farmers to stop blocking roads and railway tracks and instead focus on what is in their and Punjab’s interests. 
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab farm bodies divided over PM convoy blockade||Various farm bodies that were part of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), which led the agitation against the now-repealed central farm laws, are divided over the Wednesday’s demonstration by the ultra-left Bharatiya Kisan Union (Krantikari) that left Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s cavalcade stuck on a flyover on the Moga-Ferozepur highway in a major security breach. While the farm bodies came out in support of protests against the unmet promises made by the Prime Minister when he announced the repeal of three farm laws in November last year, a section termed the blockade of his convoy “avoidable” . Harmeet Singh Kadian, who heads BKU (Kadian), said that farmers are unhappy and their anger has erupted. “The kind of popularity the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) enjoys in Punjab could be gauged by the thin attendance at the Ferozepur rally (which Modi was forced to skip), but the PM should not have been shown disrespect as he had come to our state.” BKU (Kadian) had decided to contest the upcoming Punjab assembly polls and is part of 19 farm organisations that have formed the political outfit Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM). ‘Drastic step was avoidable’ Meanwhile, BKU (Dakounda) general secretary Jagmohan Singh said that small and marginal farmers of Punjab are debt-ridden and Modi was expected to announce a package for them. “Our union was not part of the blockade, but we appreciate the villagers and activists of BKU (Krantikari) for blocking the roads. However, the drastic step of stopping the PM’s cavalcade should have been avoided,” he said. He added that it needs to be understood that it’s a political fight between the Congress and BJP and farmers should not involve themselves in it. According to Darshan Pal of Krantikari Kisan Union, there was no plan to block the cavalcade, and it was already decided on December 31 that confrontation should be avoided. He defended the BKU (Krantikari), calling it a coincidence that the PM’s cavalcade used the same road where they were protesting. “What happened yesterday is sad, could have been avoided, as the onus would now fall on the farmers and Punjabis,” he said, blaming the security agencies for the lapse. BKU (Dakounda) and Krantikari Kisan Union are not keen to take the electoral plunge. ‘A symbol of BJP’s rejection’ Meanwhile, a section of farm bodies called the blockade a symbol of rejection of the BJP by the farmers of the state. They said the saffron party would continue to face opposition as the Centre has not waived farm debts, offered no economic support to promote agriculture and also not giving compensation to families of those who died during the yearlong agitation against the farm laws. “The BJP had a plan to use an official function in Ferozepur to launch its election campaign. But it failed due to the annoyed farmers. There was nothing wrong in blocking the PM’s cavalcade, as farmers have a strong resentment against the Centre and Punjab government,” said Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) president Satnam Singh Pannu. The farm body is active in Majha and pockets of Doaba and Malwa belt and was the first to give a call to oppose Modi’s rally. Ruldu Singh Mansa, president of Mansa-based Punjab Kisan Union, said any leader of the BJP or its ally would not be allowed to hold any political programme in villages or towns. “If Modi had any soft corner for Punjabis, he would have announced special packages for farmers and farm labourers before coming here. People have not forgotten how it forced farm laws on us and we will take inspiration from the Ferozepur episode to oppose Modi’s any further visit to Punjab,” said Mansa, an active member of SSM that is gearing up for the upcoming polls.Threat to PM’s life concocted: SKMMeanwhile, SKM released a statement that 10 affiliated farmer organisations had announced a symbolic protest to push for the arrest of Union minister Ajay Mishra in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case and other pending demands. The SKM stated that farmers had no concrete information that the PM’s convoy was going to pass through the flyover.“It’s clear from video of the occasion that protesting farmers didn’t even make any effort to go towards the PM’s convoy. Only a group with BJP flag had reached near that convoy. Therefore, the threat to the life of PM seems completely concocted,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-farmers-divided-over-pm-convoy-blockade-101641482973786.html
07-01-2022||World||US Supreme Court hears challenges to Covid vaccine mandates||The US Supreme Court heard challenges on Friday to Covid vaccination mandates imposed by the Biden administration on millions of American workers to curb the spread of the disease."Why isn't this necessary to abate the grave risk,?" Justice Elena Kagan asked the lawyer representing business associations opposed to the policy."This is a pandemic in which nearly a million people have died," Kagan said. "It is by far the greatest public health danger that this country has faced in the last century."And this is the policy that is most geared to stopping all this."Scott Keller, a former Texas solicitor general representing the business associations, said the rule requiring Covid vaccinations at businesses that employ 100 people would lead many workers to quit."An economy-wide mandate would cause permanent worker displacement, rippling through our national economy," Keller said."Part of the problems we're seeing with this rule is it's not truly intended to regulate a workplace danger," Keller said. "It's a danger that we all face simply as a matter of waking up in the morning."Justice Stephen Breyer said "some people may quit, maybe three percent.""But more may quit when they discover they have to work together with unvaccinated others because that means they may get the disease," Breyer said. "And more will quit because they'll maybe die or maybe they'll be in the hospital."After months of public appeals to Americans to get their shots, President Joe Biden announced in September that he was making Covid vaccinations compulsory at companies that employ 100 workers or more.Unvaccinated employees would have to present weekly negative tests and wear face masks at work.Biden also said vaccinations would be required for health care workers at facilities receiving federal funding.The Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) has given businesses until February 9 to be in compliance with the rules or face the possibility of fines.White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said the policies are "critical to our nation's Covid-19 response.""Unvaccinated Americans continue to face a real threat of severe illness and death -- including from Omicron," Psaki said in a statement.'Irreparable harm'The vaccine mandates came under immediate attack from some Republican lawmakers and business owners as an infringement on individual rights and an abuse of government power.A flurry of lawsuits ensued, and the conservative-majority Supreme Court is holding a special hearing to decide whether the mandates can be implemented while the legal challenges continue.A decision is expected within a few weeks.Businesses with 100 employees or more represent about two-thirds of the private sector workforce in the United States, or some 80 million people.The health care worker mandate would apply to roughly 10 million people.The group of 26 business associations opposed to the mandates said they will "inflict irreparable harm upon hundreds of thousands of businesses."Companies will be forced to pass the costs of testing on to consumers, resulting in "yet higher prices at a time of record inflation," they argued.Republican-ruled states led by Missouri said forcing health care workers to be vaccinated "threatens to create a crisis in health care facilities in rural America.""The mandate would force millions of workers to choose between losing their jobs or complying with an unlawful federal mandate," they argued.Several large US corporations, including meat giant Tyson Foods and United Airlines, imposed vaccination mandates in September without suffering major disruptions.The Supreme Court has six conservative justices and three liberal justices, and all of them have been vaccinated and received booster shots, according to the court.The nation's highest court has previously upheld vaccination mandates imposed on college students and health care workers by local authorities.But the court has curtailed federal actions linked to the pandemic, notably by throwing out a moratorium prohibiting evictions.If the court blocks the vaccination mandates, it would be a major blow to Biden, who has made bringing the pandemic under control one of his priorities but is battling a surge in cases from the Omicron variant.Vaccination has become a politically polarizing issue in the United States, where 62 percent of the population are vaccinated.There have been more than 58 million cases of coronavirus in the United States and more than 830,000 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-supreme-court-hears-challenges-to-covid-vaccine-mandates-101641579287061.html
07-01-2022||World||Kazakh leader rejects talks, tells forces to 'shoot to kill'||Kazakhstan's president on Friday rejected calls for talks with protesters after days of unprecedented unrest, vowing to destroy "armed bandits" and authorising his forces to shoot to kill without warning.In a hardline address to the nation, Kassym-Jomart Tokayev also gave "special thanks" to Russian President Vladimir Putin after a Moscow-led military alliance sent troops to Kazakhstan to help quell the unrest.Security forces had blocked off strategic areas of Almaty -- the country's largest city and epicentre of the recent violence -- and were firing into the air if anyone approached, an AFP correspondent said.Elsewhere the city was like a ghost town, with banks, supermarkets and restaurants closed. The few small shops still open were quickly running out of food.Tokayev said order had mostly been restored across the country, after protests this week over fuel prices escalated into widespread violence."Terrorists continue to damage property... and use weapons against civilians. I have given the order to law enforcement to shoot to kill without warning," Tokayev said in his third televised address this week.He ridiculed calls from abroad for negotiations as "nonsense"."We are dealing with armed and trained bandits, both local and foreign. With bandits and terrorists. So they must be destroyed. This will be done shortly."Airport closedLong seen as one of the most stable of the ex-Soviet republics of Central Asia, energy-rich Kazakhstan is facing its biggest crisis in decades.The violence erupted late Tuesday, when police fired tear gas and stun grenades at a thousands-strong protest in Almaty.The next day protesters stormed government buildings including the city administration headquarters and presidential residence, setting them ablaze.The interior ministry said 26 "armed criminals" had been killed in the unrest.It said 18 security officers had been killed and more than 740 wounded, and more than 3,800 people detained.The numbers could not be independently verified and there was no official information about casualties among civilian bystanders.The full picture of the chaos has often been unclear, with widespread disruptions to communications including mobile phone signals and hours-long internet shutdowns.Most flights into the country have been cancelled, and Russian news agencies quoted Almaty airport officials saying it would be closed to all but military flights until Sunday.Western countries have called for restraint on all sides and for the respect of people's right to protest peacefully.China's President Xi Jinping however praised Tokayev for taking "strong measures".Russian paratroopers landTokayev said Almaty had been under assault from "20,000 bandits" with a "clear plan of attack, coordination of actions and high combat readiness".He blamed "so-called free media" and unnamed foreign figures for instigating the violence, adding: "Democracy is not permissiveness."Tokayev on Wednesday declared a nationwide state of emergency and appealed for help from the Russia-dominated Collective Security Treaty Organisation (CSTO).Russia's defence ministry said Friday nine planes carrying paratroopers and hardware had landed in Almaty and Russian forces had helped to secure the airport.It is not clear how many troops are being sent in the force -- which includes units from ex-Soviet states Russia, Belarus, Armenia, Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan -- but media in Moscow have said the Russian contingent is expected to number less than 5,000.Putin's spokesman Dmitry Peskov told Russian news agencies the Russian leader and Tokayev had spoken several times in recent days to discuss "the situation in Kazakhstan and joint actions within the framework of the CSTO".Anger at ex-leaderProtests spread across the nation of 19 million this week in outrage over a New Year increase in prices for liquid petroleum gas (LPG), which is used to fuel many cars in the country.Thousands took to the streets in Almaty and in the western province of Mangystau, saying the price rise was unfair given oil and gas exporter Kazakhstan's vast energy reserves.The protests are the biggest threat so far to the regime established by Kazakhstan's founding president Nursultan Nazarbayev, who stepped down in 2019 and hand-picked Tokayev as his successor.Tokayev has announced several moves to head off unrest, including the resignation of the cabinet and six-month fuel price limits.Much of the anger appeared directed at Nazarbayev, who is 81 and had ruled Kazakhstan since 1989 before handing over power.Many protesters shouted "Old Man Out!" in reference to Nazarbayev, and a statue of him was torn down in the southern city of Taldykorgan.Critics have accused Nazarbayev and his family of staying in control behind the scenes and accumulating vast wealth at the expense of ordinary citizens.The ex-president has not made an appearance since the start of the crisis and there were unconfirmed reports of him and members of his family fleeing the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kazakh-leader-rejects-talks-tells-forces-to-shoot-to-kill-101641579045766.html
07-01-2022||World||Covid-19 cases top 300 million worldwide||The total number of Covid-19 registered worldwide since the start of the pandemic topped 300 million on Friday, according to an AFP count based on official figures.The figure stood at 300,042,439 cases at 15:45 GMT, including all the cases announced since the World Health Organization office in China first reported the outbreak of the disease in late December 2019.Case numbers have been on the rise since late last year due to the fast-spreading Omicron variant, first identified in Botswana and South Africa.As Omicron brings the fourth wave of the coronavirus pandemic, many countries are reporting record numbers of infections.Over 13.5 million virus cases have been detected worldwide in the past week, a massive rise of 64 percent over the previous seven days, averaging out at 1,938,395 new infections per day.A total of 34 countries have seen record weekly cases numbers. Eighteen of those are in Europe, seven in Africa and six in Latin America and the Caribbean.The US and Canada have also seen record numbers, as has Australia.Europe has been particularly badly hit by the new variant with Cyprus registering 3,468 cases per 100,000 residents over the past seven days while the rate for Ireland is 2,840. In Greece the rate is 2,415 while the figure for Denmark is 2,362 and France 2,137.In 12th place on the recent incidence list is Australia, with 1,361 cases per 100,000 people over the past week.However the acceleration of the Covid spread has not, so far, translated into increased mortality figures.In fact the daily global average of deaths over the past seven days, 6,172, is a three percent dip on the previous week.A month after it was first detected in southern Africa, Omicron is now known to be far more contagious than previous variants of Covid-19 but appears to cause a less severe illness than its predecessors.The figures collated by AFP are based on daily reports from national health authorities.A significant proportion of the less severe or asymptomatic cases remain undetected despite intensified screening in many countries.In addition, testing policies differ from country to country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-cases-top-300-million-worldwide-101641578860712.html
07-01-2022||World||Germany tightens Covid rules for bars and restaurants||Germany will tighten curbs on bars and restaurants and ease quarantine rules in a bid to tackle the surging Omicron variant of Covid-19, Chancellor Olaf Scholz said on Friday.Speaking after talks with Germany's 16 regional leaders, Scholz said access to bars and restaurants will be limited to people who are fully vaccinated or recovered and can also provide a negative test.However, people who have received a booster shot will be exempted from the test requirement.Scholz said the rules -- known as "2G Plus" -- were "strict" but necessary "to help us progress more quickly" in the fight against Omicron, which he said "will be with us for a long time".Quarantine rules will also be relaxed to protect vital services and infrastructure from shutting down due to expected staff shortages, he said.Anyone infected with Covid as well as their close contacts will be able to end their quarantine after 10 days if they have no symptoms.They can be released after seven days if they provide a negative test.Those who have received a booster will no longer have to quarantine if they have come into close contact with an infected person.Germany has so far reported modest case numbers since the start of the year compared to many of its European neighbours, which have been engulfed by record surges.The Robert Koch Institute (RKI) health agency recorded 56,335 new infections in the past 24 hours on Friday, with an incidence rate of 303.4 new cases per 100,000 people over the past seven days.But Scholz said he expected that "the Omicron variant will cause infections to increase, and we will see larger numbers in the coming days and weeks than we are already seeing today".Germany's new government under Scholz, who took over from Angela Merkel as chancellor in December, has so far ruled out imposing a lockdown.However, it has limited private gatherings to 10 people, or two households if an unvaccinated person is present, as well as banning spectators from football games.Unvaccinated people have also been barred from large parts of public life, including cultural events, gyms and leisure facilities.Scholz urged as many people as possible to get their booster, describing the jab as "the best protection against Omicron".Almost 42 percent of Germans have already received a booster, while 71.6 percent have received a first and second dose.Scholz said last year he was in favour of compulsory vaccination in Germany, with parliament due to start debating the issue at the end of January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-tightens-covid-rules-for-bars-and-restaurants-101641578716088.html
07-01-2022||World||At least 16 dead in SW China building collapse||At least 16 people died when an explosion triggered by a suspected gas leak caused a building to collapse Friday in the Chinese city of Chongqing, state media said.The blast at 12:10 pm (0410 GMT) brought down a neighbourhood committee building housing a canteen, trapping 26 people, the Xinhua news agency said.In the early hours of Saturday, Xinhua put the new death toll at 16, with 10 more injured, one of them critically.On Friday, the Chongqing government had put the initial death toll at nine.Videos and photos from Xinhua showed orange-clad workers in hard hats climbing through the rubble on Friday night under floodlights.Xinhua said in its latest update that as of midnight, all those trapped had been pulled out.The injured people are receiving medical treatment, Chongqing authorities said through their verified account on the Twitter-like Weibo platform.Footage posted by state broadcaster CCTV on social media showed smoke and dust billowing from the collapsed building in Wulong district on the outskirts of the southwestern megacity.The scene of the blast appeared to be in the middle of other buildings and was surrounded by a crowd of bystanders earlier on Friday.Another clip by Xinhua showed dozens of rescuers in military fatigues jogging along a road to the site carrying shovels over their shoulders.More than 150 fire and rescue workers have been deployed to the site, CCTV said.Heavy lifting and excavation equipment have also been sent to the scene.The cause of the blast remains under investigation.'Blown to pieces'Local authorities set up an "on-site emergency response headquarters" to direct the rescue work and provide medical treatment, the state-run People's Daily newspaper reported.An eyewitness told state-run Phoenix TV that the blast was "very scary... our windows have all been blown to pieces". Xinhua said people were having lunch when the blast occurred.Officials have demanded the "fastest possible rescue" and ordered service personnel to "spare no effort to rescue the injured and strictly guard against secondary disasters", the newspaper said.Gas leaks and explosions are not uncommon in China, due to weak safety standards and corruption among officials tasked with enforcement.In June, 25 people were killed in a gas blast that ripped through a residential compound and struck a busy two-storey building packed with shoppers.Eight suspects, including the general manager of the company that owned the gas pipe, were detained after the government said "the company's safety management system was unsound".The same month, 18 people were killed and more injured when a fire broke out at a martial arts school, with state media reporting that all the victims were boarding school pupils.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-least-16-dead-in-sw-china-building-collapse-101641578484140.html
07-01-2022||World||Biden to deliver first State of the Union address on March 1||President Joe Biden will deliver his first State of the Union address on March 1, the White House confirmed Friday, after House Speaker Nancy Pelosi sent the president a formal invitation to speak to Congress and the American public one year into his term.It will mark the latest any president has delivered a State of the Union address. The speech is normally timed for January, and occasionally for February. The delay is driven in part by a busy legislative calendar, a winter spike in Covid19 cases from the more transmissible omicron variant and the upcoming Winter Olympics, which ties up broadcast network time.The last State of the Union address was delivered by then-President Donald Trump on the eve of his acquittal by the Senate in his first impeachment trial.Biden first addressed a joint session of Congress in April 2020, about 100 days into his time in the White House, which he used to promote twin infrastructure and domestic spending bills. Biden signed a slimmed-down and bipartisan version of the infrastructure proposal into law last year in crowning first-year legislative achievements. The larger expansion of the social safety net passed the House, but Biden has struggled to secure enough Democratic support in the Senate for passage.“Thank you for your bold vision and patriotic leadership which have guided America out of crisis and into an era of great progress, as we not only recover from the pandemic but Build Back Better!," Pelosi wrote in her letter to Biden. “In that spirit, I am writing to invite you to address a Joint Session of Congress on Tuesday, March 1, to share your vision of the State of the Union.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-to-deliver-first-state-of-the-union-address-on-march-1-101641578204518.html
07-01-2022||World||Amid financial challenges in Pakistan, Imran Khan to visit China next month||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan is scheduled to visit China next month as the incumbent government is facing economic challenges and massive criticism by the opposition over mini-budget, rising trade deficit and inflation in the country, reported local media.Prime Minister Imran Khan had ordered the removal of red-tape hindering Chinese investment in Pakistan, as he prepared to visit Beijing next month to further cement the bilateral ties, The Express Tribune quoted Special Assistant to Pakistan's Prime Minister on China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) Khalid Mansoor as saying on Wednesday, reported The Express Tribune.Mansoor also said that Imran Khan ordered the removal of 37 regulations to ensure one-window operation for foreign investors. He added that the prime minister would personally be taking briefings on progress on CPEC projects every 15 days, said The Express Tribune.It comes as Pakistan trade deficit surged to USD 24.79 billion during the first half of the current fiscal year, mainly on the back of a 63 per cent year-on-year increase in imports. The surge in trade deficit came from a massive rise in exports.Data for the July-December period showed that imports jumped to USD 39.91 bn from USD 24.47 bn a year ago. In contrast, exports during July-December also grew 25 per cent to USD 15.13bn compared to the year-ago period, reported Dawn.Pakistan is currently marred with financial challenges with opposition targetting the government over the mini-budget. PML-N Chief Shahbaz Sharif and PPP chief Bilawal Bhutto have criticised the ruling government for massive inflation in the country and had demanded the resignation of Prime Minister Imran Khan over his government's failure to tackle the challenges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/amid-financial-challenges-in-pakistan-imran-khan-to-visit-china-next-month-101641577722672.html
07-01-2022||World||China: PLA to gift Galwan Valley stones to netizens||China’s People’s Liberation Army’s western theatre command (WTC) which oversees the disputed border with India will offer stones from the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh to netizens on February 1.The WTC opened its official account on Twitter-like Sina Weibo on Friday and released a notice that on February 1 it will “..randomly choose 10 lucky netizens from those who reposted the notice and send them a stone from the Galwan Valley as a present,” the tabloid Global Times said in a report on Friday evening.“A picture with Chinese soldiers patrolling the Galwan Valley, with a rock face seen in the post reading in Chinese characters ‘Splendid landscape, no inch to give up’ was posted together with the notice,” the report added.This is the Chinese government’s latest effort to use the brutal clash between Indian and Chinese soldiers on the night of June 15 in Galwan Valley as propaganda to push through its narrative, painting India as the aggressor.While India lost 20 troops in the clash, four Chinese soldiers were also killed.Indian and Chinese militaries have been locked in a border standoff in eastern Ladakh since May, 2020, when a violent clash in Pangong Lake area led to both sides gradually deploying tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry along the border.Several rounds of military and diplomatic talks have only resulted in partial disengagement of troops until now.India has consistently rejected China’s allegations that Indian troops crossed over to the Chinese side of the LAC in eastern Ladakh asserting instead that New Delhi has always taken a responsible approach towards boundary management and maintaining peace and tranquillity in the border areas.That hasn’t stopped the Chinese government from pushing through its narrative through nationalistic videos and commentaries.On January 1, Chinese official media released a video showing Chinese PLA soldiers unfurling the country’s flag somewhere in the Galwan valley.Last October, it had released another video showing hundreds of PLA soldiers from unit 7895 of the Xinjiang military command standing in rows and shouting military slogans on the rocky banks of a river, flowing through a ravine, between cliffs.“On the National Martyr’s Day Officers and soldiers of a regiment in Xinjiang Military Command Went to the place where the martyrs fought to remember the heroes and to inherit their legacy,” the report accompanying the video said.Earlier, China’s official English channel, CGTN, had uploaded a video on one of the four PLA soldiers who died, Chen Hongjun, on social media and its website to mark the armed forces’ founding day on August 1.Besides interviews of Chen’s family members including his wife, the video showed edited footage of the clash between the two armies; Chinese equipment on the banks of the fast flowing river, soldiers, mostly Chinese, precariously wading in knee-deep water and personnel from the two sides charging at each other.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-pla-to-gift-galwan-valley-stones-to-netizens-101641573287107.html
07-01-2022||World||Sino-India dispute: Building infra on territory within our ‘sovereignty’, says China||China on Friday said it was building infrastructure within its “sovereignty”, a day after New Delhi accused Beijing of constructing a bridge across a portion of the strategic Pangong Lake in eastern Ladakh it has illegally occupied for 60 years.Dismissing India’s indignation over the new construction in a disputed area, the Chinese foreign ministry said the infrastructure was also aimed at maintaining peace and stability in the Sino-India border.The exchange of words over developments in a sensitive and highly-militarised region comes in the backdrop of the ongoing 20-month long border tension between the two countries in eastern Ladakh, which has plunged bilateral ties to its worst in decades.India’s external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi on Thursday said New Delhi has been closely monitoring the construction of a bridge on Pangong Lake by China.The de facto Sino-India border, the Line of Actual Control (LAC) passes through the lake and part of it is occupied by China but claimed by India.Responding to a question on the topic in Beijing on Friday, the Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson, Wang Wenbin declined to go into details but said China was within its rights to build infrastructure on its territory.“I am not aware of the situation you mentioned. I want to stress that China’s infrastructure construction on its territory entirely falls within its sovereignty and is aimed at safeguarding China’s territorial sovereignty and security as well as peace and stability in the China-India border area,” Wang said.In New Delhi, Bagchi on Thursday had said that the bridge is being “…constructed in areas that have been under illegal occupation by China for around 60 years now. As you are well aware India has never accepted such illegal occupation”.“Recent satellite imagery has shown that the Chinese bridge spanning a narrow section of the 134km lake is nearly complete. Experts believe it will drastically reduce the time needed by the Chinese side to move troops and equipment from in-depth bases to forward locations near the LAC,” an HT report from New Delhi said.The Chinese official media seldom publishes news about specific infrastructure projects near the border with India though it does share news about how the living conditions and facilities for People’s Liberation Army (PLA) soldiers deployed near the LAC are being strengthened.In September, Chinese official media announced that both Xinjiang and Tibet, bordering India, will soon have 30 airports at the disposal of the Western Theatre Command (WTC) to facilitate the movement of PLA personnel.The WTC is the largest military command of the PLA and oversees the disputed border with India. While some of these airports have already been built and are functional, the remaining are under construction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sinoindia-dispute-building-infra-on-territory-within-our-sovereignty-says-china-101641570946896.html
07-01-2022||World||China’s Xi extends support, lauds Kazakhstan’s president for decisive action||Chinese President Xi Jinping on Friday lent strong support to Kazakhstan President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev facing a country-wide rebellion, saying Tokayev has taken decisive and effective actions at a critical moment to quickly calm the situation.In a verbal message to Tokayev, published by the Xinhua news agency on Friday, Xi said China strongly rejects any attempt by external forces to provoke unrest and instigate “colour revolutions” in Kazakhstan “…as well as any attempt to harm the friendship between China and Kazakhstan and disrupt the two countries’ cooperation”.Xi Jinping’s unequivocal support to Tokayev was extended on a day when the Russia-backed president said he had ordered his troops to shoot to kill to put down the uprising.Kazakhstan is part of the China-led eight-member bloc, the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), of which India is also a member.The Chinese president said Tokayev has shown the “…sense of responsibility as a statesman, and demonstrated a highly responsible attitude to the country and the people”.As a fraternal neighbour and permanent comprehensive strategic partner of Kazakhstan, China is ready to provide necessary support to help it overcome the difficulties, Xi assured his Kazakh counterpart.China, Xi Jinping said, firmly opposes any force undermining Kazakhstan’s stability, threatening the country’s security, and sabotaging the peaceful life of the Kazakh people.No matter what risks and challenges Kazakhstan encounters, China is always a trustworthy friend and reliable partner of Kazakhstan, and the Chinese people will always stand together with the Kazakh people, Xi said.Earlier, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson, Wang Wenbin said that China has noticed that the Kazakh authorities are taking a series of powerful measures to combat violence and terrorism and maintain social stability.Wang said China supports all efforts that are “…conducive to the Kazakh authorities calming the situation as soon as possible, and firmly opposes the deliberate creation of social unrest and incitement of violence in Kazakhstan by external forces”.Dozens of people have died and public buildings across the country have been ransacked and torched in the worst violence in its 30 years of independence.Tokayev has said foreign-trained terrorists were responsible for the unrest.“The militants have not laid down their arms, they continue to commit crimes or are preparing for them,” he said in a televised address, according to a Reuters copy from Almaty.“Whoever does not surrender will be destroyed. I have given the order to law enforcement agencies and the army to shoot to kill, without warning,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-xi-extends-support-lauds-kazakhstan-s-president-for-decisive-action-101641567826447.html
07-01-2022||World||Justin Trudeau reacts to viral video of maskless flight passengers, says they are 'idiots'||A row has been triggered on social media after a video of a maskless crowd partying on a chartered plane went viral on social media as Covid-19 spreads across the world. According to a report, the plane was going to Mexico from Canada and some of the passengers were cast members from Quebec reality television shows.Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau also slammed the travellers who can be seen singing and dancing in the aisle and on seats, while being in close proximity of each other. They are also not wearing face masks.
07-01-2022||World||Covid-19: Chinese vice-premier ‘ashamed’ after woman loses baby in Xian lockdown||A top Chinese official expressing “shame” has warned hospitals treating those infected with Covid-19 not to turn away other patients after a woman suffered a miscarriage and a man died from cardiac arrest during the ongoing lockdown in Xian city in northwest China.The pregnant woman and the man who died were turned away from hospitals in Xian - a city of 13 million in its 16th day of lockdown - as they could not furnish negative nucleic acid test certificates.Since December 9, Xian has recorded more than 1,800 locally transmitted Covid-19 cases.Chinese vice-premier Sun Chunlan said she felt deeply ashamed and heartbroken about the woman’s miscarriage. “That this problem arose was very heart-wrenching and I feel deeply ashamed,” she was quoted as saying by the South China Morning Post. “It showed that outbreak prevention work had problems with not being sufficiently strict or down to earth. The lesson learned was deep.”“With the medical personnel under proper protection, patients in serious or critical conditions must be treated immediately, with or without the proof of nucleic acid tests,” Sun said, calling for “…designated hospitals to provide continuous service to patients in urgent need”.An investigation is being conducted into the difficulties people face in getting through to the emergency hotline, and measures have been taken to fix the problem, Sun added.While authorities were dealing with the angry aftermath of the woman losing her unborn child, the case of a 39-year-old man dying of a heart attack after being rejected by three hospitals on December 31 was reported by local Chinese media on Friday, leading to more online outrage.Identified by his pseudonym Li Hai, the man suffered severe chest pain and was taken to three separate hospitals before the fourth admitted him only to pronounce him dead.“If you have a sudden illness during this period, you can only wait for death,” was one of the many angry comments from netizens.China, meanwhile, reported 116 domestically transmitted infections for Thursday, mostly in Xian and the central province of Henan, down from 132 a day earlier, data from the national health commission (NHC) showed on Friday.“While more cases might be reported in the future, the threat of a major resurgence in Xian has been basically brought under control,” Li Qun from the Chinese Centre for Disease Control and Prevention told Xinhua in an interview.While the number of cases in China remain small compared globally, health authorities are scrambling to contain the ongoing flare-up in multiple provinces as Beijing and adjoining Hebei province get ready to host the 2022 Winter Olympics in February, and the whole country prepare for Chinese New Year holidays.The total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases on the mainland had reached 103,295 by Thursday since the pandemic began in 2019 with 3,359 patients still receiving treatment. A total of 95,300 patients had been discharged from hospitals on the mainland, and 4,636 had died as a result of the virus, according to NHC data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-chinese-vice-premier-ashamed-after-woman-loses-baby-in-xian-lockdown-101641552585242.html
07-01-2022||World||At least 20 trapped after blast causes building collapse in China||At least 20 people were trapped after an explosion on Friday caused a building housing a government canteen to collapse in the Chinese city of Chongqing, according to state media.The blast at 12:10 pm (0410 GMT) was caused by a "suspected gas leak" in a canteen and caused a neighbourhood committee building to collapse, trapping people inside, the state-run People's Daily reported.Authorities have sent around 260 rescue workers and 50 vehicles to the site, state broadcaster CCTV reported, adding that the cause of the blast was under investigation.A video posted on the official Weibo page of China's fire department showed orange-clad workers in hard hats climbing through large chunks of rubble.Nine people have been rescued from the site, the department said.Official news agency Xinhua said some injured people had been taken to hospital, without giving further details.Footage posted on social media by CCTV showed smoke and dust billowing from the collapsed building in Wulong district on the outskirts of the southwestern megacity.An eyewitness told state-run Phoenix TV that the blast was "very scary... our windows have all been blown to pieces".Local government officials have set up an "on-site emergency response headquarters" to direct the rescue work and provide medical treatment, People's Daily reported.Gas leaks and explosions are not uncommon in China, due to weak safety standards and corruption among officials tasked with enforcing them.In June, 25 people were killed in a gas blast that ripped through a residential compound and struck a busy two-storey building packed with shoppers.Eight suspects, including the general manager of the company that owned the gas pipe, were detained after the government said "the company's safety management system was unsound".The same month, 18 people were killed and more injured when a fire broke out at a martial arts school, with state media reporting that all the victims were boarding school pupils.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-least-20-trapped-after-blast-causes-building-collapse-in-china-101641545464375.html
07-01-2022||World||How China is keeping to its strict 'zero Covid' strategy||The distressing case of a pregnant Chinese woman miscarrying after a strict lockdown delayed her access to medical treatment has reignited debate over the limits of China's zero-tolerance approach to Covid-19.The country where the coronavirus was first detected in 2019 is now among the last places still hewing to "zero Covid", placing millions under quarantine even as Beijing prepares to host next month's Winter Olympics.- How is China maintaining 'zero Covid'? -China has a formula it calls "dynamic zero" for curbing outbreaks: strict lockdowns and immediate mass testing.Unlike softer lockdowns elsewhere, people in China can be banned from leaving their buildings or forced to remain inside hotel rooms if they are considered high-risk contacts.The historic city of Xi'an, home to the famed Terracotta Warriors, was locked down in December, forcing its 13 million residents indoors after around 150 cases were detected.The similarly sized city of Zhengzhou tested every resident after just 11 cases.International flights are a fraction of pre-pandemic levels with arrivals undergoing strict weeks-long quarantine.Mandatory track-and-trace apps mean close contacts are usually detected and quarantined quickly.- Does it work? -China's official tally since the start of the pandemic -- just over 100,000 -- is a fraction of the record one million cases logged by the US in a single day earlier this month.The official death toll has stayed under 5,000.Although cases from the chaotic initial outbreak in Wuhan in early 2020 are widely believed to have been under-reported, life since then has largely returned to normal."There is still no ability to stop single local cases from appearing, but we have the ability and confidence to quickly extinguish the outbreak when a local case is found," National Health Commission official Liang Wannian told reporters last month.- Who pays the price? -"Zero Covid" comes at a cost.Border areas, especially near Myanmar, have endured almost constant lockdowns and seen an exodus of businesses.Locked-down communities have complained of poor access to food, supplies and medical treatment.Meanwhile, migrant workers have been left stranded from families for months due to onerous travel rules and restrictions.Heavy-handed enforcement has sometimes sparked outrage, such as when health workers beat a corgi to death after the owners were sent to quarantine.Analysts say repeated shutdowns of factories and businesses have contributed to the country's slowdown, despite China being the only major economy to expand in 2020.- Will China ever reopen? -"China certainly has shown it is feasible to continue the zero Covid strategy almost indefinitely," Ben Cowling, an epidemiologist at Hong Kong University, told AFP.The country effectively cut itself off from the world in March 2020 and virtually banned foreigners from entering.Since then, travel restrictions have eased slightly.But international tourism is non-existent and the government has said it will not renew expiring Chinese passports unless the holder has a good reason for travel.The country will not reopen until at least after the upcoming Winter Olympics and Paralympics in Beijing, with the government anxiously guarding the capital and tightening restrictions ahead of the Games.Those who question "zero Covid" have faced a nationalistic backlash.Prominent Chinese medical expert Zhang Wenhong wrote in July that countries must eventually "learn to coexist with the virus" -- prompting attacks from online trolls.- What will happen if China opens up? -Peking University researchers have warned China could suffer a "colossal outbreak" that would overwhelm its medical system if it relaxed restrictions to a similar level as Europe and the US.But Ivan Hung, an infectious diseases expert at Hong Kong University, said second-generation vaccines targeting the Delta and Omicron variants -- as well as close to 100 per cent vaccination rates -- could ward off a disaster.In this scenario, "it's likely that Covid will turn out to be similar to influenza," Hung said.But letting the virus in could be risky for President Xi Jinping as he seeks a third term in October after billing himself as a leader that will always keep China safe."When it does come, the transition may not be easy because Chinese society has gotten quite used to a low level of transmission," University of Oxford's Thomas Hale told AFP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/how-china-is-keeping-to-its-strict-zero-covid-strategy-101641533501988.html
07-01-2022||World||Brazil's Bolsonaro slams health regulator for approving Covid-19 vaccines for kids||Brazil president Jair Bolsonaro criticized the country's health regulator Anvisa on Thursday for authorizing the vaccination of children aged 5 to 11 years against Covid-19, one day after his health minister unveiled plans to inoculate that age group.Bolsonaro, who has bragged about not being vaccinated himself and has consistently cast doubt on the efficacy and safety of coronavirus vaccines, said in a radio interview that he had not heard of children dying of Covid-19 and repeated that his daughter Laura, 11, would not be vaccinated.Bolsonaro said vaccines could have side effects on children, but gave no evidence. Anvisa and health regulators around the world have found that Covid-19 vaccines are safe for those from age 5 and up."Are you going to vaccinate your child when the possibility of dying is almost zero? What is behind this? What are the interests of vaccine maniacs?" Bolsonaro stated.The Ministry of Health announced on Wednesday that it had bought 20 million pediatric vaccines developed by Pfizer Inc and voluntary vaccination of children 5 to 11 years old would begin by the end of the month.In a social media broadcast later on Thursday, Bolsonaro stressed that the vaccination was not obligatory. "No town mayor or state governor can prevent a child from going to school for not being vaccinated," he said.Bolsonaro warned that Pfizer has not assumed responsibility for any side effects the vaccine could have in children and said parents should immediately seek a doctor if their child developed chest pains or a shortage of breath.The Brazilian Society of Pediatrics rejected that view and said in a statement that Brazilians should fear the virus and not the vaccines, which can save lives at any age.Anvisa approved the Pfizer vaccine for children on Dec. 16, drawing heated criticism from people opposed to vaccines and the president, who suggested that children only be vaccinated with a doctor's prescription.The ministry dropped the idea as impractical. Requiring a written prescription would discourage vaccination at a time when the more transmissible coronavirus variant Omicron is starting to spread in Brazil, health experts said at a public hearing.According to the national council of state health secretaries, at least 300 children aged 5 to 11 had died in Brazil from Covid-19 by the start of December.Brazil's Army differed from the president this week on how to deal with Covid-19. It ordered soldiers to get vaccinated, wear masks and maintain social distance and warned them against spreading false news about the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazils-bolsonaro-slams-health-regulator-for-approving-covid-19-vaccines-for-kids-101641531453085.html
07-01-2022||World||Australia's most populous state to reinstate some Covid-19 curbs - report||Australia's New South Wales state, home to Sydney and a third of Australia's 25 million population will reinstate restrictions including shutting nightclubs and cancelling non-urgent surgeries because of record coronavirus infections, the Sydney Morning Herald reported on Friday.The measures are expected to be approved by the state government's economic recovery committee on Friday in a bid to ease pressure on hospitals, the report said, citing senior government sources.Cafes and restaurants will have capacity limits and all patrons must be seated while singing and dancing at pubs banned, the newspaper said. Restrictions will be branded as safety measures rather than a lockdown.New South Wales (NSW), the worst affected Australian state from the fast-spreading Omicron coronavirus variant, has registered record daily infections over the past few days overwhelming its testing facilities, emergency services and hospitals.People admitted to NSW hospitals with Covid-19 have nearly doubled to a record 1,609 in just over a week. There were around 150 daily cases in the state in late November when the first Omicron case was detected. That shot up to 35,000 on Thursday.NSW Premier Dominic Perrottet had steadfastly refused to bring back restrictions, dismissing calls by doctors and health workers, saying it was time to live with Covid-19.The Premier's office did not immediately respond to a request seeking comment on the Herald report.Neighbouring Victoria state a day earlier brought back restrictions that would limit people at pubs and clubs.Having successfully kept a lid on its Covid-19 caseload through snap lockdowns, tough border rules and strict social distancing rules earlier in the pandemic, Australia is suffering infections rates far higher than elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region. Authorities have warned those numbers would rise further over the next several weeks.Australia has recorded more than 684,000 cases and 2,301 deaths since the pandemic began, with more than half of those infections reported over the past two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australias-most-populous-state-to-reinstate-some-covid-19-curbs-report-101641528006468.html
07-01-2022||World||‘Absolutely wrong, counterproductive, mumbo jumbo’: UK's Johnson calls out anti-vaxxers||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Thursday hit out at anti-vaccine groups who spread "mumbo jumbo" on social media but ruled out the UK following some European countries in making Covid-19 vaccination a mandatory legal requirement.Speaking during a visit to a vaccination centre in Northampton in eastern England, Johnson said the UK will maintain a “voluntary approach” to its vaccination programme as opposed to "coercion". However, he condemned anti-vaxxers for spreading complete nonsense and urged people to take up their booster doses to protect against the surging Omicron variant."They (anti-vaxxers) are totally wrong and I think it is time that I, the government, call them out on what they are doing,” Johnson told reporters."It is absolutely wrong, it is totally counterproductive, and the stuff they're putting out on social media is completely mumbo jumbo… You haven't heard me say that before, because I think it's important we have a voluntary approach in this country and we're going to keep a voluntary approach,” he said.Italy is the latest country to make vaccination compulsory for some, with all over-50s now being told to have a jab. Earlier, Austria was among the first countries to make vaccination a legal requirement.Johnson said while Omicron is milder than previous variants, "the pressures on hospitals are clear". He pointed out that the National Health Service (NHS) was under "huge pressure" at the moment and that it was a “tragedy” that some people were refusing what would keep them safe and out of hospital."What a tragedy that we've got all this pressure on the NHS, all the difficulties that our doctors and nurses are experiencing, and we've got people out there spouting complete nonsense about vaccination,” he said."The saddest words in the English language are 'too late'. When you're in ICU and you haven't been vaccinated, sadly it's too late to get vaccinated, so get boosted now," he added.NHS England announced that around 90 per cent of over-50s have now received their third top up booster dose of a Covid-19 vaccine and that millions of appointments remain available for anyone yet to get boosted."It is brilliant to see so many people getting their vital top-up dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, with 90 per cent of those eligible aged 50 and over now boosted, and more than 29 million boosters given in total,” said Dr Emily Lawson, head of the NHS Covid-19 vaccination programme."Vaccination gives the best protection for you and your loved ones against coronavirus, so if you’re eligible – please get boosted now,” she said.Meanwhile, the government hopes that the peak of the Omicron variant wave will be hit quite soon after the UK recorded over 190,000 daily infections. The requirement for a confirmatory PCR test to follow a positive lateral flow test conducted on a home testing kit has been scrapped in an attempt to relieve some of the pressures on testing laboratories and also to address staff absences by containing self-isolation for milder cases to seven days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/absolutely-wrong-counterproductive-mumbo-jumbo-uk-s-johnson-calls-out-antivaxxers-101641524459449.html
07-01-2022||World||In response threat, Taliban to recruit suicide bombers in armed forces||The Taliban will officially recruit suicide bombers to become part of the army as the militant group tries to contain its biggest security threat from rival Islamic State since forming government in Afghanistan four months ago.Before sweeping into power last year, the Taliban used suicide bombers as a key weapon to attack and defeat US and Afghan troops in the 20-year war.Now the group wants to reform and organise the scattered squads of suicide bombers across the country to operate under a single unit and protect Afghanistan, said the Taliban’s deputy spokesman Bilal Karimi.Their main target now would be the local offshoot of the Islamic State, which has carried out at least five major attacks as the Taliban looked to consolidate power after the United States withdrew from Afghanistan in August.Several of those attacks were carried out by suicide bombers. “The special forces that include martyrdom seekers will be used for more sophisticated and special operations,” Karimi said.Meanwhile, Taliban regime has said that it will not allow fencing by Pakistan along the Durand Line, amid escalating tensions between the neighbouring countries on the contentious issue of border fencing, a media report said.“We (Taliban) will not allow the fencing anytime, in any form. Whatever they (Pakistan) did before, they did, but we will not allow it anymore. There will be no fencing anymore,” Mawllawi Sanaullah Sangin, commander of the Taliban, told Afghanistan’s Tolo News on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-response-threat-taliban-to-recruit-suicide-bombers-in-armed-forces-101641519626611.html
07-01-2022||World||‘Tsunami’ of new Covid-19 cases clog global health systems, WHO sounds alarm||In view of the rising number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases around the globe, World Health Organisation (WHO) chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus on Thursday said the “tsunami of cases” – driven by the new, highly transmissible Omicron variant – has now started to overwhelm health systems all across the globe.In a new high, a record number of 9.5 million fresh Covid-19 cases were reported globally in the week between December 27, 2021, and January 2, 2022. The weekly epidemiological update issued by the WHO showed that the daily tally of global cases had increased sharply during this duration by 71 per cent as compared to the week prior.The number of new deaths, too, took a 10 per cent hike during this span. This corresponds to just under 9.5 million new cases and over 41,000 new deaths being reported during the last week.Pointing to the sudden surge in global Covid-19 cases, Ghebreyesus said, “Last week, the highest number of Covid-19 cases so far in the pandemic were reported. And we know, for certain, that this is an underestimate of cases because reported numbers do not reflect the backlog of testing around the holidays, the number of positive self-tests not registered, and burdened surveillance systems that miss cases around the world.”“Just like the previous variants, Omicron is hospitalising people and it is killing people,” he added. “In fact, the tsunami of cases is so huge and quick, that it is overwhelming health systems around the world.”Regarding vaccination, the WHO chief said that while the first-generation of Covid-19 vaccines may not be capable of stopping all infections and transmissions, especially in light of emerging new variants, they are still highly effective in reducing the number of hospitalisations and deaths.He said the key things to keep in mind, as always, are vaccination, public health social measures, including the wearing of well-fitting masks, distancing, avoiding crowds, and improving and investing in ventilation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tsunami-of-new-covid-19-cases-clog-global-health-systems-who-sounds-the-alarm-101641514076739.html
07-01-2022||World||India joins Quad partners, Japan and South Korea for Sea Dragon exercise||NEW DELHI: India and its partners in the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad along with Canada and South Korea are participating in the multinational exercise Sea Dragon at Guam in the Western Pacific. The exercise, primarily focused on anti-submarine warfare (ASW) training, will involve more than 270 hours of in-flight training and activities ranging from tracking simulated targets to tracking a US Navy submarine. Each event will be graded and the country scoring the highest points will receive the Dragon Belt award. The wargame, being held at Andersen Air Force Base in Guam, includes contingents from the Indian Navy, the US Navy, Royal Australian Air Force, Royal Canadian Air Force, Japan’s Maritime Self-Defense Force and the South Korean Navy. Two P-8A Poseidon maritime patrol aircraft of the US Navy are participating in the drill. During classroom training sessions, pilots and flight officers from all the countries will build plans and discuss tactics incorporating the capabilities and equipment of their nations, the US Pacific Fleet said in a statement. “As [officer-in-charge], I am eager for the opportunity to further develop our partnerships with Australia, Canada, India, Japan, and Korea while at Sea Dragon 2022,” said Lt Cmdr Braz Kennedy, officer-in-charge of the US detachment from Patrol Squadron 47. The Royal Canadian Air Force won the Dragon Belt at last year’s exercise and is defending the title at Sea Dragon 2022. “This exercise is an annual, multi-national high-end ASW training exercise,” said Cmdr Tomoyuki Michiyama, commanding officer of Flight Division 31 of Air Patrol Squadron 3 of Japan’s Maritime Self-Defense Force. “I believe that by conducting a wide range of training, from classroom training on the ground to actual training targeting a submarine, we will be able to improve our tactical skills. In addition, through training, exchange of opinions, and various types of exchanges, we expect to strengthen cooperation and deepen mutual understanding among the participating navies and air forces.” The P-8A Poseidon maritime patrol aircraft will conduct maritime patrols and reconnaissance and theatre outreach operations within the US Pacific Fleet area of operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-joins-quad-partners-japan-and-south-korea-for-sea-dragon-exercise-101641496355667.html
07-01-2022||World||Biden blames Trump for the Capitol riot in a Jan 6 speech||President Joe Biden on Thursday directly and bluntly blamed his predecessor former President Donald Trump for the January 6 insurrection in a speech on its first anniversary and called him a “liar” who had spun a web of lies about his defeat because of his “bruised ego” and because he “values power over principle”.“He’s not just a former president,” Biden said training his sights on his predecessor and adding as he leaned into the microphone, “He’s a defeated former president.” He did not name Trump even once though he referred to him at least 16 times in a speech lasting nearly 25 minutes.President Biden spoke forcefully and bluntly to mark the anniversary of the insurrection by a mob of Trump’s supporters who had attacked US Capitol, home to American congress, on January 6 to prevent a joint sitting of lawmakers from certifying Biden’s election as the next president, a routine practice. He spoke from the Statuary Hall, a portion of the US Capitol building that had been ransacked by the rioters that day.“For the first time in our history, a president had not just lost an election,” Biden said focusing on Trump’s role in the insurrection. “He tried to prevent the peaceful transfer of power as a violent mob reached the Capitol.”The president then slammed his predecessor for doing nothing as the rioters menaced the building, kicking down doors, marching through the halls of the seat of US democracy with the flag of the separatist Confederacy, which, he reminded listeners, did not happen even during the Civil War.“We didn’t see a former president, who had just rallied the mob to attack, sitting in the private dining room off the Oval Office in the White House, watching it all on television and doing nothing,” the American president said.He added: “A former president United States of America has created and spread a web of lies about the 2020 election. He’s done so because he values power over principle because he sees his own interest is more important than his country’s interests than America’s interest. And because his bruised ego matters more to him than our democracy.”Vice-president Kamala Harris, who introduced the president at the event, said, “On January 6th, we all saw what our nation would look like if the forces who seek to dismantle our democracy are successful. The lawlessness, the violence, the chaos. What was at stake then, and now, is the right to have our future decided the way the Constitution prescribes it: by we, the people -- all the people.”Trump said in a statement: “Biden is working hard to try and deflect the incompetent job he is doing, and has done, on the horrible Afghanistan withdrawal (surrender), the Borders, Covid, Inflation, loss of Energy Independence, and much more. Everything he touches turns to failure. That’s what you get when you have a rigged Election.”Trump’s role in inciting the insurrection, which the former president has still not condemned, is coming under increasing scrutiny and Attorney General Merrick Garland’s remarks on Wednesday, the eve of the anniversary, are being seen as an indicator that he may not escape legal jeopardy altogether.“The Justice Department remains committed to holding all January 6th perpetrators, at any level, accountable under law — whether they were present that day or were otherwise criminally responsible for the assault on our democracy,” Garland said, adding, “We will follow the facts wherever they lead.”Key takeaways from this remark were the use of certain phrases from the usually careful and mild-manner attorney general — such as “perpetrators, at any level” and “whether they were present that day” or not. Trump had spoken to the mob and sent them on their way saying he will walk with them but then headed back to the White House and, as Biden recounted, he had watched the violence unfold from his office.Trump did eventually call for calm and urge the rioters to leave, but that he did hours after and under sustained pressure from his aides, including his daughter Ivanka Trump.Trump’s role is also being examined by a select committee of the House of Representatives, which is investigating the insurrection and has heard testimonies from several of the former president’s close aides. Former chief of staff Mark Meadows first agreed to testify and then flipped, but not before he had handed over thousands of documents that shed a lot of light on Trump’s role.The US department of justice is also investigating the attack as a criminal act. Up till Wednesday, it had arrested and charged more than 725 defendants, in nearly all 50 states and the District of Columbia. Approximately 40 defendants have been charged with conspiracy to obstruct a congressional proceeding and/or to obstruct law enforcement. Seventeen defendants are already scheduled to go to trial for their role in felony conspiracies, and more could follow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-blames-trump-for-the-capitol-riot-in-a-jan-6-speech-101641491014975.html
07-01-2022||India||RSS Nagpur HQ on alert after terrorist admits to conducting recce, say police||A high alert has been sounded at the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh headquarters in Nagpur on Friday , and the city police have also banned the flying of drones near the facility. The alert was sounded after the recent arrest in Kashmir of a terrorist believed to be affiliated with the Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) terror group, who, during interrogation, spoke of some members of the group conducting a reconnaissance of some buildings in Nagpur. Nagpur police commissioner Amitesh Kumar confirmed detention of the terrorist, who is a local Kashmiri, and visited RSS headquarters with senior police personnel on Friday to take stock of the security arrangements. Kumar said that security has been increased at the RSS headquarters and Hedgewar Bhavan at Reshimbagh , both places where a recce is believed to have been carried out. He said that there is round-the-clock security in and around the area. All vehicles and persons around these installations are thoroughly checked, he added, but refused to provide more details citing that the matter was “sensitive”. A senior police official who asked not to be named said it is believed that the terrorists has stayed in the city for a few days in December. A case has been registered in this regard and the Nagpur Crime Branch has formed a team to locate the terrorists. The young terrorist arrested in Kashmir admitted that he too surveyed the area, but back in July 2021. There are fears that the attacks could come around Republic Day. In 2006, three JeM terrorists equipped with AK-47s and hand grenades were gunned down by security forces when they tried to attack the RSS headquarters. The RSS, is the ideological parent of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Meanwhile, the city police also banned the photography and the use of drones around the RSS headquarters at Mahal and the Dr Hedgewar Smruti Bhavan, Reshimbagh in view of the threat. 
07-01-2022||India||Different laws for religions is detrimental: Centre tells Delhi high court||Different personal laws followed by people of various religions are detrimental to the nation’s unity, the Centre told the Delhi high court while supporting the need for a Uniform Civil Code (UCC) in India.“Citizens belonging to different religions and denominations follow different property and matrimonial laws, which is an affront to the nation’s unity,” stated the affidavit filed in the high court around a week ago.Citing Article 44 of the Constitution, which provides that the state shall endeavour to secure UCC throughout the country, the Centre maintained that the purpose of this provision is to strengthen the object of “secular democratic republic, ” as envisaged in the Preamble.“This provision is provided to effect integration of India by bringing communities on the common platform on matters which are at present governed by diverse personal laws,” the affidavit, filed before a bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh, said.It added that Article 44 divests religion from social relations and personal law while propounding the concept of common law for all citizens in matters of marriage, divorce, succession, maintenance, custody, guardianship of children, inheritance, succession and adoption.The affidavit, filed through the Union law ministry, stated that considering the importance and sensitivity of the UCC, it was referred to the Law Commission of India that favoured a wider consultation in an August 2018 report.As and when the final report of the Law Commission is received, the government said, a consultation will ensue with all the stakeholders.It is important to note here that even though the Centre has told the high court that it is awaiting a report from the Commission, the Centre has not re-constituted the Commission after the retirement of its last chairman, justice BS Chauhan, in August 2018.The response was filed in a plea by BJP leader Ashwini Upadhyay, seeking to formulate the Code (UCC) to promote unity, fraternity and national integration by citing Article 44.The plea relied upon a 1995 Supreme Court judgment in Sarla Mudgal Vs Union of India, where the top court asked the Centre to look into the formation of the UCC.In July 2021, in a separate judgment, justice Prathiba M Singh of the Delhi high court said that UCC should not remain a mere hope in the Constitution while lamenting “various complexities in the society due to differences in personal laws.Dealing with a plea involving the applicability of the Hindu Marriage Act (HMA), 1955 in respect of parties belonging to the Meena community, justice Singh had said that there is a requirement for such a Code - ‘common to all’, which would enable uniform principles being applied in respect of aspects such as marriage, divorce, succession etc, so that settled principles, safeguards and procedures can be laid down.Meanwhile, in its affidavit filed in Upadhyay’s case, the central government, through its standing counsel Ajay Digpaul, opposed the petition, saying that UCC is a matter of public policy and that no direction in this regard can be issued by any court.It also submitted that the Parliament exercises sovereign power to enact laws, and no outside power or authority can issue a direction to enact a particular piece of legislation.“This is a matter of policy for the elected representatives of the people to decide...to have a legislation or not is a policy decision, and the court cannot give any direction to the Executive,” the affidavit read.In his plea, Upadhyay contended that the government has “failed” to put in place a uniform civil code, as provided under Article 44 of the Constitution.The plea also said that Goa has had a common civil code since 1965, which applies to all of its residents, and it is the only state to have it as of now.The petition has sought directions for the Centre “to constitute a judicial commission or a high-level expert committee to draft the uniform civil code in the spirit of Article 44 of the Constitution within three months while considering the best practices of all religions and sects, civil laws of developed countries and international conventions”.
07-01-2022||India||Punjab submits report, FIR doesn’t cite security breach||Punjab submitted a preliminary status report detailing the sequence of events leading up to the security breach that held up Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s cavalcade for 15-20 minutes and also filed a first information report (FIR) against unknown people, officials said on Friday. The report, submitted by chief secretary Anirudh Tewari on Thursday night to the Union home ministry, described the gathering of protesters that led to the blockade as “spontaneous”, and suggested that enough efforts were made to clear the road, one of the officials cited above said on condition of anonymity. But the FIR, registered at Ferozepur’s Kulgarhi police station on Thursday evening, made no mention of the security breach or the obstruction to the PM’s convoy. HT has seen a copy the report. The FIR was filed under the bailable section 283 of the Indian Penal Code (obstructing public ways), that carries a maximum penalty of ₹200. It mentioned that a police party reached the highway blockade spot after 2.30pm on Wednesday, almost half an hour after the PM’s motorcade left the spot.Top leaders of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Krantikari) have claimed responsibility for the incident with its leader, Surjit Singh Phul, saying about 1,000 activists blocked the road at 11 am on Wednesday. But the FIR made no mention of this. In his report, Tiwari assured the Centre that a detailed probe was ordered by the Punjab government, a second official said on condition of anonymity. A two-member panel led by retired high court judge, justice Mehtab Singh Gill, and principal secretary, home affairs and justice, Anurag Verma, are looking into the lapses. The panel will submit its report in three days, and the outcome will be shared with home ministry immediately, the status report added, according to the second official.The preliminary report was drafted with inputs from top state police officers who were in charge of the PM’s security, and senior Punjab government functionaries in Chandigarh. On Friday, the Supreme Court asked the central and Punjab governments to suspend the proceedings of their respective inquiry committees into incident until its next order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-submits-report-fir-doesn-t-cite-security-breach-101641579947455.html
07-01-2022||India||Home quarantine now for all international arrivals||All international travellers arriving in India from January 11 will need to quarantine at home for a week, the Union government said on Friday in its revised guidelines, updated in an attempt to slow the further import of Omicron variant infections.India already has designated several countries and regions at-risk, including all of Europe, from where passengers will continue to take an RT-PCR test on arrival, be allowed to leave the airport only if they are negative, and home quarantine for seven days. Those from the other countries will be allowed to leave, but will have to quarantine for a week and take a test at the end of that period.According to the document, “the existing guidelines have been revised in view of reporting of a new variant of Sars-CoV-2 (B.1.1.529; named Omicron) which has been classified as Variant of Concern by the World Health Organization”.The updated rule, requiring mandatory home quarantine and an RT-PCR for all arrivals on Day 8 -- irrespective of the place of origin of the journey -- will come into effect on January 11.“Travellers shall also be required to upload results of repeat RT-PCR test for COVID-19 done on the eighth day on Air Suvidha portal (to be monitored by the respective States/UTs,” the order stated.“If negative, they will further self-monitor their health for next 7 days. However, if such travellers are tested positive, their samples should be further sent for genomic testing at INSACOG laboratory network. They shall be managed at an isolation facility and treated as per laid down standard protocol including contact tracing,” the order added. The health ministry also asked airlines to inform passengers originating or transiting from “at-risk” countries that they will undergo post-arrival testing, quarantine if tested negative and will have to undergo stringent isolation protocols if tested positive. It also asked the airlines to provide dos and don’ts along with tickets to the travellers. The health ministry expanded the list of regions classified as at-risk, which now have 19 in all, up from around a dozen.The government also specified to the airlines that they will allow boarding to only those passengers who have filled in all the information in the self-declaration form on the Air Suvidha portal and uploaded the negative RT-PCR test report.Experts said the new rule may have come too late given that community transmission has already begun in India.“Since here are clear signs of community transmission (of the variant in India), these rules may have been more effective earlier; at the start, as travellers brought the variant into the country. It would probably have made some difference then,” said Jugal Kishore, head, community medicine department, Safdarjung Hospital.The 19 at-risk regions are Europe (including the UK), South Africa,Brazil, Botswana, China, Ghana, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Tanzania, Hong Kong, Israel, Congo, Ethiopia, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Nigeria, Tunisia, Zambia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-quarantine-now-forall-international-arrivals-101641579767608.html
07-01-2022||India||India’s true Covid toll could be over 3 million: Study||The actual number of people who have died in India due to Covid-19 in the first two waves of the infection may be over three million, a new analysis of three large databases has shown, adding new evidence that the official toll may be a significant undercount. Between June 1, 2020, and July 1, 2021, India recorded around 400,000 deaths across the country. This period includes the first wave and the devastating second wave of infections triggered by the Delta variant. The new report, published by the journal Science early on Friday, estimates the true toll in this period was between 3.1 million and 3.4 million, with roughly 2.7 million of these happening in the April-July period, when the second wave tore through the country.The analysis was led by researchers from University of Toronto’s Centre for Global Health Research and was based on a national survey as well as data from two government databases – the Health Management Information System of the health ministry to report deaths by states, and the Civil Registration System that records death and birth certifications.The survey was carried out by CVoter on a nationally representative sample of 0.14million people, while the other two databases gave a picture of all-cause mortality, or deaths due to any reason.“COVID constituted 29% of deaths from June 2020-July 2021, corresponding to 3.2million deaths, of which 2.7million occurred in April-July 2021 (when Covid doubled all-cause mortality). A sub-survey of 57,000 adults showed similar temporal increases in mortality with Covid and non-Covid deaths peaking similarly,” the authors said in their report.The HMIS data analysis showed that when compared to pre-pandemic period, all-cause mortality was 27% higher in 200,000 health facilities and the CRS data showed a 26% increase in civil registration of deaths in ten states. “Both increases occurred mostly in 2021. The analyses find that India’s cumulative COVID deaths by September 2021 were 6-7 times higher than reported officially,” said the report, the lead author of which was Prabhat Jha, the director of the Centre for Global Health Research.This implies that most of the missed deaths were during the second nationwide wave last year, when the Delta variant ravaged India’s health care infrastructure. Reports and anecdotes by citizens at the time spoke of hospitals full to their capacity, turning away patients in need of critical life-saving attention. The country also reported an acute medical oxygen crisis. This is not the first report to suggest actual Covid-19 deaths in the country may be manifolds higher. Bhramar Mukherjee, the chair of biostatistics and professor of epidemiology at University of Michigan’s School of Public Health said the new report was landmark and illustrates what experts in her field have been saying all along: “official numbers simply don’t add up”. “This distortion affects public perception of the true impact of the disease as well as resource prioritisation. This study is particularly strong because it sheds light on the actual Covid deaths which are a part of the total excess deaths which most studies on India have focused on,” she said. Mukherjee and her colleagues too estimated the true toll of Covid-19 in India in a study published in November, 2021 in the journal Sage. “Our meta-analysis showed the estimates hovered between 1.8 to 4.9 million and Dr Jha et al (the new report) estimates are right in the middle of that confidence interval,” she added.“In the US roughly 72% of total excess deaths is attributed to Covid during 2020 whereas in India it was estimated at 29%. This difference points out that the cost of Covid is not just Covid. Much of the excess all-cause mortality is indirectly driven by Covid and the true toll of Covid is of far greater magnitude,” she said. An analysis of deaths in Tamil Nadu published in the journal Lancet in December, 2021 by UC Berkeley researchers, a second analysis based on CRS data and Consumer Pyramid Household Survey published as a working paper by Center for Global Development in July, 2021 and a pre-print by University of Chicago and University of California-based researchers found similar under-reporting.Most of these assessments are based on how all deaths have soared, as they did in other countries too, compared to other years – with the difference being almost certainly due to the pandemic. In the latest Science study, this has been corroborated by the CVoter survey.
07-01-2022||India||NEET-PG counselling to start under current rules||The Supreme Court on Friday allowed the Centre to go ahead with counselling for NEET-PG and undergraduate medical courses by upholding the government decision to introduce 27% OBC quota within the all-India quota (AIQ) seats and for this year, and permitted 10% reservation for economically weaker section (EWS) among the general category to be applied based on the criteria laid down in January 2019.However, the Court said it will review the criteria for EWS reservations as laid down by a three-member committee headed by former finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey when petitions challenging the introduction of EWS quota in Neet-PG AIQ seats by a July 2021 circular are heard in March.The interim order by the court was necessitated after the Centre sought an urgent hearing in view of a protest by resident doctors demanding counselling at the earliest. First-year postgraduate (PG) medical students could not be admitted because the process was halted, causing a cascading effect on the medical workforce since first-year PG resident doctors constitute about 33% of the total strength at government hospitals.The resident doctors’ association also intervened in the proceedings, and demanded early counselling in national interest since Covid-19 cases were rising, and the need for adequate staffing was heightened.A bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and AS Bopanna acknowledged the urgency. “The validity of 27% OBC quota is upheld in NEET-PG and NEET-UG courses in the AIQ seats,” the bench said.On July 29, 2021, the Centre had introduced 27% OBC quota and 10% EWS quota in 15% AIQ seats in NEET-UG and 50% AIQ seats in NEET-PG.On the EWS quota, the Court raised several doubts over the past few months -- including whether an income cap of ₹8 lakh per annum can be applied uniformly throughout the country without cost of living in different urban and rural pockets being taken into account; and that this exceeded the permitted 50% quota cap prescribed by the Supreme Court in its 1992 Indra Sawhney judgment.“The resolution of this issue will take some time. We accept the recommendation of the Pandey Committee that the January 17, 2019 notification be applied for the current academic year so that admissions are not dislocated. Counselling be conducted as per July 29, 2021 order,” the bench said. It added, however: “The validity of criteria would prospectively be subject to the final decision in these petitions.”The petitions will now be taken up in the third week of March.Every year an estimated 45,000 candidates are inducted as postgraduate doctors through the NEET PG examination. The petitions before the Court were filed by doctors who appeared for NEET-PG 2021 and objected to the July 29 order taking away nearly 3,500 seats (2,500 for OBC and 1,000 for EWS).“We are thankful to the Supreme Court and MoHFW for taking note of the grievance of resident doctors. As earlier, as an association of resident doctors, who are working at ground level, FORDA will keep raising the issues of resident doctors and will strive to improve the healthcare system of the country,” the Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association (FORDA) said in a statement on Friday.FORDA had appealed to the Court on Thursday to hold counselling as resident doctors constituted the backbone of medical workforce across the country. With the first-year doctors yet to join, almost 33% of this workforce was not available at a crucial time when Covid cases were on the rise and many among the resident doctors were getting infected with the disease. In four months, the final year PG students would pass out, creating a huge shortfall of doctors.The NEET counselling schedule is tentative.The resident doctors had gone on strike protesting the delay in NEET-PG counseling. Their 14-day strike ended last Friday after an assurance was given by the Union health ministry to come out with the NEET-PG counselling schedule soon after the hearing in the Court on January 6. FORDA had even demanded cancellation of the FIRs registered against doctors after they were manhandled by the Delhi Police while marching to the Supreme Court as part of their protest. This demand was also accepted by the government.“It is unfortunate that to get the counselling expedited, young doctors had to strive vociferously for four months on the streets and succumb to police brutality . Hope the ministry will expedite the admission process and enable the classes to be started with in two weeks,” said Dr JA Jayalal, former president of the Indian Medical Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/neetpg-counselling-to-start-under-current-rules-101641579708112.html
07-01-2022||India||SPG sounded alert to Punjab before PM visit||The Special Protection Group tasked with protecting the Prime Minister sent to Punjab Police a detailed note on “threat perception” listing the “grave threat” PM Narendra Modi faces from various terrorist outfits.The report has surfaced two days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi cut short his Punjab visit over a security breach on his way to Ferozepur district on Wednesday. HT has reviewed the contents of the note.“Shri Narendra Modi, PM India faces a grave threat from Indian Mujahideen (IM)/Ex-Students’ Islamic Movement of India (Ex-SIMI), Kashmiri and Pakistani based terrorist outfits including Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), Jaish-e Mohammed (JeM), Harkat-ul-Mujahideen (HuM), Harkat-ul-Jihad-e-Islami (HuJI), Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) and Hizb-ul-Mujahedeen(HM) and other Pak based Sikh militants,” the note said.The Punjab government has downplayed the breach, claiming it was caused by a last minute change of route, something the Centre has countered. Modi’s convoy was blocked for around 20 minutes atop a flyover before it was decided to call off the visit. The convoy turned around and headed for Bhatinda airport from where the PM flew back to Delhi.The note specifically mentioned the threat of drones. “..recent inputs related to use of drones by Pak(istani) agencies for dropping arms/ammunition inside Indian territory has further raised security apprehensions...” it added.Such threat perception notes are part of the Advance Security Liaison (ASL), which is done prior to PM’s every trip, in which every aspect is detailed. This note is also part of PM’s Ferozepur tour on January 5. The ASL was done on January 1 & 2 in collaboration with the Punjab Police and IB by the SPG.A former SPG officer, who wished not to be named, said “all direct/indirect threats issued by various persons and terror organisations to the PM or events which could cause security problems are taken from state intelligence units, local special branches, Intelligence Bureau, Research & Analysis Wing (RAW) and they are collated for action before the travel so that there is no breach”.Recalling instances such as an Improvised Explosive Device (IED) blast in Ferozepur and an adjoining district in September and the recovery of a tiffin bomb in Ferozepur village, the note said that smuggling of explosives from Pakistan is prevalent in the area.The note further said the Prime Minister also faces a threat from Left Wing Extremists and remnants of Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) cadres and their collaborators.The note also added that Pakistan-based militant leaders Wadhawa Singh Babbar, Paramjit Singh Panjawar, Ranjit Singh Neeta, Lakhbir SinghRhode have been trying to revive militancy in Punjab by sending hardware including RDX.The note also raised the prospect of a protest by farmers during the PM’s visit.It also pointed out that some leaders of Samyukt Kisan Morcha declared that they would “gherao” (picket) the Prime Minister on his visit to Fireozepur on January 5. “Some sort of demonstration/agitation cannot be ruled out on the way to Hussainiwala where these farmer unions have their stronghold,” the report predicted. The PM’s convoy was blocked on the way to Hussainiwala.The note also said that Sikhs For Justice’s Gurpatwant Singh Pannu has been provoking Sikh youth for “mischievous things against BJP government and PM Modi in the lure of monetary consideration”.On Wednesday, the blockade that caused the termination of the PM’s visit was led by members of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Krantikari), one of the 32 farm organisations that were part of the 14-month-long protests against the three laws that were eventually repealed.The Centre, BJP, security experts, and former police officers all stressed the dangerous precedent set by the incident, with both the Union government and the BJP pointing to lapses by the Punjab police and the state government, and alleging that dirty politics was at play.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spgsounded-alert-to-punjab-before-pm-visit-101641579707464.html
07-01-2022||India||Regions near international borders will soon get 4G connectivity: Arunachal CM||GUWAHATI: Arunachal Pradesh chief minister Pema Khandu on Thursday said that all regions near international borders of the state will soon have 4G connectivity. Addressing public meetings in Taksing, Gelemo and Nacho in Upper Subansiri district, which shares its border with China, Khandu highlighted the importance of civilian population in the border areas to “deter enemy’s claim on our territory”. Arunachal Pradesh has 160 km border with Bhutan in the west, 1,080 km border with China in the north and northeast and 440 km border with Myanmar to the east.“The country has made a departure from the earlier policy of discouraging development near the LAC (Line of Actual Control). The government now is focused on speedy development of the border regions by constructing roads up to the border, and building of other vital infrastructures,” Khandu said, according to a statement issued by his office. “It is because of such aggressive stance taken by PM Narendra Modi that the roads are reaching places like Taksing and other remote border areas in Arunachal, which was earlier un-thought of. Regions near international borders in Arunachal will soon be connected with 4G mobile connectivity,” he added. Highlighting the importance of the presence of the civilian population in the border areas, the chief minister said they should be able to move freely and to take up activities for sustenance near the LAC, which will help deter enemy’s claim on our territory. Khandu said in Tawang district, which also shares border with China, activities like yak rearing, tourism and pilgrimage centres are being developed right at the border, which aids in maintaining vigil at the LAC. Underlining the importance of civilian-army bonhomie, he said the two should team up together to defend the country’s international borders. For building harmony, he stressed on joint celebration of important festivals and events by the public and the defence forces. 
07-01-2022||India||Uttarakhand high court stays new mining rules, issues notice to state govt||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand high court has stayed the new mining rules (Uttarakhand Minor-Minerals (Concession) (Amendment) Rules, 2021) notified by the state government on October 28 last year. The court has also issued notices to state government, director geology and mining unit (under industries department), district mining officer Nainital and sub-divisional magistrate Nainital. The respondents have been directed to reply to the notices within four weeks. The division bench of acting chief justice SK Mishra and Justice Alok Kumar Verma gave these directions on Thursday while hearing a petition filed by Nainital-based Satyendra Kumar Tomar in December last year. The petitioner said: “The notification is an attempt to indulgingly convert state mining policy of competitive bidding into a mutual consent cum recommendation.” According to the petition, the notification was violative of Article 14, 19(1)(g) and 21 of the Constitution of India, as it provides for allotment of mining leases by way of recommendatory procedure rather than by way of competitive bidding in total disregard of the State Mining Policy of 2017. “Despite issuance of another office on November 10, 2021 by the state government, which provides for a proper competitive e-tender/e-bidding even on affected abadi (residential) and agricultural land, mining interests purely on the basis of recommendations are still being handed out arbitrarily to vested interests on private lands”, the petition added. Suhaas Ratna Joshi, counsel of the petitioner said according to the new rules, “for the purpose of development of land in the hills and plains of Uttarakhand, the ordinary soil that comes out, when the hill are cut, basement is excavated or the levelling of the land is done, can be transferred to the plot of the same private land or to any other plot, then it will not come under the category of mining. And thus, there will be no obligation of Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) in respect of the above category. If the ordinary soil is transported from the plot of private land to any other place for commercial use, then the said person will have to pay the royalty at the rates specified for the time being as mentioned in the First Schedule of the Rules”. 
07-01-2022||India||India, China LAC talks likely on January 12: Official||India and China are expected to hold the next round of talks between senior military commanders on January 12 to take forward disengagement at key friction points in the Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), people familiar with the matter said on Friday. The upcoming talks are likely to focus on disengagement at Hot Spring, one of the main friction points in the military standoff, which began in May 2020 and has taken bilateral relations to an all-time low. The talks on January 12 are expected to be held at Chushul on the Indian side of the LAC as the last round was held on the Chinese side. The 13th and the most recent round of talks between corps commanders of the two sides were held at the Chushul-Moldo border meeting point on October 10 last year and ended without any breakthrough. Since then, the Indian side has made several proposals for the 14th round of talks along with agenda items, but the Chinese side’s response has not been consistent, the people cited above said. The Indian side has been maintaining that all friction points between Depsang and Chumar should be collectively tackled in the military talks to ensure comprehensive disengagement and de-escalation in the Ladakh sector, but this has not been agreed to by the Chinese side. The two sides have done considerable work on addressing differences at Hot Spring, and the Indian side was hopeful of disengagement at this friction point at the last round of talks. However, the talks on October 10 were not attended by the Chinese corps commander, and he was represented by a deputy who contended he didn’t have the authority to make a final decision, the people said. Following the talks on October 10, the Indian Army had said in a statement that it made “constructive suggestions for resolving the remaining areas but the Chinese side was not agreeable and also could not provide any forward-looking proposals”. After the last meeting of the India-China Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs on November 18, the Indian side had said the 14th round of military talks should be held at “an early date to achieve the objective of complete disengagement from all the friction points along the LAC...in accordance with the existing bilateral agreements and protocols”. At the external affairs ministry’s media briefing on Thursday, spokesperson Arindam Bagchi referred to China’s recent action of renaming 15 locations in Arunachal Pradesh and said: “We hope that instead of engaging in such antics, China will work constructively with us to resolve the outstanding friction points in areas along the western sector of the LAC in India-China border areas.” The two sides withdrew frontline troops at Pangong Lake and Gogra last year after several rounds of talks, but there has been no headway in disengagement at other friction points since August 2021. India has linked the normalisation of overall ties with China to the resolution of the standoff. Tens of thousands of Indian and Chinese troops have dug in for the second successive winter in the Ladakh sector, with no immediate signs of an end to the standoff that resulted in the first fatalities along the LAC since 1975. Twenty Indian soldiers and at least four Chinese troops were killed in a brutal clash at Galwan Valley in June 2020. 
07-01-2022||India||'Mutual decision': Sonu Sood on stepping down as Punjab state icon||Bollywood actor Sonu Sood on Wednesday said that he has "voluntarily" stepped down from the post of a "state icon" of Punjab. "This decision was mutually taken by me and the Election Commission in light of my family members contesting in Punjab Assembly elections," he said in a tweet."Like all good things, this journey has come to an end too. I've voluntarily stepped down as the State Icon of Punjab. This decision was mutually taken by me and EC in light of my family member contesting in Punjab Assembly Elections. I wish them luck for future endeavours," his tweet read.
07-01-2022||India||As India breaches 1 lakh-mark in daily Covid cases, restrictions brought back | 10 points||India on Friday recorded over 1 lakh fresh Covid-19 infections after seven months, signalling that the surge that was being predicted has already set in. Several states, including Karnataka and Delhi, will see a weekend lockdown starting from this Saturday, Sunday, the first during the ongoing surge of the pandemic in India. The Centre has also imposed some additional restrictions on international travellers making 7-day home quarantine mandatory for all people coming to India from abroad.Here are the top 10 updates of Covid-19 situation in India:1. Delhi on Friday recorded 17,335 fresh Covid cases, the highest single-day rise since May 8, and nine deaths while the positivity rate mounted to 17.73 per cent, according to data shared by the city health department.Weekend & nights curfew in place in these states as India sees major Covid spike: Check details here2. Maharashtra on Friday recorded 40,925 new coronavirus cases, 4,660 more than the previous day. The state also reported 20 new deaths, the health department said. Half the new cases were reported in Mumbai. No new cases of the Omicron variant were recorded on Friday.3. Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said all coronavirus cases in the state will be treated as Omicron cases. The chief minister said the third wave of the pandemic has hit the state from January 1.4. The Karnataka government on Friday said it may soon issue green passes to identify fully vaccinated citizens. The government has made vaccination mandatory for entry into all public places such as malls, markets and restaurants.New guideline for international passengers amid Omicron surge, 7-day home quarantine mandatory for all5. The Centre on Friday emphasised that it is the primary responsibility of the states to ensure that all the oxygen equipment at all the health facilities are tested and kept in a functional state to meet any emergent situation. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan chaired a high-level meeting with representatives from the states and Union territories through a video conference to review the oxygen situation of the states.6. India on Friday made it mandatory for all travellers coming from abroad to undergo a seven-day home quarantine followed by an RT-PCR test on the 8th day. The guideline will come into force from January 11 and will remain effective till further government orders.7. Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla has asked Delhi and neighbouring districts to follow a unified approach and to strengthen health infrastructure, maintain buffer stocks of essential drugs and ensure that oxygen supply equipment is fully functional.Mini-lockdown in Gujarat to curb Covid-19 spread. Details here8. The peak of the possible Omicron-led third wave in India could arrive in January end and February beginning, when the country's daily caseload might reach four to eight lakh (7-day average), a new projection of the Sutra model has revealed. Bed requirement could peak around 1.5 lakh, but the wave appears to be manageable due to the low hospitalisation rate, IIT Kanpur professor Manindra Agrawal said.9. The Gujarat government on Friday announced night curfew in 10 cities to be effective from 10pm to 6am in Ahmedabad, Anand, Bhavnagar, Gandhinagar, Jamnagar, Junagadh, Nadiad, Rajkot, Surat and Vadodara.10. India on Friday achieved the milestone of administering over 150 crore Covid-19 vaccines. PM Modi lauded healthcare workers and said India is grateful to all those who have been working to make our vaccination drive a success.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-india-breaches-1-lakh-mark-in-daily-covid-cases-restrictions-brought-back-10-points-101641575676938.html
07-01-2022||India||India, China army commanders to meet on Jan 12, spotlight on Hot Spring||NEW DELHI: India and China are expected to hold the next round of talks between senior military commanders on January 12 to take forward disengagement at key friction points in Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), people familiar with the matter said on Friday. The upcoming talks are likely to focus on disengagement at Hot Spring, one of the main friction points in the military standoff, which began in May 2020 and has taken bilateral relations to an all-time low. The talks on January 12 are expected to be held at Chushul on the Indian side of the LAC as the last round was held on the Chinese side.The 13th and most recent round of talks between corps commanders of the two sides was held at Chushul-Moldo border meeting point on October 10 last year and ended without any breakthrough. Since then, the Indian side has made several proposals for the 14th round of talks along with agenda items, but the Chinese side’s response has not been consistent, the people cited above said. The Indian side has been maintaining that all friction points between Depsang and Chumar should be collectively tackled in the military talks to ensure comprehensive disengagement and de-escalation in Ladakh sector, but this has not been agreed to by the Chinese side. The two sides have done considerable work on addressing differences at Hot Spring and the Indian side was hopeful of disengagement at this friction point at the last round of talks. However, the talks on October 10 were not attended by the Chinese corps commander, and he was represented by a deputy who contended he didn’t have the authority to make a final decision, the people said. Following the talks on October 10, the Indian Army said in a statement that it made “constructive suggestions for resolving the remaining areas but the Chinese side was not agreeable and also could not provide any forward-looking proposals”.After the last meeting of the India-China Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs on November 18, the Indian side had said the 14th round of military talks should be held at “an early date to achieve the objective of complete disengagement from all the friction points along the LAC...in accordance with the existing bilateral agreements and protocols”. At the external affairs ministry’s media briefing on Thursday, spokesperson Arindam Bagchi referred to China’s recent action of renaming 15 locations in Arunachal Pradesh and said: “We hope that instead of engaging in such antics, China will work constructively with us to resolve the outstanding friction points in areas along the western sector of the LAC in India-China border areas.” The two sides withdrew frontline troops at Pangong Lake and Gogra last year after several rounds of talks, but there has been no headway in disengagement at other friction points since August 2021. India has linked the normalisation of overall ties with China to the resolution of the standoff. Tens of thousands of Indian and Chinese troops have dug in for the second successive winter in Ladakh sector, with no immediate signs of an end to the standoff that resulted in the first fatalities along the LAC since 1975. Twenty Indian soldiers and at least four Chinese troops were killed in a brutal clash at Galwan Valley in June 2020. 
07-01-2022||India||'No need for fresh registration': Centre on 'precaution dose' against Covid-19||Those looking to register for the booster or 'precaution dose' of the Covid-19 vaccine are not required to make new registration on the Cowin portal, the ministry of health and family welfare said on Friday. According to the statement, beneficiaries can directly take an appointment or walk into any vaccination centre and get their third shot.The government will publish the schedule for the same on January 8. The online facility will also start by tomorrow evening, the ministry also informed.From January 10, India is set to administer the 'precaution dose' of the Covid vaccine to frontline workers and senior citizens with comorbidities. In his speech on December 25, prime minister Narendra Modi announced the Centre's decision.As per the guidelines, the same vaccine is to be administered to the beneficiary and no mix-match will be allowed as of now. This means those who were administered with Covaxin as their first and second dose will receive the same as their 'precaution dose.' People who received Covishield will only be allowed to take Covishield.The decision to announce 'precaution dose' was taken as the country is in the clutch of the third wave of the covid-19 pandemic. The emergence of a highly transmissible Omicron Variant is also contributing to the surge as cases are rising exponentially.On Friday, India reported over lakh cases of viral disease, the highest in the last 214 days. The country's total tally now stands at 3,52,26,386. The total tally includes 3,007 cases of Omicron across 27 states and the union territories.The country last reported over one lakh cases on June 7 last year when 1,00,636 infections were recorded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-need-for-fresh-registration-centre-on-precaution-dose-against-covid19-101641574557722.html
07-01-2022||India||Jagannath Temple in Puri to be shut for devotees from January 10||BHUBANESWAR: The Odisha government on Friday decided to close Jagannath temple for devotees from January 10 in view of the rising Covid-19 cases in the state, Puri district collector Samarth Verma said. The government has decided to close colleges, universities and technical education institutions in the state from January 10, said special relief commissioner PK Jena.The state has recorded six times rise in Covid-19 cases in less than a week. Verma said the 12th-century temple will be shut following discussion with the temple priests and the management. Some priests of the temple and officials of the Sri Jagannath Temple administration have tested positive for Covid-19 in the last couple of days. The temple will remain closed till January 31.Jena said colleges, universities and technical institutions except medical colleges, nursing colleges and institutions under control of Health and Family Welfare department will be shut down from January 10. On Thursday, 18 students of a hostel in Veer Surendra Sai University of Technology in Sambalpur district tested positive for Covid-19. The state government ordered shutting down of schools from Friday. The government said coaching classes run by institutions or individuals will not be allowed to run in off-line mode from January 10. However, virtual/online coaching will be permitted to continue. The state on Friday reported 2703 new Covid-19 cases, recording the biggest single-day spike of the last six months. The TPR which was below 1 for most of December is now 3.9. Meanwhile, the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation changed its earlier order of subjecting every traveller arriving at Biju Patnaik airport in the city to compulsory RT-PCR tests. It said that random RT-PCR tests will be conducted on those passengers who are not in possession of RT-PCR report conducted 72 hours prior to the boarding of the flight. The passengers found to be symptomatic during screening would be immediately isolated and taken to a medical facility of the BMC. The BMC will also deploy a number of teams at the Bhubaneswar railway station to screen travellers. Bhubaneswar municipal commissioner Sanjay Singh said all efforts will be made to conduct 10,000 tests per day in the city. Meanwhile, senior Congress leader and Bolangir MLA Narasingha Mishra urged the State Election Commission to postpone the forthcoming Panchayat and Municipal elections in the state. While panchayat polls are likely to be held in February, municipal polls are expected to be held in April-May. “Life is certainly more important than elections. Odisha is witnessing a continuous surge in Covid-19 cases and the virus is gradually spreading its tentacle across the state. According to scientists, virologists and doctors, the pandemic situation is going to be dangerous in the near future. Considering the unprecedented pandemic situation, the Congress demands the postponement of the upcoming panhayat and municipal elections in the state until the third wave is under control,” said Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagannath-temple-in-puri-to-be-shut-for-devotees-from-january-10-101641573648396.html
07-01-2022||India||Delhi curfew: Twitter user asks police if playing cricket is allowed. Here's the answer||As Delhi goes under a 55-hour curfew starting from Friday 10pm which will end on 5am on Monday, a social media user asked Delhi Police whether playing cricket with social distancing and mask is allowed in the city during the weekend lockdown. "That's a silly point, sir. It is time to take extra cover. Also Delhi Police is good at catching," Delhi Police replied on Twitter, making it clear in cricket terminolgy that no non-emergency service, activity will be allowed in Delhi during the weekend lockdown. That’s a ‘Silly Point’, Sir. It is time to take ‘Extra Cover’. Also, #DelhiPolice is good at ‘Catching’. https://t.co/tTPyrt4F5HThe Delhi Police answered some FAQs on its Twitter handle clarifying that e-pass will be required for non-essential movement during the curfew period though one can go out to purchase essential goods like groceries, medicines and vegetables. Media persons with valid I cards are exempt, the department clarified. Industries with on-site labour will run, as usual, the police said.Cab services will run as usual but with up to two passengers. People travelling to attend a wedding will have to carry the wedding invitation, the social media handle tweeted, replying to individuals. People requiring medical services must carry medical documents.Metro services will be available at a frequency of 15 minutes on the Yellow Line (i.e. HUDA City Centre to Samaypur Badli) and Blue Line (i.e. Dwarka Sec-21 to NOIDA Electronic City/Vaishali) on the weekend. On all other lines, trains will be available at a frequency of 20 minutes.Delhi on Friday recorded 17,335 fresh cases, the highest since May 2021. During the height of the second wave of the pandemic, 28,395 cases, the highest-ever single-day tally here, and 277 deaths were recorded in Delhi on April 20 last year, as per official figures.Though the rise is worrying, imposing any further restriction apart from the night curfew and the weekend lockdown is not being considered as of now, as the rate of hospitalisation is low. Delhi has reported six times lower hospital admissions due to the coronavirus this time as compared to the first wave of the pandemic, health minister Satyendar Jain said. "Compared to the first wave of the coronavirus, this time, the number of patients admitted to hospitals is six times lower.... Some health workers, including doctors, have tested positive, but in very small numbers," the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-curfew-twitter-user-asks-police-if-playing-cricket-is-allowed-here-s-the-answer-101641572850405.html
07-01-2022||India||Over 150 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines administered in India, PM Modi hails vaccination drive||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday took to Twitter to hail the nation's vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as India achieved the landmark of administering more than 1.5 billion (150 crore) doses of Covid-19 vaccines. Also Read | No mix and match for third dose of Covid vaccine: Centre“A remarkable day on the vaccination front! Congratulations to our fellow citizens on crossing the 150 crore milestone. Our vaccination drive has ensured that many lives are saved. At the same time, let us also keep following all COVID-19 related protocols,” Prime Minister Modi tweeted.Also Read | Expert panel recommends phase 3 trial for Bharat Biotech’s intranasal vaccineIn a subsequent tweet, PM Modi expressed gratitude to health care workers, frontline workers, doctors, and others for making the vaccination drive a success. “India is grateful to all those who have been working to make our vaccination drive a success. We thank our doctors, scientists, innovators and the health care workers who are vaccinating the people. I urge all those eligible to get their shots. Together, let’s fight COVID-19,” he posted. India is grateful to all those who have been working to make our vaccination drive a success. We thank our doctors, scientists, innovators and the health care workers who are vaccinating the people. I urge all those eligible to get their shots. Together, let’s fight COVID-19.The nationwide inoculation drive against the viral illness began on January 16 last year, with health care and frontline workers first in line to receive shots. The drive was soon expanded to include senior citizens, people with comorbidities, and, finally, everyone aged 18 and above.Also Read | Centre rejects reports of expired vaccines being administered as ‘misleading’On October 21, the country crossed the mark of administering more than 1 billion (100 crore) doses of Covid-19 vaccines. On January 3 this year, teens in the 15-18 age group became eligible for inoculation, the first age group below 18 and above for whom vaccination was opened. From January 10, meanwhile, health care workers, people aged 60 and above with comorbidities, will be given a ‘precautionary’ dose.Also Read | CISCE asks schools to encourage parents for eligible teens’ vaccinationBoth decisions were announced by PM Modi in a surprise address to the nation on December 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-150-crore-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-pm-modi-hails-vaccination-drive-101641571313128.html
07-01-2022||India||Bulli Bai: Niraj Bishnoi was active during 'Sulli Deals' row, posed as reporter||Niraj Bishnoi, the 'mastermind' of the Bulli Bai application is a repeat offender and was active during the Sulli Deals row, police said on Friday. Through a fake Twitter profile of a girl, Bishnoi at that time tried to communicate to the investigative agency as a news reporter, police said, as reported by PTI. During that time, he came in contact with various news reporters and tried to plant his misinformation, DCP K P S Malhotra said.Following the arrest of the 21-year-old student from Assam, the police claimed to have solved the Bulli Bai controversy in which photos of hundreds of Muslim women were posted for auction.Police said during interrogation it was found that Bishnoi had earlier created various Twitter handles with the initial name of “giyu” which is a gaming character. The handles have been identified as @giyu2002, @giyu007, @giyuu84, @giyu94 and @giyu44. From @giyu007 account, he was active during the Sulli Deals case. “The account @giyu007 came into light when the Sulli Deal case was under investigation. Through this handle, he had tried to plant some information regarding the possible propagator/originator of Sulli Deals app,” police said.Bishnoi's father said he used to be a loner and kept himself glued to his laptop. "What he does, we do not know at all. Niraj used to keep to himself since his childhood days. He hardly has any friends," Bishnoi, who owns a commercial pickup van, told PTI. He recounted that when Niraj was a student at Nkem Science Academy, where he studied in classes 11 and 12, the principal had several times seized his laptop. "I had to go to the Academy many times to get the laptop back. I don't know what he used to do with it," he said.The Vellore Institute of Technology, Bhopal, on Thursday suspended Bishnoi for bringing disrepute to the university. A police official said Bishnoi was known to be a bright student but never attended in-person classes in the college.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bulli-bai-niraj-bishnoi-was-active-during-sulli-deals-row-posed-as-reporter-101641571633054.html
07-01-2022||India||Jaish team conducted recce of RSS Hq, security stepped up: Nagpur cop||NAGPUR: The Nagpur police have stepped up security at and around the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh headquarters in Nagpur after operatives of Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), allegedly conducted a recce of sensitive establishments, Nagpur police commissioner Amitesh Kumar said on Friday. The city police have also banned flying drones near the RSS headquarters, the ideological fount of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), and taking photographs.Kumar, who visited the RSS headquarters with senior police personnel this afternoon to take stock of the security arrangements, declined to elaborate on the status of the police probe in this case.The Nagpur police commissioner said security has been increased at the RSS headquarters and Hedgewar Bhavan at Reshimbagh after reports that a Jaish operative conducted a recce of these places. He said that the RSS headquarters (in Mahal in the eastern part of the city) and Smruti Bhawan in Reshimbagh (in the south-eastern part of Nagpur) are being constantly provided with full-fledged round-the-clock security in and around the area. All vehicles and persons around these installations are thoroughly checked. “Yes, these terrorists had come from Srinagar to Nagpur a month ago and stayed in the city for a few days,” said a senior police officer on condition of anonymity. A case has been registered in this regard and the Nagpur Crime Branch has formed a team to locate the terrorists.The information about the terror plan emerged during the interrogation of a man arrested recently in Jammu and Kashmir, the senior police officer cited above said. It turned out that Jaish operatives visited Nagpur in July 2021 and stayed in Nagpur for two days.Inputs received by security agencies also point to the terrorist plans to attack or trigger explosions to target crowded places, markets, as well as the premises of high-profile politicians and security forces during Republic Day and assembly elections. The RSS headquarters has been on the radar of terrorists for years. According to the police, three heavily terrorists armed with AK-47 and hand grenades were killed by security forces in Nagpur just before they were about to attack the RSS headquarters in June 2006. Kumar said the city police has banned photography and the use of drones around the RSS headquarters at Mahal and the Dr Hedgewar Smruti Bhavan, Reshimbagh in view of the threat. Any drone found within a 2-km radius will either be destroyed or seized by the police. The use of drones in a “no-drone” zone could also invite legal action, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaish-team-conducted-recce-of-rss-hq-alert-sounded-after-1-detained-nagpur-cop-101641571186551.html
07-01-2022||India||BJP asks Bengal election commission to delay polls for 4 municipal corporations||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday wrote to the election commission of West Bengal, asking it to postpone the upcoming elections for four municipal corporations, due to the raging Covid-19 pandemic in the state. The polls are due on January 22.The opposition party took note of the unprecedented surge in daily cases and its new Omicron variant in West Bengal and the rest of the country. "While the importance of holding any elections in a democracy is second to none, but surely not at the cost of putting peoples' lives at risk," it stated as it requested the state body to delay the polls."Already hospitals are running understaffed as doctors, nurses, technicians, support staff are getting affected in big numbers. People in the administration, police force and those who will be conducting elections are also getting affected," the party also said. "Under these circumstances, the balance of convenience is in delaying the elections of the four municipal corporations," the BJP also said.West Bengal on Friday logged 18,213 new infections and 18 deaths in the last 24 hours. The active cases stand at 51,384.Earlier in the day, Calcutta High Court asked the West Bengal State Election Commission to submit an affidavit to inform whether the four municipal corporation elections can be conducted as per the schedule or not. The next hearing will be on January 11 on the subject.On December 23 last year, the State Election Commission informed the Calcutta High Court that it is ready to hold polls in the remaining municipal corporations.Asansol, Howrah, Bidhannagar, Siliguri are among the municipal corporations that are set to hold elections on January 22. The other phase will be held on February 27 for the remaining municipalities.There are seven municipal corporations in West Bengal namely Asansol Municipal Corporation, BidhanNagar Municipal Corporation, Chandernagore Municipal Corporation, Durgapur Municipal Corporation, Howrah Municipal Corporation, Kolkata Municipal Corporation and Siliguri Municipal Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-asks-bengal-election-commission-to-delay-polls-for-4-municipal-corporations-101641570071093.html
07-01-2022||India||India to roll out chip-embedded e-passports in 2nd phase Passport Seva Programme||NEW DELHI: The external affairs ministry and Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) signed an agreement on Friday for the second phase of the Passport Seva Programme (PSP-V2.0), which envisages the roll out of microchip-embedded e-passports. The second phase of the programme, already the largest e-governance programme in the country, will last nine-and-a-half years and see TCS deploy the latest technologies to ease services. The e-passports, which will have a microchip with secure biometric data, are set to be unveiled during this phase. An e-passport’s chip usually has the holder’s biographical information that is printed on the document’s data page and a biometric identifier. Such passports have digital security features to prevent unauthorised reading of data stored on the chip. TCS, which is India’s largest software exporter, is expected to bring in technology for e-passports but the granting and printing of passports will remain with the government. The e-passports will be compliant with the guidelines of the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), and the Indian Security Press in Nashik and the National Informatics Centre are involved in designing the security features. The second phase of the programme further envisages creation of a new data centre, a disaster recovery centre and a Government Secure Repository linked to all Passport Seva Kendras (PSKs), Post Office Passport Seva Kendra (POPSKs), passport offices and Indian missions abroad. An electronic file system for passport processing running across the passport issuance ecosystem and round-the-clock monitoring and supervision through a Network Operation Centre (NOC) and Security Operation Centre (SOC) will also be created. Sanjay Bhattacharyya, secretary for consular, passport and visa services in the external affairs ministry, tweeted that during the second phase of the programme, facilities at POPSKs would be similar to PSK levels, there would be use of biometrics and AI, data integration and data personalisation, and continuous upgrades to the best practices. The external affairs ministry said PSP-V2.0 will be both a continuation and an enhancement of the first phase of the programme that introduced many changes in the delivery of passport-related services to citizens. The focus was on a timely, transparent, more accessible and reliable platform, and support functions such as citizen interface, technology backbone, call centres, training and change management were provided by TCS while the government exercised all sovereign and security-related functions in the passport issuance process. The external affairs ministry is now working towards opening a Seva Kendra in every Lok Sabha constituency where there is no PSK or POPSK. Currently, 93 PSKs, 428 POPSKs and 36 passport offices are operational. The programme was recently also connected to more than 176 Indian missions through the Global Passport Seva Programme (GPSP) to benefit the Indian diaspora. The PSP-V 2.0 will ensure a digital ecosystem, process overhauling and integration among various stakeholders and database, improved citizen interface, upgraded technology, and stronger data security. All security aspects, including strategic assets such as data centres, database and the application software will be owned by the government and there will be strict access controls across the system, incorporating biometrics. The Passport Seva Programme will also embark on a technology upgrade with the use of biometrics, artificial intelligence, advance data analytics, chat-bot, auto-response, natural language processing and cloud enablement. 
07-01-2022||India||Mini-lockdown in Gujarat to curb Covid-19 spread. Details here||In view of rising daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Gujarat government on Friday announced a series of measures, including a night curfew in 10 cities, to control the spread of the virus in the state.According to chief minister Bhupendra Patel, who chaired a review meeting earlier today, the night curfew will be in effect from 10pm to 6am in Ahmedabad, Anand, Bhavnagar, Gandhinagar, Jamnagar, Junagadh, Nadiad, Rajkot, Surat and Vadodara.
07-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: BJP MLA demands closure of all Jawed Habib centres in Indore, and all the latest news||'Close all Jawed Habib centres in Indore or else…': BJP MLA warns of protestsOfficials have 48 hours to shut all saloons operated by the hair stylist in the city, said BJP leader and Indore MLA Akash Vijayvargiya. Read moreSikhs being ‘terrorised’ on social media after PM security breach: Akal Takht jathedarAkal Takht jathedar says PM security breach should not have happened, but what is happening after it in form of vilification of Sikhs is even worse. Read more'He reminds me of Amla': Gavaskar lavishes huge praise for under-fire India batter; 'Great, great blessing' to have himSunil Gavaskar lavished praise on the senior batter, Cheteshwar Pujara drawing his comparison with South Africa great Hashim Amla. Read moreMithila Palkar, Vishal Dadlani, Kubbra Sait and more Bollywood stars who tested positive for Covid-19 over last 24 hoursOn Friday, actors Swara Bhasker, Kubbra Sait, Mithila Palkar, music composer Vishal Dadlani, comedian Ashish Chanchlani and others tested positive for Covid-19. Read moreDon't ignore these common gynaec problems; expert tipsBe it certain changes in the body, sexually transmitted diseases, menstrual issues to risk of cancer, more awareness is needed to address health problems specific to women. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bjp-mla-demands-closure-of-all-jawed-habib-centres-in-indore-and-all-the-latest-news-101641565074438.html
07-01-2022||India||Delhi reports 17,335 fresh Covid cases, 9 deaths; 55-hour curfew from tonight||Delhi on Friday reported 17,335 fresh Covid infections and 9 deaths, continuing the alarming but predicted surge. The positivity rate, after Friday's addition, rose to 17.73%. The number of containment zones in Delhi as on Friday was 6,912.Starting from 10pm on Friday, Delhi will remain under curfew till 5pm on Monday and during these 55 hours, shops, malls and markets will largely remain closed. Only essential shops, services will be allowed to function during the lockdown time. The health department of the government has asked all city government-run hospitals to cancel leaves, barring maternity and medical leaves."In view of recent surge in Covid-19 cases and for efficient management of Covid-19 pandemic in NCT of Delhi, all MDs/MSs/Directors of all hospitals of Government of NCT of Delhi are directed not to grant leaves of any type except maternity leaves and other medical leaves to any medical and non-medical staff with immediate effect and cancel all such leaves, if already granted," read an order issued by the health department.Delhi: Weekend curfew begins tonight, here's what you can avail, what you can'tIn view of the violations of the odd-even formula for the opening of shops dealing in nonessential items, The Delhi Disaster Management Authority has asked all district magistrates to number all shops under their jurisdictions by Saturday as there have been some cases of violations of the odd-even formula.The authorities said adequate arrangements have been made to enforce the curfew across the city. Only those involved in essential services and those facing an emergency situation will be allowed to step out of their homes. Those venturing out will have to produce e-passes issued by the government or valid identity cards. “We have made adequate arrangements to enforce the weekend curfew. There will be a strict vigil at markets, on the roads, colonies and other public places. If needed, we will also increase the number of enforcement squads,” a senior administrative official in the west district told PTI.People can apply for an e-pass for the weekend curfew and the night curfew on weekdays on www.delhi.gov.in. Judges, judicial officers, court staff and lawyers will also be allowed to travel on the production of valid identity cards, service ID cards, photo entry passes and permission letters issued by the court administration. Others who are exempted include private medical personnel such as doctors, nursing staff, paramedics and those associated with hospitals, diagnostic centres, testing laboratories, clinics, pharmacies, pharmaceutical companies and medical oxygen suppliers on the production of valid identity cards.People coming from or going to airports, railway stations and inter-state bus terminuses will be allowed to travel on the production of valid tickets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-reports-17-335-fresh-covid-cases-9-deaths-weekend-lockdown-from-tonight-101641567055206.html
07-01-2022||India||Crores distributed fraudulently under Marriage Assistance Scheme in MP||BHOPAL: Crores of rupees were allegedly distributed among ineligible and bogus beneficiaries under a Marriage Assistance Scheme in Madhya Pradesh’s Vidisha district, the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the state police has found. The beneficiaries included three daughters of a 27-year-old man, who were shown to have been married over 14 months to fraudulently get ₹51,000 assistance each.Police superintendent (EOW) Rajesh Tiwari said they have registered a case against chief executive officer (Janpad Panchayat) Sironj Shobhit Tripathi and others in the matter. “EOW Bhopal was informed about large-scale corruption in the scheme. This information was verified confidentially.” Tiwari said it was found that Tripathi allegedly distributed ₹30.18 crore under the scheme from 2019 to November 2021 in 5,923 cases. “Most of the cases were bogus.” Tiwari cited their probe and added Tripathi allegedly sanctioned ₹18.52 crores to about 3,500 beneficiaries between April 2020 and June 2021. He added this also covers the period when weddings were banned due to the Covid-19 lockdown.The EOW found the money was not transferred to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries but to those of unrelated people. Assistance was even sanctioned to those who do not have any daughters. In some cases, it was given to people who did not apply for it.Opposition Congress leader JP Dhanopia said this corruption is not restricted to one district. “The agency should probe this corrupt practice in every district. Under Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led state government, corrupt officers are growing and every government scheme is being misused.”BJP lawmaker Umakant Sharma earlier raised the matter in the assembly.
07-01-2022||India||Mumbai reports 20,971 fresh Covid infections; mayor clarifies on further lockdown||Mumbai on Friday reported 20,971 new Covid-19 infections, 84% of which was asymptomatic, according to the civic body data. In the last 24 hours, the city reported six deaths, data showed. With daily cases crossing the 20,000-mark, teh question of more restrictions is looming large. Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar said there has been no decision on night curfew. A final call on imposing further restrictions, which ministers have so far ruled out, will only be taken after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray's meeting with PM Modi, the mayor said.Maharashtra on Friday breached the 40,000-mark reporting 40,925 fresh infections, the highest since May 13, 2021. Out of 20,971 fresh cases recorded in Mumbai, 17,616 are asymptomatic, 1,395 have been hospitalised. The recovery rate in Mumbai stands at 87% and the doubling rate of the infection in the city is 56 days.Mumbai Police informed on Friday that 94 policemen have tested positive in the last 24 hours.Municipal commissioner Iqbal Chahal said there is no immediate need for imposing lockdown in Mumbai as the bed occupancy rate, oxygen requirement and the number of Covid deaths remain low. During the first and second waves the decision to impose lockdown was taken on the basis of case positivity rate, but this criterion cannot be applied for the third wave which started from December 21, 2021, Chahal told a Marathi news channel.The administration has already banned the assembly of five or more persons during night and physical classes in schools and colleges have been suspended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-reports-20-971-fresh-covid-infections-mayor-clarifies-on-further-lockdown-101641564199689.html
07-01-2022||India||Why UGC advice to central varsities on demand-based courses is being critiqued||New Delhi: The University Grants Commission (UGC) recently wrote to all the central universities advising them to offer courses based on the “demand” of the students, and the number of admissions in those courses. The communication drew criticism from teachers across several central universities who alleged that it will gradually lead to a closure of some courses and create job losses.
07-01-2022||India||What Omicron peak in India could look like in terms of daily cases, bed requirement, experts predict||The peak of the possible Omicron-led third wave in India could arrive in January end and February beginning, when the country's daily caseload might reach four to eight lakh (7-day average), a new projection of the Sutra model has revealed. Bed requirement could peak around 1.5 lakh, but the wave appears to be manageable due to the low hospitalisation rate, IIT Kanpur professor Manindra Agrawal said. "Of course, things could change in the next couple of weeks. Also, there may be localised shortage of beds. So proper care and planning is warranted," Prof Agrawal tweeted.Experts who are part of the Sutra Consortium are Anurag Agrawal, IGIB, Manindra Agrawal, IIT Kanpur, Pramod Garg, THSTI, Madhuri Kanitkar, MUHS, M Vidyasagar, IIT Hyderabad.The projections made taking into account the Omicron situation of India till January 6 said the loss of immunity is a major factor contributing to the ongoing rise in the cases. According to its estimation, 70% to 100% of people have lost immunity. Natural immunity is also being bypassed varying between 50 to 100%, it said.Delhi-NCR begins prepping for third wave: All hands on deck! Doing prediction for India at the moment is more difficult since model has not been able to capture the present phase yet. Extrapolating from Mumbai, we estimate that peak could arrive in Jan-end/Feb-beginning. Its value could be between 4-8 lakh cases per day (7-day average)."Doing prediction for India at the moment is more difficult since the model has not been able to capture the present phase yet. Extrapolating from Mumbai, we estimate that peak could arrive in Jan-end/Feb-beginning. Its value could be between 4-8 lakh cases per day (7-day average)," Prof Agrawal said.Mumbai at the peak of the Omicron surge could record 30,000 to 60,000 cases per day (7-day average), while Delhi's daily infection at the peak could range between 35,000 and 70,000. January 15-20 will be the peak time for Delhi, Mumbai and India, the projection model says. The hospital bed requirement in Delhi is estimated to be 12,000 at its peak, while in Mumbai it could be 10,000.On Friday, India reported 1,17,100 fresh Coronavirus infections, the highest after 214 days as over one lakh cases were reported in June last year. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said Delhi is likely to report 17,000 Covid cases on Friday, while Mumbai's daily case is expected to be around 21,000 on Friday, Maharashtra Covid task force member Dr Shashank Joshi said.
07-01-2022||India||Assam: Three kids killed in fire accident in Charaideo district||GUWAHATI: Three young boys, aged around 5-6 years, were killed in Assam’s Charaideo district when a thatched shed caught fire on Friday morning.According to the police, the incident took place at Sepon under Moranhat police station around 10:30am when the boys were inside a ‘tongi ghar’ (a thatched shed usually erected in the fields).“Four young boys aged around 5-6 years were playing inside the thatched shed when it caught fire. While one of them managed to escape the other three got trapped and were burned to death,” Sudhakar Singh, Charaideo superintendent of police said. “According to the statement of the child who managed to escape, the children were trying to light cigarettes inside the shed when the structure made of straw and bamboo caught fire,” he added. The bodies have been sent for autopsy.
07-01-2022||India||Newborn kidnapped from Kerala hospital, police traces baby within 2 hours||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Kerala police on Thursday rescued a newborn within two hours after the baby was kidnapped from the medical college hospital in Kottayam, said district police chief D Shilpa on Friday. The crime took place in the gynecology ward of the medical college hospital around 3pm on Thursday, said hospital authorities. When a woman, dressed in a nurse’s uniform, asked for the newborn to check the baby’s “jaundice level”, mother P Aswathi readily handed over the baby to her. When the baby was not returned to her after 30 minutes, she went to the nursing station and realised that her baby had been kidnapped. Soon, the police were alerted and they started the search.“We immediately sealed the district border and scanned railway stations, bus terminals and private vehicles. Soon an autorickshaw driver gave a statement that he saw a woman moving out of the hospital in hurry. By 5pm, the kidnapper Neethu Raj and the child were taken into custody from a hotel in the city,” said the superintendent of police (SP) D Shipla. She said the police officers who busted the kidnapping incident in record time will be rewarded. When Sub Inspector T S Reneesh came to the medical college hospital with the baby at 5.30 pm, there was a standing ovation to the police team. “The accused told us she kidnapped the child to blackmail her lover Ibrahim Badusha. Soon after the baby was kidnapped, she Whatsapp-ed photos of the child to him and his relatives saying she gave birth to the baby and Badusha fathered the child,” said the SP, adding that both came in contact last year through Tik Tok and stayed together for some time. The woman, who has a four-year-old son from an earlier marriage, said they fell out when Badusha started preparing to marry someone else.“She told us Badusha took money from her and failed to return it. The whole drama was enacted to foil his marriage plan and live with him,” said the SP, adding that Raj earlier had an abortion. She was planning to give an impression that she gave birth to the child in a private hospital in Ernakulam and selected an easy target in Kottayam medical college hospital. The SP said the accused was camping in a hotel near the hospital from January 4 and made many trips to the hospital. Police said she purchased the uniform from a medical equipment shop. The SP said her lover has no role but a separate case will be registered against him for not returning the money he took from Raj. “I almost fainted at the hospital after I came to know about the kidnapping. She was quite familiar in the gynaecology ward and we all thought she was a nurse. I never thought police will save my baby so soon. It was a real nightmare,” said Aswathi. Her relatives said this exposed the administration and upkeep of the hospital. State health minister Veena George has sought a report from the medical college authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/newborn-kidnapped-from-kerala-hospital-police-traces-baby-within-2-hours-101641559425765.html
07-01-2022||India||NCW summons Jawed Habib for spitting on woman's hair; asks him to explain his action||The National Commission for Women (NCW) on Friday issued a summon notice to popular hair stylist Jawed Habib after a video showing him spit on a woman while styling her hair went viral on social media. In the notice, the commission has asked Habib to appear before the body on January 11 to explain his action.In the notice, the NCW also ordered Uttar Pradesh police to probe the veracity of the purported video. "If there is a scarcity of water, use saliva," the hairstylist can be heard saying in the video as he spits and continues to comb her hair.The incident took place at Habib's workshop in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar.In the notice, the NCW said it has taken a serious note of the incident; "Therefore, you are directed to appear before the Commission in-person on 11.01.2022 at 12.30PM for deposition of your statement," it stated.As the video went viral on social media, with netizens criticising the hairstylist, he has now apologised for his action. "Some words spoken by me have hurt people. I want to say one thing that these are professional workshops and are long shows and when they are long, we have to make them humorous. What can I say? If you are truly hurt, I apologise from my heart. Please forgive me. Sorry," he said in a video message.A post shared by Jawed Habib (@jh_hairexpert)The noted hairstylist, Jawed Habib operates more than 850 salons and around 65 hair academies across 115 cities across India.In 2019, he joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncw-summons-jawed-habib-for-spitting-on-woman-s-hair-asks-him-to-explain-his-action-101641558083904.html
07-01-2022||India||173 more passengers, who arrived in Amritsar from Rome, test Covid-19 positive||More than 170 out of 285 passengers on a chartered flight from Rome, which landed in Amritsar on Friday, tested positive for Covid-19 on arrival, the airport’s director said. This comes a day after 125 out of 179 passengers who returned to the city, also from Italy’s capital, and who were also on a chartered flight, were found positive for the infection.Also Read | 160 passengers on chartered flight from Rome tested in Amritsar. 125 are Covid+veGiving details, VK Seth, director, Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport, said, “173 of total 285 passengers who returned from Rome, Italy, have tested positive for Covid-19. The number of infected passengers may increase as testing is still going on. The flight was operated by EuroAtlantic Airways, and was chartered by SpiceJet.”Also Read | New guideline for international passengers amid Omicron surge, 7-day home quarantine mandatory for allWhile EuroAtlantic is a Portuguese carrier, SpiceJet is an Indian airline. Thursday’s chartered flight, too, belonged to EuroAtlantic, according to a media report. Earlier, the flight was reported to be operated by AirIndia, though the national carrier clarified this was not true.Also Read | India updates list of 'at risk' countries. Details here“Several media houses have reported that passengers of Air India flight from Rome to Amritsar have been tested Covid positive. This is wrong and baseless. Air India doesn’t operate any flight from Rome currently,” the airline shared on Twitter. #FlyAI : Several Media houses has reported that Passengers of Air India flight from Rome to Amritsar have been tested covid positive. This is wrong and baseless. Air India doesn't operate any flight from Rome currently.Amid a fresh surge in the country’s daily Covid-19 cases, primarily due to the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, the Union health ministry, on Friday, revised its guidelines for all international passengers travelling to India. As per the revised norms, seven-day home quarantine is mandatory for all travellers arriving from abroad. The ministry also updated its list of ‘at-risk’ nations, pushing the total number of countries on it to 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/173-more-passengers-who-arrived-in-amritsar-from-rome-test-covid-19-positive-101641556029910.html
07-01-2022||India||India updates list of 'at risk' countries. Details here||As the Centre on Friday issued a revised guideline for all international passengers arriving in the country amid the ongoing Omicron surge, it has also updated the list of countries which India considers are at greater risk. People coming from these countries are subject to stricter restrictions. The listing is a dynamic exercise based on the evolving situation of Covid-19 across the world, a ministry official said.Here is the latest list of at-risk countries1. Countries in Europe including The United Kingdom2. South Africa3. Brazil4. Botswana5. China6. Ghana7. Mauritius8. New Zealand9. Zimbabwe10. Tanzania11. Hong Kong12. Israel13. Congo14. Ethiopia15. Kazakhstan16. Kenya17. Nigeria18. Tunisia19. ZambiaThe Centre started listing some countries as risky as Omicron was reported in South Africa in November 2021. As a precautionary measure, the Centre identified some countries which at that time got affected by Omicron to a medium extent as risky so that people coming from those countries are monitored, instead of imposing a complete ban on flights from these countries.Travellers coming from these countries have to submit their samples for the post-arrival Covid-19 test as they arrive in India. The test is a self-paid one. They will have to wait for the test results to come. If they test negative, they will be under home isolation for 7 days and will take an RT-PCR test on the 8th day. If they test negative again, they will monitor themselves for the next 7 days.If they test positive at the airport or after seven days, they will be sent to the isolation facility. Their contacts will also be isolated and monitored.States complained of several difficulties in tracking international passengers as many of them in the past gave wrong phone numbers, incomplete addresses to the authorities. Delhi, West Bengal had raised the demand of banning flights from some countries when the Omicron outbreak started. West Bengal has also banned direct flights from the United Kingdom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-updates-list-of-at-risk-countries-details-here-101641554816604.html
07-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: 2 ex-BJP ministers on AAP’s list of nominees for Goa polls and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Goa polls: 2 former BJP ministers on AAP’s first list of nomineesAam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Atishi on Friday announced the first list of the party’s 10 candidates, including former ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ministers Alina Saldanha and Mahadev Naik, for the Goa assembly elections. Read moreMan arrested for brandishing knife at Harish Rawat’s eventThe Uttarakhand Police have arrested a 45-year-old man for allegedly brandishing a knife after climbing the stage of an event of former chief minister Harish Rawat at Kashipur in Udham Singh Nagar district on Thursday evening. Read more New guideline for international passengers amid Omicron surge, 7-day home quarantine mandatory for allThe Centre on Friday issued a revised guideline for international passengers amid the exponential rise of Omicron cases making 7-day home quarantine mandatory for all those coming from abroad. Read more "Kohli, Dravid should've sent instructions" to Rahul: Ex-PAK spinner points out big captaincy decision which hurt IndiaTeam India faced a 7-wicket defeat in the second Test of the series against South Africa in Johannesburg. Read more Soha Ali Khan recalls time when there was no electricity at Pataudi Palace: ‘We used to sleep outside’Actor Soha Ali Khan recalled childhood memories of her ancestral home, Pataudi Palace, and said that the place still has an ‘old world charm’. Read more Suffering from knee pain? Try these home remedies for reliefOur sedentary lifestyle during pandemic times can affect our body in multiple ways. Read more Woman wins $300 in lottery, splits prize with man who encouraged her to buy itIn today's edition of wholesome videos that may leave you with a wide smile on your face, here is the story of an elderly woman who decided to share the prize money she won in lottery with a store cashier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-2-ex-bjp-ministers-on-aap-s-list-of-nominees-for-goa-polls-and-all-the-latest-news-101641552397767.html
07-01-2022||India||PM Modi to discuss Maharashtra Covid-19 situation with Uddhav Thackeray today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will hold a meeting on Friday evening to discuss the escalating Covid-19 situation in the state, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar has said. The meeting will be held via video conferencing.Speaking on possible restrictions that the government might enforce to curb the surge, Pednekar said there is no decision on a weekend curfew as of yet.Earlier, Maharashtra health Minister Rajesh Tope said that the state government has not yet considered shutting down local trains in Mumbai and imposing inter-district travel restrictions as the number of hospitalisations was still low. He also ruled out the possibility of a lockdown in the state at this point of time.Maharashtra is among the states of concerns list as it is leading the fresh nationwide Covid surge by accounting for a maximum number of Covid cases. The country is hit by the third wave of Covid-19 and over the last two weeks, daily cases have increased exponentially.On Friday, the country logged over a lakh of cases, the highest in the last 214 days. The country last reported over one lakh cases on June 7 last year when 1,00,636 infections were recorded.The overall now stands at 3,52,26,386 including 3,007 cases of the highly transmissible Omicron variant across 27 states and UTs.Of the total Omicron cases, Maharashtra has topped the chart with 876 cases followed by Delhi at 465, Karnataka 333, Rajasthan 291, Kerala 284 and Gujarat 204.The nationwide death toll jumped to 4,83,178 with 302 fresh fatalities, according to the data published by the Union ministry of health family welfare.On Thursday, Maharashtra logged 36,265 new coronavirus cases, 36 per cent more than the previous day with Mumbai alone registering 20,181 infections, a fresh record for the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-discuss-maharashtra-covid-19-situation-with-uddhav-thackeray-today-101641554792574.html
07-01-2022||India||‘Only safe way…’: Prashant Kishor's suggestion to ECI on holding polls amid pandemic||Just days before the Election Commission of India (ECI) is likely to announce schedule for upcoming assembly elections in five states, poll strategist Prashant Kishor on Friday took to Twitter to suggest what he described as the ‘only safe way’ to hold the electoral exercise even as the country experiences a fresh and rapid surge its daily Covid-19 infections.Also Read | Election Commission extra vigilant ahead of polls amid rise in Omicron cases“EC MUST insist on 2 vaccine doses for at least 80% people in poll bound states. This is the only SAFE way to hold #elections in the midst of a raging pandemic. Rest everything is HOGWASH. The notion of guidelines for #Covid appropriate behaviour which no one follows is FARCICAL,” Kishore shared on Twitter. EC MUST insist on 2 vaccine doses for at least 80% people in poll bound states.This is the only SAFE way to hold #elections in the midst of a raging pandemic. Rest everything is HOGWASH. The notion of guidelines for #Covid appropriate behaviour which no one follows is FARCICAL.Prashant Kishor’s tweet comes at a time when the poll panel has made visits to the election-bound states to take stock of their preparedness, as well as the Covid-19 situation in respective states. In December last year, officials of the body, led by Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sushil Chandra, visited Uttar Pradesh, one of the five states where elections are due, and held consultation with major political parties.Also Read | India's daily Covid tally crosses 1-lakh mark, Omicron count at 3,000All parties, said CEC Chandra, suggested that ‘elections should take place on time.’Also Read | ‘All parties said UP elections should be held on time’, says Chief Election Commissioner Sushil ChandraMeanwhile, on Thursday, the poll body held separate meetings with Rajesh Bhushan, the Union health secretary, and Ajay Bhalla, the Union home secretary, to take stock of the situation amid a rise in new cases, driven primarily by the Omicron variant of the coronavirus.Last year, the ECI came under fire for holding assembly elections in four states and the Union territory of Puducherry even as a devastating second Covid-19 wave swept the nation.Also Read | Uttarakhand high court asks EC to consider ban on large rallies amid Covid surgeBesides Uttar Pradesh, the four states which will hold polls are Goa, Manipur, Punjab and Uttarakhand. Political parties have decided to call off public rallies, and hold their programmes virtually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-safe-way-prashant-kishor-s-suggestion-to-eci-on-holding-polls-amid-pandemic-101641552537718.html
07-01-2022||India||NEET-PG, UG medical courses: SC allows Centre to go ahead with counselling||The Supreme Court on Friday allowed the Centre to go ahead with the counselling for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (Postgraduate) or NEET-PG and undergraduate (UG) medical courses. It upheld the government’s decision to introduce a 27% Other Backward Classes (OBC) quota within the all-India quota (AIQ) seats. For this year, it permitted the 10% reservation for Economically Weaker Section (EWS) within the general category to be applied based on the criteria laid down in January 2019.The court said it will be reviewing the criteria for EWS reservation as laid down by a three-member committee headed by former finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey in March when the batch of petitions challenging the introduction of EWS quota in NEET-PG AIQ seats by a circular in July 2021 will be heard.The court’s interim order came after the Centre sought an urgent hearing on the batch of petitions in view of the stir by resident doctors demanding counselling to be held at the earliest. As counselling was stuck, the first-year PG medical students could not be admitted. It had a cascading effect on the medical workforce as the first-year PG resident doctors constitute 33% of the medical workforce. The resident doctors’ association also intervened in the proceedings before the court and demanded early counselling in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases. Many resident doctors were down with Covid-19 and in four months, the final year batch would graduate.A bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and AS Bopanna passed the interim order given the urgency and that counselling has to be held in the national interest. Also Read| NEET PG counselling has to begin in national interest: Supreme CourtOn July 29, the Centre introduced the 27% OBC and 10% EWS quota within the 15% of the AIQ seats in NEET-UG and 50% of the AIQ seats in NEET-PG.On the EWS criteria, as the court raised doubts over whether a uniform income criterion of ₹8 lakh can be applied throughout the country, the bench said, “The resolution of this issue will take some time. We accept the recommendation of the Pandey Committee that the January 17, 2019 notification be applied for the current academic year so that admissions are not dislocated. Counselling be conducted as per July 29, 2021 order.”The bench said the validity of criteria suggested by the Pandey Committee would prospectively be subject to the final decision in these petitions. The petitions were filed in August last year and the court sought clarification from the Centre on the applicability of the EWS reservation available to general category with family income under ₹8 lakh and excluded persons with agricultural land over 5 acre and residential assets over 1000 square feet. The criteria will apply for counselling in NEET-PG and UG courses for this year’s admissions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/neetpg-ug-medical-courses-sc-allows-centre-to-go-ahead-with-counselling-101641553605275.html
07-01-2022||India||New guideline for international passengers amid Omicron surge, 7-day home quarantine mandatory for all||The Centre on Friday issued a revised guideline for international passengers amid the exponential rise of Omicron cases making 7-day home quarantine mandatory for all those coming from abroad. The new guideline will come into effect from January 11. The list of 'at-risk' countries has also been expanded as the list now includes all European countries including the UK, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Ghana, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Tanzania, Hong Kong, Israel, Congo, Ethiopia, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Nigeria, Tunisia and Zambia.On completion of their home quarantine, travellers will undergo an RT-OCR test, the revised guideline said. The new guideline comes a day after 125 passengers flying from Italy to Amritsar on a chartered flight tested positive on their arrival at Amritsar airport.India's daily Covid tally crosses 1-lakh mark, Omicron count at 3,000Here is the complete guideline1. All travellers should submit complete and factual information in self-declaration form on the online Air Suvidha portal (https://www.newdelhiairport.in/airsuvidha/apho-registration) before the scheduled travel, including last 14 days travel details.2. Travellers should upload a negative COVID-19 RT-PCR report. The test should have been conducted within 72 hrs prior to undertaking the journey.Weekend & nights curfew in place in these states as India sees major Covid spike: Check details here3. Each passenger shall also submit a declaration with respect to the authenticity of the report and will be liable for criminal prosecution, if found otherwise.4.  They should also give an undertaking on the portal or otherwise to the ministry of civil aviation, through airlines concerned before they are allowed to undertake the journey that they would abide by the decision of the appropriate government authority to undergo home/institutional quarantine/ self-health monitoring, as warranted.5. All travellers who need to undertake testing on arrival, should preferably pre-book the test online on Air Suvidha Portal, to facilitate timely testing.6. A sub-section (2% of the total flight passengers) shall undergo post-arrival testing at random at the airport on arrival. These 2% of such travellers in each flight shall be identified by the concerned airlines (preferably from different countries).7. All travellers (including those 2% who were selected for random testing on arrival and were found negative) will undergo home quarantine for 7 days and shall undertake an RT-PCR test on the 8th day of arrival in India8.  Travelers shall also be required to upload results of repeat RT-PCR test for COVID-19 done on 8th day on the Air Suvidha portal (to be monitored by the respective States/UTs).  If negative, they will further self-monitor their health for the next 7 days.Before boarding1. Passengers originating or transiting from at-risk countries shall be informed by the airlines that they will undergo post-arrival testing, quarantine if tested negative, stringent isolation protocols if tested positive etc.2. Dos and Don'ts shall be provided along with tickets to the travellers by the airlines/agencies concerned.3. Airlines to allow boarding by only those passengers who have filled in all the information in the Self Declaration Form on the Air Suvidha portal and uploaded the negative RT-PCR test report.4. At the time of boarding the flight, only asymptomatic travellers will be allowed to board after the thermal screening.5. All passengers shall be advised to download the Aarogya Setu app on their mobile devices.During travel1. In-flight announcement about Covid-19 including precautionary measures to be followed shall be made at airports and in flights and during transit.2. During in-flight crew shall ensure that COVID appropriate behaviour is followed at all times.3. If any passenger reports symptoms of Covid-19 during flight, he/she shall be isolated as per protocol.4. Proper in-flight announcements should be made by the airlines regarding the testing requirements and people who need to undergo such testing to avoid any congestion at the arrival airports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-issues-new-guideline-for-international-passengers-amid-omicron-surge-more-countries-on-at-risk-list-101641550324805.html
07-01-2022||India||Omicron mild or less severe? What latest observations experts have made||One and a half months into a fresh worldwide surge of the Covid-19 pandemic and experts are now of the opinion that it is wrong to term Omicron as a mild variant. The number of hospitalisation is fewer than what the countries saw during the earlier waves, caused by other variants. But that does not mean that the variant is mild, the World Health Organization said in its latest observation. The variant was first identified in South Africa in November and was said to be mild as it has not been causing severe illness. Now, with the number of Omicron cases going up across the world and the number of hospitalisation also increasing in some countries, experts are differentiating between mild and less severe and said Omicron is less severe but not mild. Here are 5 things to know about the latest findings:1. WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said Omicron is hospitalising and killing people just like previous variants and thus it appears to be less severe compared to Delta, especially those who are vaccinated.2. Indian-origin scientist Ravindra Gupta, professor of clinical microbiology at the Cambridge Institute for Therapeutic Immunology and Infectious Diseases thinks that a benign Omicron is an evolutionary mistake and the next variant could be more virulent.3. The impact of Omicron on elderly people is one of the big unanswered questions, scientists said. Its impact on young people and vaccinated young people is proved to be less severe.4. According to scientists, the narrative that Omicron is mild has resulted in casual behaviour and led to the rapid transmission of the variant in the United States.5. There are two pathways available to the virus. Dr Gupta said it is being studied why Omicron is choosing one pathway and not causing much damage to the lungs area. “It's a bit unclear. But it's very real and it's very related to what we call a tropism (behavioural) switch. The big question is why the virus is unable to use TMPRSS2. We are still trying to understand this… for some reason, Omicron's spike is less well processed or cleaved,” said Dr Gupta.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-mild-or-less-severe-what-latest-observations-experts-have-made-101641548043139.html
07-01-2022||India||DGFT opens online Covid-19 help desk to resolve export, import issues||NEW DELHI: The Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) has set up a dedicated Covid-19 help desk to facilitate exports and imports at the time of the rapidly spreading Omicron variant of the coronavirus, a commerce ministry statement has said. The commerce ministry and the DGFT are monitoring difficulties being faced by traders in carrying out exports and imports amid surging Covid-19 cases, and providing solutions, the commerce ministry said.“The Covid-19 help desk [has been set up] to support and seek suitable resolutions to issues arising in respect of international trade,” the ministry said in the statement. The help desk will look into issues relating to the commerce department, the DGFT, customs clearance delays, documentation issues, banking matters, and import and export licensing Issues.It will also resolve trade related issues concerning other ministries and departments of both central and state governments, the ministry said. The help desk can be accessed on the DGFT’s website, dgft.gov.in. The status of resolutions and feedback could be tracked using the status tracker under the help desk services, the ministry said.The government has already set up a help desk for internal trade to provide assistance to the domestic industry and secure an uninterrupted supply chain. This service is available at the department for promotion of industry and internal (DPIIT).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dgft-opens-online-covid-19-help-desk-to-resolve-export-import-issues-101641548024928.html
07-01-2022||India||Modi lauds ‘historic milestone’ in Covid vaccination; highlights 150 crore doses, drive for 15-17||The cumulative number of doses administered under the Covid-19 vaccination drive in the country crossed the 150 crore-mark on Friday and was lauded by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. As many as 1,50,17,23,911 doses of the vaccine were administered to eligible beneficiaries as of 2.20pm on the day, data from the Co-WIN dashboard showed.Modi called the feat a “historic milestone” and thanked the scientists and the vaccine manufacturers in the country.“The country started the year (2022) with vaccination for children in the age group of 15 to 18 years,” he said. “At the same time, in the first week of the first month of the year itself, India is also achieving the historic milestone of 150 crore, 1.5 billion, vaccine doses,” he added.The remarks from the PM came during his speech at an event to inaugurate the Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute (CNCI) in Kolkata. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee was also present during the event.Also read | Omicron tally past 3,000: Maharashtra, Delhi, Karnataka account for over 50% casesNoting that the first dose coverage in the country was at 90% of the adult population, he also said that more than 1.5 crore children (between 15 and 17 years of age) have also been jabbed in less than five days since the immunisation drive opened up for them on January 3.“Today, more than 90% of India's adult population has received a single dose of the vaccine. Within just 5 days, more than 1.5 crore children have also been administered a dose of the vaccine. This achievement belongs to the whole country, of every government,” he said.Further, he also thanked the scientists of the country, vaccine makers and the Union health ministry. “I especially thank the scientists of the country, the vaccine manufacturers and our colleagues in the health sector for this achievement,” he said. “It is because of everyone's efforts that the country has taken the resolve to reach this peak, which we started from zero,” he added.On Friday, the country reported over one lakh new Covid-19 cases, the highest since early June last year. Also, 302 people lost their lives to the disease in the last 24 hours. More than 3,000 Omicron cases have been detected across 27 states and Union territories in the country. Several states and cities have resorted again to night curfews and weekend restrictions to check the fast rising caseload.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-lauds-historic-milestone-in-covid-vaccination-highlights-150-crore-doses-drive-for-1517-101641546860994.html
07-01-2022||India||Security agency sounded out ‘grave threat’ prior to PM Modi's Ferozepur rally||Ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Ferozepur, security agencies had sounded out to the Punjab state police that the Prime Minister is under “grave threat” from various terrorist outfits. The report has surfaced two days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi cut short his Punjab over an alleged security breach during his visit to the Ferozepur district on Wednesday.“Shri Narendra Modi, PM India faces a grave threat from Indian Mujahideen (IM)/Ex-Students' Islamic Movement of India (Ex-SIMI), Kashmiri and Pakistani based terrorist outfits including Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), Jaish-e Mohammed (JeM), Harkat-ul-Mujahideen (HuM), Harkat-ul-Jihad-e-Islami (HuJI), Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) and Hizb-ul-Mujahedeen(HM) and other Pak based Sikh militants,” the recently surfaced report reads.Recalling instances like Improvised Explosive Device (IED) blasts in Ferozepur and adjoining district in September and the recovery of a tiffin bomb in the Ferozepur village, the security official said that smuggling of explosives from Pakistan is prevalent in the area.Also Read | PM Modi's security lapse: SC orders protection of travel records in Punjab, halts probes till MondayThe report further said the Prime Minister is also facing threat from Left Wing Extremists and remnants of Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) cadres and their collaborators.Citing inputs, the report claimed that Pakistan-based militant leaders Wadhawa Singh Babbar, Paramjit Singh Panjawar, Ranjit Singh Neeta, Lakhbir SinghRhode have been trying to revive militancy in Punjab by sending militant hardware including RDX.The report also pointed out that leaders of Samyukt Kisan Morcha who have not joined Sanyukt Samaj Morcha have declared a ‘gherao’ of the Prime Minister on his visit to Fireozepur on January 5. “Some sort of demonstration/agitation cannot be ruled out on the way to Hussainiwala where these farmer unions have their stronghold,” the report had predicted.The report predicted demonstrations organised by members of Elementary Teacher Training-Teacher Eligibility Test (ETT/TET) pass Teachers Union and Sikh Radical organizations. “Sikh Radicals organizations of Punjab are time and again raising the issue of release of Sikh prisoners who have completed their jail term and still lodged in Jails. They have submitted memorandums and organized protest programmes many times to raise the issue,” read the report.It further claimed that Sikhs For Justice’s Gurpatwant Singh Pannu has been provoking Sikh youth for “mischievous things against BJP government and PM Modi in the lure of monetary consideration”.On Wednesday, PM Modi's motorcade was stuck on a highway for about 15-20 minutes as protesters blocked his route. The blockade was led by members of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Krantikari), one of the 32 farm organisations that were part of the 14-month-long protests against the three laws.The Centre, BJP, security experts, and former police officers all stressed the dangerous precedent set by the incident, with both the Union government and the BJP pointing to lapses by the Punjab police and the state government, and alleging that dirty politics was at play.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-agency-warned-of-grave-threat-prior-to-pm-modi-s-ferozepur-rally-101641546692943.html
07-01-2022||India||Weekend & nights curfew in place in these states as India sees major Covid spike: Check details here||A weekend curfew to check the rapid resurgence of the coronavirus disease will come into effect on Friday in several states and major cities across the country.On Friday, the number of cases pertaining to the Omicron variant crossed the 3,000-mark, while more than one lakh new Covid-19 cases were recorded in the last 24 hours.Here is the list of states where Covid-related curbs have been imposed and the related guidelines will be followed:DelhiHaryanaUttar PradeshKarnatakaTamil NaduWest BengalPunjab||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/weekend-nights-curfew-in-place-in-these-states-as-india-sees-major-covid-spike-check-details-here-101641544914672.html
07-01-2022||India||Case of assault, insult filed against Jawed Habib for spitting on woman's hair||A case was filed against celebrity hair stylist Jawed Habib under varied sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Epidemic Act amid a major uproar over a viral video wherein he is seen spitting on a woman's hair during a workshop in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar. Habib has also been booked for assault and insult.Earlier, police had said the matter is being probed by the local police and appropriate actions will be taken against the hairstylist.
07-01-2022||India||Video showing pledge to boycott Muslims in C’garh goes viral, cops order probe||RAIPUR: The Chhattisgarh Police on Friday ordered an inquiry after a video purportedly showing residents of a village in Surguja district taking a pledge to boycott Muslim vendors and end commercial transactions with Muslims went viral on social media. The police said they were looking for the people who went to the village and gathered the residents to take the pledge.Surguja collector Sanjeev Jha said an additional police superintendent and sub-divisional magistrate visited the village on Thursday and spoke to the residents. He added that the video surfaced days after a communal clash in the area this week and added police booking accused from both sides. “It started as a normal New Year celebration brawl at a local level. A few people are giving communal colour to the incident. This will not be allowed,” he said.Assistant police superintendent Vivek Shukla said that on January 1, villagers of Ara in Balrampur district visited Kundi Kala village to celebrate New Year when the clash took place. “The villagers of Ara, who were from a particular community, got into a brawl with residents of Kundi Kala village. After the brawl, the villagers of Ara went back to their village and returned again and got into a fight. Police rushed to the spot and registered a case and booked the villagers under relevant sections. The next day, six people from Ara were arrested and sent to jail but later got bail the same day. This enraged the Kundi Kala villagers,” said Shukla.Also Read | Five-member SIT to probe Haridwar Dharma Sansad hate speech casePolice said a group of outsiders instigated the villagers later. “Taking advantage of the situation of tensions between two communities, the outsiders raised slogans against a particular community. As soon as we got a complaint, senior officers and I rushed to the village and explained that some people are trying to give the issue a communal colour and villagers should not get misled,” said Shukla.He added that they were yet to identify the accused who organised the pledge and raised slogan against Muslims.” We have got a complaint and soon they will be arrested. The innocent villagers have realised that they have done a mistake but they could not identify the accused.”The police said they were scanning footage and soon the accused will be arrested.
07-01-2022||India||Ahead of civic polls, BJP makes Delhi's new liquor policy primary election issue||NEW DELHI: With less than three months left for civic polls in the national capital, the BJP-led municipal corporations are at loggerheads with the AAP-ruled Delhi government over the new excise policy that they allege allows for the opening of new liquor shops in residential areas. Leaders within the BJP believe that this drive against liquor vends could become a major poll issue raised by the party, in its attempt to counter anti-incumbency.
07-01-2022||India||PM Modi opens second campus of cancer institute in Kolkata, Mamata present||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday virtually inaugurated the second campus of the Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute (CNCI) in Kolkata in the presence of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Banerjee, who thanked the PM for inviting her to the event, said the institute holds a special place for her given that her college days were spent in the vicinity. Taking to Twitter, Modi said a day ago the inauguration programme for the CNCI campus will take place at 1pm. “This institute will augment healthcare capacities in eastern India and in the northeast,” the tweet further read.According to a statement by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), the second campus of CNCI has been constructed in sync with Modi's “vision to expand and upgrade the health facilities in all parts of the country”.Speaking at the event, Modi India has reached the historic milestone of administering 150 crore vaccine today.He said of the entire eligible population, over 90% citizens have received at least one dose vaccine against the coronavirus disease. “In just five days, over 1.5 crore children aged between 15-17 have been given a dose,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-opens-second-campus-of-cancer-institute-in-kolkata-mamata-present-101641541733791.html
07-01-2022||India||IMD issues orange alert in J&K due to heavy snowfall, warns of avalanche in vulnerable areas||The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has sounded an orange alert in Jammu and Kashmir for January 7 and January 8 in view of inclement weather in the Valley. As per the Met department, rainfall and/or snowfall is expected to increase gradually as the current day progresses. The weather conditions have been forecasted to intensify during nights of January 7 and 8, thereby leading to heavy to very rainfall and/or snowfall.However, conditions are expected to gradually improve starting January 9 morning.Also Read | MeT predicts heavy snowfall in Jammu and Kashmir; may disrupt surface, air trafficOwing to the orange alert, the IMD has given a warning of avalanche (landslide) in vulnerable areas in the Valley, and also said that the inclement weather may affect surface as well as air transportation on January 8.The Met department has asked people in the Valley not to venture in avalanche prone areas as its data revealed that the disaster is mostly triggered by heavy snowfall. People have also been advised to follow traffic advisory and maintain proper ventilation inside their rooms.The Valley witnessed heavy snowfall on the upper reaches and at the tourist resorts of Gulmarg, Sonmarg, Pahalgam, northern and southern parts of Kashmir on Wednesday. The situation improved marginally on Thursday but fresh forecast by the IMD may worsen it altogether.The passengers of cancelled flights shall be accommodated in the next available flight of the airline. There are no extra charges for rescheduling. Option of full refund to the passengers is also availableThe inclement weather has heavily impacted flight operations in the Valley with several of them either delayed or cancelled over the last two days. In a statement on Twitter on Thursday, Srinagar Airport said that as many as six flights were cancelled during the day and 35 could be operated normally owing to the harsh weather conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-issues-orange-alert-in-j-k-due-to-heavy-snowfall-warns-of-avalanche-101641538666813.html
07-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Delhi's Weekend curfew kicks in from tonight, here's who will be exempted and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi: Weekend curfew begins tonight, here's what you can avail, what you can'tA weekend curfew will be implemented in the national capital from Friday night and remain in place throughout Saturday and Sunday as part of the latest restrictions imposed by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) to contain the rapid resurgence of the coronavirus disease, driven by the highly transmissible Omicron variant. Read more Negative Covid reports mandatory for entering Manipur from tomorrowManipur has made it mandatory for people to produce negative Covid-19 test reports for entering the state from Saturday citing a surge in infections in some states of the country. Read morePant's dismissal 'not the reason' behind India's loss: Gavaskar points out major flaw that led to Johannesburg defeatTeam India faced a 7-wicket defeat in the second Test of the series against South Africa in Johannesburg on Thursday. Read more Kaun Banegi Shikharwati review: Even Naseeruddin Shah and Raghubir Yadav can’t save bad writingThe 10-episode Zee5 Hindi comedy series Kaun Banegi Shikharwati is surprisingly mediocre considering the talent involved. The cast includes Naseeruddin Shah, Raghubir Yadav, Lara Dutta Bhupathi and Soha Ali Khan. Naseeruddin, Raghuvir and Lara have previously been part of the web series Bandish Bandits, Panchayat, and Hundred, respectively. Read moreZendaya in strapless Valentino dress for Euphoria premiere is on track to be 2022's best-dressed star: All picsIf there is one star who defined fashion globally in 2021 with her back to back red carpet looks, it is Zendaya. And now, she is already on track to become the best-dressed celebrity of 2022. Read more After Ranbir Kapoor’s Channa Mereya, Kili Paul wins hearts with Shahid Kapoor’s Tujhe Kitna Chahne LageKili Paul, hailing from Tanzania, has won hearts of many, especially lovers of Hindi songs, with his impressive expressions in different lip syncing videos. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-s-weekend-curfew-kicks-in-from-tonight-here-s-who-will-be-exempted-and-all-the-latest-news-101641537392732.html
07-01-2022||India||Goa govt to confer ‘lifelong cabinet status’ on Cong leader Pratapsingh Rane||PANAJI: The ruling BJP government will confer “lifelong cabinet status” on veteran Congress leader and MLA Pratapsingh Rane, Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant announced in a move seen as an attempt to convince him not to contest the upcoming elections. “Our government has decided to grant lifelong Cabinet status to the senior most legislator, Pratapsingh Rane ji, for his great service to the State of Goa. He has held the topmost positions in the state as the Chief Minister and Speaker of Goa Legislative Assembly and completed 50 years as MLA. He will always be an inspiration to the people of Goa across strata,” Sawant said in a statement. “I look forward to his continued guidance as we work towards the welfare of the people and development of the State. I congratulate him and wish him all the very best in all his future endeavours,”he added. The “lifelong cabinet status” will give Rane status and privilege equal to that of a minister through his life. Pratapsingh Rane, a 10-time legislator, is Goa’s longest serving MLA. He also holds a record for having served as chief minister of the state for six terms, a little less than 16 years, between 1980 and 2007. He was the assembly speaker between 2007 and 2012. He had been continuously elected since 1972 to the then legislative assembly of the Union Territory of Goa, Daman and Diu. The 82-year-old veteran politician has stayed firmly with the Congress for decades. In December last year, Rane announced that he would be contesting the upcoming Goa polls saying that the decision was arrived at after demands from his well-wishers, supporters and workers. His decision to contest the elections prompted outrage from his son and BJP legislator Vishwajit Rane who went ahead to suggest his father should retire. “At 83, why does he have to continue in politics? One should gracefully retire after becoming a chief minister for more than six terms. A person who is my idol and someone I have so much respect for, that person should gracefully retire, not retire in the battlefield. It will be a very messy thing,” Vishwajit said while promising to contest against his father. Later toning down his response, he said, “We shall sort this issue amicably. Although I have decided to contest from the Poriem constituency, we will resolve this internally within the family.” Subsequently, Pratapsingh was announced as the Congress’s official candidate from Poriem. The senior Rane, however, appeared to backtrack from his decision to contest, saying it was perhaps time to retire. Reacting to the decision of the Goa government, Vishwajit thanked Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant for the decision. “There is no greater way to honour his 50 years of public service as chief minister, speaker, and MLA. This is a very special gesture, I thank Hon’ble CM @DrPramodPSawant for having conferred this recognition on my father. On behalf of the people of Sattari & Usgao, I express my gratitude to the Hon’ble Chief Minister & the entire cabinet,” Vishwajit tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-bjp-govt-to-confer-lifelong-cabinet-status-on-veteran-cong-leader-pratapsingh-rane-101641539744786.html
07-01-2022||India||PM Modi's security lapse: SC orders protection of travel records in Punjab, halts probes till Monday||The Supreme Court on Friday ordered the protection of all travel records related to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s recent visit to Punjab that was marred by an alleged security lapse leading to the PM’s returning to the airport without attending scheduled events.The top court, while hearing a plea seeking a court-monitored probe into the security breach allegations, directed the Punjab government to ensure that all records and materials pertaining to the PM's movements in the state on Wednesday be immediately secured in the custody of the registrar-general of the Punjab & Haryana high court.It also directed the Punjab Police, the Special Protection Group (SPG), and other central and state agencies to provide necessary assistance to the registrar-general, who will be accountable for the safekeeping of the travel records.The director-general of police (DGP) of Chandigarh and an official of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) will also act as nodal officers to coordinate with the registrar-general, the apex court said.It was also made clear that both the committees set up by the Centre and the Punjab government to probe the incident will halt their inquiries till Monday (January 10), when the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Lawyer's Voice is to be taken up next.
07-01-2022||India||Negative Covid reports mandatory for entering Manipur from tomorrow||Manipur has made it mandatory for people to produce negative Covid-19 test reports for entering the state from Saturday citing a surge in infections in some states of the country.“...all air passengers/road passengers/or anybody entering the state should mandatorily carry negative Covid 19 RT PCR test report done within 48 hours of arrival/entering into the state,” said K Rajo Singh, director, health services, Manipur, in a notification on Thursday.The order came on the day the state reported 59 Covid-19 cases, which took Manipur’s tally to 1,25,964. The state has 318 active cases. It has so far reported 2,009 Covid-19 related fatalities. Manipur has a recovery rate of 98.15%. As many as 62 Covid-19 cases were under home isolation in the state.Twelve people were fined ₹2,100 on Thursday for not wearing face masks in public places, spitting in public, and violating other Covid-19 guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/negative-covid-reports-mandatory-for-entering-manipur-from-tomorrow-101641535303836.html
07-01-2022||India||SC allows NEET-PG counselling based on existing OBC, EWS quota||The Supreme Court on Friday allowed the resumption of counseling for NEET-PG and UG courses for the academic session of 2021-2022 as per existing reservation norms.In its interim order, the apex court upheld the 27 per cent Other Backward Classes (OBC) quota. As far as 10 per cent quota for the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) category is concerned, the SC said for this year the criteria laid down in January 2019 will be followed.The court decided to examine the validity of the EWS criteria as laid down by the Pandey Committee and listed the batch of petitions for hearing in the third week of March.  While reserving its order on Thursday, the court said the counselling needed to begin in national interest.As part of its submissions, the Centre told the Supreme Court that the introduction of OBC and EWS reservations after the issuance of NEET-PG exam notification does not amount to "changing the rules of the game" midway.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, told a bench of justices DY Chandrachud and AS Bopanna that the submission that OBC reservation is unconstitutional is legally unsustainable.Massive protests by resident doctors of government hospitals were witnessed across several parts of the country in recent days over the delay in the counselling process.The weeks-long agitation that had also turned violent in Delhi on one of the day was withdrawn on December 31 following assurances from the government and talks with police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-allows-neet-pg-counselling-based-on-existing-obc-ews-quota-101641532892978.html
07-01-2022||India||Omicron tally past 3,000: Maharashtra, Delhi, Karnataka account for over 50% cases||The tally of the Omicron (B.1.1.529) variant of Covid-19 in India crossed the 3,000-mark on Friday with 3,007 cases being detected with the fast-spreading strain.According to data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare, this is an increase of 377 cases from the 2,630 reported a day ago. The new variant has now been detected in 27 states and Union territories. As many as 1,199 patients have recovered from their illness, the data further showed.
07-01-2022||India||Earthquake of magnitude 4.3 hits near Uttar Pradesh's Ayodhya||An earthquake measuring 4.3 on the Richter scale hit near Uttar Pradesh's Ayodhya, the National Center for Seismology (NCS) informed on Friday.According to NCS, an earthquake occurred at 176 km NNE of Ayodhya."Earthquake of Magnitude:4.3, Occurred on 06-01-2022, 23:59:22 IST, Lat: 28.14 and Long: 83.14, Depth: 15 Km, Location: 176km NNE of Ayodhya, Uttar Pradesh," NCS tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/earthquake-of-magnitude-4-3-hits-near-uttar-pradesh-s-ayodhya-101641530046962.html
07-01-2022||India||India's daily Covid tally crosses 1-lakh mark, Omicron count at 3,000||India on Friday breached the one-lakh mark in its daily Covid-19 tally with as many as 1,17,100 new cases being recorded in the last 24 hours. According to the latest updated data with the Union ministry of health and family affairs, the country’s current active caseload currently stood at 3,71,363. The last time the country had recorded more than one lakh cases in a day was on June 6, 2021, when the second wave of the virus was wreaking havoc across India. The country’s count of the highly transmissible Omicron crossed the 3,000-mark (3,007 to be exact) with 1,199 patients having been cured as well. The fast-spreading strain is now present in 27 states.The daily positivity rate has now touched 7.74 per cent, while the weekly positivity rate stood at 4.54 per cent.Also read| ‘Tsunami’ of new Covid-19 cases clog global health systems: WHO sounds alarmWith 302 patients dying due to related complications, the death toll touched 4,83,178. As many as 30,836 people recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative tally to 3,43,71,845. With this, the recovery rate touched 97.57 per cent.The health ministry said over 68 crore samples have been tested against the virus so far in the country. Further, more than 149 crore doses against Covid-19 have been administered to beneficiaries as part of the nationwide vaccination drive that was launched about a year ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-tally-breaches-1-lakh-mark-omicron-count-at-3000-101641528823887.html
07-01-2022||India||Pratapsingh Rane accorded permanent cabinet status by Goa govt||Pratapsingh Rane, former Goa chief minister and Congress veteran, was accorded permanent status of a cabinet for his service to the coastal state.Chief minister Pramod Sawant said the decision to accord him the honour was taken as Rane has completed 50 years as a legislator in the Goa Assembly during the current tenure. Rane, also a former speaker, currently represents the Poriem Assembly segment as a Congress MLA.Sawant said the state cabinet had resolved that those persons who have completed 50 years as MLA, and were former chief ministers or former speakers, would be given such a status in the future.The move comes days after Rane's son, Vishwajit, who is in charge of the state's health ministry, said he would defeat his 11-time MLA father by 11,000 votes, following which the Congress announced the senior Rane's name from Poriem again.The 87-year-old MLA had been the longest-serving chief minister (16 years) having had multiple terms till 2007 on different occasions.Taking to Twitter, Vishwajit said, “I am grateful to the Hon'ble Chief Minister @DrPramodPSawant and the entire cabinet for according a lifetime cabinet status to my father Shri Pratapsingh Raoji Rane. There is no greater way to honour his 50 years of public service as Chief Minister, Speaker and MLA.”“This is a very special gesture. I thank Hon'ble CM @DrPramodPSawant for having conferred this recognition on my father. On behalf of the people of Sattari and Usgao, I express my gratitude to the Hon'ble Chief Minister and the entire cabinet,” he said in another tweet.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pratapsingh-rane-accorded-permanent-cabinet-status-by-goa-govt-101641526968760.html
07-01-2022||India||Three terrorists killed in overnight encounter in J&K's Budgam||Three terrorists were killed in an overnight morning encounter that broke out at the Zolwa Kralpora Chadoora area of Budgam in Jammu and Kashmir on Friday.Police said all the three slain militants were affiliated to terror outfit Jaish e Mohammad. One of them have been identified as Waseem, a resident of Srinagar.The inspector general of police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, said incriminating materials, including arms and ammunition, were recovered during the encounter. “Three AK-57 rifles, eight magazines and some documents have been recovered from the terrorists,” Kumar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.A total of 11 terrorists have been neutralised in the year 2022 so far, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-terrorists-killed-in-early-morning-encounter-in-j-k-s-budgam-101641526193922.html
07-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: SC to hear PM Modi security breach matter today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Supreme Court to hear PM Modi security breach matterThe breach of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s security during a visit to Punjab on Wednesday will come up in the Supreme Court on Friday, with the country’s top court agreeing to hear a public interest litigation (PIL) on the matter by Lawyer’s Voice, a lawyer-run organisation, which termed the incident a “serious and deliberate lapse” on part of the Punjab government. Read moreMamata-Modi to hold virtual meet today as Bengal's single-day Covid cases top 15,000West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee will hold a virtual meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday in wake of a rapid rise in single-day cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) amid the Omicron outbreak. Read more‘That could have made significant difference’: Dravid highlights area that ‘needs improvement’ after Johannesburg defeatAfter kicking-off the South Africa tour with an impressive win at Centurion, Team India were handed a reality check by Dean Elgar-led Proteas unit, who bounced back to go level in Johannesburg. Read moreLara Dutta on taking tips on royalty from Soha Ali Khan: I forget she is a royal, attribute that more to Saif Ali KhanUpcoming Zee5 web series Kaun Banegi Shikharwati sees Lara Dutta, Soha Ali Khan, Kritika Kamra and Anya Singh play four princesses fighting to be the heir apparent to their father- the King of Shikharwat (played by Naseeruddin Shah). Read moreCan you guess Milind Soman's greatest weakness? Actor reveals in latest inspiring fitness postActor and celebrated supermodel Milind Soman is lazy. Don't believe us? Well, the Internet's favourite enthusiast says so himself. The star took to Instagram recently to share an inspiring post talking about his greatest weakness and achievement in life. And it will motivate you to make fitness a priority. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-sc-to-hear-pm-modi-security-breach-matter-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101641525518257.html
07-01-2022||India||Jawed Habib apologises for spitting on woman's hair, cites ‘humorous’ intent||Celebrity hair stylist Jawed Habib landed himself in hot water on Thursday with a video of him spitting on a woman's head while styling her hair going viral. After facing a barrage of criticism from netizens on social media and a rap from the National Commission of Women (NCW), Habib has now issued an apology statement through a video message, in which he said such things are often done with a “humourous” intent during workshops, but said that he was sincerely sorry if someone had felt hurt.Also Read | Video of Jawed Habib spitting on woman's hair goes viral, Women's commission takes note“Some words spoken by me during my seminar have hurt a few people,” said the popular hairdresser in his video statement. “I just want to say one thing… these are professional workshops, as in, they are attended by people from within our profession. When these sessions get very long, we have to make them humorous. What can I say? If you are truly hurt, I apologise from the bottom of my heart. Please forgive me, I'm sorry.”A post shared by Jawed Habib (@jh_hairexpert)The incident had taken place at Habib's workshop in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar. In a purported video from the site, the hairstylist could be seen spitting on a woman's head while dressing her hair and is heard saying, “if there is a scarcity of water, use saliva.”The audience can be heard laughing and applauding in the background of the video.The woman has been identified as Pooja Gupta, the owner of a hairdressing parlour herself. She took to her own social media channels to post a reaction to the incident and said that Habib, who was acting arrogant throughout the seminar, had just called her on stage to humiliate her.“Yesterday, I attended a workshop of Jawed Habib,” said Gupta. “He invited me on the stage to give me a haircut. He said if there is no water, you can use saliva. From now onwards, I will go to my streetside barber for a haircut, but will not go to Habib.”Later speaking to news channels, Gupta said, “He was not answering my questions. Then he pushed my head, I objected and said I have cervical issues. Then he spat twice on my hair and said that if you do not have water in your parlour, then you can spit. My husband was making the video. After I came down from the stage, Habib's assistant told me he was joking.”The National Commission for Women has asked the Uttar Pradesh police to probe the veracity of the purported video.@NCWIndia has taken cognizance of the incident. Chairperson @sharmarekha has written to @dgpup to immediately investigate the veracity of this viral video and take appropriate action. The action taken must be apprised to the Commission at the earliest.https://t.co/3wPS2Lavyt“The commission has taken this incident very seriously and not only condemns this in strongest possible words, but also seeks your urgent intervention in the matter to investigate the veracity of this viral video for immediate action as per law/procedure,” the NCW said in a letter to the state police.“This incident also attracts violation of guidelines issued by the Union home ministry under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, whereby spitting in public is a punishable offence in the wake of the Covid pandemic,” it added. “You are, therefore, required to immediately investigate the matter for appropriate action. The action taken/status report must be apprised to the commission at the earliest.”Officials said the NCW will also send a notice to the hairstylist for a hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jawed-habib-apologises-for-spitting-on-woman-s-hair-cites-humorous-intent-101641516402610.html
07-01-2022||India||Why AUKUS is good to keep China at bay in Indo-Pacific||New Delhi Paris is aggrieved over Australia nullifying a $59 billion air independent propulsion (AIP) submarine deal and opting for nuclear-powered conventional weapon attack (SSN) submarines under the AUKUS pact with the US and the UK signed in September last year.While France may have legitimate reasons for being upset with Australia for reneging on the submarine deal, the emerging picture in Indo-Pacific clearly shows that AIP submarines would have been a half-measure in containing a belligerent China under President Xi Jinping. Given the strategic environment in the Indo-Pacific region and the South China Sea in particular, the Australian choice of an SSN is the better option in tackling a rapidly growing PLA Navy and the Chinese intermediate range ballistic missile arsenal.The state of strategic play is such that India also has no choice but to go for long-range nuclear-powered submarines and delivery platforms as it is only a matter of time that the Chinese carrier force will be patrolling the Indian Ocean. With two nuclear submarines already operational and the third one a work in progress, India is building leverage in case the PLA decides to deploy strong-arm tactics on the 3,488-km Line of Actual Control (LAC), as it did in May 2020.If one overlooks the noise over Australia scuttling the French submarine deal, it is not very difficult to understand why Canberra decided the nuclear option, as it is a deterrent to China’s Taiwan ambitions. The signing of a security pact between Japan and Australia, once World War II adversaries, with the bottom line on convergence in the Indo-Pacific is also a step in the direction to ask China to mend its aggression. Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said the agreement “will underpin greater and more complex practical engagement between the Australian Defence Force and the Japanese Self-Defence Forces”. Juxtapose the new security pact with AUKUS and Quad and the larger picture emerges on the Indo-Pacific with India having a logistics agreement with all the Quad partners.Rather than viewing AUKUS from a French commercial perspective, the Australian nuclear-powered conventional attack submarines will be an answer to the massive deployment of DF-21 and DF-26 series of ballistic missiles by the PLA on the Chinese east coast to prevent US aircraft carriers from entering the South China Sea in the worst case scenario over Taiwan. Given the range of these ballistic missiles, the US aircraft carrier force will have to operate outside the first chain of islands after China, or else be in the cross-hairs of these PLA delivery platforms. While the US and Russia were bound by the Intermediate Range Nuclear Forces Treaty since 1987, before its suspension in 2019, the PLA has built a massive intermediate range ballistic missile arsenal with its propaganda media nick-naming the DF-21 and DF-26 as carrier killer and Guam killer weapons.With the advent of Australian nuclear submarines, the Chinese missile sites on the east coast will be threatened by the sub-surface attack platforms which can stay under water for months together in the South China Sea or the Indo-Pacific. The fact is that the AUKUS is a game-changer for the Indo-Pacific as even the latest AIP diesel submarines must surface, in effect betraying their positions, in weeks for charging their batteries. Thus, from a strategic perspective, the Australian nuclear attack submarines with conventional ballistic missiles as deterrents will allow US aircraft carriers to operate between the Chinese coast and the first island chain and also enforce laws of the seas and freedom of navigation in the South China Sea. As China is threatening Taiwan on a daily basis by breaching its air defence identification zone, it is for the US to speed up the SSN production for Australia as time is running out for Taipei and the security of the Indo-Pacific.
07-01-2022||India||PM Modi calls on President; CCS takes up security lapse case||President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday expressed concern about the security breach during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Punjab on Wednesday.The Prime Minister met the President today and gave him a first-hand account of the security breach, the Rashtrapati Bhavan said.The Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) met and discussed the issue, people aware of the matter said.Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu also spoke to the Prime Minister about the incident and expressed his deep concern . Naidu said he hoped that stringent steps will be taken to scrupulously adhere to established security protocol and ensure such a situation doesn’t recur in future, the Vice President’s Secretariat said on Twitter.Modi was scheduled to address a rally in Ferozepur yesterday and lay the foundation stone of multiple development projects worth more than ₹42,750 crore. But the event was cancelled because of the security breach. After landing at the Bathinda airport, the Prime Minister was heading to a memorial in Hussainiwala when a road he took was blocked by some protesters. This forced the PM’s convoy to spend about 15 -20 minutes on a flyover.The Centre, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), security experts and former senior police officers all stressed on the dangerous precedent set by the incident, with both the Union government and the BJP pointing to lapses by the Punjab police and the state government, and alleging that dirty politics was at play.“Today’s Congress-made happening in Punjab is a trailer of how this party thinks and functions. Repeated rejections by the people have taken them to the path of insanity,” tweeted Union home minister Amit Shah.Union minister Smriti Irani asked if information about the PM’s route was leaked.Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi expressed regret over the incident but rejected the BJP’s allegations.“There was no prior information. I worked till 3am to convince farmers to clear all routes. All roads were cleared by Wednesday morning. Had they told us about the road travel in advance, we would have made proper arrangements,” Channi said at a press conference on Wednesday.The Punjab government has formed a two-member panel to investigate the incident. A petition has also been filed in the Supreme Court, which will he heard on Friday.Meanwhile, the Bhartiya Kisan Union ( Krantikari), one of the 32 farm organisations involved in the year-long protests against the now repealed farm laws, took responsibility for the blockade.
07-01-2022||NA||Breaking News: Daily Covid cases in Maharashtra surge to 40,925; highest single-day rise since May 13 last year||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:721 new Covid-19 cases in Noida, nearby areas under Gautam Buddh Nagar districtGautam Buddh Nagar on Friday logged 721 new COVID-19 infections that pushed the number of active cases in the district to 2,404, the highest in Uttar Pradesh, official data showed.Daily Covid cases in Maharashtra surge to 40,925 Daily Covid cases in Maharashtra surge to 40,925,highest single-day rise since May 13 last year‘A remarkable day': PM Modi after India administers over 150 crore crore dosesA remarkable day on the vaccination front! Congratulations to our fellow citizens on crossing the 150 crore milestone. Our vaccination drive has ensured that many lives are saved. At the same time, let us also keep following all COVID-19 related protocols.State lawyers arguing against Biden vaccine mandates test positive for Covid-19Two officials presenting arguments to the U.S. Supreme Court seeking to block vaccine mandates ordered by President Joe Biden's administration have tested positive for Covid-19 and will make their cases remotely, their offices saidDelhi’s daily Covid-19 cases rise to 17,335, positivity rate reaches 17.73%Delhi’s daily Covid-19 cases rise to 17,335 as the city continues to report sharp growth in the infection. The positivity rate reached17.73 per cent, according to the state health department.Mumbai sees jump of 20,971 Covid-19 cases in a single dayMumbai on Friday reported 20,971 new cases, 6 deaths and 8,490 recoveries today. Active cases stands at 91,731.Russia confirms 16,735 daily Covid-19 casesRussia has registered 16,735 new coronavirus cases over the past 24 hours, taking the nationwide tally to 1,06,18,035, the official monitoring and response centre said Friday. The nationwide death toll grew by 787 to 3,14,604, while the number of recoveries increased by 22,035 to 96,45,712.Dharavi's Covid-19 tally rises by 150 casesOn Friday, Mumbai's Dharavi reported 150 new Covid cases in the last 24 hours. The active cases stands at 558.Indian economy estimated to grow at 9.2 pc in 2021-22: Govt dataThe Indian economy is estimated to grow at 9.2 per cent in 2021-22, as against a contraction of 7.3 per cent in the previous fiscal, mainly due to improvement in the performance of agriculture and manufacturing sectors, the National Statistical Office (NSO) said on Friday.New guideline for international passengers, 7-day home quarantine must for allThe Centre on Friday issued a revised guideline for international passengers amid the exponential rise of Omicron cases making 7-day home quarantine mandatory for all those coming from abroad. The new guideline will come into effect from January 11. Read More170 passengers, who arrived in Amritsar on charter flight from Rome, test Covid-19 positiveAs many as 170 of total 285 passengers, who arrived in Amritsar on charter flight from Rome, test Covid-19 positive.‘BJP must stop playing politics': Sidhu on alleged security breach of PM ModiThey (BJP) must stop playing politics. You will get a befitting reply here. All those talking about President's Rule (in Punjab), are your (BJP) parrots, says Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu in Chandigarh. ‘No decision yet on weekend curfew': Mumbai mayorNo decision yet on weekend curfew, says Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar, according ANI.  “Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair a review meeting (via video conferencing) with Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray this evening on the Covid-19 situation," Pednekar also informed. 20 staff members of Maharashtra minister test positive for Covid-19As many as 20 staff members of Maharashtra Home Minister Dilip Walse Patil tested have positive for Covid-19, informs state home minister's office.‘Achievement belongs to whole country, every government’: PM on teen vaccinationAfter inaugurating CNCI's second campus in Kolkata in West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee's presence, Prime Minister Narendra Modi lauded the vaccination against Covid-19 among teenagers. “Within just five days, more than 1.5 crore children have…been given the dose…This achievement belongs to the whole country, of every government,” he said.PM Modi inaugurates second campus of CNCI in KolkataPrime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurates the second campus of CNCI in Kolkata.Delhi to log around 17,000 Covid-19 cases today: Health ministerDelhi expected to add around 17,000 Covid-19 cases on Friday with a positivity rate of around 17%, health minister Satyendar Jain said. Read more here.SC orders protection of records pertaining to PM's movement in Punjab in security breach matterThe Supreme Court on Friday ordered protection of all records pertaining to PM Narendra Modi's movement in Punjab on January 5 in security breach matter. The top court ordered the Punjab government to ensure that all records and materials on PM's movement be immediately secured in the custody of registrar general of the Punjab and Haryana high court. Read more here.SC allows NEET PG 2021 counselling resumption as per existing quotaThe Supreme Court has permitted counseling to be held in NEET-PG and UG courses by upholding the existing 27% OBC and 10% EWS quota. It, however, directed that for the future years, the validity of the EWS criteria as laid down by the Pandey Committee must be done. The apex court listed the batch of petitions in the matter for hearing in March third week.AAP releases eighth list of candidates for 2022 Punjab pollsਆਮ ਆਦਮੀ ਪਾਰਟੀ ਨੇ ਆਗਾਮੀ 2022 ਦੀਆਂ ਪੰਜਾਬ ਵਿਧਾਨ ਸਭਾ ਚੋਣਾਂ ਲਈ ਉਮੀਦਵਾਰਾਂ ਦੀ ਅੱਠਵੀਂ ਸੂਚੀ ਦਾ ਐਲਾਨ ਕੀਤਾ। pic.twitter.com/Ew5bLQRpgIThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has released the eighth list of candidates for the upcoming 2022 Punjab Assembly polls. Raman Arora has been fielded from Jalandhar Central and Deep Kamboj from Abohar, among others.India's Omicron count reaches 3,007India's Omicron tally on Friday reached 3,007 as per data shared by the Union health ministry. Maharashtra and Delhi remain the top contributors with 876 and 465 cases, respectively.4 staff members of Maharashtra home minister test Covid positiveAs many as four staff members of Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse Patil have tested positive for Covid-19, ANI reported quoting the state home minister's office. “Sample testing of people staying at the minister's residence has been done,” the statement added.India logs over 1 lakh new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hoursIndia recorded a whopping 1,17,100 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours as Omicron variant continues to raise concern. As many as 302 deaths were logged while the active caseload accounted for 1.05% of the total tally. Read more here.3 terrorists neutralised in Zolwa encounter in J&KAs many as three terrorists have been neutralised in an encounter that broke out earlier in the morning at the Zolwa Kralpora Chadoora area of Budgam in Jammu and Kashmir, IGP Kashmir said. “Identification & affiliation being ascertained. Incriminating materials including arms & ammunition recovered,” the IGP added.Delhi's air quality improves to ‘poor’ category from ‘very poor’Delhi's air quality improves to 'poor' from 'very poor' category with Air Quality Index (AQI) standing at 273, as per SAFAR-IndiaVisuals from near Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium pic.twitter.com/2omcMRFr7yWith an AQI of 273, Delhi's air quality improve to ‘poor' category from ‘very poor,' according to SAFAR-India data.‘Tsunami’ of Covid cases amid Omicron overwhelming health systems: WHO chief's warningIn wake of the increasing number of Covid-19 cases across the globe amid the Omicron variant, World Health Organisation (WHO) chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said on Thursday that he “tsunami of cases” has now commenced to overwhelm health systems globally. Read more here.SAD patron PS Badal says Cong govt in Punjab totally failed to provide security to PM ModiShiromani Akali Dal (SAD) patron Parkash Singh Badal has said that the Congress government in Punjab completely failed to provide security to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“At first, the road shouldn't have been blocked but on the other hand, there was no crowd in his programme. It's the responsibility of state government to provide protection to PM but Congress government has totally failed,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/live-cong-govt-in-punjab-totally-failed-to-give-security-to-pm-says-ps-badal-101641517140263.html
07-01-2022||India||Nuke capable Rafale-M tested for INS Vikrant in Goa||India on Friday, will test the Rafale-M (Marine) jet for use on its Vikramaditya aircraft carrier as well as the indigenous aircraft carrier 1 (IAC1), which will be deployed as the INS Vikrant, at the INS Hansa in Goa, a shore-based test facility. The aircraft for the test arrived Thursday.The Rafale-M aircraft is the F4 equivalent standard naval version of the Rafale. The marine version of the Rafale jet has a reinforced undercarriage and nose wheel, a bigger arrester hook, an integrated ladder, and other minor differences from the Rafale currently in use in the Indian Air Force.According to people familiar with the matter, the Rafale-M is better suited for use on the aircraft carriers than the F18 Hornet fighter from the US for several reasons. They pointed out that it can fit into the lift bay of the Vikramaditya, unlike the F18 which cannot fit the lift of the Vikramaditya even with folded wings. The Rafale-M's dimensions also mean more of them (14) can fit onto the deck of the Vikramaditya as compared to 10 or 11 F18s.It also requires very minimal modification to the wheel-chokes of the Vikramaditya, which are reversible and can be de-modified, if required.The Rafale-M can carry up to four-five tonnes of external load (with full internal fuel) for a ski take-off. With lesser internal fuel, it can carry more weapons depending upon mission requirements. Thus it can carry out all roles, including combat air patrol, intercept, AD escort, as well as sea and land-strike with full internal fuel.Officials familiar with the matter also added that unlike the F18s, which requires the carriers to be fitted with a new carrier optical landing system, the Rafale M’s can work with the existing one on the Vikramaditya.There’s also the benefit of a common platform across the navy and the Air Force, one of the people said. Apart from synergies in logistics and maintenance, this person added, Indian Navy pilots could be trained on IAF’s Rafales for “faster induction”.The navy will likely test the F18s at the same facility in March, HT learns.The Vikrant is likely to be commissioned by August 15, and if the Rafale-M is chosen, India may seek to lease four or five of the aircraft for immediate deployment. The Vikramaditya is currently equipped with two squadrons of aging MiG-29.The Rafale-M sent for testing is the latest version of the fighter with India-specific enhancements. It is nuclear-capable, carries Meteor air-to-air missiles, SCALP air-to-ground missiles, and Hammer precision guided ammunition.
07-01-2022||India||Four former J&K chief ministers likely to lose SSG security cover||Four former chief ministers of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, Farooq Abdullah, Omar Abdullah, Ghulam Nabi Azad and Mehbooba Mufti, are likely to lose their Special Security Group (SSG) protection as the Union territory’s administration has decided to “right-size” the elite unit established in 2000, officials said on Thursday.In a communication to additional director general of police (ADGP), security, the UT administration on December 31 last year said, “The competent authority has also approved to right-size the SSG and, accordingly, I am directed to convey to reduce the posted strength of SSG to the bare minimum, preferably headed by a DSP, for maintaining continuity.”“All the resources (including vehicles, access control gadgets, etc) of the SSG, except such resources as may be required by SSF, be transferred to the security wing,” the order, issued by Rashid Raina, undersecretary to the J&K administration, added.The move came a little over 19 months after the Centre issued a gazette notification -- Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Adaptation of State Laws) Order, 2020 -- on March 31, 2020, amending the Special Security Group Act of the erstwhile J&K government by omitting a clause that provided former chief ministers and their families with SSG security.Officials said the decision was taken by the Security Review Coordination Committee, a group that oversees the threat perception of important leaders in Jammu and Kashmir.The officials said the SSG will be “right-sized” by reducing the number of the elite force to the “bare minimum”. It will be headed by an officer below the rank of superintendent of police as against director, who is of the rank of inspector general of police and above.However, officials feel there could be a rethink over the downsizing of the SSG as some experts within the police force feel that this may hamper the preparedness of the elite unit.The decision will entail the withdrawal of the security cover of Farooq Abdullah, Ghulam Nabi Azad, Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti at a time when a number of terror incidents have taken place in Srinagar.All these former chief ministers except Azad reside in Srinagar.However, Farooq Abdullah and Azad will continue to be provided the security cover of the National Security Guard, also known as Black Cat commandos, as both of them are Z-plus protectees.Omar and Mehbooba will continue to have Z-plus security cover while in Jammu and Kashmir, but are likely to have reduced security outside the Union territory.The leaders will be provided security by the district police as well as the security wing based on the threat assessment, the officials said.Reacting to the development, both the National Conference and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) alleged that the Centre was trying to curtail movement of their leaders.PDP chief spokesperson Suhail Bukhari said this is “not going to deter them from speaking the truth for their own people”. “We will continue to speak for our people. Even when PM Modi got stopped in Punjab, they (BJP) created hue and cry on the security issue and everyone is aware about security situation in Kashmir, especially targeted killings and other factors,” Bukhari said, referring to the alleged security lapse in Punjab that resulted in PM Modi’s convoy getting stuck on a flyover for 15-20 minutes on Wednesday.National Conference spokesperson Imran Nabi Dar said, “Considering the security situation in Kashmir and the accompanying circumstances, it will not be wrong to say that this new directive is aimed to curtail the movement of Dr Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah.”“Downgrading the security of four former chief ministers of J&K is nothing less than political vendetta.Security of people & their representatives must be a non-partisan issue.Such unwarranted measures against opposition leaders will not deter them from discharging their duties,” said Mohammad Yusuf Tarigami, Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary and PAGD spokesperson in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-former-j-k-chief-ministers-likely-to-lose-ssg-security-cover-101641495098981.html
07-01-2022||India||India dismisses Pakistan’s fresh offer to host SAARC summit this year||India on Thursday dismissed Pakistan’s fresh offer to host the long-pending summit of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc), saying there is no consensus that will allow the holding of the meeting.The last summit of the eight-nation grouping was held in Nepal in November 2014. India and other countries had pulled out of the 19th summit that was to be held in Islamabad in November 2016 following the Uri terror attack that was blamed on Pakistan-based terrorists.On Monday, Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi had reiterated his country’s offer to host the summit in 2022, saying India could attend the meet virtually if it does not wish to participate in-person.“We have seen media reports regarding the Pakistan foreign minister’s remarks about the Saarc Summit. You are aware of the background as to why the Saarc Summit has not been held since 2014,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a regular media briefing.“There has been no material change in the situation since then. Therefore, there is still no consensus that would permit the holding of the summit,” he added, without giving details.Responding to a question on Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s comments calling on the world community to take action regarding the situation in Jammu and Kashmir, Bagchi said: “Let me make two points. First, the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir is an inalienable and integral part of India.”“Two, the remarks you have referred to were made by the prime minister of such a country that openly supports cross-border terrorism, which gave refuge to [al-Qaeda chief] Osama bin Laden, and whose shocking human rights record the world is familiar with.”India-Pakistan relations are currently at an all-time low following a string of terror attacks on Indian military facilities and troops in recent years that were all blamed on Pakistan-based terror groups, mainly the Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM). Following back channel talks between intelligence officials of both sides, the two countries agreed in February last year to strictly adhere to the 2003 ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-dismisses-pakistan-s-fresh-offer-to-host-saarc-summit-this-year-101641494795427.html
07-01-2022||India||India, China fail to decide date for next round of military talks||India and China have been unable to agree on a date for the next round of military talks on disengagement and de-escalation in the Ladakh sector because of Beijing’s steadfast opposition to New Delhi’s proposal that all remaining friction points on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) be handled in one go.Since the 13th round of talks between senior military commanders of the two sides was held at the Chushul-Moldo border meeting point on October 10 last year, the Indian side has sent several proposals for the next round of talks along with agenda items, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.In these proposals, the Indian side maintained that all friction points between Depsang and Chumar should be collectively tackled in the talks between the military commanders so that there can be comprehensive disengagement and de-escalation in the Ladakh sector of the LAC, the people said.“The Chinese are not agreeing to this. Their response to every proposal from the Indian side has been different. Their goalposts keep changing and we aren’t even sure which of their proposals should be taken seriously,” one of the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.Beijing’s dithering has continued despite a decision made at the last meeting of the India-China Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs on November 18 that the 14th round talks between military commanders should be held at “an early date to achieve the objective of complete disengagement from all the friction points along the LAC...in accordance with the existing bilateral agreements and protocols”.At the 13th round of talks between military commanders, the people said, the two sides were close to forward movement on disengagement at Hot Spring. However, the Chinese side was represented by the deputy to the corps commander, who stayed away, and he was not authorised to make a decision, the people added.A statement issued by India after the last talks noted that “the Indian side...made constructive suggestions for resolving the remaining areas but the Chinese side was not agreeable and also could not provide any forward-looking proposals”.These tactics adopted by China, coupled with mounting evidence of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) beefing up infrastructure, roads, bridges, helipads, dual-use airports and missile and air defence positions on its side in Ladakh sector, has forced the Indian security establishment to conclude that the Chinese side is not serious about the negotiations.“They seem intent on dragging this process out. They aren’t serious about disengagement,” a second person said, referring to the Chinese side’s responses to the agenda items communicated by the Indian side.Tens of thousands of Indian and Chinese troops have dug in for the second successive winter in Ladakh sector, with no immediate signs of an end to the standoff that began in May 2020 and resulted in the first fatalities along the LAC since 1975. Twenty Indian soldiers and at least four Chinese troops were killed in a brutal clash at Galwan Valley in June 2020.The two sides withdrew frontline troops at Pangong Lake and Gogra last year after several rounds of talks, but there has been no headway in disengagement at other friction points since August 2021. India has linked the normalisation of overall ties with China to the resolution of the standoff.The latest evidence of PLA settling in for long haul was satellite imagery showing a new bridge being built to link the north and south banks of Pangong Lake in order to drastically cut down the time needed to deploy large numbers of troops from positions in depth to key friction points. The Chinese side has also built or improved roads and bridges in multiple sectors, including repaving existing roads constructing alternate routes.The area between Depsang and Chumar has several friction points. PLA troops have sought to block Indian patrols for more than two years in the strategic Depsang region, some 30 km south of Daulat Beg Oldi, which is home to a key airbase. Depsang also witnessed a three-week-long standoff in 2013.At Chumar, the key problem has been Chinese construction activities around Chepzi-Chumar road. This area too witnessed a brief face-off in 2014 that began on the eve of Chinese President Xi Jinping’s visit to India.Another friction point is Demchok, which too witnessed a standoff in November 2016.
07-01-2022||India||TRS MLA son quizzed over family’s suicide||The Telangana police on Thursday took into custody Vanama Raghavendra Rao alias Raghava, son of Telangana Rashtra Samithi lawmaker Vanama Venkateshwar Rao, in connection with alleged suicides by a small-time businessman and three members of his family at Paloncha town of Bhadradri Kothagudem district on January 3, police officials said.In a suicide note found on Thursday, the businessman had alleged that the MLA’s son asked him to send his wife to him, if he wanted to settle his property disputes, leading to protests by locals at the MLA’s house. After the mass suicide, Raghava was absconding, police said.A police official said on condition of anonymity that Paloncha police picked up Raghava from a guest house in Hyderabad and that he had been taken to Kothagudem for questioning before he would be formally arrested.When contacted, Bhadradri Kothagudem superintendent of police Sunil Dutt did not confirm the arrest of the TRS MLA’s son. “So far, we have not made any formal arrest,” he said.According to the first information report filed by Paloncha police on January 3, the small-time businessman, his wife and their daughter were burnt alive in a fire caused by gas leak from an LPG cylinder around 3.30 am on Monday. Another daughter, who sustained 80% burns, died on Wednesday at a government hospital in Kothagudem. The police recorded her statement at the hospital and said she mentioned family issues as a reason for the incident.Initially, the police thought it was an accident, but a hand-written suicide note found in the four-wheeler of the head of the family on January 3 revealed that they had committed mass suicide unable to bear alleged harassment from Raghava.The police named Raghava as accused No. 2 in the case and he went absconding after the incident.On Thursday morning, the police recovered a selfie-video from the man’s mobile phone, which he had reportedly recorded minutes before he and his family members died by suicide. In the video, which was seen by HT, he alleged that Raghava had asked him to send his wife to him, if he wanted to settle his property disputes. The suicide note and the video triggered uproar in Kothagudem, with the opposition parties laying siege to Raghava’s residence and demanding that the TRS MLA be suspended from the party and his son be arrested immediately. They also called for Kothagudem bandh on Friday.In a statement later, TRS MLA Rao said his son was ready to face any inquiry and that action could be taken against him if he was proved guilty. Rao also declared that till the investigation is completed, Raghava would be kept away from the party activities.(If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist.) Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918
07-01-2022||India||DMK moves court against Centre for “usurping state power” through Dam Safety Act||DMK Lok Sabha MP S Ramalingam has moved the Madras High Court with a petition challenging the constitutional validity of the recent legislated Dam Safety Act, 2021 on the grounds that it “is contrary to the federal structure” and reduces the state’s power.The first bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday accepted a request by senior advocate and DMK MP P Wilson for an urgent hearing and listed the matter for on January 10. Wilson submitted that the writ petition is challenging the vires of the Act on various grounds including that the Parliament has no legislative competence to legislate the Act which is in the domain of the state. Further, he said that the Act has the effect of taking control over all major dams in the state.Ramalingam seeks for the Act to be struck down calling the union government’s actions arbitrary and discriminatory in reducing the state’s powers in the regulation and administration in the safety of the dams. “I state that the impugned Act is a legislation passed by the Union through brute majority to blatantly usurp the states’ power, in broad daylight when the legislators like me were helpless to prevent the violence done to the Constitution,” Ramalingam’s petition read. “However, I have the utmost faith and belief that the Constitutional Courts will certainly annul unconstitutional laws exercising the power of judicial review.”He drew in sections which envisage the forming of a National Committee on Dam Safety and National Dam Safety Authority which reveals that there is no proportional representation of representatives of State Governments. “The representatives of the State Governments are the better persons to judge and understand the needs and interests of the particular State in which the specified dam is situated. Only the representatives of that particular State will have local knowledge, insight as to the safety of the dam, keeping in mind the irrigation requirements of the surrounding lands, the impact of storage of water on the agriculture and agriculturists,” he said.“The Union representatives, who will be sitting in some other corner of country will not have the expertise nor the practical awareness to take such decisions and hence this renders the entire process futile.” He said that in case of emergent situations like flood, cyclone the life and safety of the people surrounding the dam who are likely to be affected will be at peril if no immediate decisions are taken related to Dam safety.“Further in case of a disagreement between the representatives of Union and State Government, the interests of the State Governments would be overruled by representatives of the Union Government due to the State Representatives being in the minority. Such a scenario destroys the Federal structure of the Constitution and completely curtails the voice of the State Governments even in cases where the State Government itself is the owner of the dam.”The petitioner cited the example of the recent farm laws that were repealed in December 2021, a year after protests against it. He said that only after interference by the Supreme Court through interim orders, that the Union acceded to the states’ contention that the farm laws violated the federal structure and trenched upon the states’ domain. “Thus the concept of cooperative federalism cannot be discarded and such action of the Union in bulldozing and appropriating the powers of the States flowing from List II of 7th Schedule of the Constitution cannot be countenanced in law,” the petition said.In his 41-page petition, Ramalingam also drew on certain definitions in the Act. He pointed out that “specified dams” defined in the Act are dams with height of more than 15 metres or height between 10 to 15 metres with certain design and structure. “If this definition is followed, almost all dams in the country will come under the purview of the Impugned Act,” the petition said. Further, he said under section 4 of the Act, phrases such as “the dam has especially difficult foundation problems” and “the dam is of unusual design” are used. “The said definition is purposefully vague and gives unabridged power to the Union to treat any dam as a “specified dam” due to the vagueness in the description of foundation or of the design of the Dam,” he said.
07-01-2022||India||Kerala sees 50 new Omicron cases, tally touches 280||Kerala on Thursday reported 50 new cases of Omicron taking the state total to 280. The same was informed by state health minister Veena George. This is the highest single day tally since the first case of Omicron was reported on December 7. Of the new cases, 45 came from low-risk countries and five came from low- risk countries, said the minister. Among new cases, 18 were reported from Ernakulam, eight from Thiruvananthapuram and seven from Pathanamthitta 7. Among 50 new cases, maximum (13) came from the United Arab Emirates. The minister has called for high vigil in view of rising Omicron cases. “Time is not ripe to lower our vigil. We have to ensure Covid appropriate behaviour strictly,” said the minister adding, the state is well prepared with enough oxygen stock and beds. Experts have warned that Omicron cases would peak in the state in two months. The government said it has taken enough precautions to meet the exigency. In the state, at least 98% of eligible population has received the first dose of vaccine and 78% received both. As per the experts, good vaccination rate will help contain the new threat of Omicron but they want people to ensure Covid appropriate behaviour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-sees-50-new-omicron-cases-tally-touches-280-101641494255399.html
07-01-2022||India||Monitoring cases closely, no need to shut schools yet, says Kerala edu min||Amid growing threat of new virus variant Omicron, Kerala education minister V Sivankutty Thursday said there is no plan to shut schools as of now. He said the government is in constant touch with experts and will go by their recommendations. “We are closely monitoring the situation. As of now there is no need to shut the schools and colleges. The government will go by the advice of the core committee and experts’ opinion on pandemic,” he said in the state capital. After neighbouring Tamil Nadu and Karnataka tightened measures to check the spread of the new variant, there was pressure on Kerala as well to buckle up. Experts last week said night curfew won’t do any good in Kerala as travel and movement during night hours were limited in the state. On Thursday, the country witnessed a big jump in Omicron cases with single highest tally of 495. Meanwhile, Maharashtra topped with 797 cases, Delhi 465, Rajasthan 236 and Kerala 280. The country Thursday reported highest coronavirus cases — 90,928 — highest in six months. In Kerala, first Omicron case was detected on December 7 and the cases crossed 100 in less than a month. Experts said Omicron cases are likely to peak in the state by February end. The government said it has taken enough precautions to meet the exigency. At least 98.6% of eligible population received the first dose of vaccine and 78% received both and experts said good vaccination rate will help contain the new threat of Omicron but they warned it is too early to lower the vigil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monitoring-cases-closely-no-need-to-shut-schools-yet-says-kerala-edu-min-101641494195219.html
07-01-2022||India||Stalin says he will bring end to online gaming in Tamil Nadu||There will be an end to online gaming with stakes in Tamil Nadu soon, chief minister MK Stalin said on Thursday in the state assembly in response to a question raised by AIADMK MLA R Vaithilingam.The erstwhile AIADMK government under former chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami in November 2020 amended a 90-year law to ban online games including online rummy and online poker with stakes on the ground that teenagers and young adults were losing money and cited cases of suicide.A batch of petitioners challenged this in the Madras High Court and in August 2021, the first bench of the court overturned the ban.The court said that the amendment is so unequivocally audacious that it rules out any element of choice that an individual may exercise and added that some regulation can still be exercised. Stalin pointed out that cases related to online gaming are pending in the Supreme Court and that his government will follow a legal route towards ensuring a ban.Since there have been several suicides connected to online gaming and gambling, a “permanent full stop” to this will be brought soon, said Stalin. The chief minister reiterating this stand was applauded by the legislators in the house.On Wednesday, the AIADMK’s ally PMK’s founder S Ramadoss too had urged the state government to ban the same recent suicides in the state which he claimed were to be due to loss of money in online gaming. The suicides should not end up being like a daily weather report, he had said.Last September, Karnataka became the third state in India to ban online gaming after Tamil Nadu and Kerala by bringing in a legislation. The ban has been challenged in the Karnataka high court and hearing is on-going in the case.Cyber law advocate and expert N Karthikeyan said gaming comes under the state subject so the state can pass a law to either restrict or allow a particular game but since the issue is in cyberspace a ban may not be realistic. “Even if they pass a state law, the gaming and gambling applications will still be available in the App Store and Playstore,” said Karthikeyan. “Some of these are available in open source platforms so it can be shared. So how will the state monitor and take action? How will they know that someone is playing these games until it is reported. So banning online games isn’t a solution but it should be restricted like it is done in other countries where they have limitations to prevent addiction and a limit on how much money can be spent in a day.”
07-01-2022||India||Duty of every government to provide foolproof security to PM: Naveen Patnaik||BHUBANESWAR: As war of words between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Congress escalated over the alleged breach in the security of prime minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday in Punjab, Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday said as the PM of the country is an institution it is the duty of every government to provide foolproof security and safeguard his dignity. Anything contrary to this should be unacceptable in our democracy,” Patnaik said in a Twitter post. Union education minister and senior BJP leader Dharmendra Pradhan hailed Patnaik, saying this is how a democracy like in India should function. “We all can have differing ideologies, beliefs & opinions but that can be no ground to legitimise a breach in security for the Prime Minister. Appreciate Naveen Patnaikji for his concern for PM Modi’s security,” he tweeted.Since yesterday, both the BJP and the Congress have engaged in a bitter war of words after PM Modi’s scheduled visit to National Martyrs Memorial at Hussainiwala and a programme in Ferozepur got cancelled as his convoy was stuck on a flyover for 15-20 minutes on Wednesday. The union home ministry which described the incident as a major lapse in the security of PM has constituted a three-member committee to probe into it. While the Bharatiya Janata Party has blamed the Congress-led Punjab government over the alleged security breach, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi maintained that there were no lapses in the security as the road was blocked by some unarmed protesting farmers, who posed no threat to PM’s life. Incidentally, the election road show of Modi in Bhubaneswar during the 2019 election campaign had its moment of scare when part of the road plunged to darkness following a power-cut. Though BJP did not complain of security lapse, its leaders alleged that the power-cut was the handiwork of the Biju Janata Dal (BJD) government which wanted the road show to flop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/duty-of-every-government-to-provide-foolproof-security-to-pm-naveen-patnaik-101641494135215.html
07-01-2022||India||Chinese army built bridge in illegally occupied area: India||India lashed out at China on Thursday, accusing it of building a bridge across Pangong Lake in an area it has illegally occupied for 60 years and describing the tone of a letter sent by a Chinese official to MPs and ministers who attended a meeting on Tibet as unacceptable.The external affairs ministry also reiterated its rejection of China’s move to rename 15 locations in the northeastern state of Arunachal Pradesh, saying that instead of engaging in “such antics”, Beijing should work with New Delhi to address the friction points in the Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC).The criticism from the Indian side followed the government’s prolonged silence on both the construction of the bridge linking the north and south banks of the strategic Pangong Lake and the Chinese embassy official’s unprecedented action of writing directly to ministers and lawmakers who attended a meeting of the recently revived All-Party Indian Parliamentary Forum for Tibet.Both issues had been raised by the opposition, who sought an explanation from the government on the Chinese actions against the backdrop of the standoff on the LAC that is well into its second year. China’s state-run media had also played up New Year celebrations by People’s Liberation Army (PLA) troops at Galwan Valley, the scene of a brutal clash in June 2020.External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the government has been closely monitoring the construction of the bridge on Pangong Lake by the Chinese side. “This bridge is being constructed in areas that have been under illegal occupation by China for around 60 years now. As you are well aware India has never accepted such illegal occupation,” he told a regular media briefing.The government has been taking “all necessary steps to ensure that our security interests are fully protected”, Bagchi said. As part of these efforts over the past seven years, the government has significantly increased funding for developing border infrastructure and “completed more roads and bridges than ever before”, he said.These actions have provided much-needed connectivity to the local population and logistical support to the armed forces, and the government remains committed to this objective, he said.Recent satellite imagery has shown that the Chinese bridge spanning a narrow section of the 134-km lake is nearly complete. Experts believe it will drastically reduce the time needed by the Chinese side move troops and equipment from in-depth bases to forward locations near the LAC.Referring to the letter written by the Chinese embassy’s political counsellor to Indian MPs and ministers over their participation in the event focused on Tibet, Bagchi said: “The substance, tone and tenor of the letter are inappropriate. The Chinese side should note that India is a vibrant democracy and [the] MPs, as representatives of the people, undertake activities as per their views and beliefs.”He added, “We expect the Chinese side to refrain from hyping normal activities by [the] MPs and complicate further the situation in our bilateral relations.”The Tibetan Parliament-in-Exile and the India Tibet Coordination Office had organised a dinner reception on December 22 to announce the revival of the All-Party Indian Parliamentary Forum for Tibet. The meeting was attended by social justice minister Ramdas Athawale, minister of state for skill development Rajeev Chandrasekhar, and nine members of the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, including Maneka Gandhi, Jairam Ramesh and Manish Tewari.Subsequently, the Chinese embassy’s political counsellor, Zhou Yongsheng, sent the letter to the MPs and ministers expressing his country’s concern over their participation in the meeting.“As is known to all, the so-called ‘Tibetan Government in-exile’ is an out-and-out separatist political group and an illegal organization completely in violation of China’s Constitution and laws. It is not recognized by any country in the world. Tibet has been an inseparable part of China since ancient times, and Tibet-related affairs are purely China’s internal affairs that allow no foreign interference,” the strongly worded letter said, adding that the lawmakers should refrain from providing support to “Tibetan independence” forces.Bagchi also referred to the Chinese side naming 15 places in Arunachal Pradesh last week, and described it as a “ridiculous exercise to support untenable territorial claims”.He said, “Calling Tuting as ‘DouDeng’ or river Siyom as ‘XiYueMu’ or even Kibithu as ‘Daba’ does not alter the fact that Arunachal Pradesh has always been and will always remain an inalienable part of India. We hope that instead of engaging in such antics China will work constructively with us to resolve the outstanding friction points in areas along the western sector of the LAC in India-China border areas.”
07-01-2022||India||Telangana Congress political affairs committee meeting exposes chinks in the party||Fireworks were witnessed in the Telangana Congress party’s political affairs committee (PAC) held on Wednesday night, with several senior leaders raising a banner of revolt against the style of functioning of Pradesh Congress Committee president A Revanth Reddy, a senior party leader familiar with the development said on Thursday.The four-hour-long meeting chaired by All India Congress Committee general secretary in charge of Telangana affairs Manickam Tagore through Zoom conference call was convened to discuss the arrangements for conducting AICC training programmes starting from January 19.However, seniors like PCC working president and Sangareddy MLA T Jayaprakash Reddy alias Jagga Reddy, former MPs V Hanumantha Rao and Renuka Chowdary and MLAs D Sridhar Babu used the occasion to lodge a complaint with Tagore that Revanth Reddy’s unilateral decisions on conducting party programmes without taking senior party functionaries into confidence.“There was a strong resistance from PAC leaders like Mohd Shabbir Ali and Madhu Yashki Goud in support of the PCC chief and it led to heated arguments and counter-arguments between the two groups,” a party leader said on condition of anonymity.Jagga Reddy, who has been openly questioning Revanth Reddy’s style of functioning, took strong exception to the PCC disciplinary committee seeking his explanation for writing a letter to AICC president Sonia Gandhi in the last week of December.Last week, PCC disciplinary committee chairman G Chinna Reddy said Jagga Reddy has violated party discipline by leaking his letter to the media. It is nothing but breach of party discipline, he said.At the PAC meeting, Jagga Reddy raised this issue and questioned how Revanth Reddy could question his loyalty to the party. He said it was the PCC chief who had violated the party discipline by conducting “Rachabanda” (public forum) programme near chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s farmhouse at Erravelli village in Siddipet district on January 26, without intimating him, though he was the local MLA.He alleged that Revanth Reddy was not functioning along party lines and was instead, using such programmes only for personal image building.Other seniors like Hanumantha Rao and former PCC president Ponnala Lakshmaiah also found fault with the PCC disciplinary committee for seeking explanation from Jagga Reddy. “At one stage, Jagga Reddy said he was disgusted with the party leadership and if the party did not want him to continue in the party, he would quit,” the party leader quoted above said.With the situation going out of hands, the AICC in charge of Telangana affairs intervened and told the party leaders to maintain utmost discipline and if there were any differences on any issue, they could write to him or the AICC president.“But under any circumstances, you should not take your infighting to the media, as it would show the party in poor light. The high command has taken a very serious view of the internal differences in the party and if anybody makes any open allegations against the party leadership, stern action would be taken against them,” the party leader quoting Tagore said.The AICC leader also asked Revanth Reddy to follow the party line and take all the seniors into confidence before chalking out any programme. He called upon the party workers to make the training programmes of the AICC a big success.Congress Legislature Party leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka, Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy, MLA Komatireddy Rajagopal Reddy and PCC election management committee chairman Damodar Rajanarasimha, who have also been opposing Revanth Reddy’s style of functioning, did not attend the PAC meeting.
07-01-2022||India||Koppa: Govt college students sport saffron shawls to protest classmates wearing hijab||The management of a state-run degree college in Koppa is in a fix after a section of students came to the college wearing saffron scarves to protest against the Muslim women allegedly attending classes with hijab. The Government Degree College (GDC) in Balagadi, which had reportedly given in to the demand of the students with saffron scarves initially, and asked women not to attend classes wearing hijab, has now decided to allow everyone to wear whatever they wish to till January 10. “We are convening a parent-teachers meeting which will also be attended by public representatives on January 10 to resolve the issue. The decision would be binding on everyone,” principal Ananth Murthy said. He said, three years ago a decision was taken in a similar meeting and everyone abided by it till now. “Everything was going smoothly but yesterday a few students suddenly appeared in the class wearing scarves. They were objecting to the dress code of some other students,” Murthy added. “Three years ago, a similar controversy had erupted in the college, and it was decided that no one should come to the college wearing hijab but for the past few days, some women are coming to the college wearing it. Hence, we decided to come to the college wearing saffron scarves from yesterday,” a student said, pleading anonymity. He also claimed, that upon their request, the college administration had asked the Muslim women several times to not sport hijab while on the campus, but they did not budge. The student warned that if this issue was not addressed, they would intensify their agitation in the coming days. The incident comes days after six students were denied entry into classes by the college authorities in the Udupi district for wearing hijab. On Saturday, the parents of these students along with activists held a protest against the authorities for not allowing the students inside the class for three days. Apart from not being allowed into the class over the dress code, the students also complained that they are not being allowed to talk in Urdu, Arabic and Beary languages. The girls stood outside the classroom for three days in protest. The students claimed though their parents approached principal Rudra Gowda for talks, he refused to hold a discussion on the issue. (With inputs from PTI)
07-01-2022||India||Amit Shah refusing to meet all-party panel over NEET: Stalin||Chennai Chief minister MK Stalin on Thursday alleged that union home minister Amit Shah is refusing to meet an all-party delegation of MPs led by the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) to discuss a Tamil Nadu bill that seeks exemption from the National Eligibility cum Entrance Exam (NEET) in the state.“Refusing to meet people’s representatives is anti-democratic,” Stalin said in the Tamil Nadu assembly on Thursday. To take a decision on the matter and to exert pressure on the union government, the chief minister called for an all-party meeting on January 8.In his strongly-worded speech which focused only on the issue of NEET for more than six minutes, Stalin framed this issue as one where the central government is snatching away the rights of the state and galvanised the members of the assembly to take the struggle against NEET as a fight towards social justice.“I am duty bound to inform this house that the progress achieved by Tamil Nadu so far has been through such protests. Likewise, we will consider the fight against NEET as the next protest of the Social Justice movement. We will not budge from our stand,” Stalin told the assembly.Stalin made the announcement for the all-party meet under Rule 110 of the Tamil Nadu assembly under which either a chief minister or a minister can make a statement and the opposition will not have an opportunity to comment on it.DMK’s parliamentary leader TR Baalu told reporters in Delhi on Wednesday that Shah has not given them an appointment and he also demanded the resignation of Governor RN Ravi for not sending the Bill to the President as yet. This after the Governor in his maiden address in the assembly on Wednesday articulated the state’s view that entrance exams like NEET create an unequal platform against rural students and it is unnecessary.NEET has been dominating Tamil Nadu politics and the state under the previous AIADMK government and the current DMK government has opposed the exam since it was mandated in the state from 2017 by the Supreme Court. The DMK-led government passed the Undergraduate Medical Degree Courses Bill, 2021 in the state assembly with the support of all parties except the BJP in September. The Bill seeks to restore Tamil Nadu’s process of medical admissions by considering only class 12 marks. The AIADMK in 2017 passed a similar bill seeking exemption from NEET but it was rejected by the president.The Bill passed in September 2021 which was sent to the Governor Ravin on the same month is still under his consideration, according to an RTI response from the governor’s office in December. As a follow-up, a delegation of MPs from all political parties in Tamil Nadu led by the DMK submitted a memorandum to the office of the President of India on December 28 the delay in considering the legislation. The President’s office had conveyed to them that the memorandum has been sent to the Union Home Ministry.“So the delegation sought an appointment with Union Home Minister Amit Shah. However, they have not been granted an appointment so far,” Stalin said.The BJP said the DMK was enacting a political drama on the NEET issue first using the Governor and now using Shah. “He’s the home minister of the country, you can imagine his workload. It is justified if they have been trying for an appointment for ten days or so and he hasn’t met them,” said Tamil Nadu BJP’s general secretary Karu Nagarajan.“But, how can they suddenly seek an appointment and immediately give a press byte saying that he’s not meeting them and today the chief minister is parroting that in the assembly. This is just a way for them to promote themselves. On the one hand, they get the Governor to say that the state will not back down from NEET and then they blame the Governor on the same issue. I only see this as DMK’s double standards since they came to power.”On whether the BJP will participate in the all-party meeting, Nagarajan said the leadership was yet to take a call on it.
07-01-2022||India||Seven booked for suspected sacrifice of 15-year-old||Mysuru police have booked seven men for allegedly murdering a 15-year-old boy as a part of a human sacrifice ritual. This is the second such incident of alleged human sacrifice which has been reported in the state in past three months. Mysuru superintendent of police (SP) R Chetan told the media that the police has taken some suspects into custody, however, a formal arrest will be made soon. “The case was registered after the victim’s body was recovered near Halepura lake in Nanjangud taluk on January 2. He was later identified as Mahesh,” the officer said. The SP said that investigation into possible human sacrifice ritual started after the victim’s father Siddaraju lodged a complaint and alleged the same. In the investigation that followed, police found traces of black magic rituals near the lake, the Mysuru SP said. The father in his police complaint alleged that the accused — Hemmaragala Srinivas, Raju, Naveen and Muddu — used to practise black magic and took his son to the lake on a full moon night where the executed the crime. Meanwhile, as per initial probe, police learnt that victim Mahesh had gone to the lake with his friends. It was alleged that the victim’s friends pushed him into the lake and killed him after performing black magic rituals. The investigation has been initiated based on evidence collected so far and the statements given by the locals, said the police. Despite the anti-superstition bill — Eradication of Inhuman Evil Practices and Black Magic Act — being formally notified in 2020, such incidents continue to come to the fore.Earlier, on September 3, 2021, a suspected case of black magic was reported after a two-year-old girl was found abandoned at a sugarcane field at Halyala village in Belagavi district . In another incident, which was reported last year on October 27, Karnataka police recently arrested a doctor for allegedly murdering his wife by injecting high doses of drugs in Davanagere district on Sunday. The arrest comes nine months after the woman’s death and police said that the murder was carried out as part of a black magic ritual. Police have identified the suspect in custody as 45-year-old Dr Channakeshappa who was practising medicine in Rameshwara village in Nyamathi taluk. His wife, Shilpa, died on February 11 following an alleged overdose. The investigation later found that he had been practising black magic in recent years and had been visiting several black magic practitioners in the past year. It was during one such interaction when he was advised to sacrifice his wife to access tressure, said police. The doctor then decided to offer his wife as a human sacrifice and killed her with an overdose, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seven-booked-for-suspected-sacrifice-of-15yearold-101641493895830.html
07-01-2022||India||28-year-old Covid patient from UK booked for ‘fleeing’ hospital; 14 B’luru cops test +ve||A 28-year-old Covid-19 positive patient was booked after he escaped from the hospital, said police on Thursday.The patient had arrived from the United Kingdom and was asked to quarantine in Manipal Hospital Doddaballapur area of Rural Bengaluru. Bengaluru rural police have registered a case under a case has been registered under IPC Sections 188, 269 and 270 and Section 51(b) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. According to the police, the patient tested positive at the airport, and was shifted to the hospital. On Tuesday, however, an official at the hospital realised that he was missing and lodged a police complaint. Results of the genome sequencing to identify whether the patient has the Omicron variant is pending, said officials. In another incident, 14 police officers attached to the City Market police station in Bengaluru tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. The cases came to light when the police officials were subjected to rapid antigen test (RAT). The tests were conducted in the wake of a rapid surge of Covid cases in the city and a cop testing positive in the Byatarayanapura police station. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP) West Sanjeev Patil told reporters that one police sub-inspector, two assistant sub-inspectors and 10 police constables of City Market Police Station have tested positive. “All infected persons are home quarantined and the police station has been sealed. The total strength of the police station is 69 and the tests have been conducted on 43 cops. The rest are placed on night duty and will be tested at the earliest,” he said. About 60 police officers attached to the Byatarayanapura police station have undergone an RT-PCR test on Wednesday after a cop tested positive for the virus. Their results are awaited, and the police department is getting the police station premises sanitized. Meanwhile, 21 medical students of the Vijayanagara Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) in Karnataka’s Ballari tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday. Following the news, the authorities conducted tests on all the students staying at the hostel, and those who tested positive have been sent to the district hospital. VIMS director Dr T Gangadhar Gowda said that all the infected students are first and second-year medical students. The authorities have sanitised the premises and enforced strict vigilance on the campus, he said. 
07-01-2022||India||India tally crosses 116k riding on Omicron surge||India on Thursday added more than 116,000 new cases of Covid-19, the highest single-day increase since June 5, 2021, as the massive surge propelled by the Omicron variant continued to send daily infections soaring through the country.Thursday’s case count of 116,838 means that daily cases have now grown more than 10-fold in just 10 days (there were just 9,155 new infections on December 28) – a speed of rise in infections previously unseen in the two years of the pandemic in the country.To be sure, such a sharp rise in daily infections is keeping in line with trends in Covid waves seen across the world due to the highly transmissible Omicron variant. Experts have said that while infections of the new variant, which was first discovered in South Africa in early November, are spreading a lot faster than previous iterations of the coronavirus, they are largely asymptomatic or mild, with only small fraction resulting in deaths across the world.In India, the country’s metropolitan cities continued to be the ones reporting the largest surges.In Delhi, there were 15,097 new cases reported on Thursday – the highest since May 8 last year. In just the past two days, daily cases in the Capital have tripled – there were 5,481 new infections on Tuesday, and 10,665 on Wednesday.A surge of similar magnitude is being witnessed in Mumbai, where 10,606 cases on Tuesday and 15,014 on Wednesday, were followed by 19,780 new infections on Thursday. On Tuesday, Kolkata reported 4,759 daily cases on Tuesday, 6170 on Wednesday, while on Thursday, there were 6,569 infections in the city.Pushed by the numbers from these cities, Maharasthra, West Bengal and Delhi, remained the regions reporting the most numbers in the city. There were 36365 new cases reported in Maharasthra on Thursday, the most in any state in the country, and the highest single-day jump in the western state since May 16, 2021. West Bengal’s addition of 15421 new cases was the most in a day since May 26 last year, data shows.Maharashtra alone accounts for a third of all new infections of Covid-19 reported across India in the past week, while another third of all cases have come from a combine of West Bengal, Delhi and Kerala in the same time period.Dozens of state government across the country have already imposed night curfews and weekend lockdowns, as well as closed schools. Political rallies, however, have continued in several states where elections are due in the next few weeks and months.  Meanwhile, the Union health ministry on Thursday directed all states to re-establish 24x7 control rooms at district and sub-district levels, to ensure ease of access to services like ambulance transportation and booking a hospital bed for serious patients, considering the rapid increase in cases.“For seamless administrative management of Covid-19 situation, it is expected that targeted action for re-establishment of control rooms at district and sub-district levels (for bigger districts) to ensure ease of access to services like ambulance transportation and booking a hospital bed,” read the letter written by Arti Ahuja, additional secretary, health ministry.The control rooms will have to be adequately staffed with medical doctors, counsellors, and volunteers, among other relevant staff. The Centre’s directive emphasised upon the need for enabling infrastructure in terms of computers and broadband in these control rooms for uninterrupted connectivity, and ample phone lines to cater to the assigned population.Depending on the caseload, the control rooms have been asked to remain functional round the clock to provide validated guidance or support to the patients in need.Control rooms will also have real-time data on availability of Covid testing centres, ambulances, and so that the staff is able to guide the caller on the process for availing these services.They will also monitor the availability of different types of beds across health facilities and the staff will counsel the patients or attendants to avail only the required services based on clinical symptoms and availability of beds. Therefore, it will serve to ensure clear and transparent mechanism for allotment of beds.These control rooms will also be responsible to make outbound calls to the patients under home isolation for regular monitoring.“One of the core responsibilities of the control rooms shall also be to collate the daily status report of all patients under home isolation in their jurisdiction and submit the same to the district administration… also assign nodal officers for different levels of control rooms who can be in touch with each other at all times and provide seamless services to citizens,” read the letter.Experts say that it is prudent to have a well-oiled machinery in place for effective management of cases, particularly at a time when the country’s caseload is increasing so fast.“Timely treatment of a serious patient impacts the outcome a great deal; therefore, it is important for a patient needing hospitalisation to reach a hospital in time. We have seen in previous waves, many of the patients that were lost was because there was delay in accessing medical assistance,” said Dr KK Talwar, senior cardiologist, and former chairman, board of governors, Medical Council of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-tally-crosses-116k-riding-on-omicron-surge-101641493414351.html
07-01-2022||India||Dharma Sansad Seers to hold protest on Jan 16 against FIR for hate speech||Shankaracharya Parishad seers on Thursday announced a protest meeting on January 16 against a first information report (FIR) registered against speakers at the December 17-19 meeting of the Dharma Sansad.They said that saints, various Hindu organisations and intellectuals from across the country will take part in the protest meet, which will be held at Baiaragi camp.The saints also expressed displeasure over the role of Uttarakhand chief minister.“BJP and its government ministers speak of Hindutva but now with lodging of case and SIT formation BJP’s real face has been exposed. It is working against saints and Sanatan Dharma. We will hold ‘Pratikar’ meeting, to express our displeasure and reply to the recent events which are maligning image of saints and threatening existence of Sanatan Dharma,” said Swami Prabodhanand.Meanwhile, BJP district president Jaypal Singh Chauhan said that the BJP highly regards saints and the party has nothing to do with the saints who organised Dharma Sansad or those opposing it.Taking a dig at BJP, Congress Mahanagar unit president Sanjay Aggarwal said that owing to vote politics BJP leaders are now refraining from speaking on Dharma Sansad as it fears it may impact its election prospects in poll-bound states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dharma-sansad-seers-to-hold-protest-on-jan-16-against-fir-for-hate-speech-101641493297189.html
07-01-2022||India||Modi security breach: Road route plan not a last-minute decision, says govt||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s road route from Bathinda to Ferozepur was planned as a contingency days in advance and discussed with Punjab authorities, officers familiar with the developments said on Thursday, rejecting the state government’s assertion that taking the road was a last-minute decision.The road journey was decided as a contingency plan on January 1 and 2 during an advance security liaison (ASL) meeting with Punjab Police and a rehearsal was done for the same on Tuesday, the officers quoted above said. The road journey was cleared by the director general of police (DGP) of Punjab, Siddharth Chattopadhyaya, they added, requesting anonymity.An officer said in the ASL, a mandatory exercise done before PM’s trips anywhere, everything was discussed in detail including the route survey and vulnerable points that were to be secured with strong police deployment.“In light of intelligence inputs regarding sabotage possibilities, strong police deployment was emphasised in the ASL report (a detailed ASL report is prepared after such meetings which is shared with concerned agencies/police),” this officer said, requesting anonymity. “Even the contingency rehearsal for the road journey from Bathinda to Ferozepur was carried out on January 4.”These version of events contradicted the Punjab government’s statement that the PM’s motorcade was stuck on a Punjab highway for 15-20 minutes on Wednesday -- an unprecedented breach in his security as a result of a blockade by protesting farmers -- because the decision to not take a helicopter and go by road was made last minute, and not communicated adequately. Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi had said on Wednesday that he had no information that the PM will travel by road.The development came on a day the Union home ministry constituted a three-member committee to probe the lapse. The panel will be led by Sudhir Kumar Saxena, secretary (security), Cabinet secretariat and comprise Balbir Singh, joint director, Intelligence Bureau and S Suresh, inspector general, SPG. The report will be submitted at the earliest.A second officer said that when on Wednesday, a helicopter ride from Bathinda was ruled out, special protection group (SPG) director Arun Kumar Sinha discussed with the Punjab DGP the possibility of undertaking a “safe and secure road journey”. “After getting clearance for road journey from the DGP, road journey was planned. In fact, senior superintendent of police (SSP) Bathinda piloted the motorcade from Bathinda to Ferozepur district border and SSP Bathinda (Ajay Maluja) piloted the motorcade from Ferozepur district border,” said the officer, requesting anonymity.Punjab Police refused to comment. Additional director general of police, G Nageswara Rao, who was made the security incharge for the PM’s visit, said: “It wont’ be appropriate for me to comment anything at this stage in the media.”About the threat to Modi and intelligence inputs, the first officer said the inputs about a protest that may result in road blocks on the PM’s route were also shared with Punjab Police. He added that the control room failed to inform the pilot vehicle of the PM’s convoy about the protestors. “If the information about the blockade was relayed to PM’s motorcade on time, the situation of getting stuck on a flyover could have been averted,” said the officer.The second officer said that Punjab Police didn’t make any effort to clear the route once the PM was stranded and senior state officers present on the site were “ineffective”. As per the SPG Blue Book (a book containing a set of guidelines with information on the rules that are to be followed to ensure security of a VVIP; not a public document and meant only for concerned agencies), a car for the chief secretary and DGP is earmarked in the PM’s motorcade.A communication shared by Punjab Police with all units and districts on January 4, reviewed by HT, suggests the local police were asked to keep a watch on movement of farmers and make necessary arrangements. “There are large numbers of dharnas going on in most of the districts. Farmers are also likely to hold dharnas on January 5th. These dharnas may result in road blocks at many places. Please make traffic diversion plan in advance,” the Punjab Police communication said.Union minister Anurag Thakur hinted on Thursday that ministry of home affairs was planning “big” action in the security breach. “The home ministry has also spoken about taking action. After gathering information, whatever steps...big and tough decisions will be taken by it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-security-breach-road-route-plan-not-a-last-minute-decision-says-govt-101641492638583.html
07-01-2022||India||Law ministry approves increase of poll expenditure by candidates||The Union ministry of law and justice on Thursday approved raising the election expenditure ceiling by a candidate to a maximum of ₹95 lakh in Parliamentary elections and ₹40 lakhs in assembly elections, increasing them from the earlier limits of ₹77 lakh and ₹30.8 lakhs.The increase comes at a time when five states are headed for assembly polls -- Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Manipur and Goa -- even as a sharply rising third wave of Covid-19 cases has raised the clamour for political rallies to be conducted virtually to avoid the spread of the infection.The increased budget is meant to facilitate this shift, officials familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.“In exercise of the powers conferred by subsection (3) of Section 77 read with Section 169 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 (43 of 1951), the central government, after consulting the Election Commission of India, hereby makes the following rules further to amend the Conduct of Elections Rules, 1961, namely, the government said in a gazette notification. These rules may be called the Conduct of Elections (Amendment) Rules, 2022. (2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette,” the gazette notification said.In 2020, the government approved a 10% raise in the poll expenditure cap ahead of the Bihar elections to allow candidates to spend on virtual campaigning amid the pandemic. The ceiling for parliamentary constituencies was at the time raised to ₹77 lakh, from the 2014 limit of ₹70 lakh, and assembly polls to ₹30.8 lakhs from ₹28 lakh in larger states.With the revision, candidates in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Punjab -- classified among large states -- will therefore be able to spend ₹40 lakh in the upcoming polls, while those in Goa and Manipur -- classified as small states -- will have to adhere to a limit of ₹28 lakh.The increase was cleared on the recommendation by the Election Commission, the official cited above said.According to EC officials, there were three considerations which officials had while recommending raising limit. “Number of electors has gone up significantly, inflation index has also gone up,” a second official said.The Commission anticipates virtual campaigning to also increase costs. ‘They will need to out up big screens in various places so a budget for that had to be factored in,’’ the official added, saying that this was part of the reforms that the poll panel has been pushing for.The Commission had come under the scanner in April this year as polls continued amid the peak of the second wave of the pandemic. The Madras High Court went as far as to say that EC officials were culpable for murder for conducting polls.Candidate expenditure includes the money spent by them on polling events, rallies, posters and other paraphernalia. The same, however, can also be borne by the political party the candidate is affiliated to.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/law-ministry-approves-increase-of-poll-expenditure-by-candidates-101641492581308.html
07-01-2022||India||BJP puts off rallies, to focus on digital connect and chaupals||As it has done in previous elections, the Bharatiya Janata Party is ready to buttress its campaign on the ground with technology to deliver the party’s message ahead of the upcoming set of state elections.The party has announced it will not be holding rallies for the time being in the election-bound states, including the Jan Vishwas Rally that was scheduled to be addressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday in Uttar Pradesh. “As of now, we will not have any large gatherings, but smaller chaupals (meeting in smaller groups in public spaces),” said a senior party functionary.Functionaries said while the party is awaiting the election commission of India’s directive on how rallies and larger campaign will have to be tailored to adhere to Covid-appropriate behavior; it is prepared to shift to virtual rallies and digital outreach as it had done during the Bihar polls.“We are prepared. In Uttar Pradesh for instance, we have trained IT karyakartas at the mandal level (each constituency is divided into five mandals); each mandal has between 20-25 IT karyakartas. About two months ago we held a training programme for about 8,000 workers across the state and now the technical set up for live casting of speeches etc is in place,” said a functionary based in UP.During elections in Bihar -- the first election to be held amid the raging Covid pandemic -- the party had to largely rely on live streaming of speeches by its top leaders. These speeches, which were dubbed as virtual rallies, were then screened in villages using large screens in panchayat houses and at public places in the cities.The party’s campaign outreach is pushed through social media platforms and care is taken to ensure its easy delivery on smart phones in the local language and dialects. “There is targeted messaging, a lowdown on government’s schemes and promises apart from the usual speeches,” said a second functionary.While internet penetration even in rural areas has made canvassing easier; the party still has to bank on traditional door-to-door campaigns to reach out to the older demographic and in far-flung areas of states such as Uttarakhand.“ Not everyone is well versed with technology and while the older generation is familiar with TV and radio, they are not particularly comfortable with social media and smartphones. So we prefer to visit villages and interact with people in smaller groups for better connect,” said the second functionary.The party is also relying on catchy advertisements and short films to sharpen its attack against the opposition. The party that drawn up a list of governance issues where it compares the performance of the ruling dispensation with that of the previous governments in UP and has compressed these into multimedia spots for easier dissemination ahead of the upcoming assembly election in the state.According to a functionary aware of the details, the party has prepared about eight short videos and advertisements for print publications and hoardings that will be splashed across the state.The videos and the advertisements, mostly centered around the theme of ‘Fark Saaf Hai’ ( the difference is clear) have been designed to ensure their easy dissemination through social media platforms and WhatsApp. “Since a lot of people will be watching these on their smartphones; the videos had to be kept short and succinct to deliver the message,” said the first functionary.There are 13 issues on which the comparisons are being made; these include education, opportunities for youth, safety for women, development and the issues of cultural identity and appeasement politics. A booklet listing these comparisons will also be distributed in the run-up to the elections that are expected to be announced shortly.“Comparisons have been made on several parameters, for instance, cases of atrocities against Dalits, animal welfare, crimes against women and children and health infrastructure,” said the functionary quoted above.
07-01-2022||India||Congress divided over Modi’s security breach||The security lapse involving the Prime Minister’s convoy in Punjab on Thursday turned into a political controversy with the Congress launching an attack on the BJP for defaming Punjab and creating a “political drama”. But while a large section of the Opposition party launched a political attack on the BJP, a section of the Congress pointed put that the PM’s security is a serious, institutional issue and demanded a high-level probe into the incident. Senior Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi took to the Twitter to demand fixing accountability for the lapse and cautioned, “these are institutional matters, never personal.” “Irrespective of politics, or sudden change of PM plans, or irremovability of protesting farmers at short notice because of change, or allegations and counter allegations, we have to take all steps to ensure PM security and fix accountability,” Singhvi said. Another Congress MP, Manish Tewari, maintained on Thursday that the PM’s security is a serious matter that “should not be turned into a political football”. He demanded that an inquiry by a sitting high court judge should be ordered. “I have been carefully watching the unfolding controversy about PM‘s trip to Punjab Yesterday. I did not want to give a knee jerk off the cuff anodyne reaction. What happened yesterday was most unfortunate, it should not have happened,” Tewari tweeted. “PM’s security is governed by an Act of Parliament-The SPG Act of 1988 as amended in 2019. Security breach involving PM is a sensitive matter & should not be turned into a political football.Let entire sequence of events be enquired into by sitting judge of High Court to establish correct facts,” he added. These responses came even as the party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala attacked the BJP for creating a “political drama” and alleging “security breach” on Thursday. He pointed out that PM Modi’s convoy was stuck in UP in 2017 and in Delhi in 2018 but there were no allegations of a security breach. “As PM changed his route last minute & travels by road, a delay of 15 min. in clearing farmers is projected as endangering his life. Did anyone attack PM’s convoy? Isn’t BJP insulting 3 CR Punjabis by such false bogey? He is India’s PM not BJP’s. Stop the fake noise,” Surjewala said. Posting pictures of an empty rally ground, Surjewala said, “Dinally, the reason for cancelling rally is that there were no crowds to listen to Modiji” and took digs at the BJP to add, “Is it the job of Congress Govt to fetch people for PM’s rally? BJP should own up loss of face among famers & people of Punjab instead of enacting Political Drama.” Surjewala was not alone. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said, “For god’s sake do not undermine the morale of our security forces, do not defame the brave land of Punjab. You cannot demonise an entire region and culture because of your petty politics,” hinting that the BJP defamed Punjab as the people have rejected the party. The Punjab unit of the Congress said that “The schedule of PM Modi included no road trip, only arrival by a helicopter to Ferozpur from Bathinda airport,” adding that the people of Punjab are “well aware of his intentions”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-divided-over-modi-s-security-breach-101641492396268.html
07-01-2022||India||Election Commission extra vigilant ahead of polls amid rise in Omicron cases||The Election Commission, widely criticised for its management of the last round of assembly elections which were held around the time the second wave of the coronavirus disease pandemic was emerging, is taking no chances as it prepares for upcoming elections across five states. Nor are political parties, which came under fire during the last round for large rallies and road shows. On Thursday, EC held its second meeting with health secretary Rajesh Bhushan and a meeting with the home secretary to take stock of the situation amid the rise in Omicron cases across the country. On Thursday, the number of new Covid-19 cases in India crossed 100,000 for the first time since early June.  And the Congress has called off its rallies in Uttar Pradesh, UP’s chief minister Yogi Adityanath cancelled a large rally planned for Noida, the Bhartiya Janata Party has deferred many large rallies including one to be addressed by the Prime Minister in the state, and the party’s Goa unit has opted for door-to-door campaigning instead of any large events. People familiar with the matter said EC, headed by chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra and comprising election commissioners Rajiv Kumar and Anup Chandra Pandey, discussed with the health ministry, the status of the pandemic in the poll going states, including the positivity rate and the percentage of the population vaccinated. Elections are due to be held in March in the states of Punjab, Uttarakhand, Manipur, Uttar Pradesh and Goa. The follow-up meeting with the health secretary saw a discussion around improving the vaccination numbers of the poll-bound states. “The states are intensifying the vaccination process,” one of the people cited above, who works in EC, added on condition of anonymity. “Discussions on rallies did take place and the panel will take some decisions on them as well as new Covid-19 guidelines,” a second person, aware of the meeting, said. This person said the meeting involved health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, AIIMS head Dr Randeep Guleria and Indian Council of Medical Research chief Balram Bhargava. “The health ministry gave the panel the exact position in five states. They said UP has vaccinated 88% of the eligible population with the first dose and 52% with the second, and the positivity rate was 0.2% which is quite low. Only 32 Omicron cases have been confirmed so UP seems quite safe,” this person said.The panel asked an official from Manipur, where vaccination rates have been among the lowest in the country, to ramp up the drive. Health officials also told the commissioners that symptoms were mild. After the meeting with health officials, the panel also met home secretary Ajay Bhalla for strict implementation of the National Disaster Management Authority guidelinesThe plans are likely to include a new set of Covid guidelines, covering campaigning, the actual voting process, and the counting of votes. These guidelines, which could include a cap on the number of people allowed to attend public meetings (this was set at 500 during the latter part of the campaigning for the West Bengal assembly elections) are expected to be announced along with the poll dates. “We have conducted polls earlier during the pandemic and ensured utmost safety,” the first person added. “Similar guidelines will be followed during these elections.”Most political parties are expected to focus on digital or door-to-door campaigns. At best, there could be small gatherings, HT learns. “All public meetings stand cancelled due to a rise in Covid 19 cases,’’ said BJP chief in Goa Sadanand Shet Tanavade, adding, “We will focus on small gatherings.’’The election body has already issued certain Covid-19 directions to all states, including writing to the chief secretaries to expedite vaccination; increasing the number of polling stations; and reducing the number of people who will vote in each booth. Earlier this year, EC courted controversy throughout the eight-phase Bengal election, beginning with the prolonged duration of polls, to not conceding to the opposition’s demands to club the last three phases in view of the alarming rise in Covid-19 cases. An FIR was also filed against the EC for culpable homicide by the wife of a TMC candidate who died of Covid-19. Polls were held as scheduled in Assam, West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and the union territory of Puducherry.The Commission came under the scanner of various High Courts, with the Madras HC saying that poll officials should “probably be booked for murder” . It also asked the EC to file a detailed blueprint of measures to ensure Covid safe counting, which the EC submitted. ----||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/election-commission-extra-vigilant-ahead-of-polls-amid-rise-in-omicron-cases-101641492335063.html
07-01-2022||India||Supreme Court to hear PM Modi security breach matter||The breach of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s security during a visit to Punjab on Wednesday will come up in the Supreme Court on Friday, with the country’s top court agreeing to hear a public interest litigation (PIL) on the matter by Lawyer’s Voice, a lawyer-run organisation, which termed the incident a “serious and deliberate lapse” on part of the Punjab government . The Prime Minister was stuck on a flyover for 15-20 minutes on the road to Ferozpur on Wednesday due to a blockade by protesters. On Thursday, a bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, asked the petitioner organisation, Lawyer’s Voice, to serve a copy of its plea to the standing counsel for the Punjab government, and listed the PIL for a detailed hearing on Friday. The CJI’s directive came after senior advocate Maninder Singh mentioned the matter before him; the plea also seeks the suspension of Punjab’s chief secretary and director general of police (DGP) over the security breach.“I am mentioning an urgent matter relating to a serious breach in security of the Prime Minister in Punjab a day ago,” Singh told the bench, which also comprised justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli. To this, the CJI asked Singh: “What is it that you are expecting from us?”“He (PM) was visiting Ferozpur. It is extremely relevant to ensure it does not happen again and responsibility for this lapse should be fixed. A professional and effective investigation is needed into the bandobast (security arrangement). It would be appropriate under your monitoring for district judge of Bhatinda to take into custody the entire records of the movements and deployment of Punjab Police in connection with the visit and produce before this court,” Singh told the bench. The senior counsel added: “After the records are submitted by the district judge, your lordships may decide what steps are to be taken.”At this, the CJI asked Singh to serve a copy of his petition on the state government. “You serve it today and we will take up your matter tomorrow,” justice Ramana said. The unprecedented breach in the PM’s security forced Narendra Modi to cancel his first rally in poll-bound Punjab. The Ministry of Home Affairs has sought a report on the incident from the state government. Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi has expressed regret over the incident but rejected allegations of any complicity. Channi claimed that his government had no information about the PM’s motorcade taking the road route.Meanwhile, the petition by Lawyer’s Voice has requested the Supreme Court “to take cognizance of the serious and deliberate lapse” on part of state government, its chief secretary and DGP in ensuring a secure route for the PM’s visit to the state on Wednesday. The local police is in charge of logistics and route security when the PM visits any state or UT. “It has been reported that while chief secretary of the state and DGP gave assurances to Special Protection Group (SPG) that the route is clear, it was found that the same was not true resulting in a precarious situation...that the lapse in the security of the Prime Minister was occasioned clearly in connivance with the Punjab Police,” it added.According to the PIL, the sequence of events indicated that the state government and the state police failed in providing effective security for the PM and were allegedly complicit in jeopardising the security of the high constitutional office in the country. “Issue a writ of mandamus or any other writ, order or direction fixing responsibility of Respondent No. 2 (chief secretary) and Respondent No.3 (DGP) and place them under suspension and further direct the Respondent No. 4 (Centre) to initiate departmental action against the same,” added the plea. 
07-01-2022||India||125 passengers from Rome test positive in Amritsar; 13 leave quarantine||A majority of passengers, 125 out of 179, who flew in on a chartered flight from Rome to Amritsar on Thursday tested positive for Covid-19, after which authorities struggled to quarantine them as required by rules before they eventually left the centres to which they were taken.The district collector of Amritsar took a strong note of the incident, setting a deadline of Friday morning for them to return to the quarantine centre.The passengers were taken to quarantine centres at their respective home districts and all of them had left by late evening. There were 179 passengers on the aircraft that landed in Amritsar at 11:20 am, officials said, adding that the aircraft had made a fuelling stop in Tbilisi, Georgia.Amritsar airport director VK Seth said the flight was operated by SARC company. “On arrival at 11.20 am, their rapid test was conducted by a private agency hired through tendering”, Seth added.Of the 179 passengers on board, 19 were children under the age of 5 years. According to government mandate, children under 5 years of age are exempt from RT-PCR testing on arrival. Since the flight was from Italy, a country defined as “at-risk”, 160 passengers underwent the test and 125 tested positive.Most of the passengers are from various parts of Punjab. After they tested positive, they started protesting inside the terminal saying they are fully vaccinated and had undergone an RT-PCR test before departing Italy, which were negative.Passenger Jasvir Singh Uppal, who belongs to Beas Pind in Jalandhar district and works in Italy, said, “Almost all of us are fully vaccinated and passengers conducted their RT-PCR tests from different reputed labs in Italy and tested negative. Our reports are on the internet and anyone in the world can check them. I surprised when my report turned negative at Amritsar airport. So, we lodged our protest and refused to go to quarantine centre”.Seth said, “We have asked the lab which conducted the test and it stands by the result of the report of the test they have conducted”.It was not clear whether the tests were faulty or the results obtained by the passengers were suspect. It is unlikely that all of the 125 passengers developed enough viral load to test positive in the time between their two tests as a matter of sheer coincidence.Among the passengers who skipped quarantine first were 13 taken to the Guru Nanak Hospital in Amritsar.District collector Gurpreet Singh Khaira took serious note of the incident and issued orders to the additional deputy commissioner to get police to book the passengers who left under the Epidemic act and the disaster management act.In a statement, Khaira asked the passengers to get admitted into the quarantine centre till Friday morning failing which, they would face police action.“Also, recommendation of cancellation of the passport and other records will be sent to the Home Department if they don’t turn up,” Khaira said.
07-01-2022||India||Main conspirator in GitHub case arrested in Assam: Delhi Police||Delhi Police on Thursday said they have arrested a 21-year-old man from Assam for allegedly creating the controversial app where doctored photographs of Muslim women were uploaded with derogatory messages. Police identified the arrested person as Neeraj Bishnoi, 21, a second-year B Tech student of the Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT), Bhopal. On Wednesday night, a team of officers from the police’s IFSO (Intelligence Fusion and Strategic Operations) unit reached Jorhat in Assam, and arrested Bishnoi, the son of a grocer. DCP KPS Malhotra, chief of the IFSO, which is Delhi Police’s cybercrime unit, said Bishnoi was the “main conspirator and creator” of the app. “He is the mastermind who created the app on GitHub. We have seized his laptop and other electronic devices. We have recovered evidence, which shows that he had created the app.” The 21-year-old was brought to Delhi around 3.30pm after which he was produced before a city judge, who sent him to seven-day police custody. DCP Malhotra said Bishnoi confessed he developed the app some time in November and uploaded it in the last week of December. “Bishnoi had created different handles on Twitter to promote the app. He was constantly monitoring the news related to the case and had created a Twitter handle by the name of @giyu44. Using this newly created handle, he tweeted on Wednesday that police arrested the wrong persons in the case (related to three arrests by Mumbai police).” To be sure, Bishnoi’s confession is not admissible during trial. This is the first arrest in the case by Delhi Police. Two FIRs related to the case were filed by Delhi and Mumbai police. The app and its circulation on social media channels had sparked outrage after which different people filed complaints with Delhi and Mumbai police. Earlier, the Mumbai police arrested three persons in the case, Sweta Singh (18), her friend Mayank Rawat (20), both residents of Uttarakhand, and Vishal Kumar Jha (21), an engineering student from Bengaluru. The three allegedly shared the app and promoted it on social media handles, according to the Mumbai police. On Wednesday evening, many users on social media had called out Twitter user @giyu22 after the person claimed to be the owner of the controversial app on GitHub. The user @giyu22 had also claimed on Twitter that the other suspects arrested by Mumbai police did not know he had misused their accounts. Though HT could not independently verify the posts made on Twitter by @giyu22, DCP Malhotra confirmed that Bishnoi was the user and had written those tweets. Police are questioning Bishnoi to know why he created the app. Police confirmed Bishnoi had no criminal record. Officials of the Delhi and Mumbai police are likely to share developments related to the information to connect the dots between these four arrested persons. Bishnoi told police that he knew at least two of the three persons arrested by Mumbai police. Ankur Jain, superintendent of police (Jorhat), confirmed Bishnoi was arrested on Wednesday night. “He is a student of VIT’s Bhopal campus. He was attending classes online. He had returned to Jorhat from Rajasthan or somewhere near Delhi on December 25. Delhi Police were tracking him and asked for our help in arresting him,” Jain said. Bishnoi, police said, is a resident of Digambar Chowk in Jorhat town. He lived with his parents and two sisters. The family has been residing in Jorhat for over 30 years, Jain added. Vellore Institute of Technology officials confirmed that Bishnoi is a student of the institute’s Bhopal campus. Registrar, KK Nair, said, “He was attending online classes from home due to Covid 19 situation. He did not use the computer laboratory.” On Thursday, an institute official confirmed that Bishnoi has been suspended from VIT.DCP Malhotra said Bishnoi was arrested after police analysed “ raw data” and took “ technical details”. Delhi Police had earlier said that they were unable to track the suspects in this case because GitHuB, a US-based company, had allegedly not shared details of its users. Police had said that GitHub had asked them to follow the MLAT procedure if they wanted information on the IP address of the user. GitHub did not respond to a questionnaire sent by HT.Delhi Police had on Wednesday got the Centre’s approval to seek details from GitHub under the Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty (MLAT). Under the MLAT process, a request seeking information from companies that are settled outside India is sent by the Ministry of Home Affairs. It is a treaty which enables cross border investigation, especially when police are tracking a particular user/s, who may have used platforms like Twitter, Facebook, WhatsApp and Gmail to issue threats to defame people on social media. To be sure, there is another case involving a similar app by another name, which is still pending investigation. An FIR in that case, where photographs of Muslim women were uploaded with derogatory comments, registered in July is still pending investigation. Delhi Police have maintained that they are unable to proceed in the investigation because GitHub has refused to share information. Delhi Police have been severely criticised for their handling of these two cases. The Delhi Commission of Women in a statement on Monday had said that the police inaction in the previous case had emboldened the culprits to come up with a similar app by using a different name this time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/main-conspirator-in-github-case-arrested-in-assam-delhi-police-101641492037608.html
07-01-2022||India||Surat: Six workers killed in chemical tanker leak||Six workers of a textile dyeing and printing mill in Surat on Thursday died and 22 others were hospitalised after they inhaled toxic fumes leaking from a chemical tanker parked near the factory, officials said.The workers were at the factory in Sachin industrial area when the incident occurred, Surat Municipal Corporation’s (SMC) in-charge chief fire officer Basant Pareek said. Two stray dogs also died in the incident. Providing details, Pareek said the matter came to light when the fire department received a call at around 4.25 am. At least 25 to 26 workers fell unconscious after inhaling the toxic fumes coming out of the chemical tanker parked on a roadside near the factory and were rushed to the new civil hospital. The leakage was brought under control after the tanker’s valve was closed by the fire department, he said.“Six people have died, while 22 others are undergoing treatment,” Omkar Chaudhary, resident medical officer of Surat Civil Hospital, said. In a statement later, the Surat civic body said “the chemical was being illegally discharged from the tanker when a toxic gas leaked from it and spread to nearby areas.” Some people from the nearby areas were evacuated as a precautionary measure, the civic body said, the civic body said.Chief minister Bhupendra Patel tweeted: “Many people have died due to gas leak in Surat. May God give peace to the departed souls and strength to the family members to bear this suffering. I pray for the health of those who have fallen ill in this incident.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surat-six-workers-killed-in-chemical-tanker-leak-101641491854939.html
07-01-2022||India||NEET PG counselling has to begin in national interest: Supreme Court||Counselling for NEET-PG courses has to begin in the national interest, the Supreme Court said on Thursday as it reserved its order on a demand by the Centre to hold counselling on the basis of its July 29, 2021 notification granting 10% reservation to the economically weaker section (EWS) in the general category and 27% quota for other backward classes (OBC) in the All India Quota (AIQ) seats.The court will pronounce its decision on Friday.A bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and AS Bopanna, which heard the matter for two consecutive days, said, “In national interest, counselling has to begin” as it finished hearing the petitioners on their challenge to the July 29 order and the submissions by the Centre in support of the decision. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta appearing for the Centre informed the court that while OBC reservation has been provided in central educational institutions under the Central Educational Institutions (Reservation in Admission) Act, 2006, the EWS quota, which was introduced by the Constitution (One Hundred and Third Amendment) Act 2019, has been applied in postgraduate admissions in central education institutes and in appointments. He submitted that the challenge in these petitions cannot be sustained as the basis for the July 29 order was the 2006 Act and Article 15(6) introduced by the 103rd Constitution Amendment, 2019.By a January 17, 2019 notification, EWS was defined as persons having annual family income below ₹8 lakh. Those with five-acre agricultural land or a residential flat of 1,000 square feet also stood excluded from getting EWS benefits.The bench made pointed queries to the Centre on arriving at the ₹8 lakh figure to identify EWS when income tax exemption is available to persons earning up to ₹2.5 lakh per annum and with rebate up to a maximum of ₹5 lakh per annum. Referring to a recent report by a three-member committee formed by the Centre that upheld the ₹8 lakh income criteria for EWS, the bench said, “The question is about persons between ₹5 to ₹8 lakh. Is this something the court should defer to by saying it is not an atrociously arbitrary view?”The Sinho committee, headed by Major General (Retd) SR Sinho was constituted in 2005, which gave an exhaustive report in 2010 for identification of economically backward classes. While the Sinho committee said the creamy layer cannot be the criterion to identify EBC (economically backward classes) and suggested the BPL (below poverty line) as benchmark for identification, the three-member committee headed by former finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey justified the ₹8 lakh figure.The court reminded Mehta that in October 2021, the Centre justified the EWS cap by adopting the creamy layer criteria for OBCs that stood at ₹8 lakh in 2017. “When you first fixed ₹8 lakh income limit for EWS, you followed the creamy layer criteria and now you decided to revisit... It appears they (the Pandey committee) have tried their best to justify the figure of ₹8 lakh.”The court also wished to know from the Centre what consultation was done prior to the January 17 notification prescribing the ₹8 lakh income limit for EWS as the decision to introduce EWS quota in jobs and admissions was decided three days earlier on January 14, 2019.The petitioners represented by senior advocates Arvind Datar and Shyam Divan argued that in a country with vast disparity in per capita income, land holding capacity, and distribution of unreserved (general) category population, ₹8 lakh cannot be a criterion for all times.Solicitor general Mehta said, “By the term EWS, we are not trying to find who is poor. These persons may not be BPL, but slightly above this mark….If we do not live in a utopian world but a realistic one, we will be convinced that the figure of ₹8 lakh appeals to common sense. After all, it is just ₹70,000 per month and we know how costly everything is today.”On the argument whether income tax limit can be applicable to EWS, Mehta said that income tax limit applies to individuals while EWS criteria is on family income. “This is to give a push to students who are economically weaker but are lacking opportunities to compete with others. If there are three persons in the family earning ₹3 lakh each, the family will be pushed out of EWS,” the Centre argued.The Federation of Resident Doctors Association (FORDA) through advocate Archana Pathak Dave told the court that every year, 45,000 candidates are inducted as postgraduate resident doctors through the NEET-PG process. Counselling being stuck has resulted in a deficiency of around 33% of the medical workforce constituted by the first-year postgraduate doctors, who constitute the backbone of the medical workforce, Dave said. In the Capital’s Safdarjung hospital, out of 850 PG resident doctors, only 550 are working, of which 60 are down with Covid. A large chunk of this strength will pass out in the next four months, she added.In one of the petitions, advocate Vivek Singh filed a chart pointing out that in 14 postgraduate streams including dermatology, gynaecology, psychiatry, and orthopaedics, there is no further specialisation and any further reservation in AIQ seats will be crucial for general category doctors.The bench, allaying concerns of the FORDA, said, “Your concerns are not just of doctors but of citizens. Rest assured, your concern is well taken and is shared by the bench as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/neet-pg-counselling-has-to-begin-in-national-interest-sc-101641491796610.html
07-01-2022||India||Modi security breach: CMs, BJP leaders offer prayers for PM’s well-being||The chief ministers of four Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled states and several senior party leaders on Thursday offered prayers for the well-being of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a day after his convoy was stranded on a flyover in Punjab for 15-20 minutes in a major security lapse.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath offered prayers at the Kashi Vishwanath temple in Varanasi, Modi’s Parliamentary constituency, and Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan visited Gufa Mandir in Bhopal.Blaming the Congress for the security lapse, Adityanath said the party should apologise for its “irresponsible” and “unconstitutional” behaviour. Chouhan, who is also the BJP’s national vice-president, in a tweet said the “Congress should not try to put the country in danger.”Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and his Tripura counterpart, Biplab Kumar Deb, offered prayers at Ugratara temple in Guwahati and Meher Kalibari in Agartala, respectively.“…A man who is tirelessly working for Maa Bharti with blessings of a billion people can’t be harmed by unscrupulous elements.#LongLivePMModi,” Sarma tweeted. After offering the puja, Deb tweeted, “May lord Shiva protect our `Adarniya’ (beloved) Prime Minister @narendramodi from all evil forces and grant him an `Aarogya Jeevan’ (illness free life). #LongLivePMModi.” In a separate tweet, the Tripura chief minister strongly condemned the Punjab government for its inability to contain the security breach and said, “Protestors were given access to the PM’s route even after giving prior notice to the state government officials. This is really worrisome as it concerns PM’s security”.BJP national vice-president Baijayant Jay Panda, national general secretaries Arun Singh and Dushyant Gautam were among other leaders who visited temples to offer prayers.“BJP leaders are joining people in the prayers that are happening across the country for the PM’s well being and long life. The country has lost two PMs in the past and such lapses shouldn’t happen. The Congress government in Punjab is to be blamed for yesterday’s incident,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-security-breach-cms-bjp-leaders-offer-prayers-for-pm-s-wellbeing-101641491615553.html
07-01-2022||India||PM Modi security breach: Punjab forms panel for ‘thorough probe’||The Punjab government on Thursday constituted a two-member committee to carry out a “thorough probe” into the lapses that occurred during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Ferozepur. The committee comprising retired high court judge, justice Mehtab Singh Gill, and principal secretary, home affairs and justice, Anurag Verma, has been asked to submit its report within three days, an official spokesperson said. “In order to carry out a thorough probe into lapses that occurred during the Prime Minister’s visit to Ferozepur yesterday, the Punjab government has constituted a high level committee,” said an official statement from the state government. The Union home ministry had taken serious of the “major security lapse” and sought a report from the state government, telling it to fix responsibility and take strict action. On being asking if the state administration was contemplating action against any officials for the security lapses, a senior officer said the government will wait for the findings of the probe panel. In an unprecedented breach, the Prime Minister convoy was on Wednesday stuck on a flyover near Ferozepur for 15-20 minutes due to a blockade by protesters. The PM, who was travelling by road from Bathinda airport due to the inclement weather, had to call off his plans to address the BJP rally in Ferozepur. Returning to Delhi, Modi was quoted by ANI as having told state government officials at Bathinda airport, “Apne CM ko thanks kehna, ki me Bathinda airport tak zinda laut paya. (Say thanks to your CM that I came back alive till Bathinda airport).” Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi denied the allegations of any security breach of the Prime Minister saying that he did it have information about the last-minute change of route of the PM. “We asked them (PMO) to discontinue the visit due to bad weather conditions and protests. We had no information of his (Prime Minister Narendra Modi) sudden route change. There was no security lapse during the PM visit,” he contended.The stand, however, has been strongly disputed by the Union government and the Bharatiya Janata Party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-security-breach-punjab-forms-panel-for-thorough-probe-101641491438396.html
07-01-2022||India||Covid-19: 3rd wave limited to big cities, but has started to spread beyond||The third wave of Covid-19 is upon India.The seven-day rolling average of daily cases has increased every day for the past ten days: from 6,780 on December 27 to 40,459 on January 5, the highest since September 7 last year. This is at the national level but what do the disaggregated numbers show.The surge started in the most urban districts a little earlierIt’s understandable that the current surge is happening in big cities, where people arrive from abroad, since the Omicron variant was first detected outside the country. This is confirmed by data. How India Lives (HIL) has compiled district-level cases up to January 5. HT has classified these districts into five categories on the basis of how rural they are. The entirely urban districts, mostly metros and a few capital cities, have a rural population share of less than 20% (this is based on the 2011 census) and the entirely rural districts have less than 20% urban population, with other categories in between at similar 20% intervals. Disaggregating cases across categories shows that in the entirely urban districts, the 7-day rolling average of new cases was increasing before a consistent surge was seen at the national level. Here, the average increased daily for 16 days up to January 5. In all other categories of districts, this had happened for 9 days or 7 days.There are outlier districts in rural-urban categoriesTo be sure, even the above categorization hides some district-level peculiarities. For instance, in Delhi and Mumbai, which are in the most urban category, the 7-day average had been rising for 21 and 20 days, longer than for the category as a whole. Such outliers are also present in other categories. Of the 125 districts where the average has increased for at least 7 days, only six are of the same urban-level as Delhi and Mumbai. 17 of them are from the largely urban category (20%-40% rural population), such as Surat in Gujarat, Indore in Madhya Pradesh, and Palghar in Maharashtra. 34 such districts with consistent upward trajectory for a week are also ones where rural population share is over 80%. These include Raigarh in Chhattisgarh, Gaya in Bihar, and Kangra in Himachal Pradesh.
07-01-2022||NA||Breaking news highlights: Jharkhand reports 3,704 new Covid cases, 4 more deaths||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Jharkhand reports 3,704 new Covid cases, 4 more deaths#COVID19 | Jharkhand reports 3,704 new cases, 4 deaths, and 435 recoveries in the last 24 hours pic.twitter.com/qBDHZLY5TyDelhi govt to distribute dry ration kits to students as schools shutWith the shutting of Delhi government schools due to the surge in Covid-19 cases, an order has been issued to distribute dry ration kits amongst all the students, in the form of mid-day meals. EC raises expenditure limit for candidates contesting Assembly, Lok Sabha pollsThe Election Commission has increased expenditure limit for candidates contesting Assembly, Lok Sabha polls.US, world in 'struggle between democracy and autocracy': BidenPresident Joe Biden said Thursday that the United States and the rest of the world were locked in a battle between democracy and authoritarianism, in a speech marking one year since the assault on the US Capitol."We're living at an inflection point in history, both at home and abroad. We're engaged anew in a struggle between democracy and autocracy," he said."I will allow no one to place a dagger at the throat of democracy," Biden said at the Capitol. "I will stand in this breach. I will defend this nation."Maharashtra reports 36,265 new Covid cases, 13 deaths; state's Omicron tally climbs to 876Maharashtra reported 36,265 new Covid cases and 13 deaths on Thursday. State's Omicron tally has climbed to 876.Dharavi reports 107 cases in highest single-day spike Mumbai's Dharavi reports 107 new Covid-19 infections, the highest ever spike in a day; Case tally at 7,626, says Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).Rajasthan CM tests positive for the Covid-19Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot tests positive for the Covid-19 disease, he informs in a tweet.Delhi reports 15,097 new Covid cases, 6 deaths; positivity rate at 15.37%Delhi reports 15,097 new Covid cases, 6 deaths; positivity rate at 15.37%Kazakhstan sets fuel price limits after protests over hikesKazakhstan on Thursday set fuel price limits on liquid petroleum gas (LPG) for six months, the government said, after a New Year increase triggered protests that boiled over into mass unrest.The government said in a statement it took the "urgent" measure to "stabilise the socio-economic situation" in the Central Asian country, where LPG is widely used to fuel cars. Unrest over the price hike led to clashes with police that reportedly left dozens dead.Centre asks states, UTs to set up Covid-19 control rooms at district, sub-district levelCentre writes to states to ensure setting up of district, sub-district control rooms for Covid-19 management with adequate staff, doctors, infrastructure, monitoring of beds availability, making outbound calls to patients in home isolation.Union health minister meets Covid-19 positive doctors, health workes Union Health Minister Dr Mansukh Mandaviya meets doctors and health workers who have tested positive for Covid-19 at AIIMS Delhi. “Many of our doctors, health workers have been affected with Covid-19 while serving patients, I pray for their good health," said the minister.Delhi HC declines to postpone UPSC mains ecaminationDelhi high court declines to postpone the UPSC mains exam scheduled from tomorrow. The court said that it was not inclined to interfere with the schedule of the exam. 125 passengers of an international chartered flight from Italy test Covid-19 positive on arrival at AmritsarAs many as 125 passengers of an international chartered flight from Italy have tested positive for Covid-19 on arrival at Amritsar airport.'Always a source of strength': PM Modi as President Kovind calls on him after Punjab security lapseCalled on Rashtrapati Ji. Thankful to him for his concern. Grateful for his good wishes, which are always a source of strength. @rashtrapatibhvn pic.twitter.com/g6Unl8WCJJ12 dead, 353 wounded among security forces in Kazakh unrestAt least 12 dead, 353 wounded among security forces in Kazakh unrest, reports news agency AFP.Australia agrees to delay Novak Djokovic's deportation, says tennis star's lawyerAustralia has agreed to delay world number one Novak Djokovic's deportation, says the sportsperson's lawyer.Arrested youth in ‘Billu Bai’ app case is 2nd year engineering studentThe main conspirator and creator of ‘Bulli Bai’ on GitHub and the primary Twitter account holder with the same name has been held by Delhi Police's Intelligence Fusion and Strategic Operations unit (IFSO) from Assam. The accused's name is Niraj Bishnoi aged 21 and he is a second-year BTech student from VIT, Bhopal, DCP KPS Malhotra said.  The police team with the arrested youth will reach Delhi at 3.30pm.PM Modi to meet Prez Ram Nath Kovind shortly after he expressed concern on security breach issuePresident Ram Nath Kovind has expressed concern on the security breach matter during PM Narendra Modi's Punjab visit on Wednesday. PM Modi will meet the President shortly.‘Bulli Bai’ app case main conspirator held by Delhi Police from AssamMain conspirator in ‘Bulli Bai’ app case arrested by Delhi Police’s IFSO special cell from Assam, ANI reported.‘No need for lockdown’: Delhi health minister amid rising Covid casesDelhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Thursday that the national capital is in “comfortable position” in terms of hospital bed occupancy, according to PTI. He added that there is no need for a lockdown in the state at the moment.Maharashtra stops genome sequencing after 55% of Covid samples confirm OmicronMaharashtra health department said on Thursday that it has stopped genome sequencing after 55 per cent of Covid-19 samples confirm Omicron, ANI reported. An order for a fresh sero-survey in the state is awaited.Ajay Bhalla to hold review meeting today over Covid situationUnion home secretary Ajay Bhalla will hold a review meeting this evening over the rising Covid-19 cases in Delhi-NCR.SC to hear petition on Friday seeking probe into PM's security breach in PunjabThe supreme court will hear a petition on Friday seeking probe into PM Modi's security breach in Punjab on Wednesday. The CJI has asked petitioners to serve a copy on the Centre and the Punjab government today. Notably, the petition has been filed by an organisation called ‘Lawyer’s Voice'.Punjab forms panel to probe security lapses during PM's visitPunjab government has constituted a two-member high-level committee to probe security lapses during PM Modi's visit to the state on Wednesday.IIT Guwahati declared containment zone after 60 Covid-19 casesThe Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Guwahati has been declared a containment zone after as many as 60 Covid-19 cases were detected on its campus, news agency ANI reported citing an order.Novak Djokovic to take legal action after Australia cancels his visaSerbian tennis player and world number one, Novak Djokovic will pursue legal action after Australia cancelled his visa. The move stopped the defending Australian Open champion to participate in the event scheduled from January 17 onwards. Djokovic reportedly had to spend eight hours in detention at Melbourne Airport where he unsuccessfully pleaded his case to border officials. Read here.India logs 90,928 new Covid cases in 24 hours, daily tally up by 56.5%India on Thursday logged as many as 90,928 new Covid-19 cases with the daily tally shooting up by 56.5%, according to Union health ministry's morning bulletin. Read here.Fire breaks out in Delhi's Chandni Chowk, 12 fire tenders at spotAs many as 12 fire tenders are at spot in Delhi's Lajpat Rai Market in Chandi Chowk after a fire broke out earlier in the morning. The Delhi Fire Service (DFS) said that no casualty has so far been reported.  As per latest updates, the fire has been doused.Schools till classes 8, Anganwadi centres shut in Diu amid Covid spreadAmid the rising cases of Covid-19, pre-primary, primary, classes from 1-8 and Anganwadi centres in Diu have been shut. “We request the tourists to take all precautionary measures and keep themselves safe,” ANI reported quoting Saloni Rai, Diu collector.US CDC endorses Pfizer booster jabs for kids as young as 12To fight Omicron, US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has endorsed Pfizer booster shots for children as young as 12.First Omicron case confirmed in AssamAssam on Wednesday reported its first case of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 after a Saudi Arabia returnee tested positive for the new variant of concern, news agency PTI reported. Read here.Delhi AQI at 380, presently in ‘very poor’ category, says SAFARThe overall Air Quality Index (AQI) in Delhi is currently at 380 and in the ‘very poor’ category, reports ANI citing the the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR)-India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-january-6-2022-101641431681070.html
07-01-2022||Today's||A new Covid-19 wave is here. Junk old rules||Shefali Manilal is a French school principal of Indian origin who came to Delhi to meet her mother along with her 11-year-old son. On arrival, she tested negative for Covid-19. But a few days later, both tested positive. They were asymptomatic and had no visible signs of illness. But as a matter of abundant precaution, Manilal and her son began the process of self-isolation.
07-01-2022||Today's||A petri dish of deep distrust and hatred||Four early arrests, three in Mumbai, smell like the beginning of justice for over 100 Muslim women who were sexually assaulted in an “auction” on New Year’s Day. It’s what happens when the State takes notice of a crime of this magnitude, and acts.
07-01-2022||Today's||Metro Matters | The need to declutter Delhi||Already suffering from chronic air pollution and road congestion, Delhi desperately needs to find a solution for the clutter caused by its private vehicles. It is therefore surprising that despite legally enforceable parking rules in place since September 2019, the capital of India has made little headway in addressing this critical quality-of-life concern.
