16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 7,396 fresh Covid cases, 13 deaths||Chandigarh : Punjab on Sunday reported 7,396 fresh Covid cases taking the infection tally to 663,867, according to a medical bulletin.The state also reported 13 Covid-related fatalities, taking the death toll to 16,769, it said. The state’s positivity rate increased from 19.46% on Saturday to 20.76% on Sunday. On Saturday, the state reported 6,883 infections. The number of active cases also shot up to 41,250, the bulletin said. Among the fresh cases, Mohali topped the list with 1,832 infections with a positivity rate of 68.21%, Ludhiana 1,144 with 20.83% positivity rate and Amritsar 963 positivity rate of 30.60%. it said. Jalandhar reported 570 cases, Patiala 465, Bathinda 381, Pathankot 260, Ropar 242, Gurdaspur 237, Hoshiarpur 226, Kapurthala 184, Tarn Taran 134 and Fatehgarh Sahib 98. With 3,599 patients recovering from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 605,848, the bulletin said. At least 37,775 samples were taken and 35,626 tests were conducted on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-7-396-fresh-covid-cases-13-deaths-101642357711274.html
16-01-2022||Mumbai||BMC’s restoration of Fitzgerald Fountain gets attention in UK for its artistic finesse||Mumbai: The restoration work of 155-year-old Fitzgerald Fountain at Metro Junction, Marine Lines by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has inspired a couple living in the United Kingdom (UK) to educate their local authorities to repair an identical cast-iron fountain in Northampton that was dismantled in the 1960s.The couple- Arun Kotnis and his wife Jyotsna (who uses Jona as her pen-name) has written a book, ‘The Tale of Two Fountains Made in Northampton’ to tell the people of Northampton the story about how an identical cast-iron fountain was restored by the Mumbai civic body. The final chapter of the book, ‘Return of the Fitzgerald Fountain, Mumbai’ tells the story about restoration works.The Fitzgerald Fountain was constructed in 1867 at the Eagle Foundry in Northampton and was brought to Mumbai (then Bombay) via ship and was installed at the Metro Junction in South Mumbai. Later, during the 1960s, the fountain was dismantled and was relocated inside the premises of Bhau Daji Lad Museum in Byculla where it was reengineered haphazardly and many of its parts got misplaced or lost during the process.It was only in 2018, the BMC Heritage Cell decided to restore the structure and in May 2021, the restored fountain was placed at the Metro Junction again.Meanwhile, it has been revealed that an identical structure known as the Isaac Fountain existed at the Northampton Market Square during the 1860s. This fountain was constructed in the same Northampton foundry where the Fitzgerald Fountain was constructed. According to Arun Kotnis, who is a town planner, based at Northampton, the Isaac Fountain was installed at the Northampton Market Square in 1863 and was known as the twin of the Fitzgerald Fountain. Kotnis said that the Isaac fountain was dismantled in 1962 and since then it was never restored.“One of our primary objective behind this book is to showcase the efforts put down by the Heritage Cell so that it can inspire the local administration and citizens in Northampton and make them believe that if the BMC can do it then we can also work towards reengineering the Isaac Fountain of Northampton as well,” Arun told HT. He said that during the 1980s while working for the local authority in Northampton, he designed the Market Square Refurbishment project. During this assignment he got to know that an identical Fitzgerald like fountain existed in the Market Square area. “Old plans clearly showed the location of the Isaac Fountain and we also came across many old newspapers and photographs which showed the existence of the fountain. The Isaac fountain was installed in 1863 and was taken down during 1962 after local authorities thought that the structure could be dangerous as it got rusted throughout the year,” Arun said.Jyotsna said that since then they started their research on the two fountains and discovered several links between India and Northampton. She said that every time they visited India, they tried to locate the Fitzgerald Fountain and it was only in 1996 they discovered it inside the premises of Byculla Museum.“Even though the fountain was there in a dismantled condition, we could figure that the design was completely identical. During our research we also found out that both the fountains were designed and created by the same sculptor — William Atkinson,” shared Jyotsna.The couple said that similar to the fate of Fitzgerald Fountain, some parts of Isaac Fountain have been preserved inside the Abington Park Museum in Northampton. Some of the parts include Copper Globe, Dedication Plaque, Tazza and Northampton Borough Council crest. “It has been six weeks since we have released our book. We have handed out complimentary copies to some of the important dignitaries and we are hopeful that after learning about the history and Heritage Cell’s effort the locals and authorities may start a process towards reengineering the Isaac Fountain with a similar heritage look,” said the couple.Sanjay Sawant, executive engineer and incharge of the Heritage Cell in Mumbai said that it is inspiring for both himself and his team that their work got recognised internationally. “After the network of tramways started to get expanded in the city, the fountain created a hindrance for traffic movement, which is why it was relocated back then,” said Sawant. Assistant engineer from the cell Sanjay Adhav shared, “Restoring the object was a challenging task, we had to carry out chemical analysis of the structure in metallurgical labs to create replicas of the missing pieces in the structure.”The BMC had also hired conservation architect Pankaj Joshi as a consultant and sculptor Deepak Paunikar for the restoration project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmcs-restoration-of-fitzgerald-fountain-gets-attention-in-uk-for-its-artistic-finesse-101642357532287.html
16-01-2022||Lucknow||Fewer bird species spotted at Soor Sarovar this winter||Agra The Asian Waterbird Census (AWC) 2022 at Soor Sarovar Bird Sanctuary in Agra recorded lesser water bird species diversity this year, compared to past years. There were only 60 water bird species recorded at this Ramsar site and 2,861 birds, including long distant winter migratory birds, were recorded this year. This figure of 2861 included 28 resident species, 32 migratory species and 8 IUCN Red-listed threatened species. When compared, there were 70 species of water birds’ diversity in 2021 and the total number was 5,249 which included 33 species of resident birds, 37 species of migratory water birds and 9 species of IUCN Red-listed Threatened water birds at Soor Sarovar Bird Sanctuary in Agra. “Water birds are one of the key indicators of wetland’s health and provide four kinds of ecological services. Wetlands provide feeding, resting, roosting and foraging habitats for these charismatic species,” informed T K Roy, ecologist, conservationist and state coordinator for Asian Waterbird Census (AWC), Wetlands International. “In collaboration with the National Chambal Sanctuary Project, Uttar Pradesh Wildlife Department and conservation support from Biodiversity Research & Development Society, Agra and in active participation of the volunteers from Dr B R Ambedkar University, Agra, Wildlife SOS, Agra and sanctuary wildlife staffs, AWC 2022 was successfully carried out at Soor Sarovar Bird Sanctuary wetland on January 14, ” informed Roy. “Due to global climate change impact, i.e. delayed winter, accordingly slow, delayed migration and lesser migration of winter migratory water birds (usually from far Central Asia, North Asia including Russia and Siberia) a smaller number of bird species diversity was recorded this year in comparison to previous years almost everywhere in northern India,” he stated. “As per global climate change impact this year, winter was delayed and accordingly migration was slow and lesser in almost entire northern India. Further, due to late but good monsoon, several dried wetlands were revived and migratory water birds widely distributed to better wetlands. Hence, some of the prominent wetlands have lesser species diversity and total migratory population, including Soor Sarovar,” informed Roy. This time, species diversity partially decreased from 70 to 60 here and the population decreased from 5249 to 2861 in comparison to 2021. Roy informed that Wetlands International’s largest annual waterbird census, “Asian Waterbird Census” (AWC) 2022 started January 1 across Asia & Australasia simultaneously and concluded on January 16. Soor Sarovar Wildlife Sanctuary is a unique wetland for water birds located on the bank of river Yamuna in Agra district. It’s one of 467 IBA Sites (Important Bird & Biodiversity Area) in India having rich birdlife diversity, especially for winter migratory water birds for congregation, roosting and good nesting/breeding habitat. In all, 442 Pelicans (Great White Pelican & Dalmatian Pelican) were recorded this year at Soor Sarovar Wildlife Sanctuary and this was highest number after many years, even more than any protected areas in northern India, including the UNESCO Site Keoladeo Ghana National Park. 
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Apex court sets aside Punjab and Haryana HC order in murder case||New Delhi: Taking exception to the manner in which the Punjab and Haryana high court had passed an order upholding the conviction and life sentence awarded to a man, the Supreme Court has said any first appeal in a murder case cannot be dealt in this way.The apex court noted that in the high court’s March 2020 order, the conclusion was recorded in a paragraph in “four lines in general terms” to dismiss the appeal filed by the appellant, who is stated to be over 80-year-old.A bench of justices SK Kaul and MM Sundresh, which allowed the appeal filed by the man who had challenged the high court order, remitted the matter back for consideration before the high court.“The appeal before the high court was against the conviction under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC (Indian Penal Code) and by the impugned order dated March 2, 2020, after noticing the testimony of the witnesses, the conclusion is recorded in para 15 in four lines in general terms to dismiss the appeal,” the bench said in its January 6 order.“We do believe that a first appeal in a murder case cannot be dealt with in this fashion,” the top court said while setting aside the high court order.The apex court made it clear that since it had earlier exempted the appellant from surrendering and he is “stated to be more than 80 years of age and has been on bail in the proceedings before the high court,” he would continue to be on bail, subject to the terms set out in the April 22, 2020, order.It said the terms set out earlier would be modified to the extent that the appellant would report to the local police station in the forenoon on the first Monday of every month.The man had earlier approached the high court challenging the October 2005 order of a sessions court in Bhiwani, which had convicted and sentenced him to undergo a life term in the case.According to the prosecution, the accused had inflicted a blow with an axe on a man in October 2003 and had fled the spot.The victim had died on the spot, the police had said, claiming that a quarrel had taken place between the accused and the deceased after consuming liquor four days ago. During the trial, the accused had denied the allegations against him and claimed that he was falsely implicated. The high court, in its order, had said that the prosecution had proved its case against the accused beyond reasonable doubt and there was no reason to interfere with the well-reasoned judgment of the trial court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/apex-court-sets-aside-punjab-and-haryana-hc-order-in-murder-case-101642357351424.html
16-01-2022||Lucknow||Active Covid cases in Uttar Pradesh cross one lakh mark after 240 days||LUCKNOW: Active Covid cases crossed the one lakh mark in Uttar Pradesh once again after 240 days or seven months and 25 days. On Sunday,, the state reported 17,185 new Covid cases and 10 deaths. Ghaziabad, Gorakhpur, Muzaffarnagar, Shamli, Ghazipur, Basti, Chandauli, Ballia, Shrawasti and Bhadohi reported one death each. The number of deaths reached 10 after a gap of 5 months. The state had last reported 11 deaths on July 7, 2021. At present, the state has 1,03,474 active Covid cases under treatment, though the number of those in hospital is less than one per cent and over 101000 are in home isolation, according to the data from the state health department. The state had 106276 active cases on May 21, 2021 and 94482 active cases on May 22. “In all 2,57,694 Covid tests were conducted in the state in the past 24 hours and 17,185 of them tested positive. A total of 9,63,19,110 Covid samples has been tested till now in Uttar Pradesh,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical and health, in a press statement. UP BJP vice president and MLA from Noida Pankaj Singh also tested positive. He wrote on Twitter, “I have tested positive for Covid today with mild symptoms. Also, I request all those who have come in contact with me to isolate themselves and get tested.” Experts said that despite considerable rise in active cases in the past 10 days, the number of those in need for hospitalisation hadn’t gone up at the same pace. In the current phase, infection was spreading fast but only those were getting admitted to hospital who had some other medical issue or co-morbidity. The state capital reported 2392 new cases. On Sunday, maximum 445 fresh Covid cases were reported from Alambagh, 426 from Aliganj, 425 from Chinhat, 226 from NK Road, 219 from Sarojininagar and 207 from Indira Nagar, said Yogesh Raghuvanshi, district health education officer. “Among the total cases, 789 are contacts of people who had tested positive for Covid in the recent past and 417 are those who got themselves tested after mild symptoms. Most such patients are not actually aware of their Covid status and can be infection spreader, hence it is significant to follow Covid protocol whenever going out of the house,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. Lucknow at present has over 16000 active cases and 128 are admitted to hospitals with most on oxygen support in isolation wards. Maximum cases in Aliganj  Data from the health department reveals Aliganj has reported the maximum Covid cases in Lucknow in the past one week. According to the data, Aliganj reported 2760 new Covid cases in the past 7 days, while Chinhat reported 2388 new cases. Indira Nagar is at number three position with 1522 new cases. Alambagh reported 1750 new cases in the past 7 days. Sarojininagar reported 1232 cases, Old City areas 1170 new cases and NK Road reported 925 Covid cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/active-covid-cases-in-uttar-pradesh-cross-one-lakh-mark-after-240-days-101642356930953.html
16-01-2022||Pune||Maval taluka admin starts on spot Covid vaccination||PUNE To keep Omicron variant in check, the sub-divisional officers from the Maval taluka have decided to start on the spot vaccination for tourists and locals whose vaccination date is due.“In the meeting held at taluka-level between sub-divisional officers it was decided that on spot vaccination will be given to tourists before they enter Lonavla, Kamshet, Wadgaon and Talegaon,” said Somnath Jadhav, chief executive officer, Lonavla Municipal Council.Since December 15, Lonavla has been seeing a heavy rush of public, however, the administration has started strict vigilance on major spots in the city.“The focus is also on the door-to-door vaccination - so we can keep track of many people who are avoiding the second dose,” added Jadhav.The checkpoints are set up at Sharda Hotel in Khandala and Center Point in Valvan village. Also, rapid antigen test has been started at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj chowk.“At least 44,000 people from Maval taluka were yet to take the second dose, it was decided that by taluka administration that we will hold the door-to-door vaccination,” added Jadhav. From Lonavla 3,600 people are yet to take the second dose, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maval-taluka-admin-starts-on-spot-covid-vaccination-101642355791374.html
16-01-2022||Pune||Pune dist reports 9,983 fresh Covid cases, 1 death||PUNE On Sunday, Pune district reported 9,983 new Covid-19 cases and one death, with which the district’s active case load crossed the 50,000 mark to reach 55,997 Covid-infected persons either admitted in hospitals or in home isolation. This takes the progressive count to 1.25 million, of which 1.17 million have recovered. The death toll stands at 20,237. Pune also saw 12,000 vaccinations on the day. The last time the district crossed the 50,000 mark with regards to active Covid-19 cases was on May 22, 2021, when 54,918 active cases were reported. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 2,142 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 384,904. The death toll stands at 7,055 as one more death was reported on Sunday. Pune city reported 5,363 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 576,746. The death toll stands at 9,303. PCMC reported 2,478 new Covid-19 cases and the progressive count went up to 291,680. The toll stands at 3,529 as no more deaths were reported in the district on the day. Pune district also saw 12,032 vaccinations on the day as per the CoWin dashboard on Sunday. Of the total of 16.10 million doses that have been administered in the district, 9.21 million are first doses, 6.84 million are second doses and 43,217 are precautionary doses. A total of 228 sites saw vaccinations, of which 126 were government centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-dist-reports-9-983-fresh-covid-cases-1-death-101642355490861.html
16-01-2022||Pune||Pune restaurants flout norms amid surge in Covid cases||PUNE Earlier this month, Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had said that those who haven’t received their second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine won’t be allowed inside government or private establishments like restaurants and malls in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad.With Covid cases on the rise, several restaurants have been spotted not following the protocols laid down by the government or their associations.“Restaurants have to run with 50% capacity and only the double vaccinated customers can get the entry after showing the verification of their second dose certificate,” said Sharan Shetty, president of Poona Hotelier Association.“All the restaurants have to put a board outside mentioning the number of people sitting inside at that moment,” he added.However, many restaurants in the city are yet to implement these norms.“All the staff at our restaurants are double vaccinated but it is not always possible to ask for the vaccination certificate from the customers due to the rush,” said the manager of a restaurant in Aundh.Other than the sanitisation of the tables and mandatory use of sanitiser and mask at the entry point, no other Covid-19 appropriate norms are being carried out. Boards with the present number of visitors inside the restaurants were also not spotted.Unlike the restaurants and eateries in the city, some malls have been particular about the Covid-19 guidelines while few were found lax in implementing the government order. Many malls in the city have mandated double vaccination certificates at the entry gate.“Besides checking the vaccination certificates and ID of the person, we are also keeping track of the crowd to maintain the 50 per cent capacity,” said security personnel at the Westend Mall, Aundh.However, no record of the present visitors inside the mall is being maintained.Rajneesh Mahajan, director of Shopping Centre Association of India (SCAI), said, “Malls have the permission till 10pm due to night curfew. Entry is given to double vaccinated customer after verifying his/her second dose certificate along with his Id. This mandate is followed since October 2021.”All the staff and owners of the shops are double vaccinated, Mahajan told.Since the Covid-19 cases have spiked in the city, the restaurants and malls have observed a decreased footfall. “We have seen a considerable drop in sales and footfalls during the first 10 days of 2022,” said Virendra Thakur, Centre Director, Westend Mall.On January 15, Pune district reported 10,179 new Covid-19 cases and one death. The progressive count stands at 1.24 million out of which 1.17 million have recovered, 20,236 deaths and 49,917 are active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-restaurants-flout-norms-amid-surge-in-covid-cases-101642355252222.html
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Panipat man held for extorting arhtiya||A man was arrested for threatening a commission agent (arhtiya) and demanding ₹25 lakh from him on Sunday. The accused, Shishpal of Badhar village, had made the extortion call to the victim, Sandeep Kumar of Sector 25, Panipat, on January 14, with the help of his driver, Ravi Kumar, a truck driver in California (USA). The commission agent told the police that the caller had claimed to be a member of notorious gangster Neeraj Bawana’s gang and threatened to kill him, if he did not pay ₹25 lakh. Panipat SP Shashank Kumar Sawan said an FIR had been registered under sections of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panipat-man-held-for-extorting-arhtiya-101642355250850.html
16-01-2022||Mumbai||Man arrested from Bandra with Rs35 lakh worth Mephedrone||MUMBAI: Unit 9 of the Mumbai crime branch arrested a drug supplier from Bandra Saturday night and seized Mephedrone worth Rs35 lakh from him. The arrested accused was identified as Sameer Salim Shaikh alias Bobby, 37, a resident of the Bharat Nagar area in Bandra (east).Unit 9 officers were patrolling the area Saturday night when they spotted Shaikh. Shaikh panicked when he saw the police and started running. Suspecting foul play, the police speeded up their vehicle and nabbed the accused within a few metre, said police inspector Sanjay Khatade of unit 9.“Shaikh was carrying a sky blue coloured bag and during the search, we found 350 gramme of Mephedrone in his possession. Apart from the drug, we also found Rs1.15 lakh in cash and two mobile phones,” said Khatade. Shaikh was then taken to the BKC police station where a case under the NDPS Act was registered against him. The document was handed over to unit 9 of the crime branch for further investigation. Shaikh was produced in the holiday court and remanded to police custody till January 19. “We have been interrogating him to find out from where he got the contraband and to whom he was going to supply,” the official said. 
16-01-2022||Mumbai||Man arrested for helping minor mother abandon newborn||Mumbai The Mumbai crime branch apprehended a 35-year-old man who previously worked at the residence of a famous Bollywood actress in Juhu as a cook, for allegedly helping a 17-year-old mother abandon her newborn baby in South Mumbai area. While the accused is denying being the biological father of the newborn girl, the mother claimed in her statement that the accused is the biological father.The Gamdevi police registered a case under section 317 (Exposure and abandonment of child under twelve years, by parent or person having care of it) of the Indian Penal Code against mother and unknown persons. The accused has been arrested and will be produced in the court, said senior inspector Rampiyare Rajbhar of the Gamdevi police station. The police are now in the process of conducting DNA tests of the baby and the accused to probe the fact. The incident came to light on January 13 when local residents noticed an infant on the road near Cadbury junction in Malabar Hill area, South Mumbai.“The accused is a native of Jharkhand and came to Mumbai around 15 years ago and is currently working as a cook at businessman’s house in Gamdevi area. He was previously working at a famous Bollywood actress’s residence in Juhu,” said a crime branch officer who was part of the probe. In his statement, the accused has claimed that he had provided jobs of house help and cooks to several people who came from his native in the last few years. The victim is also a native of Jharkhand and used to live in the Juhu area where she worked as a house help and came in contact with the accused through common friends when she was looking for a job, said deputy commissioner of police Nilotpal of the crime branch.Infant’s mother had alleged in her statement that after delivering a baby girl, she called the accused. She then travelled from Juhu to Mumbai Central where the accused met her on January 13 and then the duo decided to abandon the girl near Cadbury junction, added the official.“After the case was registered, officials of unit 2 started conducting a parallel investigation and scrutinised the CCTV cameras of the vicinity and got several the footages of both the accused. As per the information gathered through human intelligence and also based on technical evidence, we zeroed in on the girl’s mother and the accused. We also inquired in several hospitals and nursing homes to find out where a woman recently delivered a baby,” said police inspector Srimant Shinde of unit 2.She claimed that the delivery took place in a nursing home in the Irla area at Vile Parle (West). Now the police will inquire whether the legalities were followed by the nursing home or not.“We have to verify certain facts like who visited the baby’s mother in the clinic, has she lied about her age in the clinic or not?. Why did the nursing home not inform the police if the baby’s mother was minor?. There are several facts that need verification and we will investigate the case in detail after getting the accused’s custody,” said Rajbhar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-arrested-for-helping-minor-mother-abandon-newborn-101642354530762.html
16-01-2022||Mumbai||Talks with Congress fail, Sena-NCP to contest Goa polls without party||Mumbai After the collapse of seat-sharing talks with the Congress for the Goa assembly elections, the Shiv Sena is girding its loins to contest the polls in an alliance with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). The two parties are likely to formalise their alliance for the coastal state on January 19, and the Sena may contest 15 seats.Earlier, the Shiv Sena was eager to replicate a Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA)-like an experiment in Goa with the Congress and NCP to take on the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“The NCP and Shiv Sena are in an alliance in Maharashtra and the Congress is also with us. But in Goa, they seem to have some issues with seat-sharing. Our talks were going on well, but this (alliance) could not happen. The NCP’s talks with them to have been unfruitful. But this does not mean we will not contest the elections,” said Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut.Jitesh Kamat, Shiv Sena state unit chief, Goa, said their talks with the Congress hit a roadblock over the seats to be shared. “The Congress was offering seats like Priol, Porvorim, Pernem, and Sanvordem, while we were eager to contest from Mapusa and Siolim, where our workers have been active for the past five years,” he explained.He charged that the politics of Goa revolved around 10 to 12 individuals, who often jumped ship from one party to another, were corrupt and had links with the land and drugs mafias. The BJP had recently inducted those with links to the drugs mafia, added Raut.“We want that the voters of Goa must elect the common people who contest the elections. We will put up candidates from among the people,” he stated, adding that the late Shiv Sena chief Bal Thackeray had similarly given leadership opportunities to those from the masses. Raut also took a swipe at Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal for conducting door-to-door campaigns for the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Goa, while Covid-19 cases in his state were rising.Despite Goa bordering Maharashtra and the cultural and historic links between the two states, the Shiv Sena has not been able to secure a political opening in the coastal state. In 2017, the Sena fought the assembly elections in an alliance with the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) and the Goa Suraksha Manch (GSM), floated by veteran Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) hand Subhash Velingkar, but was severely drubbed in all three seats that it fought from. The only face-saver for the alliance was the victory of the MGP, which has an organic base in the Hindus, on three seats, though the party supported the BJP soon after. The Sena’s foray in the 2012 Goa assembly elections had also come a cropper.Political analyst Hemant Desai noted that the Shiv Sena and the NCP had little presence on the ground in Goa, and the NCP’s lone MLA and Benaulim strongman Churchill Alemao had shifted to the Trinamool Congress. The Shiv Sena made little attempts to create an organic base in Goa, unlike the AAP. The political developments in Goa are less likely to impact the fate of the MVA in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/talks-with-congress-fail-sena-ncp-to-contest-goa-polls-without-party-101642354352519.html
16-01-2022||Mumbai||Huge dip in new cases with city reporting just 7,895 positives||Mumbai With 7,895 new cases on Sunday, Mumbai has reported under 10,000 cases in a single day for the first time since January 3. Along with the drop in the number of daily cases, the positivity rate for Mumbai also dropped on Sunday to 13.7%, from the average of 20-22% over the past week. Mumbai for Sunday conducted 57,534 tests. Until Thursday last week, BMC had been conducting over 60,000 tests per day, which dropped to less than 60,000 on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday.Of the 7,895 Covid cases reported on Sunday, 688 patients needed to be hospitalised, of which 92 patients needed oxygen. Meanwhile, 21,025 patients recovered on Sunday. Of the 38,127 Covid beds, 15% or 5,722 beds are presently occupied. Similarly, on Saturday, bed occupancy had remained at 15% on Friday, bed occupancy was at 16.8%, on Thursday, bed occupancy was at 17.3%.The total caseload has now gone up to 9,99,209. Mumbai also reported 11 deaths due to Covid on Sunday, taking the toll to 16,457. The case fatality rate for Sunday is at 0.13%, and the overall case fatality rate in the city is 1.6%. There are 60,371 active cases in Mumbai as of Sunday.Experts have given mixed opinions about the drop in Covid cases in the city, with some pointing out that this indicates that the peak, recorded in the first week of January, is now passing, while other experts have attributed this to the rise in the number of home tests, where positive patients do not subsequently report their results to BMC.Dr Harish Chafle, senior consultant - Pulmonology and Critical Care at Global Hospitals, said, “It is too soon to say if the peak has passed. The lower number of cases can also be attributed to too many people taking tests at home, and not reporting it to the civic body. Earlier, if a family member tested positive, everyone from the family had to get tested. However, now family members don’t need to test unless they get symptoms. This can also be a reason for the drop in the number of cases. However, hospital admissions have not yet dropped over the past week.”However, Dr Rahul Pandit, who is a member of the Maharashtra government Covid task force said, “The graph certainly appears flat. The trend of cases is lower now, there is no doubt about that. Hospitalisation is still the same. This was the trend we noticed during the second wave when hospitalisation reduced a few days after the number of cases dropped. This also indicates that people are not as fearful about the disease anymore, and may not be testing in the same numbers as before.”Similarly, Dr Om Shrivastav, also a member of the state task force said, “We cannot say that the peak has passed, but our cases are plateaued. The next few days will give us a clearer understanding of the behaviour of the infection at present.” However, experts have urged Mumbaiites to behave responsibly, wear face masks in public, and self-monitor symptoms that can lead to complications. Dr Shashank Joshi, who is a member of the task force, took to social media on Sunday and said, “Covid in Mumbai is getting better, Cases are clearly dropping.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/huge-dip-in-new-cases-with-city-reporting-just-7-895-positives-101642354231017.html
16-01-2022||Lucknow||UP assembly polls: BJP to hold final round of talks with Nishad Party, Apna Dal (S)||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will hold the final round of consultations with its alliance partners, the Nishad Party and the Apna Dal (S), for the UP assembly polls in Delhi on Monday. Voting will be held for as many as 113 seats in the first and second phases of the UP assembly polls on February 10 and 14. The BJP has declared candidates for only 105 of these seats so far amid indications that its two pre-poll allies, the OBC-based Apna Dal (Sonelal) and the Nishad Party, comprising members of riverine community, are bargaining for some of the eight seats for which the party has withheld naming candidates for these two phases. “There is a meeting with the BJP leaders on Monday. The talks are final and we are hopeful of getting 15 seats,” said Nishad Party chief Sanjay Nishad, who was recently made a member of the legislative council (MLC) by the BJP in UP. Asked if the party was also eyeing some seats in western UP, Sanjay Nishad said that his party’s hold extended to the western region of the state too. “In a few seats, the talks are likely to be on if we could field our candidates on their symbol,” Sanjay Nishad said when asked about what could be the nature of these final round talks. Sanjay Nishad’s son Praveen Nishad is currently the BJP MP from Sant Kabir Nagar. Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav, whose party has attracted several OBC ministers and lawmakers of the BJP, had recently hit out at the Nishad Party leaders with whose support he had defeated the BJP in Gorakhpur in the 2018 Lok Sabha by-poll. “All OBCs are with us. Only that father-son duo would remain with the BJP now,” Akhilesh Yadav had said after inducting several BJP leaders into his party. Some BJP leaders, as well as political observers, say the bargaining power of the BJP’s pre-poll allies has increased ever since several OBC ministers and lawmakers from UP joined the Samajwadi Party. Now, sure of an increased say in the pre-poll pact, Sanjay Nishad has attacked those leaving the BJP.“What were they doing for the past five years? Their exit will make no difference now,” he said. Nishad Party leaders claim that riverine community is spread all over Gorakhpur, Ambedkar Nagar, Jaunpur, Balia, Sant Kabir Nagar,Bhadohi, Ayodhya, Chitrakoot, Sultanpur, Jhansi, Banda, Hamipur and Etawah districts. It had contested the 2017 UP elections with the Peace Party of India and the Jan Adhikar Party and won Gyanpur seat in Bhadohi district.The candidates of Apna Dal (Sonelal), a party that mostly comprises Kurmis, the influential OBC sub-caste in eastern UP, had won nine of the 12 seats they got as part of the seat-sharing arrangement with the BJP in the 2017 polls. One of its lawmakers Jai Kumar Jacky is also a minister in the Yogi Adityanath government.Apna Dal (S) leader Anupriya Patel is a Union minister. Her Lok Sabha constituency Mirzapur in east UP borders Varanasi, the parliamentary seat of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Anupriya’s husband Ashish Patel is a member of the legislative council (MLC) in UP. There was considerable buzz about Anupriya joining the SP and though she denied the possibility, political experts suggested that both the BJP and the SP are still wanting to attract each other’s OBC allies – a prospect that has increased the bargaining power, especially of BJP allies.Having won nine seats in the 2017 UP assembly polls, the Apna Dal (S) is now expecting more, the leaders admit. The BJP’s other ally in the 2017 UP polls, the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP), had won four seats. It has now joined hands with the opposition Samajwadi Party. 
16-01-2022||Lucknow||Uttarakhand polls: SP releases first list of 30 candidates||The Samajwadi Party (SP) released its first list of 30 candidates, including three women, for the upcoming Uttarakhand assembly polls on Sunday. Polls to elect 70 members of the Uttarakhand assembly will be held on February 14.The party’s Uttarakhand inchrage and UP state spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary released the list. Lakshmi Devi has been fielded from Bageshwar, Sunita Rikhari from Ranikhet and Manisha will contest from Bazpur seat. The SP is fighting Uttarakhand polls on its own. In the last assembly election in the neighbouring state, the BJP had won 57 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttarakhand-polls-sp-releases-first-list-of-30-candidates-101642353811339.html
16-01-2022||Pune||Sasanenagar railway gate closed for public use, citizens furious over decision||PUNE For the last eight days, the railway gate at Sasanenagar junction has been closed for public use forcing commuters to take a longer 3km detour to reach destinations. From the last few years the issue of closing this railway gate has been moot and two alternative underpasses have been built by the Railways. On Sunday morning, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) held a protest near the Sasanenagar gate demanding it be opened for public use. “I travel by this road and for the last many years we cross the railway line here. Now suddenly it is closed. We have to take a long detour of 3km as the underpass is very narrow. There is more traffic congestion than earlier and a long queue of vehicles,” said Sagar Shirodkar, a local resident. A groundbreaking ceremony, for a bridge was held in 2014 by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. Work has not been completed. Another resident Vipul Alekar said, “We are continuously demanding this railway gate be open for public use. Although there is an underpass built, some gates need to remain open as citizens travel on this road.” Yogesh Sasane, NCP corporator said, “We protested against the closing down of the Sasanenagar gate. PMC has constructed two underpasses as an alternative but this gate connects to 12 major residential and there heavy traffic on this road. Earlier, a bridge was sanctioned and later this work was canceled.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sasanenagar-railway-gate-closed-for-public-use-citizens-furious-over-decision-101642353513442.html
16-01-2022||Lucknow||Covid surge: UP district courts, tribunals to work with 50pc staff||Keeping in view rising Covid cases, registrar general in a letter addressing district judges and presiding officers of Uttar Pradesh, on Sunday, directed that from Monday (January 17) till further orders all the district judges and presiding officers of the tribunals of the state will ensure that only fifty percent judicial officers attend the court at a time on a rotational basis.Further, women judicial officers and staff, who are in the family way, have been exempted from attending the court. If necessary, they will be allowed to work from home. As per the letter, the litigants or other representatives will be strictly prohibited on the court premises. However, in urgent cases, with prior permission of district judges, the litigants may be allowed to enter the court premises.The above guidelines will be applicable to district courts, commercial courts, land acquisition rehab and resettlement authority, family courts and motor accident claim tribunals which are subordinate to the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid-surge-up-district-courts-tribunals-to-work-with-50pc-staff-101642353392278.html
16-01-2022||Patna||Toll in Nalanda hooch disaster rises to 13, two people lose eyesight||PATNA: The death toll in suspected hooch tragedy in Bihar’s Nalanda district mounted to 13 on Sunday, with the district authorities acknowledging five more casualties. Two of the six persons undergoing treatment at hospitals have lost their sight, said a senior police officer. In a follow-up action, the Patna inspector general (IG), under whose jurisdiction the incident occurred, ordered suspension of Surendra Prasad, station house officer of Sohsarai police station, on Sunday on charges of dereliction of duty. A special investigation team, led by deputy SP, Sadar, Sibli Nomani, has been constituted to ascertain the reasons for the tragedy and identify the persons responsible for it. Those who died on Sunday allegedly due to consumption of spurious liquor in Chhoti Pahari and Pahartalli localities of Bihar Sharif have been identified as Prahlad Kumar (40), Sintu Kumar (35), Shankar Mistri (35), Shivji Chauhan (45) and Ramswarup Chauhan (45). The latter two were among those undergoing treatment. Rishi Chauhan and his cousin Raju Chauhan of Chhoti Pahari, who are being treated at a private clinic in Sohsarai, are reported to have lost their eyesight. Nalanda superintendent of police (SP) Ashok Mishra confirmed that 13 people have died in the tragedy so far while several others are undergoing treatment. He added that an SIT, consisting of the Sadar Dy SP, in-charge of Sohsarai PS and circle inspector, had been constituted to launch a manhunt for all those responsible for the tragedy. “The postmortem reports of all the deceased are awaited to know exact cause of the deaths,” said Mishra. On Saturday, eight people -- Bhago Mistri, Manna Mistri, Sunil Kumar, Dharmendra alias Nageshwar, Arjun Pandit, Kalicharan, Rajesh and Jaipal Sharma -- died due to alleged intake of spurious alcohol. Nalanda district magistrate Shashank Subhankar said that the cause of death appears to be consumption of spurious liquor. “On the basis of the doctors’ report, it seems all the deaths were attributed to the consumption of spurious liquor. A total of 34 persons, who are anyway related to the mishap, have been arrested so far,” said the DM. Meanwhile, a slugfest has erupted within the ruling coalition over the spate of killings in the recent hooch tragedies. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state chief and West Champaran MP Sanjay Jaiswal came down on the Nalanda district authorities for resorting to a misleading statement about the deaths, saying that it might be intended to protect the senior officials hands in gloves with liquor mafia. “Instead of putting the police officials behind bars for 10 years, they are suspended for two months and later given the charge of other police stations, so that the trade of illegal liquor continues to thrive,” Jaiswal said in a social media post on Sunday, He had earlier questioned the relevance of the liquor law in the present form and asked for its review. Education minister and senior JD(U) leader Vijay Kumar Chaudhary took a dig at the criticism of the prohibition law by the ruling and opposition parties. He said that it was a moral responsibility of all elected representatives to helping the government enforce the law. “The Nalanda incident has once again established the notion that the government did a right thing to ban liquor, which is sure to take its users to a disastrous end. It is ridiculous to question the efficacy of the prohibition law in view of huge public support in its favour, as of now,” Chaudhary said, adding that those responsible for the hooch tragedy would not be spared. This is the seventh incident of hooch tragedy in Bihar in the past six months, claiming lives of more than 40 people, even as the state has been under total prohibition since April 2016. 
16-01-2022||Other||Bihar to go ahead with recruitment of school teachers||PATNA: The state government will recruit primary school teachers for the sixth phase despite the third wave of Covid-19 pandemic, so that it could go for the seventh phase recruitment for secondary and higher secondary schools, education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary said. Out of over 8,500 recruiting agencies at the level of panchayats, blocks and urban local bodies, the process had remained incomplete in 1,200 and that would be started from January 17, Choudhary said. “The recruitment process has been delayed for over two years due to various reasons. First, it was due to court interference and when the matter was resolved at the department’s initiative, there was disruption due to panchayat elections. Despite the department’s request, permission could not be obtained for the recruitment exercise,” he added. The minister said he was aware of the desperation among prospective candidates to get their appointment letters. “Soon after that (sixth phase), our priority is to start the seventh phase to ensure that none of the upgraded higher secondary schools in every panchayat, which the government has opened to improve accessibility commensurate with the growing demand, remains without adequate teachers. The carryover vacancies of the sixth phase will also be incorporated in the seventh phase. All the candidates who qualified STET in 2019 will be eligible for that. Now a candidate having once qualified eligibility test will always be eligible, barring the age cap,” he added. The minister said he along with additional chief secretary (education) Sanjay Kumar had done videoconferencing with the district magistrates and officials of the department and given guidelines to complete the exercise at the earliest with transparency and precautions due to Covid third wave. “These vacancies are also of 2019 and new vacancies will also arise. After making an assessment of the vacancies, the seventh phase will be started. The upgraded higher secondary schools also need teachers,” he added. The government had earlier postponed the school teachers’ recruitment schedule, by issuing a notification on July 29, till further orders in view of the panchayat elections. Now, with the mukhiya and panchayat samiti heads scheduled to take their oaths on January 3, the department has issued the fresh dates. The government has to carry out around 91,000 recruitments in elementary schools and after that, another 30,000 plus teachers would be appointed in secondary and higher schools. The vacancies may further go up for the seventh phase due to carryover from sixth phase. “All documents will be verified before issuing appointment letters to avoid past situation when appointments landed in the Patna high court over alleged forgery of documents,” the minister said. 
16-01-2022||Patna||Centre okays land transfer for expansion of Darbhanga airport||DARBHANGA: In a bid to facilitate smooth flight operations under the regional connectivity scheme (RCS), the ministry of defence (MoD) has granted working permission to transfer a defence land measuring 2.42 acres to the Airport Authority of India (AAI) for the expansion of interim civil enclave at Darbhanga Airport, officials said.According to the MoD letter, dated December 13, the transfer of land to AAI on annual lease rent of ₹16.57 lakh, for a period of five years at Air Force Station Darbhanga, is meant for the creation of ‘bare minimum infrastructure’ to operate civil domestic flights under RCS-UDAN.“Apart from expansion of the interim terminal building, AAI will now execute the construction of car parking, powerhouse, maintenance office, driver’s facility besides construction of road and ground support equipment (GSE) in compliance of work permission”, people aware of the development said.Meanwhile, Darbhanga MP Gopal Jee Thakur on Sunday said that in the past he had called on defence minister Rajnath Singh on several occasions seeking an NoC for airport’s development. Thakur said that over 6.75 lakh passengers had travelled to and from Darbhanga airport in a short span since the launch of flight operation on November 8, 2020, under the UDAN scheme, a flagship scheme of the Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) envisaged by Prime Minister Narendra Modi government to make air travel affordable and widespread in the country.The MP said that the interim terminal building has a capacity to handle only 150-200 passengers. However, at present about 3,000 passengers travel from here every day. Citing various issues with regard to the development and expansion of Darbhanga airport, the MP met AAI’s incumbent chairman Sanjeev Kumar on January 14.Thakur had urged the AAI chairman to take necessary measures for the requirement of 78 acres of land for construction of a permanent civil enclave even as the Bihar government had granted approval of ₹336 crore for land acquisition. Moreover, apart from naming the airport after legendary Maithili poet Mahakavi Vidyapati, completion of runway work, increasing the number of aprons, construction of shed from the main gate to interim terminal building, parking arrangement, construction of cargo complex, installation of the digital display system and raising the boundary wall keeping in view the security-related issues were also discussed during the meeting.The MP also talked about starting the operations of other airlines from Darbhanga airport soon while putting suggestions for reviewing the current fixed fare and giving information about flight cancellation a day in advance.Meanwhile, sources familiar with ongoing development at Darbhanga airport revealed that work at runway has been hit due to various constraints. The project in charge of AAI G K Chandana has been posted here for more than four years. Among the AAI fraternity, it is something very strange that an official involved in a project continue to be posted for such a long period beyond his tenure, quipped an official. Preferring anonymity, another official said that runway is handed over to them at 6 pm, beyond the flight hours. Hence, the time taken in the installation of the airport ground lighting system (AGLS) gets stretched for too long.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/centre-okays-land-transfer-for-expansion-of-darbhanga-airport-101642353272110.html
16-01-2022||Patna||JD(U) to contest UP polls on its own, seats to be decided later||PATNA: Having been denied any seat as part of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh elections, the Janata Dal (United) has now decided to go it alone.JD(U) general secretary KC Tyagi on Sunday said that the party would certainly contest the UP elections, though the number of seats it would fight would be decided only after consultations with party workers and leaders.“I am going to UP. We have our party’s meeting in Lucknow on Tuesday. The prospective candidates as well as senior leaders, including UP unit chief Anup Patel, will also be there. We have not been included in the BJP-led coalition. We will definitely fight UP elections. How many seats we should contest will be decided after the meeting,” he added.JD(U) had earlier expressed its desire to contest the UP polls as part of the BJP-led alliance to keep its hopes alive for achieving the national party status. JD(U) Parliamentary Board chairman Upendra Kushwaha had said the party would fight elections in UP with the BJP, but the party had not thought that it would not be accommodated at all. JD(U) was not even invited to the meeting of BJP allies. According to JD(U) sources, the party had hoped for a respectable number of seats from the BJP. “We expected at least 20 seats, but when we are not wanted, we will fight on our own,” they said.In 2017, JD(U) had not contested the UP elections on the pretext that it wanted to keep the secular votes intact against the BJP. The decision, however, was taken after the Congress and the Samajwadi Party had refused to accommodate JD(U) in the opposition coalition despite its alliance with the RJD in Bihar. However, the election results showed a complete wave for the BJP, taking it past the 300 seats.The JD(U), though not a big player in UP, where a number of regional parties are in the fray, holds ambitions to have a national footprint.
16-01-2022||Pune||Village in Satara split over ouster of actor Kiran Mane from TV serial||PUNE The ouster of actor Kiran Mane from a Marathi television show allegedly due to his political views on social media has divided a village in Satara, with one section wanting to stop shooting in the village while another supporting it.Earlier on Thursday, Mane had claimed that he was ousted from the popular television show “Mulgi Zali Ho” due to his political comments on social media about topical issues particularly about a political party and its leader.The Marathi-language TV drama, which airs on the ‘Star Pravah’ channel, featured Mane in the role of Vilas Patil. The production house removed Mane, who claimed he was not given a specific reason.The letter, signed by sarpanch of Gulumb village in Satara district Swati Mane, is going viral on social media. It condemns the Marathi film industry “for removing an actor who expressed his political views”.According to Mane, he was officially only conveyed to not report to sets from Friday.“They (makers) did not officially tell me the reason behind the decision. However, off the record someone from the show said that it has happened because of the comments that I make on social media,” Mane.The actor alleged that in his recent post he had just said that being a theatre artist even if one or two people come to watch the show I will still perform with utmost honesty.“People assumed that I am talking about a particular leader. This debate continued on my social media post. Shockingly, I got a call saying ‘do not come to the sets’,” Mane had said after his ouster.Line producer and crew coordinator of the production house, Sachin Sasane, however, refuted Mane’s allegations saying the actor was removed from the show because of his overall “conduct”.“He was previously also warned thrice about his misbehaviour. Eventually, the production house decided to remove him. It has nothing to do with his social media posts,” said Sasane.The actor even met Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar apprising him about his ouster.“He is the only leader in Maharashtra who can offer justice to anyone. I have just presented my case to him and he patiently heard me,” Mane said after his meeting on Saturday.As he met Pawar, the sarpanch of a village in Satara district, where the serial is being shot, issued a letter to the production house asking it to stop the shoot.The shooting of the Marathi serial is underway at a wada (traditional mansion) in Gulumb village in Wai tehsil of western Maharashtra’s Satara district. Suman More, the owner of the wada where shooting is underway, criticised the village sarpanch for hastily issuing a letter without consulting the issue without locals.“Who is the sarpanch to issue a diktat without talking to anyone. The Marathi serial has provided good employment to villagers and we are happy with the shooting. So far as actor Mane is concerned, there were complaints against him,” said More.The woman sarpanch, who signed the letter written to the show’s production house did not respond to phone calls, but the coordinator of the production crew on Sunday claimed that the letter was issued “inadvertently” and the shooting at the village is still on without any problemThe letter, signed by sarpanch Mane states that the crew of the serial should not forget that in Maharashtra, democracy still runs on the ideology of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj, Mahatma Phule and Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar.It stated that the gram panchayat refuses the permission given to the shooting of the serial which is going on at Gulumb village.Sasane, however, said that the letter was issued “inadvertently” and claimed that the local body of the village is of the opinion that the shooting of the serial should continue.He claimed that the shooting has given a source of earning and employment opportunities to the villagers.“How is it justifiable to stop the medium of employment and earning of locals for one man, who was not removed due to his political views, but due to his misbehaviour,” he said.Sasane claimed that the letter was signed without hearing their (production house) side, but when the gram panchayat was presented on the other side, the shooting resumed.Mahadev Mhaskar, former vice-president of Satara Zilla Parishad and a resident of Gulumb village, said, “The issue is between the actor and the production house. The residents are not related to the matter and we have asked the gram panchayat members and the sarpanch to convene a meeting and issue a clarification on this.”“The shooting has generated employment in the village and the serial also spreads a positive message about the girl child,” he said.Star Pravah,on Sunday, issued a statement saying, allegations by Mane are “baseless” and “imaginary”. “The decision to remove Mane was taken due to his misbehaviour with co-actors, particularly female actors,” stated the statement. At the same time, various female actors from the show too reacted to Mane’s allegations saying, his overall “conduct was improper”. After allegations against the production house, NCP MP and an actor Amol Kolhe contradicted Mane saying he has never faced such action nor has he seen anyone facing it merely for comments on social media.“I have been a politician and an actor too. I don’t think any production house will act against anyone merely for posts on social media,” Kolhe had said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/village-in-satara-split-over-ouster-of-actor-kiran-mane-from-tv-serial-101642353210786.html
16-01-2022||Lucknow||UP polls: AIMIM fields Atiq’s wife from Allahabad west seat||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) has fielded Mafioso-turned-politician and former MP Atiq Ahmad’s wife Shaista Parveen from Allahabad West assembly constituency of Prayagraj considered Ahmad’s stronghold. Her candidature was declared by party’s state spokesperson Afsar Mehmood on Saturday night.Atiq Ahmad has won assembly polls from Allahabad West multiple times including in 1989, 1991 and 1993 as an independent candidate and in 1996 as a Samajwadi Party candidate while in 2002 he bagged the seat on Apna Dal ticket.However, when he became an MP from Phulpur in 2004, he vacated the seat and fielded his brother Khalid Azim who however lost to BSP’s Raju Pal in 2004 by-polls. Following the murder of Pal, in which both Atiq and his brother are main accused, the 2005 by-polls saw Khalid Azim as SP candidate beating Raju Pal’s widow Pooja Pal of BSP. In 2007 assembly election, however, Pooja Pal as BSP candidate beat Khalid Azim of SP and then retained the seat in 2012, this time beating Atiq Ahmad contesting on Apna Dal ticket.However, in the last assembly polls of 2017, BJP’s Sidharth Nath Singh won the seat. Although party leaders are still silent over names of candidates on other seats, AIMIM leaders claim that party’s district president Shah Alam could contest from Allahabad South seat while party may field Atiq Ahmad from Kanpur Cantonment assembly constituency this time.Atiq’s wife had declared her joining AIMIM some months back and at that time party leaders had said that Atiq and his kin may contest from five assembly seats. However, Atiq’s two sons Umar and Ali are presently on the run in connection with different cases and his younger brother Ashraf is also in jail.Atiq was arrested in connection with the attack on SHUATS employees in 2017 and since then Samajwadi Party distanced itself from him. After being shifted to different jails in Uttar Pradesh, Atiq was transferred to Ahmedabad jail on the instructions of Supreme Court in 2019. With no political alignment, Atiq finally joined AIMIM with his kin and aides, the declaration of which was made by his wife Shaista Parveen at a public meeting held in Prayagraj a few months back. She had also read an emotional letter sent by the former MP in which he had reposed his faith in party chief Asaduddin Owaisi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-polls-aimim-fields-atiq-s-wife-from-allahabad-west-seat-101642352790522.html
16-01-2022||Pune||Six ‘jaat panchayat’ members booked for ostracising 13 couples for inter-caste marriages||A case under Maharashtra’s Anti-social Boycott Act has been registered against six members of a jaat panchayat for socially boycotting 13 couples for marrying outside the community. The case was registered by Sangli police against the six members on Friday at Palus police station. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Prakash Shankar Bhosale, 42, a resident of Hanuman nagar in Islampur area of Valva in Sangli. Bhosale is a painter who belongs to the Nandiwale tribal community. While two of the accused are from Islampur, two are from Palus taluka, and one each form Karad and Tasgaon areas of Sangli, according to police. “In 2007 I got married, but I was away from home for a year for work. In 2008, I moved back home, and information spread. They called for a meeting outside our house. They took money, ₹5,000, from my parents and brother and included them, but they kept me away from all social events. They used to tease me by calling me by the surname that people of the Mahar community mostly have, because my wife is from the Mahar community. So I built a separate house on empty land and got my inter-caste marriage registered at the municipal corporation,” said Bhosale. Bhosale claims that he has since been kept out of all social events like weddings, funerals, naming ceremonies, and festivals. His children, a daughter in Class 8 and a son in Class 6, live in a government hostel and study in a government school while his wife works. “I could not attend the meeting that was held on December 2021. But, my other friends, who have also been boycotted, were present and they told me that the community elders in our village have decided to include us. So they called us all to another meeting held in January and it was there that these six decided that we must remain in exile from the community,” said Bhosale. Bhosale was present at the meeting held in Sandgewadi on January 9 along with one other person he knew who also had an inter-caste marriage. Bhosale then informed 12 other couples that he knew of and they collectively approached the Andhashradha Nirmoolan Samiti (ANS), founded by slain rationalist Dr Narendra Dabholkar. ANS helped them register a case. A case under Sections 143 and 149 of the Indian Penal Code along with sections 3, 4, 6, and 7 of Maharashtra Protection of People from Social Boycott (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2016 has been registered at Palus police station. Police inspector Vikas JAdhav of Palus police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/six-jaat-panchayat-members-booked-for-ostracising-13-couples-for-inter-caste-marriages-101642352670499.html
16-01-2022||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports over 40,000 cases for fifth day in a row||Mumbai: Maharashtra reported 41,327 fresh Covid-19 cases pushing the tally to 7,211,810 on Sunday. It was the fifth consecutive day when the state clocked more than 40,000 cases. With fresh additions, active cases surged to 265,346, a rise of 2,54,954 cases from December 27, when active cases were 10,441.The state also reported eight cases of Omicron variant. Five cases were reported from Pune, while three were residents of Pimpri Chinchwad. The total number of Omicron cases in the state has reached 1,738.So far, 932 people have been discharged following a negative RT-PCR test, stated a release issued by the state health department.The day also saw 29 casualties, taking the total number of fatalities to 1,41,808.Since the Omicron variant has been detected, Maharashtra has been facing a surge, also referred to as the third wave by state health officials.The state has been reporting over 40,000 cases for the last five days. On January 12, it reported 46,723 cases, January 13 (46,406 cases), January 14 (43,211 cases) and on January 15 — 42,462 cases were recorded in the state. However, health experts believe that the state will continue to see a rise in cases.“As more and more geographies will be exposed to Omicron, more districts of concern will be added to the list. The cases will go up, so the state will be under strain for quite some time. It is an explosive Tsunami-like strain and different geographies will have their own peak over the coming days. As far as Mumbai is concerned, the cases have started flattening,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state task force.State health minister Rajesh Tope on Sunday said that the number of infections among children is very low and the state government will take a call on reopening schools in the next 15 days. “There is a difference of opinion on reopening of schools. We have discussed the issue in the state cabinet meeting. Parents are divided over sending their children to physical classes. Some advocate caution and are reluctant to send them while others insist on sending them to school. We will keep schools closed for the next fortnight as the daily caseload is still high and take a decision within the fortnight,” he told reporters in Jalna.The daily cases in Mumbai started coming down as it clocked fewer than 10,000 on Sunday. It reported 7,895 cases and its tally reached a total of 999,209 cases to date. It also recorded 11 fatalities taking the toll to 16,457.In the last 24 hours, the state tested 210,109 samples and had a positivity rate of 19.66%. However, the overall positivity rate of the state stood at 10.02%, the statement said.The state also vaccinated 55,137 doses on Sunday and has administered a total of 143,146,640 doses till date, according to the data available on the Co-Win portal.
16-01-2022||Pune||Barshi stock market scam: ‘Vishal Fate wanted to become like Pablo Escobar, promised unprecedented returns to investors’||PUNE Prime accused in the ₹15 crore stock market scam, Vishal Fate, who is currently absconding in connection with the economic fraud, adopted the modus of promising ₹6 crore return over an annual investment of ₹10 lakh in one year. Besides, he also promised thrice the invested amount to small time investors in three months and gave returns to a few of them to generate goodwill among different types of investors,said officials.HT spoke to Fate’s friend and other investors who said Fate wanted to be like Pablo Escobar, who led the Medellín Cartel.According to Fate’s close friends, the selected investors who profited from Fate became his ambassadors wherein they brought more of their friends and relatives under Fate’s wings, investigators claimed. He hailed from Mangalwedha taluka and used to run cyber café’s where he settled permanently. Fate’s father retired as a professor from a prominent college in Barshi and he used his father’s image to buttress his credibility.His close friend Deepak Babasaheb Ambare (37) recalled that Fate had two hobbies. “ He used to see cartoons and in between switched over movie channels. He used to tell us to see the documentary or movie of Pablo Escobar. Once he offered me ₹30,000 for an investment of ₹70,000. He said that one should live life like Pablo Escobar and showed us dreams. We have never seen that movie but now he is absconding. He is not my friend as he has duped hundreds of investors by promising unrealistic returns which people fell for and got duped on a mass scale.”Ambare has also claimed that Fate had duped scores of professionals ranging from media persons, administrative officers, policemen and other high net worth persons.Another investor Rajaram Shelke said “ I had borrowed money from Bajaj Finance and gave the money to him for investment purpose. He just gave ₹1 lakh and when I went to his house, his wife informed me that he had gone to the native place. Since then, his mobile has been switched off. Later we realised that he had cheated us.”Based on Ambare’s complaint, the Barshi police have booked Vishal along with four of his family members under IPC 409, 417 and 420 and 34 and MPID Act 1999 section 3. More than 40 investors have approached the police with complaints related to fraud and cheating.According to the police, most of the investors who had invested in the stock market had no knowledge about stock market trading and did not understand the nuances of the trade. Additional superintendent of police SP Himmat Sonawane said, “Fate told people that he will give them huge returns and people believed in him. He took huge amounts from investors and cheated them. Currently, eight teams have been sent to different parts of the country to nab Fate.”Vishal Fate’s father Ambadas and brother Vaibhav have already been arrested in connection with the fraud. The other family members including his mother Alka and wife Radhika are absconding, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/barshi-stock-market-scam-vishal-fate-wanted-to-become-like-pablo-escobar-promised-unprecedented-returns-to-investors-101642352310675.html
16-01-2022||Lucknow||UP polls: Two Samajwadi Party MLCs, former Kanpur police commissioner join BJP||Two sitting Samajwadi Party (SP) MLCs, an ex-MLA, former Kanpur police commissioner Asim Arun, who has taken voluntary retirement from the Indian Police Service (IPS), and a retired officer of the Indian Administrative Service (IAS) joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) here on Sunday ahead of the UP polls. The two serving Samajwadi Party members of legislative council (MLCs) are Ghanshyam Lodhi and Shailendra Pratap Singh. Om Prakash, former SP lawmaker from Shikohabad, also joined the BJP before the UP polls that will begin on February 10.Besides, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) leader and retired IAS Ram Bahadur joined the BJP on Sunday evening hours after former Kanpur police commissioner Asim Arun, a dalit, was inducted into the party after taking VRS nine years ahead of his retirement.Ram Bahadur had contested the 2017 Uttar Pradesh elections as a Bahujan Samaj Party candidate and lost narrowly. Former Kanpur police commissioner Asim Arun’s decision drew flak from the Samajwadi Party and its ally the Rashtriya Lok Dal, both of whom felt that this trend of bureaucrats joining politics straight after resignation didn’t augur well for bureaucracy-politician relations. But, the BJP described his joining as a proof of honest officers and professionals being drawn to the party. Union information and broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur, also part of the UP BJP’s election panel along with state BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh, were present, first for the IPS officer’s joining and later for the SP lawmakers too. They joined separately.On his part, the UP BJP chief highlighted the former Kanpur police commissioner’s contribution in the police force that included a stint as the chief of the anti-terrorist squad (ATS) when several suspected terrorists were arrested and their sleeper cells busted.“As the officer can verify, not once did the government or the chief minister’s office interfere in the functioning of the police,” the BJP leaders said. “The issue is clear. As is clear from SP’s first list, there is a party that is giving tickets to criminals and those with shady background. Of the names it has declared, one contestant is in jail and the other likely contender is just out on bail. So here is this party and then there is BJP which is attracting upright professionals,” Anurag Thakur said. UP BJP vice-president Daya Shankar Singh said several Samajwadi Party leaders were in queue to join BJP. Three UP ministers and several lawmakers, mostly OBC leaders, have quit the BJP recently and the ruling party, it is said, was now looking to win over a member of the Samajwadi Party’s first family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-polls-two-samajwadi-party-mlcs-former-kanpur-police-commissioner-join-bjp-101642351170516.html
16-01-2022||Delhi||With 18,286 new cases, Delhi's daily Covid-19 tally dips 11.7% from yesterday||Delhi on Sunday once again reported a dip in its daily coronavirus disease (Covid-19) numbers, clocking 18,286 new cases in the past 24 hours. According to the daily health bulletin on January 16, the total number of new positive cases today has reduced by 11.7 per cent from yesterday, when the national capital had recorded 20,718 new cases, which itself was a further 15 per cent dip from the numbers a day prior.The number of new deaths has reduced marginally, down to 28 from the 30 recorded a day prior. The cumulative fatality toll, which has now reached 25,363, showed a declining trend overall throughout this week – from 34 on Friday to 30 on Saturday and now 28 on Sunday.This is now the third day in a row that Covid-19 cases in Delhi have continued going down steadily after it showed a hike for four consecutive days earlier. The positivity rate in the national capital has also reduced to 27.87 per cent, down from 30.64 per cent a day earlier.The number of daily Covid-19 tests conducted, however, also went down on Sunday, albeit marginally – from 67,624 to 65,621 tests per day. Satyendar Jain, the health minister of Delhi, had addressed this issue in a press briefing earlier in the day and said that less testing does not equate to fewer Covid-19 cases. “Mild, asymptomatic, or high-risk contact cases, everyone gets tested,” he had said. “We [the health authorities in Delhi] are conducting three times more tests than that required by the ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) guidelines.”Also Read | Delhi's Covid-19 caseload reducing, most deaths due to comorbidities: MinisterPointing out that Covid-19 cases in Delhi have been reducing for the past three days, Jain said that a substantial decrease in these numbers can further be seen over the course of the next three to four days. The positivity rate, too, will reduce with time as patients currently hospitalised have mostly proved to be in a stagnant medical state, the minister said, adding that most of the Covid-19 deaths in the national capital have resulted from comorbidities.The number of patients admitted to hospitals due to coronavirus climbed to 2,711 on Sunday, up from 2,620 on Saturday and 2,446 on Friday. In the past 24 hours, as many as 19,554 patients have recovered from the coronavirus infection and were discharged from hospitals after being treated for the same.Barring the 2,591 patients who have confirmed Covid-19 infections and are currently hospitalised in Delhi, as many as 120 are suspected cases of the virus.Delhi is currently under night curfew between 11pm and 5am along with weekend curfew. Schools, colleges, gyms, cinemas, and restaurants are also shut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/with-18-286-new-cases-delhi-s-daily-covid-19-tally-dips-11-7-from-yesterday-101642348768625.html
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: 15 lakh people respond to AAP's 'Janta Chunegi Apna CM' drive||Around 15 lakh people have so far responded to the AAP's "Janta Chunegi Apna CM" drive, in which the party has asked people to name their choice for its chief ministerial face for the February 14 Punjab Assembly polls."In the 72 hours since the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has released the phone number 7074870748 to know the opinion of the people of Punjab as regards who should be the party's chief ministerial face for the upcoming election, around 15 lakh people have voiced their views," party MLA Harpal Singh Cheema said.AAP national convenor Arvind Kejriwal had asked people on Thursday who should be the party's chief ministerial face for the Punjab polls, even as he had said that his own choice for the post is Bhagwant Mann.Kejriwal had ruled himself out of the race as the AAP launched the "Janta Chunegi Apna CM" drive and said the name of the candidate for the top post will be announced after getting the feedback of people.The mobile number was launched by the party on which people can give their opinion till 5 pm on Monday by recording their voice and sending text or WhatsApp messages as to who should be the party's chief ministerial candidate."In the last 72 hours, seven lakh people called, 5.5 lakh voted for their choice via WhatsApp, 1.5 lakh left voice messages and an equal number of people sent text messages," Cheema said.The enthusiasm shown by the people of the state is a testament that this time, the AAP will most definitely form the government in Punjab and that too, with a clear majority, he was quoted as saying in a statement issued by the party here.Cheema said people will "wipe out the traditional political parties" in the upcoming polls and give the mandate to the AAP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-15-lakh-people-respond-to-aap-s-janta-chunegi-apna-cm-drive-101642349687148.html
16-01-2022||Mumbai||Traffic police crackdown on heavy vehicles flouting ban during peak hour||Mumbai The Mumbai Traffic police has begun to crack the whip on heavy vehicles plying in the city during peak hours in the past three months. Since October 2021, cops have penalised over 60,000 heavy vehicles for violating the notification of not entering the city limits from 8 am to 11 am and 5 pm to 9 pm. Private busses have also been restricted in city limits from 7 am till midnight. On October 9, 2021, the police reissued the notification banning the movement of heavy vehicles in the city during peak hours to decongest traffic and allow the free movement of emergency vehicles. The traffic police had first imposed such a ban in 2018, which did not prove effective and was relaxed in March 2020 during the nationwide lockdown. According to the traffic police officials, the influx of heavy vehicles entering the city from Dahisar and Mulund toll booths had added to traffic jams in Mumbai. “As cases of Omicron are surging, it is essential to decongest traffic so that people can reach hospitals on time and emergency vehicles could ply faster. Due to shift in office timings, it is essential to keep the roads free of heavy vehicles,” said Raj Tilak Roshan, deputy commissioner of police (traffic HQ).  In addition to fining the drivers, the police also ensure that the vehicles remained parked on the road near entry points and is only moved when permitted. “Drivers found this loophole and used to leave by just paying the fine. Now we make them park the vehicle immediately after they cross the toll booth if they enter Mumbai during the ban hours,” said Roshan. “Every day we penalise at least 800 vehicles which can go up to 1,000 on some days,” added Roshan.PI Hussain Jatkar, from Vikhroli traffic chowki, said that if they spot a heavy vehicle parked during ban hours, drivers are sent e-challans of ₹500. “We let them move the vehicle after 11 am. In case they are caught flouting the rule again, we impose a fine of ₹1,500 which acts as a deterrent to some extent,” said Jatkar.  In 2021, the number of registered buses and heavy goods vehicles was up 19 percent compared to the previous year. As many as 1,95,109 vehicles, including heavy vehicles and bikes, were registered in Mumbai this year compared to 1,64,483 in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/traffic-police-crackdown-on-heavy-vehicles-flouting-ban-during-peak-hour-101642344334611.html
16-01-2022||Pune||69% M.Tech seats lie vacant as interest declines||PUNE Colleges in the state are seeing a drastically muted response to admission in postgraduate engineering courses.After the completion of all the Common Admission Process (CAP) rounds of admissions in the professional courses, many seats, even in reputed colleges, and in most sought-after branches, were vacant.Masters of Technology (M.Tech) course had the highest number of vacant seats, 69.41 per cent in academic year 2021-22.While the Master of Computer Application (MCA) course has received a good response this year. It has the lowest seat vacancy at 2.42 per cent.The state Common Entrance Test (CET) cell held the entrance examination last year for various professional courses and now the vacancy details were declared by the CET cell, on Sunday.As per the information given by the state CET cell, for the M.Tech course a total of 13,095 seats were available out of which only 4,006 seats were admitted and rest 9,089 seats remained vacant . This is the highest vacancy per cent ever for any of the professional course till now in the state. This is followed by Bachelor of Hotel Management and Catering Technology (BHMCT) course with vacancy of 53.51 per cent.The declining interest in post-graduation in engineering has been consistent. Less opportunity of jobs after graduation, low salary package are some of the reasons for fewer students opting for specialisation in engineering, experts said.However, the Master of Computer Application (MCA) course has received a good response for this academic year with the vacancy of 2.42 per cent. For MCA course this year a total of 8,714 seats were available out of which 8,503 seats were admitted and only 211 seats remained vacant.Talking about the admissions Ravindra Jagtap, Maharashtra state CET cell chairman said, “Due to the pandemic the overall admission process was conducted carefully and taking care of all Covid protocols. As per the current data statistics, the M.tech course has the highest vacancy of 69.41 per cent and the lowest vacancy is for the MCA course with 2.42 per cent.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/69-m-tech-seats-lie-vacant-as-interest-declines-101642344089662.html
16-01-2022||Pune||38-year-old pillion rider killed in hit-and-run at Hadapsar||PUNE A 38-year-old woman riding pillion on a two-wheeler was killed in a hit-an-run by a dumper truck near a city bus stop in Hadapsar. The accident happened around 10:30am on Saturday on the bus stop located along Saswad-Pune road, said officials.The deceased was identified as Ankita Atul Kulkarni, 38, a resident of Dreamvilla society in Kalepadal area of Hadapsar.The woman’s 18-year-old daughter was riding the vehicle from the right side of the dumper truck when the heavy vehicle turned right without warning and hit the rear part of the two-wheeler. As the two women fell, the truck driver sped from the spot, according to a complaint lodged by the teenager.A case under Sections 279, 304(a) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 132(1)(c), 119/177 of Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Hadapsar police station. Assistant police inspector Somnath Padsalkar is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/38yearold-pillion-rider-killed-in-hit-and-run-at-hadapsar-101642342229704.html
16-01-2022||Mumbai||Mumbai records spike in temperatures, warmer conditions likely over next few days||Mumbai: The city recorded a perceptible spike in daytime temperatures on Sunday, with the afternoon’s maximum reading settling at 32.4 degrees Celsius as per the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) observatory at Santacruz. This was up from 31 degrees Celsius a day prior, and also marks Mumbai’s warmest day since January 5, when daytime temperature peaked at 31.5 degrees Celsius.The IMD has earlier warned of warmer conditions soon after January 14. Sunday also marked the second consecutive day of ‘normal’ temperatures, after at least a week of below normal temperatures prevailing due to light, unseasonal rain in the city around January 10, followed by transport of cold air from north India, which is experiencing peak winter at the moment. As per the IMD’s seven-day forecast for Mumbai, the maximum temperature will hover around 32 degrees Celsius for the next week, while the minimum temperature will be around 20 degrees Celsius. Sunday’s minimum stood at 19 degrees Celsius, up from 18.6 degrees Celsius the day prior. Minimum temperatures have remained at or above normal since January 13, IMD data shows. Officials have warned that the uptick in mercury will last till at least January 20, after which cooler conditions may set in again.Officials attributed the rise in mercury to a scuttling of winds. “For the past week, winds were blowing either head on from the north or the north west, due to which there was a very cool period in Mumbai starting around January 10, when the morning temperature dipped to 13.2 degrees Celsius. However, on Sunday the prevailing direction of winds was from the north east, which brought warmer air. Also, skies were much clearer allowing for penetration of sunlight,” said an official with the IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai.IMD official further explained, “Another western disturbance, of the sort that brought unseasonal rains to Mumbai earlier this month, is expected in around 10 days. So, there will be another steep dip in temperature sometime between January 24 and 26. Depending on the amount of rain or snow that the weather system deposits in the north, we could see a steep plunge in both day and nighttime temperatures.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-spike-in-temperatures-warmer-conditions-likely-over-next-few-days-101642341929742.html
16-01-2022||Lucknow||UP polls: Former minister Dara Singh Chauhan, Apna Dal (S) MLA join Samajwadi Party||Former minister and OBC leader Dara Singh Chauhan joined the Samajwadi Party (SP) on Sunday, days after he resigned from the Yogi Adityanath cabinet on January 12 ahead of the UP polls. Chauhan is a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator from the Madhuban assembly constituency in Mau district of eastern UP. Besides Dara Singh Chauhan, RK Verma, Apna Dal (Sonelal) MLA from Vishwanathganj assembly constituency in Pratapgarh district, too, joined the Samajwadi Party. Apna Dal (Sonelal) is an ally of the BJP. Dara Singh Chauhan is the third former minister after Swami Prasad Maurya and Dharam Singh Saini to leave the BJP camp for the Akhilesh Yadav-led party ahead of the UP polls. Verma is the second Apna Dal (SP) MLA to have been inducted into the SP. Maurya, Saini and five other BJP MLAs had formally joined the Samajwadi Party on Friday (January 14) along with Apna Dal (S) MLA Chaudhary Amar Singh. All the leaders had resigned from the BJP in quick succession over the past few days. The developments happened as Uttar Pradesh is set to see a seven-phase assembly election from February 10. Referring to the cross-overs, Akhilesh Yadav said at the event held to announce Dara Singh Chauhan and RK Verma’s joining: “There is a saying in English ‘strike while the iron is hot’. So, we decided to welcome these leaders into the party at the right time. The BJP does not understand English sayings. If they did, they would go into depression.” Vowing to make Yadav the next chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, Chauhan said, “In 2017, the BJP took votes from people belonging to the backward communities, but did not give anything in return. Hence, all those belonging to the backward communities are going to the SP.” For his part, the SP chief said, “I congratulate both of you for having joined the fight to defeat and oust the BJP. Let us fight in a manner that the BJP candidates’ poll deposits are forfeited.” “People of the double-engine government (BJP at the Centre and state) are dismantling each other’s wheels. And the Delhi camp has shunted the mukhya mantri (Yogi Adityanath) to Gorakhpur already,” he said in an apparent dig at the BJP. Dara Singh Chauhan represented the Ghosi seat in the 15th Lok Sabha after winning the 2009 general elections on the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) ticket. In the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, he was defeated by the BJP’s Harinarayan Rajbhar by over 1.4 lakh votes. The next year, he joined the BJP and was appointed the party’s OBC Morcha president and fielded from the Madhuban assembly constituency in 2017. CASTE CENSUSThe Samajwadi Party president reiterated that if his party is voted to power in the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, a caste-based census will be conducted in the state and social justice delivered to castes according to their share in the population. Akhilesh Yadav said this after Dara Singh Chauhan, who held the forest portfolio in the Yogi government, remarked, “This government is counting trees, counting animals but why is it not counting backwards in the population. I want that caste census to be done, so that the backwards get benefits as per their share in the population.” “Jiski jitni sankhya bhaari, utni uski bhagidaari (those who are higher in numbers get benefits as per their population),” said Chauhan. Akhilesh Yadav hit out at chief minister Yogi Adityanath for having lunch at a Dalit household in Gorakhpur on Makar Sankranti (January 14). The SP chief said the gesture was only meant to get votes. “You all must have seen he ate ‘khichdi’ with so much disinterest. He must be remembering, oh we forgot to send shampoo, soap (for the family to have a wash beforehand),” Yadav claimed. Akhilesh Yadav further said: “The backwards and Dalits have understood that the BJP is trying to finish reservation in a phased manner by privatising everything.” REMOVAL OF POLICE OFFICERS WHO WORKED WITH ASIM ARUN SOUGHTThe Samajwadi Party chief said he will ask the election commission to remove all the police officers who have worked with Asim Arun in the last five years to ensure they don’t work as BJP agents in the UP polls. Asim Arun has quit the Kanpur police commissioner’s post to join the BJP. “I will write to the EC to track and make a list of officers who have worked with Asim Arun in the past five years and remove them all. If those officers were not removed, then they will work as BJP agents. I also hope that the EC will act against them. If the EC doesn’t act thus, then there will be a question mark on it, we will not believe that the EC is working impartially,” Akhilesh Yadav said. “Look at the kind of people hiding in uniform? Didn’t I say on so many occasions that government officers worked for the BJP government in the panchayat polls,” he further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-polls-former-minister-dara-singh-chauhan-apna-dal-s-mla-join-samajwadi-party-101642338629709.html
16-01-2022||Mumbai||Better job prospects lead to rise in MBA applications this year||Mumbai: After witnessing a steady drop in applications for the past two years, admissions to Masters in Business Administration (MBA) looks optimistic this year. Figures shared by the state Common Entrance Test (CET) cell reveal that from 24% seats that had gone vacant in 2020-21 academic year, less than 10% seats remained vacant in the 2021-22 academic year.According to the CET cell, 54,227 aspirants applied for the course this year compared to 42,814 students who registered for the course last year. The figure stood at 38,000 in 2019-20.Experts attribute the popularity of an MBA degree to multiple reasons including steady rise in economy and better job prospects in the future as well as fresh graduates utilising pandemic to upskill their resumes with the hope of higher pay packages.“While the job scenario is looking better than last year, several fresh graduates are struggling to find a job, especially one that pays well. Many are therefore opting for a course like MBA to add value to their resume, hoping to land a better job,” said Dr R K Srivastava, professor and HOD, Sydenham Institute of Management Studies, Research and Entrepreneurship Education (SIMSREE). He added that admission figures at present are looking better than pre-Covid times.An official from state CET cell informed, “The economic situation forced by the lockdown left several students and professionals unable to apply for this course in the past two years but this year, numbers are looking better. MBA not only attracts students but also working professionals which add to the overall figures.”Admissions to most professional courses concluded recently and while 9,200 out of 39,000 seats went vacant last year, this year 4,100 out of 40,000 seats remained vacant. A senior professor from a management institute in Mumbai shared, “MBA courses are very expensive, across institutes/universities, and the financial strain of Covid forced many students to drop their higher education plans for a year in 2020. This year things are looking better and that could be one of the reasons for higher applications.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/better-job-prospects-lead-to-rise-in-mba-applications-this-year-101642338449259.html
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Sidhu invites Elon Musk to Punjab, aims to make Ludhiana electric vehicle hub||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday invited American entrepreneur Elon Musk, also the founder and CEO of electric car major Tesla, to Punjab, with an aim to foster the city of Ludhiana as a hub for the electric vehicle industry. According to Sidhu, this will, in turn, bring new technology to Punjab and “create green jobs”, staying at the same time on the path of environment preservation and sustainable development.A Twitter user had asked Elon Musk earlier this week regarding updates as to when his electric vehicle and clean energy company, Tesla, would be launching its products and services in India. To this, the business magnate had replied, “Still working through a lot of challenges with the government.”Sidhu, the president of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee, took this opportunity to extend his invitation today to the Tesla CEO, quote-tweeting the latter's reply from his official handle on the microblogging social platform.“I invite @elonmusk,” wrote Sidhu, “Punjab Model will create Ludhiana as a hub for electric vehicles and battery industry with time-bound single window clearance for investment that brings new technology to Punjab, create green jobs, walking path of environment preservation and sustainable development.”I invite @elonmusk, Punjab Model will create Ludhiana as hub for Electric Vehicles & Battery industry with time bound single window clearance for investment that brings new technology to Punjab, create green jobs, walking path of environment preservation & sustainable development https://t.co/kXDMhcdVi6Politicians from West Bengal, Maharashtra, and Telangana, among others, have also extended their invitations to the American electric car major's founder to their respective states.Drop here, we in West Bengal have best infra & our leader @MamataOfficial has got the vision.Bengal means Business … https://t.co/CXtx4Oq7y5Since @Tesla is facing so many difficulties in establishing a manufacturing plant in other states of India. We as Maharashtra Govt. should help #Tesla bring this technology to our state. I'm sure for benefit of Maharashtra, you will look into it.@CMOMaharashtra @AUThackeray https://t.co/yP0jtwR6VB Notably, Tesla had last year sought a reduction in import duties on electric vehicles (EVs) in India.In a letter to the road ministry, the US firm said that the effective import tariff of 110 per cent on vehicles with customs value above $40,000 is “prohibitive” to zero-emission vehicles.The electric car major had requested the government to standardise the tariff on electric cars to 40 per cent, irrespective of the customs value, and withdraw the social welfare surcharge of 10 per cent on such vehicles.It had been said that these changes would boost the development of the Indian EV ecosystem and the company will make significant direct investments in sales, service, and charging infrastructure; and significantly increase procurement from India for its global operations.The Union heavy industries ministry, however, had asked the electric car major to first start manufacturing its iconic EVs in India before any tax concessions can be considered.Government officials familiar with the matter had informed the PTI news agency that they were not giving such concessions to any auto firm, and giving duty benefits to Tesla will not send a good signal to other companies that have invested billions of dollars in India.At present, cars imported as completely built units (CBUs) attract customs duty, ranging from 60 to 100 per cent, depending on the engine size and cost, insurance, and freight (CIF) value less or above $40,000.In January 2021, Tesla registered its Indian arm amid indications that the company is set to enter the country's automobile market.According to a regulatory filing, the firm registered Tesla India Motors and Energy Pvt. Ltd. with RoC (Registrar Of Companies) Bangalore.The company has been registered as an unlisted private entity with a paid-up capital of ₹1 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-invites-elon-musk-to-punjab-aims-to-make-ludhiana-electric-vehicle-hub-101642335139917.html
16-01-2022||Pune||Pune’s oxygen consumption goes up to 80 metric tonnes daily||Amidst a surge in Covid-19 cases, there has been an increase in those hospitalised which has added to the district’s oxygen demand. In the past month, the demand for oxygen has gone up from 70 metric tonnes to 80 metric tonnes daily, as per the district health office.The state has said that the next restrictions order would come in if the state’s oxygen consumption goes up beyond 700 metric tonnes daily.During the second wave peak in April 2021, the district’s oxygen consumption had gone up to 363.2 metric tonnes daily.In the past week, the number of active cases in the district has gone up drastically by over 30,000 which has also added to the hospitalisation numbers. This has increased the demand for oxygen in the district compared to the past week.As the cases surge the demand for oxygen has gone up from 70.5 metric tonnes as of December 19 to almost 80 metric tonnes as of January 12.Although a few restrictions are in place the state has decided to introduce further restrictions only if the state daily oxygen consumption goes beyond 700 metric tonnes daily.On Friday, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, said, “The only reason Covid-19 cases are going up is that people are not following protocols. We have penalised more than 9,000 people in the last one week alone and collected over ₹45 lakh from them.”“The chief minister has clearly stated that if the oxygen consumption goes beyond 700 metric tonnes daily in the state then additional restrictions would be put in place. Pune’s daily consumption has gone up slightly, close to 80 metric tonnes daily and even the state’s consumption is not close to 700 tonnes as of now and we expect that the situation remains under control as it is now,” said Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-oxygen-consumption-goes-up-to-80-metric-tonnes-daily-101642337609048.html
16-01-2022||Pune||In a rare case of snake bite, patient recovers after complete shutdown of kidneys||PUNE In a rare case, a 30-year-old woman who suffered from kidney failure due to a snake bite has completely recovered after six weeks of dialysis, said officials of Noble Hospital, Pune.The woman visited the emergency department of Noble Hospital on December 2. According to the doctors, her urine output had drastically reduced and she had developed swelling all over. Dr. Avinash Ignatius, Nephrologist and transplant physician from Noble Hospital, said, “When she visited the hospital her body was swollen. She was suffering from a severe renal shutdown. She was immediately admitted to the ICU. Blood reports showed destruction of red blood cells and platelets. After tests, we were able to diagnose her with a rare syndrome called Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome (HUS) which can be caused due to snake bite. The same was subsequently confirmed by a kidney biopsy.”Dr. Ignatius added, “She needed urgent dialysis. Subsequent to diagnosis of HUS, plasmapheresis was immediately started, as any delay in treatment could have caused permanent damage to her kidney and condition could have been life threatening. During plasmapheresis contaminated plasma was removed by a special plasma-filter and was replaced with healthy plasma. She remained on dialysis for six weeks. Over these six weeks her urine output improved and we could discontinue dialysis. She is doing fine now. Her kidney function has recovered and she will not require dialysis now. This is a very rare case. According to studies published in the Indian Journal of Nephrology, there are less than 30 cases reported worldwide with patients suffering from HUS and complete kidney failure.”Dr ZA Khan, Intensivist said, “Snakebites are one of the common occupational hazards in tropical countries with high mortality and morbidity. The World Health Organisation (WHO) has estimated that nearly 125,000 deaths occur among 250,000 poisonous snakebites worldwide every year, of which India accounts for 10,000 deaths.”He further said, “In our patient, the cause for kidney failure could be attributed to thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA) which in simple words means inflammation of micro blood vessels supplying blood to the kidneys and also micro clots clogging off the lumens of these blood vessels. A clinician has to keep a high index of suspicion when treating a patient with snake bite and kidney failure. To reach the diagnosis is a challenging job, but fortunately we can pinpoint and confirm the presence of HUS.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/in-a-rare-case-of-snake-bite-patient-recovers-after-complete-shutdown-of-kidneys-101642337430487.html
16-01-2022||Pune||Only fully vaccinated passengers allowed to travel in PMPML buses from January 17||The next time you travel by the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) bus, you will have to show both the Covid-19 vaccination dose certificates or the state government-issued ‘universal pass’.The public transport body will allow only fully vaccinated commuters on board from January 17.A universal pass is issued by the public transport body only to those who have taken both vaccine doses.As per the state government guidelines, in malls, theatres, government offices and other public places only fully vaccinated people are allowed, a similar rule will be implemented by the PMPML.“As the public transport buses are the lifeline of common people for travelling around the city, it is also necessary to follow the Covid protocols strictly to stop the spread of the virus. Earlier it was found that passengers were not following social distancing, many were without a face mask and so it was decided to allow only those passengers who have taken both doses or one’s holding universal pass,” said Dattatray Zende, traffic manager of PMPML.“ The circular about this order has been issued to all our depot managers across Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad and it will be implemented from January 17,” he said.“We are going to deploy an independent system of officials and workers to check if norms are followed. All the conductors have been instructed to check passenger’s certificates and then only allow them to board the buses. If necessary, fine will also be imposed on passengers who are found repeatedly violating norms,” added Zende.Jugal Rathi, president of PMP Pravasi Manch, said, “If the organisation really cares about the passengers’ safety, then they should first increase the number of buses and improve their services.”“Earlier they had announced to keep sanitiser bottles in every bus, which initially happened and then it went for a toss. Checking the vaccination certificate of each and every passenger, especially during the peak hours will it be practically possible?” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/only-fully-vaccinated-passengers-allowed-to-travel-in-pmpml-buses-from-january-17-101642337429116.html
16-01-2022||Pune||21-year-old arrested for sexual assault of minor in Pune||PUNE A 21-year-old man was arrested on Saturday for sexually assaulting a minor girl in Hinjewadi area of Pimpri-Chinchwad, said officials.The man is a resident of Susgaon in Mulshi. The complainant is a 35-year-old woman whose 13-year-old daughter is the survivor. The man allegedly forced himself in the girl’s house when her parents were away, according to police.“We produced him in court on Sunday. He is a labourer and so are the girl’s parents. They were at work when he found her alone in the house,” said senior police inspector Balkrushna Sawant of Hinjewadi police station.The girl told the police that he had been threatening and assaulting her since December 2021. However, she told her parents about it in January.A case under Section 376(2)(i), 376(2)(n), and 506 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 3, 4, 5(l), and 6 of Protection of children from sexual offence act, 2012 was registered at Hinjewadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/21yearold-arrested-for-sexual-assault-of-minor-in-pune-101642331488685.html
16-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi's Covid-19 caseload reducing, most deaths due to comorbidities: Minister||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Sunday that most of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) deaths in the national capital had resulted due to comorbidities and that cases have been reducing for the past three days. Although the positivity rate of the national capital remains above the 30 per cent-mark, up from 29.21% two days ago, Jain said it, too, will reduce with time as patients currently hospitalised have mostly proved to be in a stagnant medical state.Also Read | Delhi, Mumbai may have hit Covid peak as cases fall, Bengal extend curbs to contain spread“Cases have started reducing for the past three days but we will look at a substantial decrease for the next 3-4 days,” the Delhi minister was quoted as saying by the ANI news agency. “The positivity rate will reduce with time as patients admitted to hospitals are stagnant. Most of the deaths were due to comorbidities.”Satyendar Jain, the health minister of Delhi, further said that less testing does not equate to fewer Covid-19 cases. “Mild, asymptomatic, or high-risk contact cases, everyone gets tested,” he said. “We [the health authorities in Delhi] are conducting three times more tests than that required by the ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) guidelines.”Also Read | Delhi records 20,718 new Covid-19 cases, 15% less than yesterdayIndia's Covid-19 infections have spiralled to see more than a lakh cases daily over the past week as the Omicron variant spreads to every corner of the country. The fresh tally of infections increased from about 1.8 lakh on Monday to nearly 2.7 lakh on Saturday, as per data available on the Union health ministry website.Delhi and Mumbai, two cities recording the highest cases of coronavirus disease, turned their Covid graph, reporting a dip in cases and signalling what appears to be a plateauing of infections.On Saturday, Delhi reported a further 15 per cent dip in its daily Covid-19 numbers, recording 20,718 new cases in 24 hours. This was the second day in a row that the coronavirus tally in the national capital continued to decrease after it showed a hike for four consecutive days earlier.The number of patients admitted to hospitals due to coronavirus, however, climbed to 2,618 on Saturday, up from 2,446 on Friday and 2,369 on Thursday. A total of 2,620 people are currently hospitalised in Delhi and barring the 2,518 patients who have confirmed Covid-19 infections, as many as 102 are suspected cases of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-covid-19-caseload-reducing-most-deaths-due-to-comorbidities-minister-101642329715193.html
16-01-2022||Pune||37-year-old Pune woman duped of ₹62 lakh by online matrimonial match||PUNE A 37-year-old woman from Pimpri-Chinchwad was duped of around ₹62 lakh by a person with whom she matched on an online matrimonial platform. He claimed to be an engineer from the United Kingdom, said officials on Sunday.The group of accused persons also posed as RBI officials and sent emails from an email address that misspelled RBI online, according to police.The woman got in touch with the man on December 9, 2021 through the online matrimonial platform. The man claimed to be working as a civil engineer in the UK and showed interest in settling in India with the woman. He claimed that he was sending his luggage to India by mail before he came. However, after some time, the woman received calls from people claiming to be from the customs department as well as the Reserve bank of India. The callers told the woman that she will have to follow a procedure prescribed by them in order to get the luggage released, said officials.Citing multiple fake reasons, the accused coaxed ₹61,99,768 from the woman through online transfers to various accounts.A case under Sections 419 (personation) and 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(c) and 66(d) of Information Technology Act has been registered at Wakad police station. Police sub-inspector Ganesh Torgal is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/37yearold-pune-woman-duped-of-62-lakh-by-online-matrimonial-match-101642330708442.html
16-01-2022||Patna||BJP questions Nitish Kumar over prohibition law; calls him autocratic leader||Fresh tension erupt between BJP and Janata Dal (United) as State President (SC Morcha) of BJP Bihar Ajit Choudhary on Sunday slammed Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar over the prohibition law in the state and called him an autocratic leader."If you want your allies along with you to run the government, then listen to them too.We asked him to review the prohibition law. Is that a wrong question to ask? He has double standards and it won't work," he said."How many poor people can afford liquor? Nitish Kumar has become completely autocratic, who has got power for 16 years," he said.Since 2016, alcohol has been banned in Bihar and any violation of the law warrants punishment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bjp-questions-nitish-kumar-over-prohibition-law-calls-him-autocratic-leader-101642330157517.html
16-01-2022||Pune||Your Space: Get inoculated, strictly follow Covid safety norms||With Covid cases reaching a peak again, the PMC has reopened Covid jumbo facilities. However, despite imposing restrictions residents are seen flouting norms. Our readers share what more needs to be done to contain the virus spread. Onus lies on the individuals to do their bit Despite the numbers and so many deaths, we have still not learnt the Covid lesson. Everyone feels that he/ she is immune and out of reach of the virus. However, lockdown is not the solution, especially the night curfew. Wonder how it’s helpful! Although the government is trying its best to contain the spread, the onus lies on the individuals to do their bit. We have to follow Covid protocols. Wearing of masks, social distancing and washing and sanitising hands should become second nature. Because of home testing kits, most patients do not disclose if they have tested positive for the virus and move freely. Kits should be sold along with Aadhar mapping. Housing societies must be empowered to penalise the wrongdoers and those flouting the rules. Mehzabin Saiyed No, we haven’t learnt the Covid lesson As bold, straight forward and plain my answer may sound, I say it with utmost despondency and the flouting of the safety norms is the apt witness and justification to my answer. The entire “unlock” phase and the downfall of cases simply left the citizens “blinded by happiness”. In my opinion, people know how serious the consequences are, but they have not understood them yet and while the government does their part, we as responsible citizens must do our part. Instead of rolling our eyes when we see someone without a mask, we must sternly ask them to wear one. The fear and seriousness of the consequences must be instigated amongst every member of the society. We mustn’t only share messages on WhatsApp but also practice what we preach. Furthermore, my humble suggestion to the government would be to implement the discipline that was implemented during the first lockdown in March 2020. The government can take help of those who are willing to volunteer to do the patrolling part and such volunteers should be stationed on every road. The government can also increase the fine to make sure the offenders feel a pinch on their pockets. Regular offenders should be assigned something like a jury duty to volunteer at jumbo covid centers and other projects that need volunteers. I believe that this is a way to teach a lesson to the educated yet unschooled elements of our society, and this can only be done by the government, authorities and the court. Krutarth K Kotnis Be responsible for your own safety Lockdown, definitely is not the answer. People who do not mask up and are flouting norms are bound to contract the virus, what more, they are risking lives of those around them. People are fed up of restrictions and lockdowns and curfews. Let each one take responsibility of his/her safety, why do we need social policing? So let everybody at least get themselves vaccinated. Maithily Manakwad Follow Covid appropriate behaviour First and foremost, strict implementation of rules should happen, just issuing circulars is not enough. Action as per them is what is necessary. The whole thing about this variant being mild has made people take it very lightly despite of the rise in cases. What is needed, is that each and every society should have some mechanism where by even the ones doing home tests are identified and asked to follow the strict isolation guidelines laid down by the state. Since no one is coming on official record we can see that the ones who have also tested positive are roaming freely. People need to understand even if 0.5 % of the population needs hospitalisation, we can again see the system collapsing. Hence, everyone should follow Covid appropriate behaviour and be responsible for at least their own house own society own area own place of business. Sachin Khandelwal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/your-space-get-inoculated-strictly-follow-covid-safety-norms-101642329753293.html
16-01-2022||Bhopal||Proud that over 10.72 cr Covid-19 vaccine doses inoculated in MP: CM Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday inspected Covid-19 vaccination centre of Jaypee Hospital in Bhopal on the occasion of completing one year of nationwide vaccination drive.Chouhan said, "Earlier, about 30 to 40 per cent people needed to be admitted when they got infected with Covid-19, but now only 3 to 4 per cent people need to be admitted, this has been possible only through vaccination."He also said, "I'm proud that over 10.72 crore Covid-19 doses were inoculated in the state till January 15, including the first, second, and precaution doses. The first dose has been administered to 5 crore 32 lakh people, which is 97 per cent of the target population, while the second dose has been administered to 5 crore 8 lakh people, which is 92 per cent."The Chief Minister also expressed gratitude to the healthcare workers for expediting the drive and reaching inaccessible areas to achieve the goal.Assuring that the state's healthcare infrastructure is well equipped to fight the pandemic, Chouhan said that presently no such situation has arised to admit people to the hospital."It is even more gratifying that most of the people who are being admitted to the hospitals now are not critical, they do not require oxygen. The only advantage of vaccination is that at first you will not get infected and even if you do,the virus will not affect severely ," he said.Notably, vaccination drive across the conurty began on January 16, 2021.Starting initially by inoculating vaccines to healthcare workers, it was then expanded to frontline workers, followed by people above 60 years of age and those above 45 years with comorbidities on March 1 last year. Later it was also expanded to all above 45 years of age on April 1, 2021 and then those above 18 years of age on May 1, 2021.The vaccination drive for those between the age group 15-18 was started on January 3, 2022 and for administering the precautionary doses to the healthcare workers, frontline workers and sixty plus individuals then commenced on January 10 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/proud-that-over-10-72-cr-covid-19-vaccine-doses-inoculated-in-mp-cm-chouhan-101642328722641.html
16-01-2022||Mumbai||Marathi actor Kiran Mane who slammed BJP removed from show; sarpanch stops shooting||A letter written by the sarpanch of Gulumb village in Satara district addressed to a production house saying they won't be allowed to shoot in the village has gone viral on social media. This comes after Marathi actor Kiran Mane claimed that he was removed from the serial Mulgi Zali Ho based on his social media posts against BJP and PM Modi. No official reason was given to Patil but he said someone from the unit told him off the record that the decision was because of his social media posts.The letter written by the sarpanch Swati Mane said the Marathi film industry should not forget that Maharashtra runs on democracy, on the ideology of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj, Mahatma Phule and Dr BabasahebKiran Mane  Ambedkar.The production house, however, made light of the situation and said the letter was issued inadvertently without hearing the side of the production house and shooting is still going on in the village. आपल्या अभिव्यक्ती स्वातंत्र्याचा वापर करून किरण मानेंसारखा अभिनेता राजकीय विषयावर व्यक्त झाला म्हणून राजकीय दबावाला आणि ट्रोलिंगला बळी पडून @StarPravah ने त्यांना काढून टाकणे म्हणजे सांस्कृतिक दहशतवादाला बळी पडल्याचे लक्षण आहे. #IStandWith_KiranMane (संग्रहित छायाचित्र) pic.twitter.com/LqRA4Y1G78According to reports, following the ouster, Kiran Mane met Sharad Pawar on Saturday. NCP leaders Dr Jitendra Awhad, Dhananjay Munde have tweeted in support of Kiran Mane. Dhananjay Munde said the actor used his freedom of expression but dropping him under political pressure is a sign of cultural terrorism. Social media users have shared screenshots of comments that Kiran Mane made on several occasions. Following PM Modi's security breach in Punjab, he posted a comment without naming PM Modi or referring to the incident. “Actors do not cancel shows if there are one or two viewers but they pretend that the auditorium is houseful…” he wrote in Marathi. Meanwhile, the production house issued a statement claiming that the actor was dropped not because of his political views but his professional conduct with co-actors.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/marathi-actor-kiran-mane-who-slammed-bjp-removed-from-show-sarpanch-stops-shooting-101642328022466.html
16-01-2022||Noida||UP assembly polls: Bhupesh Baghel begins door-to-door campaign in Noida||Ahead of Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections, Congress leader and Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Sunday kick-started a door-to-door campaign in Noida.The Congress leader started this door-to-door campaign for the polls after the Election Commission on Saturday put a ban on holding public rallies and gatherings in view of the spurt in Coronavirus cases.Addressing the media persons here, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister said, "Others are either politicizing in the name of caste or playing 'religion politics', but no one is talking about common people, except Congress. From youth, farmers, women to backward communities, we are taking everyone along."Baghel, who is also the Congress senior observer for the upcoming Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, distributed 'Ladki Hoon Lad Sakti Hoon' wrist bands during this campaign."Ladki Hoon Lad Sakti Hoon' campaign was commenced by Congress General secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra last year to woo women voters in the state.Meanwhile, elections for the 403 assembly constituencies in Uttar Pradesh will be held in seven phases starting February 10, the Election Commission said. The polling in Uttar Pradesh will be held on February 10, 14, 20, 23, 27 and March 3 and 7 in seven phases. The counting of votes will take place on March 10.Notably, Congress has been out of power in the state for more than 30 years.In the 2017 Assembly elections, the BJP won a landslide victory winning 312 Assembly seats. The party secured a 39.67 per cent vote share in the elections for 403-member Assembly. Samajwadi Party (SP) bagged 47 seats, BSP won 19 while Congress could manage to win only seven seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/up-assembly-polls-bhupesh-baghel-begins-door-to-door-campaign-in-noida-101642320781376.html
16-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi may see about 17,000 Covid cases, review on curbs after few days: Health minister||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said the national capital is likely to see around 17,000 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Sunday. In what may come as a further relief to the capital’s citizens, Jain said the case positivity rate is also likely to see a decline.For the past two days, daily cases in Delhi have remained below the 28,000-mark. On Thursday, 28,867 cases of Covid-19 were recorded, the highest single-day spike since the beginning of the pandemic in 2020.“About 17,000 Covid cases expected today with case positivity also expected to decline; cases declining for the 3rd consecutive day if we see yesterday's numbers. About 67,000 tests were done yesterday,” health minister Jain said on Sunday while speaking to reporters. Jain added that hospital admissions in Delhi have plateaued.The health minister said restrictions imposed by the Delhi government have impacted the spread of Covid-19. “We will monitor the situation for three to four days before reviewing the curbs,” he added.Also Read| Hospitalisation data not enough to decide if Delhi Covid peak is over: ExpertsA day ago, Jain said the national capital reached its peak in infections and the government will roll back restrictions once daily cases decline to 15,000."We can say that Delhi has reached a peak in terms of cases. Cases have started slowing down. Let's see when the decline happens," he said.No lockdown has been imposed in Delhi but the government has come up with a slew of restrictions to contain the spread of Covid-19.Dine-in services in restaurants and bars are capped at 50 per cent seating capacity during weekdays, while only takeaways are allowed during the weekend. Shops are opening on an odd-even basis and only 20 people are allowed to attend weddings and funerals.Employees in both government and private sectors except those in essential and exempted services have been asked to work from home.The nation's capital caseload has climbed to 16,91,684 with a cumulative Covid-19 positivity rate of 4.98 per cent. Nearly 1,58,000 patients have recuperated, 25,335 have died and the active cases stand at 93,407, according to the health department's last updated bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-may-see-about-17-000-cases-today-dip-in-positivity-rate-health-minister-101642318725191.html
16-01-2022||Delhi||Hospitalisation data not enough to decide if Delhi Covid peak is over: Experts||One cannot conclude that the peak of the ongoing wave of the coronavirus pandemic is over in Delhi solely on the basis of hospital admission data, experts said Thursday as the number of cases and positivity rate continue the upward trend in the city.Hospitalisation has remained relatively low in Delhi, and Health Minister Satyendar Jain said Wednesday that the plateauing of hospital admissions indicates that the ongoing wave has peaked and cases may go down soon.However, according to noted epidemiologist Dr Chandrakant Lahariya it cannot be concluded that the peak is over solely on the basis of hospital admission data.The reason being that people get admitted to hospital only some days after they have developed the disease, he said. "So, there is a lag of 6-7 days.""The number of daily cases and the positivity rate should be used to determine the peak. Hospitalisation depends on the criteria adopted for admission (in a particular region). Of course, hospitalisation is an important parameter for public health planning purposes, but not for describing a peak," he said.Director of the National Institute for Implementation Research on Non-Communicable Diseases, Jodhpur, Dr Arun Sharma said, "Epidemiologically, the peak of a wave is determined with the help of the rate of transmission, the number of infected people and the uninfected susceptible population. It can be plotted on a graph but the ground reality is always different from epidemiological modelling."The positivity rate is the most important factor because the number of cases may increase or decrease depending on the number of tests conducted, he said."Only when the test positivity rate start declining, we would know we have passed the peak," Dr Sharma said."In case of Omicron, most cases are mild and do not require hospitalisation. So, the wave has peaked or not cannot be determined looking at hospital admissions," he added.Jain had said on Wednesday the plateauing of hospital admissions over the four days before that indicates the ongoing wave has peaked and cases may go down soon.Dr Rajeev Jayadevan, vice chairman of the research cell of Kerala's unit of Indian Medical Association, said the number of hospital admissions is the best indicator of the severity of the ongoing wave of the pandemic, but it is difficult to say whether the wave has peaked or not."In 2020, testing was being done with an intention to find a case and isolate them. Now, it is not possible. Everybody is turning out to be positive. How many are we going to chase down the road?" he said.He said such an exercise takes away manpower from more urgent needs."So, ultimately what matters is how saturated are hospital beds in a region, and also whether there is enough manpower to make healthcare delivery possible. In hindsight, the number of hospital admissions and their outcomes will be the best indicator of how severe this wave was.""The test positivity rate (TPR) depends on the willingness of people coming forward for testing, availability of testing (resources), who gets tested, and the number of test results that are reported into a central database. TPR in the same area could be followed for trends, but it cannot be compared between regions. So, TPR cannot be relied upon as a sole parameter to decide strategies," he said.Delhi reported 22,751 infections on Sunday, 19,116 on Monday, 21,259 on Tuesday, and 27,561 on Wednesday.The positivity rate stood at 23.5 percent on Sunday, 25 percent on Monday, 25.6 percent on Tuesday and 26.2 percent on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hospitalisation-data-not-enough-to-decide-if-delhi-covid-peak-is-over-experts-101642317410514.html
16-01-2022||Pune||Fake doctor, his aide arrested from Pune for duping elderly patient||Police have arrested a fake doctor and his assistant from Pune for allegedly duping a Mumbai-based 73-year-old woman, who had paid ₹2 lakh to him for treatment of her knee pain, an official said on Sunday. The accused, Hanis Abdul Hamid Sheikh alias Dr Malik (44) and his assistant Zahid Salim Hussain, were caught from Kondhwa locality in Pune on Friday, he said. "In December last year, the complainant had approached the police saying that Dr Malik had taken ₹two lakh from her, assuring that he would treat her knee pain. However, despite the so-called treatment, she continued to feel the pain in her knees," assistant inspector Swapnil Patil of Cuffe Parade police station said. After a probe, it was found that Sheikh is a bogus doctor, following which an FIR was registered against him and he was caught along with his assistant, he said. He had committed a similar crime in the past, police said. The arrested duo was booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), including 420 (cheating) and further investigation is underway, official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fake-doctor-his-aide-arrested-from-pune-for-duping-elderly-patient-101642317482412.html
16-01-2022||Bhopal||20-year-old woman on a scooter dies after kite string slits her throat||BHOPAL: A 20-year-old woman riding a scooter in Madhya Pradesh’s Ujjain died when a razar-sharp kite string slit her throat on Saturday, police said. The woman was identified by the police as Neha Anjana, a college student from Ujjain district’s Mahidpur town, 250km west of state capital Bhopal.“The woman was going on a scooter with her cousin sister from Indira Nagar to Freeganj when the string got entangled in her neck and slit her throat. She fell down and was bleeding profusely. Her cousin sister cried for help but for a few minutes, nobody came forward to help her,” said Manish Lodha, in charge of Madhavnagar police station.Later, an advocate, Ravindra Singh Sengar, saw them and came to help. Sengar took the woman to a private hospital in his car but the doctor declared her brought dead. Manish Lodha said they are trying to trace the person who was using the string, and the seller of the banned variety of kite string.The use of kite string laced with glass or metal, locally called Chinese manjha, has been banned by National Green Tribunal (NGT) since 2016 as it poses a threat to the life of humans, animals, and birds. The NGT order issued on a petition by animal rights body People for Ethical Treatment of Animals came months after multiple deaths were reported across the country due to the killer kite strings.Among them were two Delhi children, aged four and six, who died in separate incidents during the 2016 Independence Day celebrations when they were looking out of the sunroof of their cars.But the NGT order, reinforced by some governments with separate state-specific ban orders, has not been enforced and there are reports every year of people dying or getting injured from the kite strings laced with powdered glass or metal to sharpen them.After Neha Anjana’s death in Madhya Pradesh, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said he will tell district authorities to enforce the ban.Chouhan said the news of the death of 20-year-old was extremely distressing. “I am giving strict instructions to all the district administrations of the state to take necessary action to stop the sale of this dangerous manjha,” said the chief minister. 
16-01-2022||Jaipur||Rajasthan reels under cold wave with minimum temperature at 2.4 degrees Celsius||Cold wave conditions disrupted normal life in Rajasthan where Karauli was recorded as the coldest place with a minimum temperature of 2.4 degrees Celsius, the weather office said on Sunday.Dholpur, Fatehpur (Sikar), Nagaur recorded 2.7, 3.1 and 3.3 degrees Celsius respectively, while the night temperature in Sikar was 4.4 degrees Celsius.It was 4.5 degrees Celsius in Vanasthali (Tonk), 4.7 in Ajmer, 5.5 in Churu, 6 in Jaipur and 7 in Jaisalmer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-reels-under-cold-wave-with-minimum-temperature-at-2-4-degrees-celsius-101642308926184.html
16-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi freezes with low visibility, AQI at very poor levels for third straight day||Delhi's air quality remained in the 'very poor' category for the third consecutive day with an overall air quality index (AQI) of 301 being recorded on Sunday morning, according to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR).From January 9 till January 11, the air quality in the national capital was in the 'satisfactory' category only to slip to 'moderate' levels on January 12. Since Friday (January 14), the air quality deteriorated to the very poor category with an AQI of 312.According to government agencies, an AQI between 0 and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.In neighbouring Gurugram and Noida, the AQI stood at 204 (poor category) and 309 (very poor category) respectively.Meanwhile, Delhi is freezing amid the ongoing cold wave with Sunday's temperature plummeting to 10°Celsius, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).On Saturday, the maximum temperature dipped to 14.8°C, nearly five degrees below normal, and a minimum temperature of 6.1°C, a degree below normal.Also, the IMD said visibility in the capital was at 1000m, which is considered a 'shallow fog'. However, the Safdarjung Observatory showed visibility of 500m which is categorised as a 'moderate fog'.Earlier, the weather bureau had said that ‘dense to moderate fog’ is predicted in Delhi for the next four days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-quality-remains-in-very-poor-category-with-aqi-at-301-101642304359869.html
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz | A flutter for the shutters?||Were a swan to somehow escape from the new Nagar Van aviary, or be placed quietly in the Sukhna Lake’s wilderness, it would no doubt create a sensation and have photographers streaming in to capture the supposedly “rarest of rare wild migrants”. Till such time as the truth was established of the specimen being a proverbial escapee or a fugitive from the prison laws that govern non-humans! Were it the latter case, the swan record would have no value for the science of ornithology, it would just be a case of a “beautiful lady” clicked in a wild setting, sniffing the free air and distinct from her previous clicks while being showcased in loose chains.The world over, swans and other exotic species such as budgerigars and parrots have escaped or been released from zoos and private collections to create a sensation that stems from the known propensity of wild birds to travel outlandish miles while migrating. Though wildlife photographers are currently going gung ho over a mute swan discovered last week at the Dhinchada Lake in Jamnagar, Gujarat, ornithologists and the avian scientific community have been markedly circumspect. The elation of expensive lenses is, otherwise, understandable because the last authentic record of the mute swan in India (inclusive of Gilgit-POK) dates back to the turn of the 19th century.“While it is not impossible for a mute swan to migrate to Gujarat, it does not seem plausible because the location is far too down south for the swan’s geographic range. Had the sighting occurred in North India at the base of the mountains, it would have been more feasible to accept the specimen as a migrant because that is where rare swan species have been observed historically due to these birds fleeing severe weather in the northern latitudes etc,” Dr R Suresh Kumar, an authority on avian migration from the Wildlife Institute Of India, Dehradun, told this writer.What lends credence to the prima-facie assessment that the Jamnagar swan may well be an escapee is the fact that Mute swans are kept in captivity at the Reliance Green Township in Jamnagar. Reliance is also building what is claimed as the “world’s largest zoo” at Jamnagar. A similar sensation had gripped Jamnagar wildlife enthusiasts when an East African Crown Crane kept in the zoo maintained by Jamnagar royals escaped and was spotted at the Khijadia lake, till such time as the Maharaja cleared the air on the coy crane’s provenance!While the respected, global e-bird website for wild records has accepted the Jamnagar swan and identified the specimen as an adult female, it has entertained the record with a caveat. “You will see the (Jamnagar) mute swan appearing with an ‘E’ on the e-bird site. The colour coded ‘E’ has a meaning: Exotic (Provisional). Until the full provenance has been established, it would remain so, and from there, it may be moved to category Exotic (Escapee) or wild origin (i.e. ‘E’ will be removed). Likelihood of it moving to wild origin is low, but as I said, that assessment is yet to happen and would only take place when the bird has left the (Jamnagar) site --- when the full set of behavioral evidence will be available,” Praveen J, co-author of the historical research paper, ‘Notes on Indian Rarities’ , told this writer.A behavioural assessment of the Jamnagar swan by way of its relative degree of shyness, vis-a-vis humans, its degree of reticence etc could provide a clue to its origins: migrant/wild one or an escapee from captivity where it had been familiar with human presence. Further, an examination of the bird’s legs, as captive birds often are tagged with colour bands, would further clear the foggy air. Interestingly, not a single photo or video of the Jamnagar swan in flight has been put up by the army of long lenses, though one would expect that a swan which has supposedly flown thousands of miles in migration would be testing its wings regularly. Packing years of experience as the BNHS director and member of the National Board for Wildlife, ornithologist Dr Asad Rahmani adds familiarity with Jamanagar and interactions with its erstwhile royals. He is the co-author of the book, Ducks, Geese and Swans of India. “I am very sceptical about the Jamnagar swan being a wild bird. Historically, about a dozen specimens in all have been taken sporadically during the last hundred years (the last in 1911), chiefly in West Pakistan – in North Baluchistan, Sind, the former North-West Frontier Province and the Punjab. Most records are from the Indus and the Punjab rivers and from the Khushdil Khan Lake near Quetta and the Manchar and other large duck-shooting dhands or jheels in Sindh,” Dr Rahmani told this writer. vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildbuzz-a-flutter-for-the-shutters-101642283235478.html
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Guest Column | The impatient era of honks, pushes, shoves||The signs and sounds of impatience cacoon us – be it incessant honking, speeding cars, or jam-packed elevators. Wherever one looks one can see public displays of impatience. Always in a rush, it is our impatience behind the wheel as we speed, blaring horns, which causes a commotion on the roads, and is also the driving force behind road rage. If one were to take the elevator at a crowded place such as a shopping mall, one will invariably face obstruction while trying to exit as people eager to enter will block the passage. We no longer have the equanimity to allow people inside to file out first, and would rather barge in as soon as the elevator’s doors slide open. A similar phenomenon is seen at railway stations and bus stands as the boarders make a beeline for the seats, before the already seated passengers have the chance to alight. This is not say that aeroplanes, which mostly serve the elite, are immune to this malady. As soon as a commercial plane touches the runway, passengers on board, unfasten their seat belts and stand up while the plane is still taxiing. People rush to the aisle, hoping to disembark as soon as they can. One gets front-row seats of this impetuous tendency at cinema halls as people stand up and make a dash for the exit doors as soon as the credits start rolling. Standing too close to each other in queues, almost touching the person in front, is a regular occurrence. Of course, people rarely stand in lines unless they are made, choosing to muscle their way to the front instead. Even the pandemic has failed to deter people from defying social distancing norms. Why and what for are we in such a hurry, conspicuously displaying impatience in public? Is there a streak of one-upmanship in us or is impatience simply ingrained in us? Impatience leads to stress, strife, quarrels and even mishaps. Remember the adage ‘haste makes waste’. Stop a while, slow down a bit. For a change, give way to others. Public display of courtesy and civility will benefit us all.chander59@icloud.com( The writer is a Panchkula-based freelance contributor)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-the-impatient-era-of-honks-pushes-shoves-101642283055256.html
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Random forays | Some nuances of online public speaking||Stage fright, mankind’s second greatest fear (no prizes for guessing the first), has given way to Zoom fright these days. People freeze when asked to speak, even on a remote camera, even if ensconced in their quilts, anywhere in the northern sector!The very act of speaking to an audience, even if that audience consists of two persons, is daunting for newcomers. It takes time, effort, practice and patience, to become something of a seasoned presenter. But some of us aspire to attain more hallowed heights, those scaled only by renowned speakers, the ones who bring out oohs and aahs every time they address a gathering.In present times, podcasters such as Ranveer Ahlabadia, with millions of followers on social media, represent the bench mark for public speaking success in the virtual world. Having shared the screen with him recently, I can testify to the fact that the young man has a style all of his own. He is wide-eyed, yet erudite and charming. What is it, then, that makes some speakers more impressive than others, on camera and on stage? It is the ability to establish a connection with the viewers which leaves a mark. “What comes from the heart, goes to the heart,” as goes the saying. This is established by speakers such as Dananajaya Hettiarachchi, former world champion of Toastmasters, a global public speaking association. In his remarkable seven-minute straight-from-the-heart monologue that won him the crown, he made his audience lap up each word with consummate ease. Being oneself is probably the paramount secret to success as a speaker. Coupled with impressive content and delivery, it represents a winning formula that cannot fail. There is no point in trying to imitate Amitabh Bachchan or MS Dhoni, when speaking before eager audiences. One has to develop one’s own style and stick to it.In a recent video, I outlined some tips for online speaking. An online orator needs seamless connectivity, a pleasing background and a steady posture which is not too close to the camera. Only a very pretty or handsome face can afford to allow the camera to pry to a really close up level, otherwise human flaws are bound to be evident, even to the casual viewer!I have found this to be particularly true of Live Instagram sessions. The more I try to stay distant and avoid close ups, the more I end up being scrutinised on screen by hundreds, from up close. Best to keep your nose away from the device at such times, I tell you!A louder voice, enabled by a microphone, if possible, also helps to ensure that the viewers don’t start dozing off or drifting away. Sometimes the person speaking is hardly audible and people tend to get distracted very easily.With the span of attention being minuscule in this era, speakers with substance, panache and spunk are the ones who garner maximum eyeballs online. A few corporate honchos such as Ashok Ramachandran, Saumya Badgayan and Simarpreet Singh have launched their own YouTube channels and are highly popular among the wannabe populace because they talk sense and speak fluently.My own idol remains Barack Obama, as readers must have discerned through my past writings in this column. He is an oratorial artist, whether espousing his wisdom before a camera or before a collection of human beings. His mastery over each and every word and the gentle ready-to-erupt-but-not-quite smile which does play upon his lips are his signature stamps. Simon Sinek, the US-based internet icon, who sways the thoughts of young people across the world on a continual basis, is another one to admire. But his forte lies in his incisive, analytical content which he delivers in a rather simple fashion, without batting an eyelid. Otherwise, his monotonous drawl, delivered without too many smiles, might put some people off!My own drawback as a motivational speaker has been similar, according to those who should know. I need to smile more and emanate more warmth when I speak in public. Am working on it as we speak, or as you read this. And the next time you see me, you might just find me smiling some more!vivek.atray@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/random-forays-some-nuances-of-online-public-speaking-101642282939956.html
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Roundabout | Filmmaker Jatinder Mauhar reborn as anti-hero||When filmmaker Jatinder Mauhar, who has etched his profile as a sensitive director of Punjabi films with a difference, was first offered the lead role in Adh Chanani Raat, it was incredulity and refusal. “Although an admirer of the cinema of Gurvinder as well as Gurdial Singh’s writings, I said no because I had never acted and my work was always behind the camera,” says Mauhar. Another actor was cast but it was fated that Mauhar act out the story of the soil, so evocatively etched out by Gurdial Singh (1933-2016), the master story teller of Jaitu Mandi in the Malwa region of Punjab, in this 1972 novel.Mauhar recounts, “It so happened that the actor fell ill and I was suggesting other names when the offer came again. The cast included many friends and after a little hesitation I accepted the role, not quite sure if I would fare well as an actor.” Acclaimed director Gurvinder perhaps knew better, for it was the ‘the vulnerable face of Mauhar’, which seemed so close to a pen-portrait by the writer. Adh Chanani Raat is Gurvinder Singh’s third feature in a trilogy of Punjabi language films after Anhey Ghorey Da Daan (Venice) and Chauthi Koot (Cannes). When the first, also based on a novel by Gurdial Singh, was screened here in the city, the appreciative comment that came from scholar Rana Nayar, a close friend and consistent translator of the works of Gurdial Singh, was: “In Gurvinder Singh, Punjab has found its own Satyajit Ray!” Nayar elaborates, “The talent of Gurvinder in translating the poetry of Gurdial’s prose into silences on screen is outstanding. One could well add that if this filmmaker had arrived on the scene earlier the cinematic version of Gurdial’s debut novel which gave Punjabi its first Dalit hero Marhi Da Diva would have been altogether another story.”The oeuvre of Gurdial SinghIt is said that one does not have to go far to understand human nature and a village provides it all. So it was with Gurdial who lived a lifetime in the small agrarian market town of Jaitu and did all his writing in his bedroom-cum-study travelling to and from to the Bathinda where he taught at the university college. Yet he was to change the course of fiction in Punjabi. Jagseer was Punjabi fiction’s first Dalit hero, and he stepped out of Gurdial Singh’s 1964 debut novel Marhi Da Diva (The Last Flicker). Yet, there was nothing heroic about him. Poverty, an unfulfilled life, unrequited love, addiction to opium and passivity went into the making of Jagseer who paved the way for the sub-genre of Dalit fiction and other subaltern writing in Punjabi.Eminent critic Namwar Singh wrote thus of this novel: “When the Indian novel was on its decline, a novel published in a so-called backward language lifted the Indian novel to sublimity”. His other novels included Anhoye (1966), Anhe Ghore Da Daan (1976) and Parsa (1991), besides several collections of short fiction. He shared the prestigious Jnanpith Award with Nirmal Verma, Hindi’s celebrated fiction writer in 1999. The Sahitya Akademi Award came to him in 1975 for Adh Chanani Raat.Echoes of the past in the presentThis is a novel with a difference and he probed in it the layers of the Jat landowner psyche and his attachment to his land, be it a small patch and his pride. Modan returns home after spending the prime of his life in prison for a murder committed to avenge his father’s humiliation over land disputes. His brothers have prospered and there is no one to support him, except his mother, yet he starts again. He moves into the dilapidated ancestral home, gets married, but is provoked again to resort to violence. Filmmaker Gurvinder, who has won several awards home and abroad, says, “It is the violence that scripts the alienation of the being from its own selfhood. It is also about the last-ditch resistance of the oppressed. Cinematically, for me, it is the culmination of a journey that started with Anhey Ghorey Da Daan, the tropes pared down to the bare essential leading to an interiorised and a self-reflective form.”This novel becomes more relevant in the spirit of struggle by the Punjab farmers against the agrarian laws. Bobby Bedi, the producer, who is distributing the film internationally, says: “A Punjabi farmer’s love for his land is special and transcends economics, relationships and even emotions. It gives the farmer a special strength. This love came to the forefront in the recent farmers protests in North India”. Reel life to real lifeFor the reluctant actor Mauhar it was a rare experience working with Gurvinder. When he reached Moga where the film was being shot, he was soon in the shoes of Modan the anti-hero. “I had already been told about the vulnerability of my face and I worked further on it, and one or two other points such as restlessness by constantly fingering my shawl. I had guided others on acting for the films I made, but here I was swept into the role by the creative shots of the filmmaker.” He recalls the unmistakable touches of the filmmaker in creating and linking scenes. For instance, when a long shot of Modan is taken walking down the path, Gurvinder felt it needed more and some goats were brought and the shot was completed aesthetically with the goats walking in a line ahead of the actor.Another linkage was after his first night of love with his wife, Modan is shown standing by his land sowing seeds. “This in itself shows the bond a farmer has with his land, a bond of love and an extension his own being expressed without words.” Finally, when the shooting was completed it in January 2020 and when the sets of the home that Modan rebuilds were being dismantled, Mauhar sat watching it all. “As the walls came down, I burst into tears,” he adds. nirudutt@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/roundabout-filmmaker-jatinder-mauhar-reborn-as-antihero-101642282515881.html
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Take over of Kashmir Press Club: Omar, Mehbooba blame BJP for ‘demolishing free press’||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief ministers Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti on Saturday blamed the BJP’s policies for undermining and demolishing the free press in Kashmir and blamed some journalists for forcibly taking over the Kashmir Press Club with help of the administration. The statement came after a group of journalists led by Mohammad Salim Pandit entered the Press Club and declared themselves to be the new interim body of the KPC, which will hold elections for the new club. National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah termed it a “state-sponsored coup”, while sharing pictures of the KPC being taken over by a group of journalists in the police presence. “There is no government this “journalist” hasn’t sucked up to & no government he hasn’t lied on behalf of. I should know, I’ve seen both sides very closely. Now he’s benefited from a state sponsored coup,” said Abdullah in a tweet. PDP president Mehbooba Mufti blamed policies of BJP for undermining Kashmir Press Club. “GOI doesn’t want a debate on the oppression unleashed in J&K. Deliberately delaying KPCs registration is an attempt to throttle real issues flagged by local journalists here. Free press is the fourth pillar of democracy but BJPs policies seek to undermine & demolish it completely,” tweeted former J&K chief minister and PDP president, Mehbooba Mufti. Salim Pandit who described himself as new interim president of club said that he was founding president of the Kashmir Press Club and was asked by the journalists and several groups to take the charge of press club as the term of present press club had expired in June and club was in a mess. “Our’s is an interm set up for conducting of free elections of the KPC. The police was not accompanying us but enforcing Covid norms outside the club.” In a joint statement, nine journalist bodies expressed anguish over the illegal and arbitrary takeover of the Kashmir Press Club by some journalists with open support from the local administration. “On January 15, the day when the administration had declared weekend lockdown in view of Covid surge, some journalists barged into the club office and forcibly took control of the club by keeping the office members hostage. Large number of police and paramilitary personnel were deployed beforehand for this highly condemnable and completely illegal move,” the statement said ,adding that the administration, by allowing few disgruntled elements to hoodwink the Club constitution and flout all norms of law, has set a wrong and dangerous precedent. “The authorities had already communicated about the mandatory re-registration, which was initiated but it took authorities more than six months to verify the credentials of the management body. On December 29, the registration was finally issued, following which the club decided to initiate the process of fresh elections and also announced the date. But all of a sudden a group of journalists, including some non members approached the district administration with a proposal for an “interim body” and it is followed by a communication from the government that the re-registration has been kept in abeyance.” The statement further said this move, in which a group of journalists self-appointed itself as an “interim body,” is uncivil, illegal, unconstitutional and without any precedence. “It has been taken at a time when the process of registration is still pending before the authorities. All journalist bodies are unanimous in view that this unfortunate move by a disgruntled lot has set a dangerous precedent by forcing their way into the club office in violation of the KPC constitution and bylaws.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/take-over-of-kashmir-press-club-omar-mehbooba-blame-bjp-for-demolishing-free-press-101642281735201.html
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Surge in Covid cases: Weekend restrictions back in Jammu and Kashmir||Amid a surge in coronavirus cases, the Jammu and Kashmir government reimposed fresh weekend restrictions on Saturday. The move comes a day after the region recorded 2,456 infections – a 1,350% increase in cases against the 169 cases reported on January 1. This was the highest single-day increase in Covid cases in seven-and-a-half months Officials, who met under the chairmanship of chief secretary Arun Kumar Mehta held a weekly review meeting on Friday, and decided to take some additional control measures to check the spread of the disease. “There will be complete restriction on non-essential movement during weekends across J&K,” an order by the state executive committee (SEC) led by Mehta said. Following the order, Jammu deputy commissioner Anshul Garg, in a tweet, said the complete restrictions on non-essential movements in the district is from Friday 9pm to Monday 6 am.He clarified that “there shall be no restrictions on transport, essential services and activities and home deliveries during the weekend in Jammu.” Prominent hospitals in Kashmir have stopped out patient facilities and will be offering tele-consultation for non emergency cases. The union territory has been witnessing a steep rise in novel Coronavirus cases since January 5.From January 5 to 10, the Union Territory has seen between 400 to 700 daily cases. The number of active cases has jumped over 10,000 on Friday – increasing by 650% in the last two weeks.Night curfew is already in place since January 6 and offline classes have been discontinued in educational institutions. The fresh SEC order said that all the government departments and offices shall minimise conducting in-person meetings or interactions etc. “All administrative secretaries, heads of the departments, institutions shall ensure optimal use of virtual mode for conducting official meetings,” the order said. The maximum number of people permitted to attend any indoor or outdoor gathering has been restricted to 25.“Banquet Halls in all the districts are permitted to allow gathering up to 25 vaccinated persons (with verifiable RT-PCR or RAT not older than 72 hours) or 25% of the authorised capacity, preferably in open spaces,” it said.It has reiterated that cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes, restaurants, clubs, gymnasiums and swimming pools are permitted to function at 25% of the authorised capacity with due precautions. The district administrations were directed to enhance their testing figures including RTPCR testing and expedite identification, isolation and micro- containment of the infection, besides speeding up vaccination drive in the 15-17 age category which is currently at 40%. They were asked to complete the vaccination in this age category within one week by raising the number of vaccination sites and decentralising the process.(With inputs from Jammu)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/surge-in-covid-cases-weekend-restrictions-back-in-jammu-and-kashmir-101642281315474.html
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: In-laws booked for harassing woman for dowry||A 28-year-old woman has accused her father-in-law and mother-in-law of harassing her and attempting to tear off her clothes, for not fulfilling their demand for car and cash in dowry.The case has been registered after a 14-month long investigation. The complainant, a resident of New Kundan Puri, said her in-laws had started harassing her for dowry soon after marriage. On April 17, 2019, her mother-in-law and father-in-law barged into her room and started assaulting her. She said her father-in-law tried to tear off her clothes while her mother-in-law had pulled her hair. She, however, managed to escape.The complaint was filed on November 20, 2020. Sub-inspector Tamanna Davi, the investigating officer, said an FIR has been registered under Sections 354-A (sexual harassment) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code against the accused and hunt has been launched for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-in-laws-booked-for-harassing-woman-for-dowry-101642280895059.html
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 1,965 fresh Covid cases||Himachal Pradesh logged 1,965 fresh Covid infections on Saturday, taking the state’s tally to 2,42,289. No fatality was reported and the death toll stands at 3,872.At 339, the highest cases were reported from Kangra, followed by 317 cases from Solan, 287 from Shimla, 225 from Mandi, 187 from Una, 157 from Sirmaur, 140 from Hamirpur, 108 from Bilaspur, 92 from Chamba, 85 from Kullu, 15 from Kinnaur and seven from Lahaul-Spiti.Active cases have crossed the 10,000-mark, reaching 10,553. Kangra has highest 2,100 active cases, followed by Solan (1,641), Shimla (1,420) and Una (1,061).Notably, only around 3% of the active Covid cases in Himachal have needed hospitalisation in the third wave of the pandemic that hit the hill state in December-end.Hospitalisation was over 20% during the second wave from February to June. However, the rising number of daily infections is keeping the health authorities on the toes.Meanwhile, the recoveries have reached 2,27,830 after a record 935 people recuperated. As many as 267 recoveries were reported from Shimla, followed by 221 in Kangra and 150 in Solan.Kangra remains the worst-hit district with its total case tally reaching 55,416, followed by Mandi with 33,238 and Shimla 29,943 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-logs-1-965-fresh-covid-cases-101642280842914.html
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Himachal | Vigilance bureau arrests 4 NCTE officials for graft||Sleuths of the Himachal Pradesh State Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (SV&ACB) arrested four officials of the National Council for Teachers’ Education (NCTE) and recovered around ₹13 lakh from them.The accused are Sajneev Kumar of Aligarh, Kavya Dube of Jhansi, Seema Sharma of Meerut and Mahesh Prasad Jain of Shivajinagar, Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh. They were members of two teams visiting private colleges in Kangra and Indora of Kangra district.Additional director general of police Satinder Pal Singh said the NCTE had sent the teams for inspection of private teacher training institutes in the state. “One such team had been on a visit to Kangra. The bureau got a tip-off that the team members were collecting huge amount of bribe money from private institutions citing shortcomings in the infrastructure,” said Singh.After receiving the information, a team from the Dharamshala police station raided a hotel near Gaggal Airport where the two team members Sanjeev Kumar and Kavya Dube were was staying. The vigilance sleuths recovered two packets from their possession containing of ₹11.48 lakh cash. They had inspected four colleges located in Kangra sub-division.It is learnt that the duo was scheduled to return to Delhi from Gaggal Airport by air but were caught before that. The two officers have been booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act and taken them in the custody. Later, the vigilance bureau arrested two members of another NCTE team – Seema Sharma and Mahesh Prasad Jain red-handed while accepting a bribe of ₹2 lakh. They were on an inspection visit to Kshatriya College of Education, Indora. They have also been taken into custody and a case is being registered against them under Prevention of Corruption Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-vigilance-bureau-arrests-4-ncte-officials-for-graft-101642280596347.html
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid surge: Travellers steer clear of trains||Amid a surge in Covid cases, travellers are largely avoiding train travel, causing railways’ expenditure to surpass its revenue, in yet another setback.These days, most trains running from or through the Ludhiana Railway Station, including New Delhi-Amritsar Shatabdi and Vande Bharat Express, have empty coaches.For instance, only 375 of the 1,200 seats in the morning Shatabdi from Delhi to Amritsar had been reserved on Thursday. In the evening Shatabdi from Amritsar to Delhi, 450 seats remained vacant on Saturday.Meanwhile, out of total 1,128 seats in Vande Bharat Express, 640 seats remained unreserved on Saturday and the train plied with just 488 passengers, adding to the loss of the railways.An official, not willing to be named, said, “With Covid cases on the rise, we are seeing low footfall at the railway station. Only weekly trains to Bihar or Uttar Pradesh ply at full capacity.”The officer added that the weekend lockdown in Jammu has also affected the passenger count in trains, including Vande Bharat Express. “A one-side trip of an elite train currently costs more than its revenue as it includes includes fuel, track maintenance cost, staff cost, etc. With less footfall, railways is incurring losses,” said a railway official.The surge in cases and reduced footfall at railway stations comes on the heels of farmers’ prolonged ‘rail roko’ protest, which had also caused major losses to the railways.Catering continuesUnlike the first and the second waves of the virus when catering had been discontinued to check the spread of the virus, the railways has decided to continue serving hot meals on trains this time around.Railways had resumed serving hot meals in trains in November 2021. Earlier, only packed food was being served in trains after resumption of services.Cabs become collateral damage The low footfall at railway station has also affected the cab business. Subekh Singh, a taxi driver, says, “Earlier, at least 50 taxis would get business each time prominent trains, including the Shatabdi, would reach Ludhiana, but now with hardly any passengers taking trains, our business has also taken a hit.”
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab assembly election: Congress goes with warhorses in 8 seats of Ludhiana||Nine seats of Ludhiana figured in the first list of 86 candidates announced by the Congress, for the Punjab assembly elections, on Saturday. The district has 14 seats in all. Of the nine seats, eight have gone to old-timers, including six sitting legislators. Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu from Ludhiana West, sitting MLAs Sanjay Talwar from East, Surinder Dawar from Central and Rakesh Pandey from North constituency have been entrusted with bringing home these seats again. Cabinet minister Gurkirat Kotli, representing Khanna assembly segment, and MLA Lakhvir Lakha from Payal have also been retained as Congress candidates.Further, Kamaljit Karwal from Atam Nagar and Captain Sandeep Sandhu from Dakha seat, who lost their last elections, have been given another chance to prove their mettle at the respective seats. Sandhu had lost byelections to SAD’s Manpreet Ayali in 2019, while Karwal lost to Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) president MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains in 2017 assembly elections.A new face, Fatehgarh Sahib MP Amar Singh’s son, Kamil Amar Singh has been given the party ticket from Raikot.The five seats for which the party is yet to announce the candidates include, Gill, Samrala, Sahnewal, Ludhiana South and Jagraon. While two seats – Gill and Samrala -- are represented by Kuldeep Vaid and Amrik Singh Dhillon of the Congress, the assembly segments of Sahnewal, South and Jagraon are tough nuts to crack for the party considering the past results.Sahnewal is the stronghold of SAD’s Sharanjit Singh Dhillon, while Balwinder Singh Bains of Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) has won two consecutive elections from South constituency. Balwinder is the elder brother of LIP president Simarjeet Bains. Senior Congress leaders, including former district president Gurdev Lapran and Punjab State Industrial Development Corporation chairman KK Bawa among those aspiring for Congress party ticket from South.Jagraon seat is represented by Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) deputy leader of opposition Sarvjit Kaur Manuke. The Congress has won the seat only once in the last five assembly elections. Gurdeep Singh Bhaini of Congress came out victorious in the 2007 elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-assembly-election-congress-goes-with-warhorses-in-8-seats-of-ludhiana-101642280475702.html
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Tunnel testing triggered seepage, landslides in Chamba village: Report||Tunnel testing under the GMR-promoted Holi-Bajoli Hydropower Project triggered seepage and landslides causing damage to the houses in Jharauta village of Holi Panchayat in Bharmaour subdivision of Chamba districts, revealed a fact-finding report by Himdhara Environment Research and Action Collective, a green group based in Himachal Pradesh.A team, which has been documenting the environmental impact of mega development projects in Himachal, visited Jharauta village on January 3 and 4 to verify the reports of landslides and seepage reported in the village in the last week of December.Reports suggested that the problem appeared in mid-December and the seepages and resultant landslides continued even as no substantial action was taken by the project authorities or the local administration.“The objective of our visit was to collect local testimonies from Jharauta residents located in the alignment of the project tunnel site, regarding cracks on residential houses and private and forest lands”, said Vivek Negi a member of the fact-finding team.The report says that as per local testimonies, people first noticed the seepage on the left side of the village on December 19. After that more seepage appeared, triggering a landslide, even as cracks started showing up. The seepage was present when the team reached the spot. Subsequently, three families had to be evacuated .On the same day, a committee headed by the Nayab Tehsildar was set up by the administration to assess the damages. Angry Jharauta residents demanded that the project work be immediately shut down and a team of safety experts be sent to the area.Assessing what has been lost is one thing, but examining the risks in the near future to the rest of the area is extremely urgent and the directorate of energy must send a team of safety experts need to the site right away, the report recommends.Manshi Asher, who leads the Himdhara Collective. said that the women were protesting the unscientific and fallacious shift in the tunnel site from the barren right bank to the forested and heavily populated left bank of Ravi. “Once the slopes have been destabilized and geology of the area disturbed, there are bound to be impacted, but all this should have been looked into during the planning and impact assessment phase. However, at that time the agencies are only concerned with getting clearances,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tunnel-testing-triggered-seepage-landslides-in-chamba-village-report-101642280235273.html
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 6,883 new Covid cases, high positivity rate cause of concern||Chandigarh Punjab on Saturday registered 6,883 fresh Covid-19 infections and 22 virus-related deaths. A slight dip in the positivity rate was also registered, which came down to 19.46% from 21.19% recorded on Friday, a bulletin of the state health department said. SAS Nagar district reported the maximum 1,497 cases in the state with a staggering 55.44% positivity rate. With a positivity rate of 44.34%, Bathinda remained on the second spot and the district’s infection count was 588. Ludhiana registered 1,283 cases where positivity rate was 25.86%. Jalandhar registered 522 cases, Patiala (476), Amritsar (375), Hoshiarpur (312), Ropar (229), Kapurthala (198) and Gurdaspur 197. Patiala and Amritsar registered six virus-related deaths each, while five such deaths were reported from Ludhiana. With this, state’s Covid tally has gone up to 6,56,619 and there are 37,546 active cases. The number of cured persons has reached 6,02,249, bulletin said. Till now, 16,754 people have lost their lives due to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-6-883-new-covid-cases-high-positivity-rate-cause-of-concern-101642277658891.html
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Despite assurance, Sri Hargobindpur MLA fails to get Congress ticket||After coming back from the BJP in a week with an assurance of being fielded as a Congress candidate for the second time, Sri Hargobindpur MLA Balwinder Singh Laddi was denied the party ticket in the first list of candidates that was released on Saturday, while a majority of the sitting party legislatures secured the same in Punjab.The Congress declared candidates on 20 of the total 25 assembly seats falling in the Majha region. Of 20 seats, 18 have Congress MLAs at present. Barring Qadian MLA Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa, who recently joined the saffron party, and Laddi, 16 Congress MLAs have succeeded to secure the party ticket.The ticket from Sri Hargobindpur, which falls in Gurdaspur district and is reserved for Scheduled Caste (SC), was allotted to a low-profile party leader and village sarpanch Mandeep Singh Rangar Nangal, who is loyal to cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa.Laddi, who joined the BJP along with Fateh Jung on December 28, did not speak anything against the party decision, but he seemed to be disappointed. “I stand by the party decision, but I would like to say that chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, who brought me back to the Congress, and party state affairs in-charge Harish Chaudhry, made a commitment with me about the ticket. I don’t know why they deprived me of the same. Though I stand with the party, I will go for a consultation with my supporters in this regard,” Laddi said.In Baba Bakala, Sidhu’s loyalist fails to get ticketPunjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president Navjot Singh Sidhu and Khadoor Sahib MP Jasbir Singh Dimpa failed to get ticket allotted to their loyal Satinder Singh Chhajjalwaddi, son of former three-time Congress MLA Ranjit Singh Chhajjalwaddi, in Baba Bakala. Sidhu and Dimpa backed Chhajjalwaddi during a massive rally organised in the constituency on December 11 where sitting Congress MLA Santokh Singh Bhalaipur stayed away from the event. However, the party relied upon Bhalaipur, setting aside the support by the two tall leaders.In Majitha, AAP candidate’s brother gets ticketIn Majitha, the ruling party gave the ticket to Jagwinder Pal Singh, brother of senior leader Sukhjinder Raj Singh, alias Lali Majithia, who recently shifted from Congress to AAP and was declared as AAP candidate from this segment.Despite revolt from party leaders, Tarn Taran MLA gets ticketTarn Taran MLA Dr Dharambir Agnihotri, who wrested the Shiromani Akali Dal’s citadel in 2017, has managed to get the party’s ticket despite revolt from party leaders and workers of the assembly segment. Congress party’s senior leader Awan Kumar, alias Sonu Cheema, former market committee chairman Gurminder Singh Rataul and vice-chairman of the Mandi Board Tejpreet Singh Peter had staked their claims from the Tarn Taran seat.
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Army aspirants block traffic in Ludhiana over postponement of recruitment exam||Around 1,800 army aspirants, who appeared in the common entrance exam in December 2020, blocked the Jagraon Bridge for two-and-a-half hours while staging a protest against the central government on Saturday. They claimed that despite clearing the fitness and medical test in December 2020, the Indian Army is not conducting the exam for them. Dates for the exams were announced several times but each time the exam would get postponed due to Covid surge. Aspirants from five districts, including Ludhiana, Moga, Rupnagar, Jalandhar and Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar (Mohali), participated in this protest march.The aspirants were seen carrying placards with slogans, such as ‘Paper Di Tareek Pakki Kro (fix the date of exam)’ and ‘No Paper, No Votes’.Aspirants mentioned that there are many aspirants who are on the brink of crossing the army’s qualifying age-limit. If the recruitment exam is not conducted in the near future, they will lose the chance to get into the Indian Army as the army doesn’t provide age relaxation.Harpreet Singh, an aspirant from Jagraon, said that they appeared for the physical trials on December 9, 2020. After clearing the trial, the medical test was conducted on December 10, 2020 and a written exam was supposed to be held in January 2021, but it was postponed by the Indian Army citing a coronavirus outbreak.“After that, many dates were announced but each time, army officials would postpone the exams for the same reason,” he said.Jasbir Singh from Moga stated that many other competitive exams, including the Punjab Police Recruitment Exam, were conducted in this period and thousands of aspirants appeared for these. “If such exams can be conducted, why can’t the Army also hold its exam,” he asked, adding, “The assembly elections are also going on as per schedule despite the surging Covid cases. We will not cast our vote if our exam is not conducted.”Commuters on the receiving endCommuters were left stranded for over two-and-a-half hours as the Army aspirants blocked the Jagraon Bridge. The protestors blocked the bridge at around 11am and lifted the protest only around 1.30pm.A long jam was witnessed on the Clock Tower Elevated Road and the road leading to Jagraon Bridge Chowk from Vishwakarma Chowk side.Ajit Singh, who was heading to work when he got stuck in the jam, said, “The common man is already facing so many problems, such protests only add to the trouble.” Rakhwinder Singh, a resident of Model Town, said that despite the imposition of model code of conduct and restriction on gatherings due to Covid-19, hundreds of youngsters were protesting and hindering traffic movement. The authorities must look into the matter and take appropriate action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/army-aspirants-block-traffic-in-ludhiana-over-postponement-of-recruitment-exam-101642277655221.html
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||No chance of contesting from Patiala urban: Brahm Mohindra||After the Congress announced the candidature of Mohit Mohindra from the Patiala rural assembly segment, his father and six-time MLA from Congress Brahm Mohindra said it is the right time to hand over the political baton to the younger generation.“I had remained a staunch Congressman and will continue to work for the party’s betterment. I will campaign not only for my son but also visit other assembly constituencies to garner support for other Congress leaders,” he said. When asked about contesting from the Patiala urban, which was represented by former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, Mohindra said there are no possibilities of it as the party has a strict norm of giving one ticket per family.“Moreover, no one has talked to me related to this, therefore, there are no chances of contesting from other constituencies,” Mohindra said.The Congress has not declared any candidate from the Patiala urban as it is exploring several names. The political void has erupted for Congress after Captain Amarinder formed another political outfit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-chance-of-contesting-from-patiala-urban-brahm-mohindra-101642277538652.html
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab assembly elections: Valuables worth ₹40 crore seized since model code of conduct imposed||After the model code of conduct (MCC) came into force in the state for the Vidhan Sabha elections, various enforcement teams have seized valuables worth ₹40.31 crore in violation of the code till January 14.Chief electoral officer (CEO), Punjab, Dr S Karuna Raju said on Saturday that the surveillance teams have seized 2.72 lakh litres of liquor worth ₹81 lakh. Similarly, the enforcement wings have also recovered psychotropic substances amounting to ₹38.93 crore besides confiscating unaccounted cash of ₹14 lakh, he added.The chief electoral officer said 1,064 highly sensitive areas have been identified. Besides, 2,222 persons have been identified as probable sources of trouble, he said, adding that out of these persons, preventive action had already been initiated against 894, while the remaining would also be brought to book. He said from the security point of view, preventive measures had been taken against 118 persons. He said 2,064 cases of non-bailable warrants have been executed, while execution in 239 cases is under process. As many as 3,692 nakas were operational across the state, he added.The MCC teams have also removed 53,610 defacements of public properties and 14,911 on private properties.As per the directions of the election commission, Dr Raju said till date 3,23,102 licensed weapons have been deposited in the state, whereas 20 without licenses weapons were. He said 84.3 percent of staff to be deployed in election duties have got their first dose of Covid vaccine, while 49.9 percent of staff are fully vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-assembly-elections-valuables-worth-40-crore-seized-since-model-code-of-conduct-imposed-101642277475157.html
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Man arrested, charged with hate crime for attacking Sikh taxi driver in US||New York Authorities in the US have arrested and charged with hate crime a man, who attacked an Indian-origin Sikh taxi driver at JFK International Airport here, knocked off his turban and yelled at him “turbaned people, go back to your country”. Mohamed Hassanain was arrested on Thursday for the January 3 attack on the Sikh taxi driver, who is being identified only as Mr Singh out of respect for his request for privacy. The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey Police Department (PAPD) confirmed on Friday that Hassanain was arrested for the attack against Singh, said community-based civil and human rights organisation The Sikh Coalition. The incident is being considered a hate crime, given that Hassanain shouted “go back to your country” and called Singh “turbaned people” in a derogatory manner while repeatedly punching and shoving him, it said. Hassanain is being charged with ‘assault in the third degree’ as a hate crime, assault in the third degree, and aggravated harassment in the second degree, and will be arraigned on Saturday, it added. “I am thankful to law enforcement, the Sikh Coalition, and all those in the community who have offered their strength in this difficult time,” Singh said in a statement to The Sikh Coalition. “No one should experience what I did, but if they do, I hope they receive the same overwhelming amount of support and quick, professional action by the authorities in response,” he said. On January 3, New York City resident Singh was physically attacked and berated near his cab at JFK International Airport. Singh had parked his cab at the Terminal 4 taxi stand when another driver blocked his vehicle. When Singh picked up a customer, he stepped out of his car to ask the other driver to move. The other driver attempted to hit Singh with his own car door; he then began repeatedly punching Singh in the head, chest, and arms, causing his turban to become unraveled and fall off, the statement said. Sikh Coalition Legal Director Amrith Kaur Aakre said the organisation was grateful to the Port Authority Police Department and Queens District Attorney’s Office for their prompt action in this case, and for recognising that the attack on Singh included clear anti-Sikh bias.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-arrested-charged-with-hate-crime-for-attacking-sikh-taxi-driver-in-us-101642277415368.html
16-01-2022||Noida||Patients requiring hospitalisation double in two days as Ghaziabad gets 1422 fresh Covid cases||Ghaziabad: Around 31 Covid-19 patients, who were hospitalised between December last year and January 13 this year, almost doubled to 61 in two days on Saturday (December 15), according to official statistics of the district health department.The officials, however, said that the increase in the number of Covid patients requiring hospitalisation is still minimal, and the recent additions were those whose details were not uploaded by the hospitals. The official records indicated that the district received 1,422 more fresh Covid cases on Saturday, and the tally of active patients has gone up to 10,801 after the home isolation period was over for 1,224 patients.“The sudden increase in patients requiring hospitalisation is due to non-uploading of patients’ reports by the hospital. When we checked, they started uploading the reports. We, however, maintain that the present wave of Covid has affected a large number of people, but the severity is still very low. In all, we have seven out of 61 patients who require intermittent oxygen supply,” said Dr Sunil Tyagi, additional chief medical officer. Between December and the week ending January 5-11, the district has witnessed a highest positivity of 9.76% with 5,823 Covid cases out of 59,681 samples tested. The lowest was recorded in the first week of December from December 1-7, when the positivity rate was lowest at 0.03%. During this week, the district reported seven Covid cases out of the 26,067 samples tested. The positivity rate during the last four days of the current week has further spiked to 16.69% with 39,811 samples, yielding 6,646 positive cases. The sample positivity rate now stands at 10.95%, as of January 15, while the overall positivity rate since the start of the pandemic stands at 2.94%. The recovery rate in the district now stands at 83.63%, which the officials said will improve further as more Covid patients from home isolation are marked as discharged after the period of seven days of home isolation. “A majority of patients have been recovering within three to five days, with mild symptoms like fever and cough among others. In case the symptoms persist for more than five days, it is a cause of concern. If we look at the trend, the present infection is not severe, but it spreads fast. So, it is expected that herd immunity will be developed as a result,” said Dr Ashish Aggarwal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad chapter).
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab BJP’s virtual warriors countering anti-farmer narrative, spreading party reach||As the Election Commission of India has banned poll rallies, social media platforms are the new battleground among the parties. In its first ever ‘on-its-own’ election in Punjab on the heels of farmers’ year-long protest against the three central agricultural laws, the BJP is trying hard to change its ‘anti-Punjab’ and ‘anti-farmer’ image and the narrative through social media. Having negligible presence on the social media until a few weeks back, the Punjab unit of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is now actively visible and gradually spreading its reach. Behind the virtual campaigning of the party is a strong team of 50-odd professionals and volunteers whom the party roped in especially for the assembly polls. The team comprises cartoonists, video editors, content writers and social media managers. The main theme of the party’s social media campaign for the Punjab polls is #NawanPunjabBhajpaDeNaal and the team works round-the-clock from its war room at SAS Nagar’s Bestech Square Mall in Phase 9. When it comes to resources, whether human or monetary, the saffron party is comfortable. Party’s well-established IT Cell in the national capital backs up the Punjab team in boosting its campaigns. The team also creates content for WhatsApp groups. The Punjab BJP has notable presence on Facebook with party’s official page having nearly 66,000 followers, but its visibility on Twitter in negligible. Party’s Twitter account — #NawanPunjabBJPdeNaal — has less than 1,000 followers. On Facebook, the party now has more than 10 pages where the campaigns are run. The social media team is also taking care of the individual accounts of senior Punjab BJP leaders as well. Head of party’s social media team, Rajat Sharma, whose IT company was roped in by the party, said he was a BJP volunteer as well. “We discuss daily the strategy for the day. Sometimes we have to take sudden calls as well. For example, the day Prime Minister Narendra Modi was to visit Ferozepur, the Congress launched a #GoBackModi campaign. Our team was quick to counter it with #PunjabWelcomesModi that trended aggressively,” said Sharma. He said the latest campaign of the Punjab BJP #KejriwalTicketDalal was also a big hit. However, party’s biggest challenge is huge following of a few pages being run from outside Punjab that portray the BJP and the RSS as “anti-Sikhs”. “It’s a challenge but we are countering such content as well,” said Sharma. 
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana’s active Covid cases cross 6,000-mark, cap on social gatherings||The district’s active Covid count shot past the 6,000-mark on Saturday after 1,283 new cases were detected. Five persons also succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours, Ludhiana health officials said. In view of the surging cases, the Punjab government has extended the night curfew and other restrictions till January 25. It has also put a cap on social gatherings. As per the orders, not more than 50 persons will be allowed in indoor gatherings while in outdoor gatherings, 100 persons or 50% of the capacity of the venue, whichever is lower will be allowed. Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said in view of the mounting number of cases, the restrictions couldn’t have been relaxed.The order issued by the Punjab government read, “To contain and manage Covid-19, in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 2 of the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897, read with all other enabling provisions of Disaster Management Act, 2005, it is directed that the restrictions imposed on January 4, 2022 shall remain in force till January 25.”On Friday, Ludhiana had witnessed the highest single-day spike since the pandemic broke out in 2020 with 1,808 cases were reported within 24 hours.Presently, 6,368 persons are in home isolation and 110 admitted in different hospitals. Those who succumbed to the virus on Saturday include a 70-year-old man from Salem Tabri, a 63-year-old man from Khanna, a 70-year-old male from Dhandari Kalan, a 63-year-old man from Tagore Nagar, Civil Lines and a 43-year-old man from Chandigarh road. Civil surgeon Dr SP Singh appealed to residents to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and get themselves vaccinated at the earliest. He urged residents to avoid visiting crowded places and take precautions at all times.Curbs extended till Jan 25Night curfew: Movement of individuals for all non-essential activities shall remain prohibited between 10 pm to 5 am within municipal limits. All essential activities, including operation of multiple shifts in industry, offices, movement of persons and goods on national and state highways, unloading of cargo and travel of persons to their destinations after disembarking from buses, trains and airplanes, will be permitted.Gatherings: Not more than 50 persons will be allowed in indoor gatherings while for outdoor events, 100 persons or 50% of the capacity of the venue whichever is lower will be allowed. Closed: All educational institutions, including schools, colleges, universities, coaching institutions etc. will continue to remain closed. Sports complexes, stadia, swimming pools, gyms shall also remain closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianas-active-covid-cases-cross-6-000-mark-cap-on-social-gatherings-101642276695019.html
16-01-2022||Mumbai||45% BArch seats go vacant in state||Mumbai: Nearly every second seat in the Bachelor of Architecture (B Arch) course has gone vacant this year. Figures from the state common entrance test (CET) cell reveal that 45.3% seats in the course have no takers — almost twice the number of seats that went vacant in the same course in the previous academic year.Data released by the CET cell show that 2,331 seats out of 5,141 in the course were vacant this year. Experts attributed this to the change in the eligibility criteria for B-Arch aspirants which came into effect this year.Until the 2020-21 academic year, B Arch aspirants were allowed to register using either their JEE-Mains or the National Aptitude Test in Architecture (NATA) score. However in 2021, the Council of Architecture (CoA) decided to only accept National Aptitude Test in Architecture (NATA) scores for admissions to B Arch. Several students raised objection to this change in eligibility especially since many had scored very well in JEE 2022, but due to a change in the eligibility criteria, many B Arch aspirants have decided to appear for NATA once again in 2022 and apply for admissions in the 2022-23 academic year.“Most students appeared for JEE and NATA in 2021 and while everyone faired well in JEE, most found the first two sessions of NATA very tough. In a year when students have already gone through so much, the last thing they needed was a change in eligibility criteria. These students have slogged at least two years preparing for the entrance exam and now it’s of no use,” said a parent of a B Arch aspirant who did not wish to be quoted. HT had previously reported that pre-admission registrations for the B Arch course dipped by nearly 38% this year. From 5,567 registrations in 2020, the number stood at 3,465 in 2021. In 2021, both JEE and NATA exams were held in multiple sessions, mainly to give students the option of choosing the best score out of the multiple sessions and at the same time, also giving students the option of a backup session in case they missed the previous session due to Covid-related issues.“This kind of seat vacancy is not common but change in eligibility criteria did affect plans of several aspirants this year. We are hoping the number of applications will double this year for the 2022-23 academic year,” said an official from the state CET cell.
16-01-2022||Mumbai||State to use digital maps and drone surveys to protect historic sites from encroachment||Mumbai: In a landmark move to prevent further encroachments and rampant development around historic monuments and protected archaeological sites, the state government is launching a drone survey to prepare digital maps of these areas. This exercise will culminate in the demarcation of a site-specific ‘controlled area,’ where fresh constructions shall be regulated to preserve their heritage values.The state has floated tenders for the appointment of survey agencies for the project, which is estimated to cost ₹13 crore. It is expected to start in a month’s time, and will be completed in the next financial year.This will involve drone-based surveys and if needed, total station mapping, to gauge the existing built-up area around monuments, and its composition like heritage and modern structures. Later, maps will be drawn up after a physical survey of each site to ground-truth this data.Maharashtra has a total of 375 state-protected monuments. Of these, 10 sites, namely Gateway of India, August Kranti Maidan, Banganga, Dean’s Bungalow in the J J School of Art and the forts at Worli, Shivdi, Bandra, Saint George (behind CSMT railway station), Dharavi and Mahim, are in Mumbai.This is on lines of the Archaeological Survey of India’s (ASI) norms. Under the heritage by-laws provided for under the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains (Amendment and Validation) Act, 2010 which covers centrally-protected sites, a 100-meter area from all directions around a protected monument is classified as a ‘prohibited area.’ Another 200-meter zone around monuments is a ‘regulated area.’Similarly, the directorate of museums and archaeology provides for a controlled area to be notified as per requirement around state-protected monuments. But this area has been notified at 25 meters for just one site—the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Wada in Pune around a decade ago. This delay in notifying a controlled area has led to encroachments and constructions standing cheek-in-jowl with historic sites, admit officials.“The survey will cover all state-protected monuments… we will use satellite images and drone maps and wherever needed, even total station mapping will be deployed, to define the regulated areas. This will be complemented by field surveys. However, instead of imposing a blanket restriction, we will take practical calls at each site based on the local situation and built-up conditions (while drawing up the controlled area norms),” said Tejas Garge, Director, Museums and Archaeology, Maharashtra.Once the controlled area is in place, the department’s no objection certificate (NOC) will have to be sought for any fresh constructions in this zone. Garge added that these maps and data will also be put in the public domain.Vasant Shinde, advisor to the National Maritime Heritage Complex and former vice-chancellor of Deccan College Post-Graduate and Research Institute in Pune welcomed the move. “Instead of a blanket rule, it is necessary to evolve a site-specific approach for every monument,” he noted, adding that construction activities affected the structural stability of these monuments.Maya Patil (Shahapurkar), head, department of archaeology, Ahilyabai Holkar University of Solapur, stressed on the need to preserve pre-historic sites from the depredations of developers and bounty hunters. She pointed to how the 2,000-year-old Satavahana-era site of Ter in Osmanabad district had seen 10 of the original mounds being reduced to seven, which too were being eroded, with the soil (which contained antiquities) being mined and sold. “The material remains like stone tools and even caves, mounds and rock-shelters which grant a glimpse into pre-history, must be preserved,” she explained.Officials said that the mapping and physical survey will also help the department understand if any ancient sites have been destroyed, encroached or built over. Officials admit that while the number of protected sites in Maharashtra is 375 on paper, some of them may be lost, especially in Marathwada, which once came under the dominions of the Nizam of Hyderabad.There, the officials in the Nizam’s state had merely notified sites as protected one’s sans physical surveys. The lack of adequate on-ground staff for the department has also prevented the creation of a system for their protection and verification. One of these destroyed sites is a Mesolithic-era site at Shendra near Aurangabad.Box:The Maharashtra Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1960, allows the state government to preserve ancient and historical monuments, records and archaeological sites and remains.Maharashtra has 375 state protected monuments including forts (59), temples (147), caves (18), and stone-age era sites and other archaeological features.Some state-protected sites are Rajgad, Sinhagad and Torna forts in Pune district, Khandeshwari caves and Ghodbunder temple at Thane, Ghatotkach caves in Aurangabad, stone-age era petroglyphs in the Konkan and Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak’s birthplace at Ratnagiri.The department will be able to regulate fresh constructions in the demarcated controlled area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/state-to-use-digital-maps-and-drone-surveys-to-protect-historic-sites-from-encroachment-101642276336382.html
16-01-2022||Other||GUEST COLUMN: Reflections on the state of Punjab economy||Punjab pioneered green revolution and served as India’s food basket during the 1960s and 70s, with an enterprising farming community and the state’s pragmatic policies facilitating the transformation. The government provided infrastructure, institutional support and extension services for promoting modern methods of cultivation. High-yielding varieties of wheat were introduced and concessional credit facilities were offered through cooperative banks. A network of tubewells brought the entire area under irrigation.The marketing of produce was not a problem due to the countrywide shortage of foodgrain and assured minimum support price (MSP). Agriculture, thus, became an engine of growth for generating employment and reducing poverty. The state held top position in per capita income across the country for a long time. Resilience, buoyancy and hope for a better future marked these times.However, assured demand for foodgrain over a long period generated complacency and stalled structural transformation of the agrarian economy. The downhill journey of Punjab’s economy began in the early 1990s, when agricultural growth started losing momentum. FACTORS BEHIND LOW GROWTH TRAJECTORYOver the past 10 years, the state’s growth rate has been lower than the national average. Its rank in per capita income has slid from the top to the 10th position among major states. Neighbouring Himachal Pradesh and Haryana have higher per capita income; Haryana has 50% higher figure than Punjab. The state’s development trajectory has been adversely impacted by a host of factors. These include turmoil during the 1980s, skewed developmental priorities biased in favour of agriculture, inadequate investment in human capital, neglect of urban development and profligacy in state spending. Agri-centric policies pursued over a long time, to the neglect of industry, trade and tourism have led to a lopsided economic structure of the state. Free power for agriculture incentivised planting of paddy as a second crop. Use of ground water in excess of recharging facility has resulted in a fall in water table between 2metre and 4metre, destruction of aquifers and land degradation. The solution lies in crop diversification, but till free power is available, there will be little incentive to switch to other crops. The MSP, by incentivising production of foodgrain, shifted land away from pulses and oilseeds necessitating their import. Free power is costing the state dear with yearly subsidy burden of over ₹12,000 crore. It is an emotive issue and political parties of all hues swear by it. Unregulated and excessive use of pesticides has caused chemical toxicity and pollution, resulting in rising incidence of cancer in Malwa. Burning of stubble for early sowing of wheat is causing health hazard and pollution. The recent farm stir was symptomatic of the serious agrarian crisis. Fragmentation of land holdings due to the rising population has made farming unviable for small and marginal farmers,with most rendered landless labourers. The indebtedness among farmers has assumed alarming proportions, with the rising number of suicides deepening the crisis. Widespread drug addiction is incapacitating the youth causing depression, family tensions, unrest and virtual ruination of a generation. The aspirations of Punjabi youth are high, and do not match their capabilities. Punjab’s unemployment rate in 2018-19 was 7.4% against the national figure of 5.8%. INDUSTRY TREATED AS POOR COUSINThe powers-that-be have treated industry as a poor cousin. Tariff for industry is kept high for cross-subsidising agriculture. Developed infrastructure, fiscal incentives and operational ease have not been adequately provided for industrial development. Labour intensive small and medium enterprises, the backbone of industry in the state, are languishing. Ludhiana, the industrial, is highly polluted. The high growth of agriculture ought to have been accompanied by industrial development for job creation to absorb surplus labour. Well-planned cities with requisite infrastructure become magnets for setting up industrial conglomerates and skill development. The state has excellent infrastructure of power, arterial roads, transportation facilities and means of communication, planned development of cities has not been a priority. Urban population in the state now accounts for 37%, half of which lives in four districts of Jalandhar, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Mohali; today, all have glaring pockets of slums. Again, Haryana has fared far better. Surveys have revealed that the quality of school education in the state leaves much to be desired. Reading, writing and arithmetic skills of children are lower than the better performing states. Teachers in government schools lack passion and commitment, though their salaries are four-fold of what private schools pay. Around 50% of school going children seek admission in private schools. It is not surprising that even poor parents prefer getting their wards admitted in private schools, notwithstanding the high fee, disregarding the mid-day meals, free uniforms and textbooks provided in government schools. THE PARADOX AND GOVERNANCE CRISISParadoxically, in a relatively rich Punjab, the government is steeped in debt, an odd combination of a high-income state with low quality of public finances. The state’s debt burden has skyrocketed to ₹2.7 lakh crore as a result of fiscal profligacy and subsidies. The debt ratio to Gross State Domestic product (GSDP) has gone up to 44%.The burden of interest payment is over ₹30,000 crore per annum. Committed expenditure on salaries of burgeoning bureaucracy, interest repayments, pensions and subsidies add up to more than 90% of revenue receipts, leaving little for development. All governments have been following populist competitive policies and doling out freebies While population below poverty line in the state is 11.3%, more than 50% is beneficiary of Atta-Dal scheme entitling them to monthly ration of 5kg of wheat per person at ₹2 a kg. Sops and subsidies have sapped the enterprising spirit of self-respecting Punjabis. It is time to empower our youth by skilling them and creating jobs for effecting structural transformation of the economy beyond agriculture. The state is facing challenges relating to youth, drug addiction, rural indebtedness, land degradation, farm distress and unemployment; these cannot be wished away. The governance crisis in Punjab is a harsh reality and it will be a herculean task for the new government to set things right. (The writer is a retired Punjab cadre IAS officer and a former secretary to government of India)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/guest-column-reflections-on-the-state-of-punjab-economy-101642276216304.html
16-01-2022||Mumbai||Mumbai’s memory clinic hopes to slow the progression of dementia in patients||Mumbai: In December 2020, the family of a stockbroker from Vile Parle began to notice some odd signs in his behaviour. He struggled to find words. He couldn’t write in straight lines. As the chief executive officer of a stockbroking firm he had founded two decades ago, he was required to sign cheques and documents every day; now, his signatures weren’t the same. However, one of the most alarming changes they noticed was that the 52-year-old could not understand directions anymore. This prompted them to seek help and the man was eventually diagnosed with early onset of dementia caused by Alzheimer’s disease. The stockbroker is among the six patients to regularly visit the memory clinic at the civic-run KEM Hospital — the first such clinic in a public hospital in the city — which offers comprehensive management including cognitive rehabilitation and caregiver support for persons with dementia.The one-room clinic, which opened in September 2021, is housed in the KEM Hospital’s outpatient department (OPD) building. It is stacked with puzzles, colour books, and charts that detail cognitive exercises, which help improve attention, organisation, planning and remembering.Dementia is an umbrella term used for impaired ability to remember, think, or make decisions that interfere with everyday activities. Alzheimer’s disease — a progressive neurologic disorder that causes the brain to shrink and brain cells to die — is the most common type of dementia. Other causes include ageing, hypertension, diabetes, high cholesterol among others. Some reversible causes include side effects of medicines, vitamin deficiencies and thyroid hormone imbalance. Dementia is common in people over 65 years but is also seen in younger people, and is then referred to as early-onset.In his first session in September, the stockbroker was asked to draw a picture of a 3D box and a star. He wasn’t able to draw either. His wife and 21-year-old son who watched him from a corner of the room were shocked. “I couldn’t hold back my tears. I have always known him as a bright, sharp person who took tough decisions every day. Now, he couldn’t draw a star,” his son said.“The doctors have told us that his condition cannot be cured but only its progression can be slowed down,” he said.According to a 2020 report by the Alzheimer’s and Related Disorders Society of India (ARDSI), an estimated 5.3 million people above the age of 60 have dementia in the country. It translates to one in 27 people above the age of 60. Dementia requires a bunch of interventions including medicines, management of neuropsychiatric and behavioural problems, cognitive rehabilitation and caregiver support. While some private facilities may offer such comprehensive services, the public sector lacks such facilities, leaving a large pool of patients to deteriorate faster. Patients who fall into this gap could become completely inactive, increasingly irritable or violent.Psychiatrist Dr BN Gangadhar who is also a former director of the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS) said that there is a tendency to trivialise memory problems among the elderly. “People should know that not all memory problems are natural, some could be linked to unnatural causes like Alzheimer’s disease or vascular dementia. The first part of the solution is to raise awareness and then make facilities accessible to such population,” he said.“In dementia, the last things you forget are the old memories and the recent memories are the ones that start fading away quickly,” said Dr Mayuri Kalika, a neuropsychologist at the KEM Hospital who is a part of the multidisciplinary team that operates the memory clinic.“Thus, family members of an undiagnosed patient sometimes misunderstand his or her forgetfulness as fake or laziness. Relatives often tell us how the patient vividly remembers his stories from childhood but can’t remember simple things like turning off the tap or other basic daily chores,” she said.Cognitive rehabilitation “In India, we have a tendency to not let senior citizens take up work, even basic household chores,” said Dr Urvashi Shah, an honorary neuropsychologist at KEM Hospital. “Most children do this because they want their old parents to relax and take rest. But this may actually have a negative impact. Allowing seniors to continue their basic chores is important to stimulate the brain. They must be encouraged to take up newer activities to challenge the brain,” said Shah.The patients coming to the memory clinic are challenged in a similar manner. Patients like the Vile Parle stockbroker who have been highly functional before the onset of dementia are challenged with sudoku puzzles, word games and maze tests, while others who have not been very active start with colouring, reading picture stories or such simple activities.The doctors at the clinic describe these cognitive exercises as attempts to reach into the brain and save dying neurons. Engaging in basic activities like cooking, cleaning, praying or taking up hobbies like craft and drawing can offer the necessary stimulation to the brain. Before the clinic opened, patients visiting the OPD were evaluated and put on medication, but doctors could only advise caregivers to try puzzles or games and make timetables for patients. Now, they get them to actively do these things.Cognitively stimulating activities like games and puzzles are known to improve brain health. In dementia patients, these activities not just improve brain function but also play a therapeutic role by improving interactions with fellows and through a sense of accomplishment by completing certain tasks. The human brain has millions of nerve cells called neurons. Degenerative diseases like Alzheimer’s cause the death of the neurons gradually that leads to deterioration of functions like memory, speech, movement etc. Doctors said that when patients are put through well-planned activities in rehabilitation clinics, the degeneration of neurons slows down.“We need more such clinics in the public sector. It is the need of the hour,” said Dr Sangeeta Ravat, head of neurology at KEM Hospital, who helms the memory clinic. “Patients coming to a public hospital like ours mostly come from lower socio-economic backgrounds. The caregivers sometimes can’t afford to get them to the clinic if the sessions are scheduled more often. So, we have to space the sessions depending on the willingness, affordability and condition of the patient. If we have more such clinics, patients can get services closer home,” she said.According to Dr PP Ashok, head of the neurology department at the PD Hinduja Hospital, in addition to more such dedicated clinics, day-care centres for people with dementia are also essential. “There are plenty of such centres in the US. A bus picks up such individuals, drives them to the centres where they undertake several activities designed for them, and they are dropped back home in the evening when their family members return from work. We need such centres in India,” he said.“We have a lot of hopes from the memory clinic,” said the stockbroker’s son. “It is difficult to gauge any difference in him so far, but hopefully, we will see some changes in the coming days,” he said adding that his father had to stop going to work soon after his diagnosis in December 2020. Recently, they initiated the procedure to relieve him from the CEO’s position. “Because of his condition, the members of the firm thought it was the right thing to do,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-memory-clinic-hopes-to-slow-the-progression-of-dementia-in-patients-101642275915374.html
16-01-2022||Mumbai||Assets worth ₹410 crore attached in bank fraud case||Mumbai: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached assets worth ₹410 crore belonging to the promoters of real estate group Omkar Developers, Babulal Varma, Kamal Kishore Gupta, and actor-producer Sachiin Joshi under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in a loan fraud case. The attached assets include the real estate group’s flats worth ₹330 crore in Tower C of sale building namely Omkar 1973 in Central Mumbai’s Worli area and a land worth ₹80 crore in Viram, Pune belonging to actor Joshi’s company. Joshi is son of Gutkha baron JM Joshi. The money laundering case against developers and Joshi is based on the FIR registered by Aurangabad Police in March 2020 for alleged cheating and criminal breach of trust.The anti-money laundering agency had in January 2021 arrested Babulal Varma, Managing Director of ORDPL, Kamal Kishore, chairman of ORDPL and later Joshi. A prosecution complaint has also been filed on March 26, 2021 before the session court, Mumbai.In September 2021, the Supreme Court (SC) had granted temporary bail to actor Joshi. During the probe, ED investigators have found that the loan amount of ₹410 crore was fraudulently acquired by Surana Developers Wadala, LLP, a sister concern of ORDPL through falsely increased slum dwellers numbers and FSI (Floor Space Index). “Out of ₹410 crore, an amount of ₹330 crore was laundered into the sale building of Omkar Group and an amount of ₹80 crore approximately was laundered through Sachin Joshi and his Viiking Group of companies under the guise of services and investment,” ED has stated in a statement released on Saturday. Later, agency’s investigations revealed that Joshi helped Omkar Group promoters in diversion of at least ₹87 crore. ED has also said that Joshi received funds from various firms of Omkar Group, a part of which was shown as an investment and the rest as received against rendering of services. When questioned about funds received as investment, Joshi during his ED custody had said that the same was sent for development of land near Pune. It is surprising that an amount of ₹48 crore is shown as an investment, but except for a simple term sheet dated March 15, 2019, no definite agreement is made, ED had observed.On analysing the actual utilisation of the funds, it shows that the said funds were utilised for various purposes such as repayment of loans, various expenses etc. However, no expense is seen to be incurred towards the stated purpose of investment,” ED earlier stated in their remand application. Investigation of the funds received against various invoices showed it was done so to facilitate settlement of ineligible tenants and possession of constructed rehabilitation units, help in getting consents from society, slum dwellers, committee members, brokerage towards land deal, etc. However, when Joshi was asked about whether any such services were actually rendered, he said no slum rehabilitation work was done by him. He, however, added that he was involved in facilitation with Omkar Group, where Omkar Group was to use his name and brand name in order to rehabilitate the tenants or settle with the tenants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/assets-worth-410-crore-attached-in-bank-fraud-case-101642275675079.html
16-01-2022||Noida||Eye on Jewar: Three BJP MLAs from Gautam Budh Nagar get party ticket again||The Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) on Saturday released its first list of candidates for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls. In Gautam Budh Nagar, the party has named Pankaj Singh from the Noida assembly seat, Thakur Dhirendra Singh from Jewar, and Tejpal Nagar from Dadri.All the three candidates are sitting MLAs from their constituencies, and were elected for the first time in 2017. Polls are to be conducted in the first phase on February 10 in Gautam Budh Nagar. While Pankaj Singh is an old BJP hand and also the elder son of Union defence minister Rajnath Singh, Tejpal Nagar and Dhirendra Singh changed political stripes to join the BJP only in 2017 from Samajwadi Party (SP) and Congress, respectively. Riding on the development agenda based on the big ticket projects in the district such as the Noida International Airport, Film City, and delivery or settlement of several pending residential projects, the party has entrusted its sitting MLAs with these seats again. All the three candidates had defeated their closest rivals from SP and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) by handsome margins in 2017. So far, Noida has 690,231 voters, Dadri 586,889 voters and Jewar 3,46,425 voters for the upcoming elections.NoidaDuring the 2017 elections, there were 523,865 electors in the Noida constituency, of which 254,418 had cast their votes with a total polling percentage of 48.57%. The sitting MLA, Pankaj Singh, got 162,417 votes, and won by a margin of 104,016 votes.He defeated Sunil Choudhary from the SP, who received 58,401 votes. Residents say that Pankaj Singh has helped in increasing coordination with the Noida authority to get civic upgrades in various sectors across most of the urban Noida areas. His opposition, however, is riding on the authority-land mafia network, the undelivered realty projects, and unavailability of Ganga water across most of the city. The SP has yet again decided to field Sunil Choudhary, though the formal announcement is yet to be made. Meanwhile, the Congress candidate, Pankhuri Pathak, who recently left the SP, has also been gaining popularity in the urban areas, especially with her increased social media presence as the only female candidate in the fray. The BSP has nominated Kriparam Sharma as its Noida candidate.DadriDuring the 2017 elections, there were 441,229 electors in the Dadri constituency, of which 265,298 had cast their votes with a total polling percentage of 60.13%. The sitting MLA, Tejpal Singh Nagar, got 141,226 votes, and won by a margin of 80,177 votes. He defeated Satvir Singh Gurjar from the BSP, who received 61,049 votes. Most of the Greater Noida West societies fall in the Dadri constituency where lack of a good hospital and air pollution are major concerns, along with irregular road repairs and other civic amenities. Tejpal Singh Nagar faces a challenge as these issues have remained mostly unresolved over the past five years. However, the competition in the fray does not include many popular leaders. The closest competition from Gurjar is removed as the BSP has nominated Manveer Singh Bhati, a new candidate from Dadri.JewarDuring the 2017 elections, there were 144,839 electors in the Jewar constituency, of which 211,424 had cast their votes with a total polling percentage of 65.46%. This is the highest polling percentage among all three assembly seats as Jewar is still a mostly rural constituency. The sitting MLA, Dhirendra Singh, got 102,979 votes, and won by a margin of 22,173 votes. He defeated Vedram Bhati from the BSP, who received 80,806 votes. Jewar is likely to be one of the most interesting seats in this election as a slew of big ticket projects have been announced in the area with much support from the local residents.The upcoming Noida International Airport, Film City, transport and logistics hub, and the planned industrial development is expected to bolster the local economy, real estate rates, and generate employment. Riding on these successes, along with his approachability for all electors, Dhirendra Singh is now a popular leader, difficult to overthrow. Added to this, his closest competition has been replaced by a new face as the BSP has announced first timer former journalist Narendra Bhati Dada as its Jewar candidate. Despite the success story of Jewar, the constituency will face a triangular contest between BJP, RLD-SP and BSP. While the BSP has been the traditionally dominant party in the region, the BJP has taken a lead in the past few years. Meanwhile, an interesting turn came about earlier this week when four-time MP and sitting MLA from the Meerapur constituency in Muzaffarnagar, Avtar Singh Bhadana, left the BJP to join the RLD. The SP-RLD alliance has now named Bhadana as its candidate from Jewar. Of the three assembly seats in Gautam Budh Nagar, the SP-RLD has only formally announced the Jewar candidate so far. Bhadana has contested the Lok Sabha seat from Meerut and Faridabad and may be Singh’s closest competition. Meanwhile, the first randomisation of Electronic Voter Machines (EVMs) took place in the district on Saturday in the presence of representatives from all major political parties. As the election commission announced that the restraint on rallies and road shows have been extended till January 22, most of the campaigning for the seats in Gautam Budh Nagar is either going to be online or personal communication and small gatherings.“We have set up several teams to monitor the online campaigns of all parties and candidates. Their social media handles are also under scrutiny. Complaints can be sent to the control room by calling 1950 or on the C-vigil application,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate.Till Saturday, 57 candidates obtained the forms for filing nomination from the three assembly seats of the district. None of the nominations have been filed yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/eye-on-jewar-three-bjp-mlas-from-gautam-budh-nagar-get-party-ticket-again-101642275616543.html
16-01-2022||Other||Afghan ambassador visits Patiala||Patiala The ambassador of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan Farid Mamundzay met industrialists and traders in Patiala on Saturday. Deputy commissioner Sandeep Hans accompanied him to the meeting, where Mamundzay advocated the opening of trade route between India and Afghanistan through Pakistan. “The opening of this route will not benefit both the countries, but Central Asia will also gain,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/afghan-ambassador-visits-patiala-101642275495016.html
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: SAD stronghold Dera Bassi awaiting development||With several issues pertaining to basic amenities still unresolved in the Dera Bassi area, the constituency is set to witness an interesting multi-cornered contest in the Assembly elections scheduled on February 14.The semi-urban constituency falls in Mohali district and includes Dera Bassi, Lalru, and Zirakpur towns.Residents complain that in the past few years, no big landmark project has come up in Dera Bassi, located on the Chandigarh-Delhi national highway.While the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has given the ticket to Kuljeet Singh Randhawa, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has once again declared sitting MLA NK Sharma as its candidate.From the Congress, Deepinder Singh Dhillon, who finished second in the 2017 elections, and Amit Bawa Saini are the frontrunners. Mukesh Gandhi is also hoping for a ticket from Captain Amarinder Singh’s Punjab Lok Congress.The Dera Bassi assembly constituency has always remained a stronghold of the SAD under former minister late Captain Kanwaljit Singh and the party has triumphed for the past three decades.NK Sharma won the elections in 2012 and 2017. But in the civic body elections held in February last year, the Congress routed out the SAD from all three civic bodies in the constituency – Dera Bassi, Lalru and Zirakpur.In Dera Bassi and Lalru, the Congress had tasted victory after a decade, while in Zirakpur, it won after two decades.Joint action committee (JAC) president Sukhdev Chaudhary said in the past decade, no new landmark project had come up in the constituency. “It still lacks a proper bus stand and insanitation prevails, while political parties took care of only their interests,” he said.MLA NK Sharma said during the SAD rule in the state from 2012 to 2017, several development works were carried out in Dera Bassi, but it remained ignored after the Congress came to power in 2017. He claimed that the SAD will set up a bus stand in Dera Bassi after forming the government in the state after the upcoming elections.
16-01-2022||Mumbai||32 tigers found dead in 2021; forest authorities plan relocation of big cats||Mumbai: The state forest authority has planned a massive exercise of relocating tigers after 32 big cats were found dead in the year 2021. An increase in the number of tigers has led to territorial fights, which is one of the reasons posited for the tiger deaths, besides poaching. During a review meeting on January 3, the forest department informed chief minister Uddhav Thackeray that of the deaths of the big cats in the past year, 18 were due to natural causes while nine were caused by traps, electrocution and poisoning. Between 2016 and 2020, the annual number of deaths ranged between 16 and 22. Maharashtra has 312 tigers, according to a count done in 2018 and the number is expected to grow further as more than 165 cubs have been seen in Maharashtra in the last few months, department officials said. Most of the big cats in the state are found in the Vidarbha region — at least 200 are to be found in the reserves and sanctuaries in Chandrapur district. Most of the tigers can be seen in Tadoba-Andhari tiger reserve in Chandrapur as well as Pench and Umred-Karhandla tiger sancturies in Nagpur district. Cause of death According to officials of the forest department, the deaths have been caused due to various reasons including fights breaking out among territorial young tigers, as well as poaching.Full grown tigers try to establish their own territory which leads to fights among tigers. Male tigers with territorial dominance kill cubs for mating rights. Overcrowding of habitats also forces big cats to move out of the reserve and sanctuary, during which they may meet with accidents — some fall into traps and are electrocuted — and also become vulnerable to being poached.Nitin Desai, director, central India, Wildlife Protection Society of India said that though the authorities have been successful in containing the organised tiger poaching, local poaching is still a big issue. “After the tiger population touched to a critically low population rate in 2006, the organized tiger poaching gangs were busted at national and state level. That helped in growing the population over the last 15 years. The number in Maharashtra reached 312 in 2018 from 103 in 2006. But the 32 deaths in 2021 also highlights the menace of the tiger poaching at the local level. The poaching by traps and electrocutions by the locals need to be tackled. The administration has taken a few measures, but still lot more needs to be done,” he said.Desai said that the dispersal of tigers from core breeding source areas, such as Tadoba, due to a lack of protection has also led to more deaths. “Territorial fights among tigers leading to deaths cannot be controlled beyond a point, but we must ensure that they are protected and have a conducive wildlife network. The tigers born in Chandrapur, a core breeding park, migrate to Gadchiroli, Yavatmal, Telangana and other adjoining areas where they meet with accidents or face electrocution and traps,” he added.Measures orderedIn the review meeting, Thackeray ordered forest officials to take immediate measures to reduce the deaths of the big cats. He directed officials to take up the long-term measures. “The measures should be undertaken to address the issue of the shortage of space in tiger reserves. To avert the poaching, measures should be taken to establish the network of informant with the help of locals. If the need be, bring the proposal of amendment in the existing law to make provisions for stricter punishments,” Thackeray said.The CM also asked officials to chalk out a plan to accommodate the rising number of the tigers. He said that the authorities should ensure that the natural wildlife habitat was not disturbed while planning infrastructure projects including the railway routes.Environment and tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray asked the officials to prepare a plan for more reserve areas for the protective habitat. Maharashtra has 71 reserve areas, of which six are tiger reserves.As another measure to decongest the Chandrapur reserves, which house about 200 tigers, the state forest department has planned a translocation of a few tigers. Accordingly, four to five tigresses are to be shifted to Navegaon-Nagzira tiger project and a similar number of tigers will be moved to the Sahyadri tiger project over next couple of years.Bandu Dhotre, member, State Board for State Board for Wildlife (SBWL) said that no decision has been taken as yet on translocating tigers from Chandrapur to other reserves yet. “The technical study group has been submitted to the government. There are many aspects related to the translocation of the tigers including suitable habitat, current scenario in the sanctuaries in which they are being shifted, the population and the male-female ratio etc. The final decision over the shifting will be taken during the SBWL headed by chief minister,” he said.“The 2022 census has begun and I would not be surprised if the number of tigers cross 500 in Maharashtra. The measures undertaken for the conservation of the tigers over last ten years have paid well. If the number is expected to cross 500, we will have to see if adequate measures are taken to offer them protected habitat. We have not done enough to keep with the rising population over last ten years. Chandrapur reserves are overpopulated and as a result, the tigers have started taking shelter in industrial areas of coal mines and power projects,” Dhotre said.He said that the hurdles created in tiger corridors due to the development works of dams, roads, railway too have posed challenges before the natural habitats of the tigers.
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||2022-23 admissions kick off at Chandigarh’s private schools with draw of lots||After the UT education department asked all recognised private schools to display a list of eligible candidates for the 2022-23 admission session from Friday onwards, schools have started conducting the draw of lots.Strawberry Fields High School in Sector 26 became one of the first schools to conduct the draw for entry-level classes on Friday, but a limited number of parents were called due to the ongoing Covid situation.School director Atul Khanna said, “The draw of lots was conducted at the school ground with proper care for social distancing. The parents were also quite mindful of the safety protocols, so the process went smoothly.”According to school authorities, over 300 applications were received for 75 seats. A total of 16 among these were allotted under the general category, while 59 have already been given to siblings of enrolled students.Other private schools are also expected to conduct their draws with similar protocols in the coming days. Schools have been told to display the list of selected candidates by February 1, while last date to deposit the fee is February 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/202223-admissions-kick-off-at-chandigarh-s-private-schools-with-draw-of-lots-101642275195347.html
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh man shot in knee: His two sisters, their friend arrested||Two days after a 29-year-old man was shot in the knee during a fight with his two sisters at their house in Dadumajra, police arrested the two women and their friend on Saturday. The accused have been identified as Harsimrat Kaur, alias Seema, her sister, Simran, and their friend, Jaanu Malik, all residents of Dadumajra Colony. With Malik’s arrest, police also recovered the country made pistol used in the crime, along with an empty shell. According to the victim, Gursewak, who works as a security guard in Sector 8, he had a fight with his sisters on Thursday night, following which they called their friend, who brought along some more unidentified men. During the argument, one of them shot at him and fled. The sisters are facing marital issues and have been living with their mother and brother Gursewak.Probing into the case, police arrested Malik from near the cremation ground in Dadumajra, and the sisters from a local market following their identification by their mother.A mobile phone was also recovered from the possession of Harsimrat. “In a call recording found on the phone, Malik admitted to his crime in connivance with other accused, who are still absconding. They will also be arrested shortly,” said a police official, privy to the investigation.The accused are facing a case under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code, and the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-man-shot-in-knee-his-two-sisters-their-friend-arrested-101642275143411.html
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Teen son, friends stole ₹17 lakh from Manimajra man’s house||Probing into the ₹17-lakh theft from a Manimajra house reported recently, police have apprehended the complainant’s teenaged son, along with his cousin and two friends, for the crime.According to police, the complainant’s 13-year-old son and the other minor boys, aged 14, 16 and 17, were addicted to online games, and the youngest stole the money to buy gaming portal IDs from a 27-year-old resident of Behlana village.The youth, identified as Suraj, alias Winter, has been arrested. Police have recovered ₹10.22 lakh cash, along with three Apple iPhones bought by two of the juveniles.The complainant, who runs a pharmaceutical company in Motor Market, Manimajra, had reported the theft on January 12 after finding ₹17 lakh, which he had stored in a bedbox for home renovation, missing.Detecting no sign of forced entry, police turned their investigation towards an insider’s role and zeroed in on the complainant’s teenaged son.Police said lured by Suraj to buy online game IDs on discount, the teenager stole the money in three goes. The minors paid Suraj through various sources, including through shops in Indira Colony, Behlana and Shastri Nagar, and retained some money with them. During investigation, Suraj disclosed that he was active on social media and online gaming portals, where he lured other players to buy IDs. “Hoping to flaunt these among their peers, teenagers fall in his trap,” said Neeraj Sarna, SHO, Manimajra.A Class-12 passout, Suraj is married and works as a data entry operator.Teens also blew money on clothes, mobile phones, air ticketsWith the stolen money, three of the juveniles – the complainant’s nephew and his friends –bought latest Apple iPhones, shoes, jackets and jeans.They even travelled to New Delhi and further to Patna by air, and returned by air as well. They had also booked air tickets from Chandigarh to New Delhi, but neither used them nor cancelled them. Besides, they secured some money in their bank accounts. The four juveniles were produced before the Juvenile Justice Board through video conferencing and sent back to their parents, while Suraj will be produced in a court on Sunday. With Suraj’s arrest, police have added Sections 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code in the original theft case. 
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Mohali: Realty firm booked for delay in handing over flat possession||Police have booked the management of a realty firm for failing to hand over possession of two flats to a Chandigarh resident. The complainant, a resident of Sector 36, had alleged that she booked two 1BHK flats at Dara Kingdom, Mohali, by paying booking amount of ₹46,000 and ₹20,000 in March and April 2018, respectively. Rahul Mehra, alias Rahul Dara, the managing director, and other promoters of Dara Buildtech and Developer Limited, which was building the flats, assured her of possession of flats by December 31, 2018. But they neither constructed the flats nor returned her money. Acting on her complaint, police have registered a case under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 17 police station. Further investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohalirealty-firm-booked-for-delay-in-handing-over-flat-possession-101642275137946.html
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Dentist’s arrest at ‘Chandigarh court’: HC asks sessions judge to produce CCTV footage of premises||The Punjab and Haryana high court has directed the Chandigarh district and sessions judge to produce the January 7 CCTV footage of District Courts Complex, Sector 43, from where a city-based dentist has alleged he was arrested, contrary to UT police’s claims.The bench of justice Amol Rattan Singh also asked the UT senior superintendent of police (SSP) to provide the mobile phone details of the three police personnel who arrested the dentist, Mohit Dhawan.The directions were given on January 13, during his anticipatory bail plea in a criminal case registered against him on September 21, 2020. In the said case, a Nairobi woman had accused the dentist of cheating her when she visited India to get dental implants from his clinic in 2017-2018. The dentist has been claiming that he was being harassed at the behest of former Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) special director Rakesh Asthana and former Chandigarh DGP TS Luthra. His plea to transfer the probe in the cheating case was dismissed by the high court in November 2020. Dhawan’s counsel had told the court that when, on the directions of the high court, his client went to the District Courts Complex at 10am on January 7 and got an affidavit notarised to show his presence in the cheating case, he was arrested by police before he could appear before a magistrate.However, UT’s counsel contended that Dhawan was arrested in connection with another FIR registered against him. While Dhawan claimed he was arrested from the court complex in the morning, the UT counsel said his arrest took place at 6.30pm and from behind the Sector-43 ISBT, not the court complex. The counsel also argued that if the petitioner had already got his affidavit notarised, why was it not produced before the magistrate or on January 8, when he was produced before the court upon his arrest. Taking serious view of the circumstances surrounding the dentist’s arrest, the court directed the sessions judge to preserve CCTV footage of all cameras installed outside the court from between 10am and 11.30am on January 7 and produce it on the next date of hearing. The court also sought names of the cops who arrested the dentist, following which names of crime branch inspector Harinder Singh Sekhon, sub-inspector Suresh Kumar and senior constable Neeraj were provided by the police. On this, the court directed that their call and mobile phone location details between 5pm and 8pm, and 10am and 11.30am on January 7, along with the call records of Dhawan, be obtained and produced before the court. The matter will now be taken up on January 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dentists-arrest-at-chandigarh-court-hc-asks-sessions-judge-to-produce-cctv-footage-of-premises-101642275136377.html
16-01-2022||Lucknow||UP polls: Police vigil outside party offices stepped up, notices pasted to ensure compliance with EC directives||After filing an FIR for major violation of the model code of conduct and Covid-19 protocols in connection with a Samajwadi Party event on Friday, the Lucknow police on Saturday intensified vigil and deployment outside party offices to ensure strict compliance with election commission (EC) directives in connection with the UP polls, said senior police officials here on Saturday.They said the notices were pasted at the offices of the Samajwadi Party (SP) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) after spotting crowds there.Lucknow commissioner of police (CP) DK Thakur said the police and district administration will leave no loopholes in compliance with EC directives. He said the notices have been pasted at party offices to make people aware of restrictions being imposed during the UP polls and pandemic outbreak.Thakur also said the police increased vigil outside the party offices and were carrying out videography and photography from time to time to ensure no gathering takes place there. Police patrolling is also being conducted to ensure no law and order problem arises, he further said.Another police official said the notice undersigned by the inspector of Gautampalli police station is being pasted at the Samajwadi Party office, making people aware that there are restrictions imposed under the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) Section 144 for not allowing gathering of more than four people at one place, curbs under Covid protocols, besides breach of the model code of conduct (MCC) of the Election Commission of India.Similarly, a notice was pasted at AAP office at Sapru Marg a few minutes before the manifesto committee meeting scheduled to start there at 1 pm.Earlier on Friday, the Lucknow police had filed an FIR at the Gautampalli police station against 2500 unidentified people in connection with the Samajwadi Party event over the alleged violation of the Covid protocols, breach of MCC and prohibitory orders soon after SP chief Akhilesh Yadav held a virtual rally-cum-press conference to induct former Bharatiya Janata Party leaders into his party.Moreover, the election commission suspended the police station in-charge of Gautam Palli police station, Lucknow, Dinesh Singh Bisht on the charge of gross negligence in the discharge of duties. The election commission has directed assistant police commissioner, Lucknow, Akhilesh Singh and additional city magistrate Govind Maurya to submit a clarification over the large gathering of people in a political party office and on the roads. The election commission had initially prevented the political parties from campaigning physically till January 15 amid the Covid-19 surge in the country.The Election Commission Saturday extended its ban on physical rallies and road shows in the five poll-bound states until January 22, an official statement said. The poll panel, however, granted a relaxation for the political parties to the extent that indoor meetings of maximum 300 persons or 50 per cent of the capacity of the hall, or the prescribed limit set by state disaster management authorities, the statement said. The decision was announced after a virtual meeting of the chief election commissioner with chief secretaries and chief electoral officers of the five states on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/police-vigil-outside-party-offices-stepped-up-notices-pasted-101642275014866.html
16-01-2022||Other||Two get notice for violating poll code||Patiala Rajpura Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) candidate, Charanjit Singh Brar, has been served a notice for violating the model code of conduct. The notice says that Brar organised rallies, despite a ban that the Election Commission of India had imposed. Punjab Lok Congress’ Jagdish Kumar has also been issued a notice for code violation by running campaigning and publicity vehicles without taking prior permission from returning officers concerned. The leaders have to submit their response within 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-get-notice-for-violating-poll-code-101642274775143.html
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Changing norms for registration of parties a conspiracy to hurt AAP in Punjab: Chadha||A day after the EC reduced the period for registration of new political parties, the AAP on Saturday said its claim stood vindicated and accused the poll panel of relaxing the norms in the middle of the elections to damage the poll prospects of the Arvind Kejriwal-led party in Punjab “under a conspiracy”. The AAP had on Thursday claimed that the election commission (EC) was going to register a new political party by bringing changes in its rules at the behest of the BJP in the middle of elections to stop the party from winning assembly polls in Punjab, an allegation the poll panel later dismissed, terming it “factually incorrect”. Addressing a press conference at the party’s headquarters here on Saturday, AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha, who is co-in-charge of the AAP’s political affairs in Punjab, asked the EC and the BJP to disclose the name of the “political morcha” for which the rules were changed “overnight”. The AAP leader, however, refused to name the political party in question, saying it will soon be known to everybody. The EC on Friday announced the reduction of notice period for registration of new political parties in the five poll-going states from 30 days to 7 days, keeping in view difficulties caused by Covid-19-induced curbs. “The Election Commission of India came with a circular on January 14 saying that it has reduced the 30-day notice period to 7 days in view of the political parties facing some difficulties in submitting their registration form and completing other formalities due to Covid-19 pandemic,” Chadha told reporters on Saturday. Replying to a question on whether the party now plans any legal course of action against the poll panel’s decision, Chadha said that the AAP will take the issue to the people’s court, instead of approaching the court of law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/changing-norms-for-registration-of-parties-a-conspiracy-to-hurt-aap-in-punjab-chadha-101642274716567.html
16-01-2022||Mumbai||KEM hospital students, hostel wardens booked for harassing SC student||The Bhoiwada police has registered First Information Report (FIR) against 16 persons, including 12 medical students studying at the KEM Hospital and Seth Gordhandas Sunderdas (GS) Medical College and two doctors working at the hospital for harassing and ragging a student who belongs to the Mahar community, which falls within the scheduled caste (SC) category.The accused have been booked under sections 3(1)(i),(r)(s)(z) of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, section 4 of the Maharashtra Prohibition of Ragging Act, 1999, section 504 (intentionally insults, and thereby gives provocation to any person) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code.The 24-year-old victim is a third year student of occupational therapy at GS Medical college, which is attached to the civic-run hospital.In the FIR, the complainant stated that the accused students, some of who are his roommates, have abused him since December 2018. They made casteist comments pertaining to his caste, and threatened to kill him.The student alleged that the accused made him clean utensils, wash their clothes and sweep the floors in the college premises and the hostel. The FIR added that the accused made the victim stand on top of benches as a form of physical punishment.Earlier this month, a student allegedly snatched the complainant’s phone and called him “a miser” and “a beggar” and made a reference to his caste, the FIR stated. HT has seen a copy of the document.“In March 2019, three of my roommates in the hostel room abused me and also made casteist remarks saying, ‘You belong to the Mahar community, why have you come here for studies?’ I was mentally harassed, and tortured on many occasions by the accused students. They used filthy language and threatened to kill me. I was scared and lodged many complaints. I sent an email to the hospital administration, but they didn’t resolve the problem,” the complainant said in the FIR.“We have registered an offence and further verifying and investigating the allegations. No arrest has been made yet,” Pranay Ashok, deputy commissioner of police, zone 5,who is holding additional charge of zone 4, said.In April 2019, the student lodged a complaint with the dean and other senior functionaries of the medical college and alleged that he was being ragged and abused with casteist slurs by other students. However, the college administration reportedly did not take any notice of the student’s complaint, the official quoted above said.When the 24-year-old complained about this treatment to the two doctors who are wardens of the college hostel, he was threatened by them that he will be thrown out of the college, a police official who did not wish to be quoted, said.On December 14, 2021, the student filed another complaint, after some students allegedly threatened to kill him. After submitting the letter to the dean, the student went back to his native village in Hingoli district.In this complaint letter, the student alleged that in August 2021, one of the accused students took him to a room and locked him inside. This accused student also threatened to assault him with a belt. After 15-20 minutes, the accused student allowed him to leave, but asked him to bring milk for him, while other students laughed at him, the complaint stated.He further wrote that while everyone was allowed to dry their clothes outside, the hostel wardens would yell at him for doing so, and asked him to maintain distance when interacting with them. “Such behaviour is inhuman,” the student wrote in his complaint.The complainant wrote that ever since the second year of his studies started, a few students were harassing him. HT has seen a copy of the letter.On December 15, the college administration set up an anti-ragging inquiry committee which eventually concluded that no ragging had taken place as the student did not present sufficient evidence to support his allegations.“The FIR has been registered, as the complainant was not satisfied with findings of the anti-ragging committee constituted by the college,” DCP Ashok said.KEM dean Dr Sangeeta Ravat, said: “Initially a small committee was looking into the matter, but after I joined, a 21-member committee that also comprised independent members from an NGO, a journalist and two parents (as per the university guidelines) looked into the student’s complaint. The police were also present throughout this proceeding.”“The committee recorded versions of the students, teachers. The committee didn’t find anyone who said anything in his (the complainant) favour or supported his claims. He was given sufficient opportunity to express his problems so that the same can be resolved. But nothing could be verified. Not a single student supported his claims. He called three to four students, but they too said that they have also heard about his problems, but they have not witnessed any incident. He complained of alleged incidents that occurred inside hostel rooms which cannot be verify through CCTV footage,” she said.“In addition, we formed a guardian committee, which comprises an anatomy professor of his choice, to ensure that he does not face any problem till he finishes his studies,” Ravat said.The details of the measures undertaken by the hospital administration was sent to the mayor and the law officer of the civic body.Assistant Commissioner of Police (Sion division) Ashwini Patil, the investigation officer in the case, said that an internal committee of the KEM’s college has looked in to the matter. The student also made a complaint before the state’s SC-ST commission on December 23, 2021Senior inspector of Bhoiwada police station Jitendra Pawar said that according to the complainant, the accused students used casteist slurs against the complainant. The police are now in process of collecting evidence and identifying witnesses to verify complainant student’s allegations.The complainant’s father runs a small shop in Hingoli and his mother is a housewife. His elder sister has completed her studies in dentistry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kem-hospital-students-hostel-wardens-booked-for-harassing-sc-student-101642274715380.html
16-01-2022||Noida||Noida: Man arrested for snatching mobile phones of morning walkers||A 25-year-old man was arrested for his allegedly snatching mobile phones of morning walkers in Noida. Police identified the suspect as Pintu alias Nevla, a resident of Mayur Vihar area in Delhi.Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police (Noida), said the suspect was involved in around 18 cases of snatching in Noida. “On Saturday morning, the police team was carrying out routine checking near the transport department office in Noida’s Sector 32. The police spotted the suspect on a motorcycle without a number plate at 9:30am. The police signalled him to stop for checking but he opened fire and tried to escape,” he said. The police team chased the suspect and managed to catch hold of him. “The police also opened fire, in which he received a bullet injury in his right leg. The suspect was rushed to the district hospital for primary treatment,” said Singh. During interrogation, the suspect revealed he used to snatch mobile phones of people on morning walk. “In most of the cases, he used a stolen motorcycle without a number plate to escape surveillance. He was also wanted in some cases of vehicle theft in Noida,” said the officer. A countrymade gun, a stolen motorcycle and two mobile phones have been recovered from the suspect, who was produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-man-arrested-for-snatching-mobile-phones-of-morning-walkers-101642274596620.html
16-01-2022||Other||Faridabad: Four held for duping people posing bank employees||The Faridabad police on Friday arrested four members of an interstate gang for allegedly duping over 50 people in different states on the pretext of providing them with holiday packages after posing as employees of private banks.The gang members were operating from Uttam Nagar in Delhi and Farrukhabad in Uttar Pradesh, police said, adding that 18 mobile phones, 18 SIM cards, ₹35,000 cash and some equipment used to forge documents were recovered from the suspects. The suspects have been identified as Uttam Singh, a native of Bihar, Tushar from Rajasthan, Mohammad Mubin and Maj Mohammad, both from Uttar Pradesh. Uttam and Tushar were residing in Delhi, while Mubin and Maj were living in UP, police said.Basant Kumar, station house officer (SHO) of Cybercrime police station, Faridabad, said that the suspects used to buy bulk data of bank customers through a search engine company and make calls offering holiday packages for free. “The suspects used to obtain details of credit cards such as card number, CVV number, expiry date, and OTP from the victims and swindle them of their balance using the card details,” he said. The suspects called over 3,000 people and duped around 55 of them, police said, adding that they opened four bank accounts in the last six months and collected nearly ₹65 lakh. “The gang duped 17 victims from Delhi-NCR, 15 from different districts of Uttar Pradesh, nine from Telangana, five from Haryana, three from Maharashtra, two from West Bengal and one each from Assam, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand,” said the SHO. Kumar said the suspects used different customised applications to make calls using the private bank customer care numbers. “These days gangs are using spoof apps to dupe people and several similar complaints have been registered in the last two months,” he said. Police said the incident came to the fore after Manoj Kumar, a resident of Jawahar Colony in Faridabad, filed a police complaint alleging that he was duped of ₹97,976 by unidentified persons posing as bank officials. The SHO said after preliminary investigation, a case was registered last week under sections 419 (cheating by impersonation),420 (cheating), 467 (forgery), 468 (forging document), 471 (using forged document),120B (conspiracy) and 201A (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender) of Indian Penal code at the Cybercrime police station. The official said that a team was formed and investigation was conducted based on technical surveillance. In Haryana alone, five cases are registered against the gang -- one in Faridabad, one each in Jind and Karnal, and two in Sirsa, said police. The suspects were produced before the court on Friday that sent them to police remand for two days. 
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Parvinder Sohana is SAD candidate from Mohali||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Saturday announced Parvinder Singh Sohana, 41, as the party’s candidate from Mohali for the Punjab legislative assembly elections scheduled for February 14. With this, Mohali will witness a multi-cornered contest.A former Labourfed chairman, Sohana, who was holding the post of Youth Akali Dal (Mohali) president, left the SAD in January last year before the municipal corporation elections owing to differences with former Member Parliament Prem Singh Chandumajra. He joined hands with the Azad group, which was headed by former mayor Kulwant Singh to contest the elections, following which the SAD expelled him from the party. In the elections, the Azad group managed to win 11 seats out of the total 50, while 37 went to the Congress and the SAD drew a blank.Later in October last year, Sohana along with his supporters rejoined the SAD in the presence of party president Sukhbir Singh Badal, who assured him and his team members due honour and recognition in the party.Sohana, who is a graduate has remained the Labourfed chairman besides sarpanch of the Sohana village (2008-2013), Zila Parishad member and MC councillor (2015-2020). At present, his wife Harjinder Kaur is a councillor.“I am thankful to the party leaders for giving me a chance to contest the elections from my home town. People are fed up with both the Congress and AAP, and I am hopeful of winning the seat with a huge margin,” said Sohana, who also played a key role during the farmers’ agitation in Mohali.With the Saturday’s announcement, the SAD has announced its 94 candidates and three are remaining. The party is contesting on 97 seats in a pre-poll alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), which is contesting on 20 seats in the 117-member assembly. The SAD is still to declare candidates on Lambi, Amritsar-East and Baba Bakala seats, which is expected on Sunday.
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Tricity Buzz: Arvind Kejriwal savours taste of Punjab||Aam Aadmi Party national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal enjoyed Punjab’s wholesome winter delicacy of makki di roti with sarhon da saag at a tubewell in the midst of lush fields in Kharar during a stopover while on a two-day visit to Mohali recently. It was Lohri and Kejriwal got a taste of Punjab as he was served the traditional cuisine on a charpoy in a field near the Kurali bypass. Farmers working in the vicinity were prompt to gather around and get photos clicked with the AAP chief. Some didn’t miss the opportunity to list out their grievances, to which Kejriwal assured that once voted to power, the AAP would sort out all their problems. Punjab AAP president Bhagwant Mann all ears. Winter woes: Home guard volunteers left high and dry With the sun remaining elusive for most of the week, home guard volunteers of Chandigarh Police were in a fix over drying their laundry. When some of them put out their clothes to dry on the roof of a police station the other day, an embarrassed deputy superintendent of police (DSP) sent his driver and gunman to bring the clothes down immediately. The DSP issued directions to the volunteers to refrain from such conduct. The police station houses the office of the DSP, while the home guard volunteers stay on the premises. To avoid such embarrassment, Chandigarh Police would do well to either provide laundry facility or have dryers installed for clothes. Covid care: When adversity brings out the best in us As soon as the Covid-19 cases started rising in the tricity of Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali, social workers and non-governmental organisations (NGOs) stepped up relief for patients in isolation. From food to medicines, NGOs are providing relief to patients. A few organisations met Chandigarh health secretary Yashpal Garg recently and sought permission to distribute fresh fruits to patients in isolation in mini-Covid care centres. After giving his approval, Dr Garg appreciated their noble gesture of contributing towards the management of the pandemic. Noble cause: PGIMER appeals for blood donation Following the surge in Covid-19 cases, the supply of blood in the department of transfusion medicine (blood bank) at the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, has been hit. The department supplies 250-300 blood and blood components a day to meet the requirement of patients, including those admitted for surgical and medical emergencies, besides those in ICUs, thalassaemia and pregnant women. The PGIMER authorities have appealed to people to donate blood. “All healthy adults in the tricity between the age of 18-60 years are requested to come forward for this noble cause so that the blood and blood components supply to the critically sick patients and those on regular transfusion therapy can be maintained uninterrupted,” the appeal said. Buzz over traffic DSP’s quiz on road safety To reach out to the public and inform them about road safety and traffic rules, deputy superintendent of police (DSP), traffic administration, Palak Goel took to conducting quizzes on Twitter. Last week, Goel posted three such polls that touched upon cycle tracks, engineering works under the traffic police and road markings. The result showed that most people were able to answer correctly. Goel took the time out to reply to queries, too. Twitter users found humour in the initiative, with one user even asking the DSP if he would be issued a challan for answering a question incorrectly. Inputs by Hillary Victor, Shailee Dogra, Mandeep Narula and Rajanbir Singh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tricity-buzz-arvind-kejriwal-savours-taste-of-punjab-101642274302850.html
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid in Chandigarh: 15 areas account for 42% cases in past week||As many as 42% Covid-19 cases reported in Chandigarh in the past one week (from January 8 to 14) surfaced in 15 residential pockets, raising concerns of rising community transmission.There are 100 residential pockets in the city, including sectors, villages and colonies, and fresh cases are being reported from each of them, data made available by the UT health department revealed. Of the total 7,261 cases reported in the city in the past week, as many as 3,090 cases were from 15 worst-affected areas, which included Manimajra and Dhanas besides Sectors 15, 19, 20, 22, 23, 32, 35, 37, 38, 40, 44, 45 and 49.At 606, the highest number of cases was reported from Manimajra, which accounted for 9% of the city’s tally. At 323, Sector 15 is placed second, followed by 212 cases in Sector 38 and 211 in Sector 22.‘Community transmission, but no hot spot‘Dr Suman Singh, director, health services, Chandigarh, said: “Manimajra is a densely populated area with small houses or quarters. Most households have joint families with their members in the working class. As people move out for work and then come back to such small houses, where no social distancing can be followed, infection gets transmitted among family members.”Dr Singh said that as the present wave has reached the community transmission stage, it is not possible to trace the source of infection. “Cases are being reported among people from all walks of life, in all age groups and from across the city. Even then, there is no cluster or hot spot in Chandigarh, as cases are consistently increasing in all areas and there was no sudden outbreak in any pocket,” she said. Meanwhile, talking about the high infection rate in Sector 15, area councillor Saurabh Joshi said: “The sector has government quarters, nursing quarters, PG accommodations and hostels. Since many healthcare workers, from both the PGIMER and GMSH-16, live in Sector 15, and the infection rate is high among them, their families are also testing positive. Also, students moving out for coaching classes or to have food at crowded restaurants are vulnerable to infection,” he said.221 active micro-containment zones in ChandigarhAs on Saturday, there as many as 221 active micro-containment zones in Chandigarh. These are blocks of houses or buildings in residential areas where Covid-19 cases have surfaced. “A micro-containment zone is declared when three or more people from the same area are tested positive. The transmissibility of the infection is being reported among close contacts or family members only, and hence, micro-containment zones are being declared only in parts of localities,” said Dr Singh. She further clarified that an entire area is declared a hot spot and turned into a containment zone only if there are more than 200 cases reported from there in a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-in-chandigarh-15-areas-account-for-42-cases-in-past-week-101642274301642.html
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC: Congress demands only apolitical persons as nominated councillors||The Chandigarh Congress has written to the UT administrator demanding that only apolitical persons should be nominated as councillors in the city’s municipal corporation (MC).“Prior to 2016, the nominations of councillors were made strictly as per the provisions of the law, considering those persons who are eminent or distinguished in public affairs or those who have special knowledge or practical experience in respect of municipal administration, but none of the active members of any political parties were considered,” Chandigarh Congress chief Subhash Chawla said in a letter. Chawla said that in 2016, out of nine nominated councillors, five were having affiliations with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). This time, though a new corporation has been constituted, nine councillors have not been nominated, and names of various political persons affiliated to the BJP are being floated, the letter further stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-congress-demands-only-apolitical-persons-as-nominated-councillors-101642274300348.html
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Congress again bets on MLA Balbir Sidhu from Mohali||The Congress has once again reposed faith in Mohali MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu, 61, nominating the former minister for the fourth time from the assembly segment represented by him for the past three terms.The Congress on Saturday released its first list of 86 candidates, including 58 sitting legislators, for the February 14 assembly elections in Punjab. The party is yet to declare names of candidates from the other two assembly segments in Mohali district — Dera Bassi and Kharar — that are represented by the Shiromani Akali Dal and Aam Aadmi Party, respectively.“I am thankful to the party high command for reposing faith in me. I promise them to win the seat and add it to the kitty of the Congress party. I have full faith in the people of Mohali, as we have carried out a number of development works in the past five years, which are for everyone to see,” Sidhu said after his nomination.Sidhu has won the seat three times in a row since 2007, and after the party formed the government in 2017, he was even awarded a cabinet berth. His clout kept rising under the then chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, and he even managed to get his brother, Amarjeet Singh Sidhu, elected as the Mohali mayor.However, when Charanjit Singh Channi became the chief minister, Sidhu — who was the health minister and was leading Punjab’s fight against Covid-19 pandemic — was dropped from the state cabinet. Later, the two decided to patch up, as Channi promised to field him from Mohali again. Even Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu visited the former minister’s house and termed him the most important leader of the party in the state.As for the other parties, the AAP was the first to declare former mayor and real estate baron Kulwant Singh as its candidate from Mohali, while the SAD named former Labourfed chairman Parvinder Singh Sohana on Saturday. The BJP is yet to announce its nominee. In the municipal elections held in 2021, the Congress won 37 of 50 seats, the Azad group led by Kulwant Singh got 11 seats, and both the BJP and SAD drew a blank.
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh horror: Another woman found murdered||Three days after a woman was found murdered in Maloya, the body of another woman with stab wounds was found in the forest area in Mauli Jagran near the Chandigarh railway station on Saturday morning. Police also recovered a small knife from near the body.The woman, aged 33, resided in Mauli village and had been working as a sanitation worker at the Mauli Jagran police station for the past six months. She had gone missing on Friday night. A passerby informed the police about the body on Saturday morning, following which station house officers of both Government Railway Police (GRP) and Mauli Jagran reached the spot to investigate the matter.GRP station house officer (SHO) sub-inspector Vilayati Ram said: “The woman was found with stab wounds all over her body. A small knife was also recovered from near her body. Its forensic examination will confirm if it is the murder weapon, but seeing the injuries, it seems unlikely.” A case of murder under Sector 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered at the GRP police station, he said. Police are awaiting the postmortem report to confirm if the woman was sexually assaulted before the murder. The woman is survived by her husband, who is physically handicapped, besides a son, aged 15, and daughter, aged 18. The son said she had gone to work as usual on Friday morning. “My mother usually went to the police station around 7am and would come back by 10-11am. Even on Friday, she returned around that time, but left again around 1pm to attend a hawan at the police station,” he said. Later, he had met his mother on visiting the police station to get food around 5pm. According to police, the woman was last seen at the Mauli Jagran police station around 6pm. The SHO said that according to the family, the woman didn’t have enmity with anyone. “We have not been able to identify any suspicious person yet, but we are going through the CCTV footage of nearby areas,” he said. Her body has been kept at the mortuary of the Government Hospital in Sector 6, Panchkula. Earlier, on Wednesday morning, police had recovered the naked body of a woman from bushes near her house in Maloya. A mother of three, the 40-year-old had gone missing the previous night. Her mouth was found gagged and she is suspected to have been strangulated. No headway has been made in that case yet.The two heinous crimes have surfaced at a time public movement is restricted in view of the Covid-19 surge and increased police presence is expected to enforce the night curfew and other curbs in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-horror-another-woman-found-murdered-101642274297969.html
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid surge continues in Chandigarh tricity area with 3,802 new cases||The daily Covid-19 cases in the Chandigarh tricity area hit a new record for fourth consecutive day, as 3,802 people were confirmed positive for the virus on Saturday.The daily infections surged to 1,497 in Mohali district, the highest since the outbreak in March 2020. The previous record was set during the second wave, when the peak was recorded at 1,382 on May 10. The fresh cases were spread across the district, with Mohali city accounting for 578, followed by 336 in Dhakoli and 212 in Dera Bassi.The district also reported a virus-related fatality (of a 71-year-old comorbid patient from Phase 9 who had taken just one vaccine dose), the lone case across the tricity on Saturday. In Panchkula, 510 people tested positive, a spike from 441 cases on Friday. The record was set on January 12, with 734 cases. Chandigarh led the single-day tally in the tricity with 1,795 cases, though it saw a slight dip for the first time in four days. The UT had recorded its all-time high with 1,834 cases on Friday. Meanwhile, at the PGIMER, 151 more healthcare workers, including 43 doctors, tested positive. Since December 20, 1,360 healthcare workers, including 524 doctors, have contracted the virus at the region’s premier health institute in Chandigarh.18,109 active cases, only 1.2% hospitalisedWith a surge in daily infections, the active caseload in the tricity has jumped to 18,109, fast inching towards the record of 24,201 set during the second wave on May 12.However, with most patients being asymptomatic or having just mild symptoms, just 222 (1.2%) are hospitalised. In Chandigarh, of 8,511 active cases, 160 people are hospitalised, 8,263 are isolated at their homes and 88 at mini Covid care centres. Mohali has 6,744 active cases, but just 11 patients are hospitalised, one of whom is in the ICU. Panchkula currently has 2,865 active cases, of which 2,814 are home isolated and 51 are hospitalised. Even the average case fatality rate in January is a negligible 0.05%, due to just 14 deaths recorded in comparison to 23,744 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-surge-continues-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-with-3-802-new-cases-101642274296736.html
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Call 1075: Chandigarh sets up 24x7 Covid control room at GMSH-16||The Chandigarh administration on Saturday set up a control room with the helpline number 1075 at Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, where doctors, interns and other support staff will remain available round the clock to facilitate Covid-19 patients and citizens in general in view of the pandemic.“Citizens can call on the helpline number 1075 any time to get details on any Covid-related issue, including vaccination, medical oxygen, home isolation and ambulance. The staff on duty will answer the queries of the caller and try to close the matter to the satisfaction of the caller. In case the control room is unable to settle the matter and there is a need to refer the matter to other sections, such as the Rapid Response Team (RRT), the department concerned will itself call the people to answer their queries,” said UT health secretary Yashpal Garg.Garg said that in case of any emergency, the team will rush to the caller, without losing any time. Dr Paramjit Singh, deputy medical superintendent (GMSH-16), will closely monitor the functioning of the control room round the clock and resolve all the related issues.“Considering that 98% of the infected patients are in home isolation, we need to give special focus on their care,” said Garg. “Facilities should be enhanced to reduce unnecessary rush toward hospitals, which will help in reserving beds for serious patients. RRT teams have been directed to make calls to all those isolated on the day of getting their details. Minimum 10% of such calls should be video calls to inspire more confidence in the patient. The RRT will give the emergency contact numbers to the patients. Each of the RRT team will be provided a desktop computer or laptop immediately.”Health secy asks PGIMER to ensure coordinationSince data from the PGIMER mostly differs from that of the UT health department, the health secretary asked the premier institute to ensure proper coordination in the time of crisis. “Since the data of Chandigarh includes details of PGIMER, and all the reporting of data to the Union government is done by the health department, there is a need to have better coordination. The director, PGIMER, is directed to depute some senior officers as nodal person to coordinate with the UT health department. All the requisite details should be provided timely in the prescribed formats to avoid delay in compilation and submission of reports to authorities,” said Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/call-1075-chandigarh-sets-up-24x7-covid-control-room-at-gmsh16-101642274295457.html
16-01-2022||Other||At 12°C, Gurugram records season’s coldest day||The city on Saturday recorded the coldest day of this season, with the maximum temperature dropping to 12 degrees Celsius (°C) which was eight degrees below normal. The city witnessed a drop of 2.4°C in the maximum temperature in the past 24 hours, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The city on Friday had recorded the maximum temperature at 14.4°C. The minimum temperature on Saturday was 7.5°C which was one degree above normal. On Saturday, dense fog was witnessed in the city with the visibility dropping to less than 100 metres at many places in the morning hours, IMD said. The IMD also predicted that cold day conditions will continue for two more days in the city. According to IMD, when the maximum temperature is less than or equal to 16°C in the plains, it is considered a “cold day”. “The south Haryana region, including Gurugram and Faridabad districts, will witness cold day conditions and dense fog on Sunday and Monday. The weather is likely to clear from Tuesday onwards. No significant change in minimum temperatures is likely over the region during the next two days and a rise by two to three degrees thereafter is likely,” said Manmohan Singh, director, Meteorological Centre Chandigarh, a regional centre of IMD. Meanwhile, with an air quality index of 199 on Saturday, Gurugram’s air quality improved to “moderate” category from “very poor” (AQI reading of 383) on Friday, according to the 4pm bulletin of the Central Pollution Control Board.According to the weather bulletin issued by the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi-NCR, over the next two days, the air quality is likely to remain in the lower end of “very poor” category as the winds will remain relatively slow with poor ventilation conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/at-12-c-gurugram-records-season-s-coldest-day-101642274235005.html
16-01-2022||Noida||Noida: Two men open fire at brothers in Sector 63, one killed||A 34-year-old man died while his brother was injured when two people allegedly opened fire at them in Chhijarsi village in Noida’s Sector 63 on Saturday morning. The deceased was identified as Sageer Azam. Both he and his injured brother Sayed Azam (40) were residents of Noida’s Sector 63. Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said the two brothers were going on a motorcycle to Murga Mandi in Delhi’s Ghazipur, where they worked. “The police team received a call early morning from a local, who informed them about the firing incident. A police team soon reached the spot and rushed the two victims to a private hospital. While Sageer died, Sayed, who sustained a bullet shot in his chest, is stable and undergoing treatment,” said Chander. Sageer received a bullet injury on his head and another in his abdomen. Dharmendra Shukla, station house officer of Sector 63 police station, said the victim’s brother Danish (30) has filed a complaint. “Sayed had named his maternal cousins – Bilal and Hilal – for shooting at them,” Shukla said. Shukla said that the police have detained the two suspects in connection with the attack. “We have registered a case against them under Section 302 (murder) of IPC. Primary investigation shows the victims and the suspects are relatives and they have dispute over some shops in Ghazipur mandi. The victim had previously filed a complaint against the suspects in Delhi. We are investigating the matter from all angles,” said the officer. The two suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-two-men-open-fire-at-brothers-in-sector-63-one-killed-101642274175026.html
16-01-2022||Noida||Noida police registered 12,609 cases in 2021, number of serious crimes drop||Gautam Budh Nagar police recorded 12,609 cases in 2021, around 3,500 more than the 9,130 cases registered the previous year, shows the annual crime data of the district police. Though there is a significant rise in the total number of cases, which the police attribute to the challans that were issued last year for violating Covid norms,police said heinous crimes, such as dacoity, loot, murder, rape, etc, have gone down. On January 13, 2020, the Uttar Pradesh government formed the commissionerate system of policing in Gautam Budh Nagar, which completed two years now. Commissioner of Gautam Budh Nagar police Alok Singh said the crimes have actually decreased. “The rise in the total number of cases is because police had issued many challans and registered cases under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC for enforcement of Covid protocols in 2021,” said Singh.He said the police have significantly controlled crimes in the district. “We also busted 32 organised gangs and arrested 311 people allegedly involved in them last year. The suspects involved in stealing laptops and mobile phones from parked cars were also arrested. There has been a check on serious crimes. Strict action was taken in cases of crime against women. The suspects were sent to jail and the police pursued the cases in court to ensure the accused was given strict punishment,” said the commissioner.Serious crimes The police recorded no FIR for dacoity and abduction, 52 for loot, 79 for murder, 125 for rioting, 143 for house-trespass, 41 for rape, and 110 for sexual harassment in 2021. Official data of 2020 shows two cases were registered for dacoity, 75 for loot, 81 for murder, 129 for rioting, 181 for house-trespass, two for kidnapping, 42 for rape, and 143 for sexual harassment. An analysis of the data shows 2021’s crime records are similar to that of 2019, when there were no restrictions on movement and total 12,610 cases were registered. In 2018 and 2017, the police registered 10,048 and 9,929 cases respectively.Gangster Act In 2020, the police registered 47 FIRs under the Gangster Act and arrested 194 people, against last year’s 149 arrests in 31 cases. The police registered a total of 78 cases against 343 people under the Gangster Act since the commissionerate system came into effect. The police also seized properties worth crores of rupees of the suspects in two years.Encounters While 252 suspects were arrested in 140 encounters in 2020, 211 arrests were made in 86 encounters last year, shows police data. The police said most of these suspects were involved in street crimes, such as looting, snatching, robbing people after offering lift in their cars, etc. The police commissioner said sometimes when the suspects resist arrest and open fire at the police team, this results in exchange of fire and encounters.Vehicle thefts Vehicle theft is also a serious problem in Gautam Budh Nagar as about four vehicles get stolen every day on average. The police said in 2021, 1,259 cases of vehicle thefts were registered, of which 816 vehicles were recovered. In 2020, total 1,219 vehicles were stolen from Gautam Budh Nagar and the police managed to recover 841 vehicles. The police advised people to observe precaution and park their vehicles in authorised parking zones and also install high-security registrations plates for safety.Organised gangs The police busted 32 gangs and arrested 311 suspects in 2021 against 17 such organised gangs and 507 arrests in 2020. The gang members were involved in exam paper solving, auto lifting, stealing valuables from parked car, running fake call centres, etc.Cybercrime The police also registered some cases of cyber crimes but such data was not provided separately. The commissioner said the police solved several cases of cyber crime and also managed to return ₹1.7 crore to the complainants after timely intervention. The commissioner said cybercrime is an important issue and the police will create more awareness. He advised people not to click on unsolicited links on mobile phones. “People should not share any personal information with any caller, who asks for registration for Covid vaccine or booster doze on the phone as they may steal the details and withdraw money fraudulently,” he said.Dial 112 response The Noida police said that the district’s 112 helpline has bagged first position six times in a row in UP for swift response. In December 2021, the Noida’s 112 helpline received 12,006 calls and the police response vehicle (PRVs) reached the spot in 6:09 minuets in urban areas and 7:58 minutes in rural areas on average, shows police data.Police priority The Gautam Budh Nagar police said now, their priority is to ensure the elections are conducted smoothly and also ensure compliance to social distancing norms to check the spread of Covid-19. Providing security to the Jewar airport is also on the priority list. Singh said the department is also setting up a special cell, which will be trained to diffuse terror modules and other such activities.What resident says K K Jain, secretary general of Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Association said the crimes in Noida have decreased after the commissionerate system came into effect. “The police now frequently hold meetings with us and take security measures accordingly. Some gangs have been busted last year and as a result of it, we see fewer complaints of thefts and robberies coming from the sectors. We feel that the police should expedite the verification process of tenants and domestic helps. They have an online process but it is not smooth,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-police-registered-12-609-cases-in-2021-number-of-serious-crimes-drop-101642274056379.html
16-01-2022||Noida||Noida records 1,873 fresh Covid cases, tally of active infections reaches 12,526||Gautam Budh Nagar reported 1,873 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the tally of active infections to 12,526, said the district health department.Nearly 15,000 fresh cases have been added in the district during January so far.The district has been recording an increase in the number of recoveries as 1,051 people turned Covid negative on Saturday. Meanwhile, of the total active cases, 129 patients were in hospital, though none was in critical condition, officials said.The district magistrate (DM) on Friday extended the restrictions, which were imposed by the state till January 15 in districts with more than 1,000 Covid cases. The restrictions include closure of all schools till Class 10, closure of swimming pools, gyms and water parks; and restaurants, food joints and cinema halls to allow 50% of their capacity.The move comes even as several officials on election duty have tested Covid positive. After SDM Dadri turned positive last week, two other assistant returning officers are Covid positive now. Several ground officials are also Covid positive as of now. However, officials said that there were plans in place to replace such officials.“We have enough staff as backup for the Covid positive officials. Besides, the polling date is still about a month from now. Since most officials have mild symptoms, they will recover by then. Many of our officials are working from home even after testing positive,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate.Meanwhile, the district has completed vaccinating around 93% of its second dose beneficiaries and almost 50% of the 15-17 age group. Officials said that 100% of both categories will be achieved within a week.“We are hoping that the vaccination of the second dose as well as the 15-17 age group will be completed within a week. We just request that all those who are due for their second dose should get it without delay,” said Dr Amit Vikram, district immunisation officer.So far, 3,522,000 vaccine doses have been administered to the beneficiaries in the district. This includes 2,066,000 first dose, 1,444,000 second dose and 10,571 precautionary dose. It also includes nearly 54,000 doses given in the 15-17 age group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-records-1-873-fresh-covid-cases-tally-of-active-infections-reaches-12526-101642274054925.html
16-01-2022||Noida||BJP reposes faith in Ghaziabad’s five sitting MLAs, offers them poll ticket||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday released the list of their candidates for the first and second phases of the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, and reposed faith in all the five sitting MLAs from Ghaziabad. While declaring the list of the candidates on Saturday, BJP functionaries said they finalised candidates for 57 out of the 58 constituencies which will go to the polls in the first phase on February 10, and 48 out of the 55 constituencies which will go to the polls in the second phase. According to party sources, the BJP has repeated 63 of the 83 sitting MLAs in their list, and nearly 58% of the candidates are from the other backward classes (OBC) and scheduled castes (SC). The list also includes names of 10 women candidates.“The Yogi Adityanath-led government in Uttar Pradesh has tightened the noose for goondas and corrupt people in the past five years, the biggest example being women can walk safely at night in the state. In the past five years, there have been no riots in Uttar Pradesh. There is a new hope and the state is now heading towards becoming the number one state in the country,”said Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan during a press briefing on Saturday. “People of Uttar Pradesh will shower their blessings on the BJP, and we will again win with more than 300 seats this election,” Pradhan added. Ghaziabad district has five assembly seats-- Loni, Muradnagar, Sahibabad, Ghaziabad and Modinagar. The BJP candidates, who have been the party ticket, said they have already jotted down their agendas while adding that it is their grassroot level work, which has helped them get a ticket to contest the elections for a second time. The biggest seat of Sahibabad, comprising localities such as Indirapuram, Vasundhara, Vaishali, will be represented by sitting BJP MLA Sunil Sharma, who will face his rival rival Amarpal Sharma--the candidate nominated by the Samajwadi Party (SP). This is the fourth time that Sunil Sharma got the BJP ticket for contesting the assembly elections. Sunil Sharma has been associated with the BJP for about 32 years and was an active worker during the ‘Ram Mandir Andolan’ launched by the party. He was a district president of the BJP’s youth wing in 1990 and also remained a city president in 2001, after which he got his first assembly ticket in 2007 and defeated Suresh Bansal of the Bahujan Samaj Pary (BSP) from the Ghaziabad constituency.  Sharma got his second assembly ticket for Sahibabad assembly seat and lost to Amarpal Sharma in the 2012 elections, who then contested on a BSP ticket. In the 2017 elections, Sharma defeated Amarpal Sharma, who then contested on a Congress ticket, by a margin of 150,685 votes.  “People have seen the works done by the BJP in Centre and the state as well. The party has changed candidates in places, such as Garhmukteshwar, Dibai, Bulandshahr etc, wherever required. They have assessed the ground level situation in Ghaziabad and repeated the candidates,” said Sunil Sharma.  “We have only a single point agenda of development. Some projects, such as a government hospital, is in pipeline and it will be surely completed this time. The project for water supply for Khoda is almost final. The works done so far will be carried forward,” he added. Like Sharma, UP minister Atul Garg, who will be contesting the elections from Ghaziabad constituency, has been nominated for the third time by the BJP. Garg is the son of former mayor late Dinesh Chand Garg. Garg was defeated in the 2012 elections, when he was trounced by his rival Suresh Bansal of the BSP. However, he defeated Bansal in the 2017 polls with a margin of 70,505 votes.  “Our agenda is clear--- development of Ghaziabad city. Repeating candidates shows that the party is confident of the works done by the MLAs and this is why the same candidates are being given tickets again,” said Garg, who also holds charge as a state minister and holds the portfolios of health, family welfare, mother and child welfare. “The healthcare infrastructure got a major boost during the pandemic. If the opposition parties say that we did not work, they should come out with facts. The pandemic affected all states across the country and UP did remarkable work in providing treatment, medicines and other facilities,” said Garg, who is pitted against Bansal again (BSP) and Congress candidate Sushant Goyal. Nand Kishor Gurjar has been offered a ticket again for the Loni constituency. Gurgar joined the BJP in 2009 on the insistence of Union minister Rajnath Singh, who contested the Lok Sabha elections from Ghaziabad and secured a majority. Gurjar was offered his first assembly ticket from Loni in 2017, when he defeated his rival Zakir Ali from BSP, by a margin of 42,813 votes and since then, has been raising issues of illegal slaughterhouse, cattle slaughtering, etc. This time, he is pitted against political heavyweight Madan Bhaiya, who is one of the key contestants from Loni fielded by the Rashtriya Lok Dal-SP combine. Both the candidates are Gurjars and have marked presence among voters in Loni which has a mixed population. Gurjar could not be reached for his comments on Saturday. Dr Manju Shivach, who will be contesting on a BJP ticket for a second time from Modinagar, hails from a family that has been traditionally associated with the BJP. She is a gynaecologist and her family owns a hospital in Modinagar, which is also managed by her husband Dr Devendra Shivach. “It is the hard work which I have put in that has earned me the ticket for a second time. During my tenure, I lowered the development charges from ₹3,090 to ₹1,200 and also completed the flyover works and a girls’ degree college. Besides, I also brought in an oxygen plant. During the pandemic, no opposition party leaders were out on streets while I was doing rounds of hospitals and cremation grounds with people,” said Shivach, who defeated BSP’s Wahab Chaudhary by a margin of 66,582 votes in the 2017 elections.“Next, I have an agenda for setting up a higher education college, open gyms, declare one area as an industrial area. Besides, I am also trying to get in a good CBSE or Kendriya Vidyalaya school for children here. I am also trying to promote more women self-help groups for financial independence of women,” she added. Ajit Pal Tyagi, who is the sitting MLA from Muradnagar and has been offered a ticket again, is the son of former UP minister Raj Pal Tyagi. Pal faces Surendra Kumar Munni, who has been fielded by the Rashtriya Lok Dal, which has stitched an alliance with the Samajwadi Party in western Uttar Pradesh. The other contenders for this constituency include Mahesh Tyagi from the Aam Aadmi Party, Bijender Yadav from the Congress and Haji Ayyub Idrishi from the BSP.Tyagi had defeated Sudhan Rawat of the BSP by a margin of 89,612 votes from Muradnagar in the 2017 polls.“The candidates in Ghaziabad were not changed as the five surveys by the party found that the five sitting MLAs have worked in their respective areas and have more chances of winning,” said Sanjeev Sharma, city president of the BJP.
16-01-2022||Lucknow||Winter bares fangs: Lucknow day temperature down 6 degrees||Following the recent snowfall in the lower Himalayas, the day temperatures recorded a considerable drop across Uttar Pradesh on Saturday. The day temperatures in Lucknow were recorded at 15.5 degrees Celsius, lowest this month. The day temperature was recorded six degrees below normal.The day temperature dropped by an average of 4 degrees across the state. “The recent snowfall in the Himalayas accompanied by a high-pressure zone created above northern parts due to the Western Disturbances is the primary cause of drop in day temperatures across Uttar Pradesh,” explained JP Gupta, director, state MeT department.The Indian Meteorological Department has issued a similar forecast across Uttar Pradesh for January 16. According to the forecast, the minimum day temperature in Lucknow is expected to stay around 15 degrees Celsius while the minimum temperature can drop to 8 degrees Celsius on Sunday.The drop in temperatures was noticed a day after the Indian Meteorological Department issued a state-wide alert of heavy fog and a cold wave in parts of Uttar Pradesh. “Acting on the alert, we have communicated to the district authorities to take appropriate action to prevent damage caused by extreme cold weather. The agriculture department has also been advised to communicate the weather change to farmers so that they can prevent damage to crops.”According to agriculture experts the cold weather is beneficial to cereal crops but can damage tuber crops like that of potatoes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/winter-bares-fangs-lucknow-day-temperature-down-6-degrees-101642273934839.html
16-01-2022||Other||Gurugram: DTCP faces stiff resistance during demolition drive at Rithauj||An enforcement team of the department of town and country planning (DTCP), which went to Rithauj village on the outskirts of the city for conducting a demolition drive against illegal structures on Saturday, had to return from the site after local residents opposed the move and stopped the officials from taking action. However, the team again went to the village with a police team and carried out the demolition drive in which a few structures built illegally, including a dhaba, a property dealer’s shop and another shop selling building material, were demolished, DTCP officials said, adding that they did not expect stiff resistance from the locals. RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement), said that the enforcement team initially reached the spot with earth moving machines for the drive. “As soon as we reached the village, a group of locals surrounded us and stopped the team from carrying out the work. The structures were constructed in violation of rules,” he said. After an argument between the enforcement team and the locals, the team was forced to retreat from the spot as some miscreants also set fire to a few articles under a tin shed, said the DTCP officials. “We somehow managed to leave the spot. Then we approached the Gurugram police, which sent a team from Bhondsi police station to the spot,” Bhath said. Finally, the demolition drive started around 3pm. “We have not filed a complaint against the locals, but the people must understand that they can’t take law into their hands. We have repeatedly asked the villagers to seek permission for building structures and get them approved from appropriate authorities,” he said. A senior police official said that a team from Bhondsi police station reached the spot and ensured that demolition drive was carried out smoothly. “The locals were protesting against the demolition, but there was no untoward incident,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-dtcp-faces-stiff-resistance-during-demolition-drive-at-rithauj-101642273814985.html
16-01-2022||Noida||Opposition hits out as BJP repeats candidates for UP assembly elections||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday came out with their list of candidates for the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections. The party has given the ticket to all its sitting MLAs in Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar. Together, the two districts comprise eight assembly seats -- five in Ghaziabad and three in Gautam Budh Nagar. The BJP, which came to power in Uttar Pradesh by winning a thumping majority of 312 seats out of the 403 assembly seats in the state in the 2017 elections, claims that it will again be victorious in the upcoming polls. Meanwhile, the Opposition parties in Uttar Pradesh said that the repetition of candidates will prove detrimental for the party. “It is for the first time we are witnessing that members of a party, which is in power at the Centre, are running away to other parties in the state just before the elections. There is no ‘lahar’ (wave) as talked about during the earlier elections. The BJP talks about ‘beti bachao, beti padho’ but their list shows that hardly 10% tickets are given to the women. Their MLAs were missing while people were dying, and requiring oxygen during the pandemic,” said Dolly Sharma, member of All India Congress Committee and spokesperson of Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee. “We, as a party, have offered 45% tickets to youth and 40% to women. Our leader, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, is not playing politics on caste or religion, but trying to make a difference to the needy people. On the other hand, the list of candidates released by the BJP shows that they ran out of options and repeated their candidates,” Sharma added. This time, the Samajwadi Party (SP) in alliance with the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) in western Uttar Pradesh also pose a major challenge to the BJP, and their leaders said that the decision to repeat the existing MLAs shows “fear” in the minds of the BJP leaders. “After their ministers and MLAs quit and joined the SP, the BJP was fearful that more of their MLAs or leaders may quit. So, in order to pacify them, the BJP has repeated tickets and it is mostly on 99% seats in western Uttar Pradesh. This shows that they were afraid or there was some internal backlash, so they went ahead with the sitting MLAs. The work they have done is visible to the people. So, the SP-RLD alliance has a stage set for their win in the state,” said Trilok Tyagi, national general secretary of RLD. Members of other parties also said that they were upbeat that the BJP repeated their existing MLAs as the move would benefit other parties. “Their candidates have not kept their promises and the people are familiar with issues they have faced over the past five years. Be it extensions of metro trains or constructions of new hospitals or schools, people are also aware of hardships they faced during the pandemic as hospital beds were not available to them in the time of need. Further, the sitting MLAs will also face anti-incumbency,” said Tarunima Srivastava, Uttar Pradesh state spokesperson of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). “This scenario will benefit other parties, and AAP is an alternative for voters. They have seen the works done by our party and leaders in Delhi, and they will do the same works as promised to the people of Uttar Pradesh,” Srivastava added. The BJP functionaries in Uttar Pradesh, however, denied that there is any impact of people leaving the party and joining other parties. “People who recently left the party portray that they had joined the party with an intent of getting tickets and personal gains, which were not fulfilled. The five candidates have been selected and given tickets after at least five surveys taken up by the party during the past six months,” said Sanjeev Sharma, president of the party’s city unit. “So, the ground level situation favours them and they have done work in their respective assembly segments. Every worker of the party is with Modi ji (Prime Minister Narendra Modi) and Yogi ji (Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath. The five candidates will file nominations soon and dates will be decided in a meeting. The anti-incumbency will not work as the candidates have got better connection with the voters,” he added.
16-01-2022||Other||Lucknow: KMC Language Univ, National PG College postpone examinations||Lucknow Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti (KMC) Language University and National PG College have postponed their exams due to the current Covid-19 situation.  Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti (KMC) Language University has postponed all the examinations in view of the current Covid-19 situation and following the instructions from the government, scheduled practical examinations, which are to start from January 20 and semester exams from January 27, have been postponed, said university media in-charge, Tanu Dang. To maintain the safety of the students and teachers, the university has also set up a Covid-19 check-up camp in which four students of the hostel were tested positive for Covid, recently. On Saturday, the students also submitted an application to the Controller of Examinations for not conducting offline exams on the campus. Acting on their request, KMC vice chancellor Prof Vinay Kumar Pathak took immediate action and instructed to postpone the university examinations. “Along with this, the work of sanitising the campus and hostels of the university has also been started,” said Dang. Meanwhile, National PG College on Saturday also postponed the exams scheduled between January 17 and 31 due to the rising cases of Covid-19. The examinations which are to be held from February 1 onwards will be held as per the schedule announced earlier. “Examinations which are being postponed will be rescheduled from February 5, 2022. Students are advised to visit the college website regularly for updated information,” said principal of the college, Devendra Kumar Singh. The decision to postpone the exam was taken by the examination committee. “Postponed exams will be rescheduled and begin from February 5. All practical exams will remain suspended till Jan 31. Online classes, however, will continue,” said an official of the college said. The University of Lucknow has already postponed its scheduled exams earlier this week after 50 hostel inmates tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknow-kmc-language-univ-national-pg-college-postpone-examinations-101642273456172.html
16-01-2022||Other||Gurugram: Woman duped of ₹3.50 lakh online||A 40-year-old woman was allegedly duped of ₹3.50 lakh by a cyber fraudster after she shared her laptop’s screen with the man who posed as a bank employee. A case of fraud was registered on Friday at Cybercrime police station against unidentified suspects, police said.KK Rao, commissioner of police, said, “Suspects are using applications for remotely accessing devices such as mobile phones, laptops and desktops. In the recent case, woman had raised an issue with the bank related to loan and she received a call from a person posing as bank employee and took remote access of her laptop and transferred the amount to his account without her knowledge,” he said. Poornima Anand, a resident of Wellington Estate in Sector 53, complained to police that suspects duped her after taking access of her system. “On November 11, I got a phone call from a bank representative asking if my issue was resolved regarding a complaint that I had raised earlier with the bank. The bank representative questioned me if my account was eligible for heavy transfers from one account to another account. At this point, the person asked me to download an application so that he could look into the prevailing issue,” she told police. Anand further said the suspect again asked her to download the same app on November 25. “The call was made from the fraudster’s end. He then asked me to log in to my Net banking and mobile app. The suspect took this as an opportunity and washed away all my money,” she said. A case under Section 420 (cheating ) of IPC and Section 66 of IT Act was registered at Cybercrime police station, said police. The police commissioner said on an average they are receiving 10 online fraud cases in a week. “We are spreading awareness that people should not share screen with strangers or with someone they don’t trust. The methods to protect yourself from such attacks are to format your systems regularly. Do not click on unknown links or download applications unless they are sent by people well known to you. Even if you do use screen-sharing, do not share the screen with unidentified people,” he said. In another fraud case, a resident of Sushant Lok 1 was duped of over ₹1 lakh after he placed an advertisement for his apartment for rent. He told police that someone contacted him and asked to share his account details to deposit rent but withdrew money from his account in five transactions. 
16-01-2022||Lucknow||BJP has packed Yogi off home: Akhilesh takes swipe at CM||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday took a swipe at the BJP and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath saying “the BJP had already packed him (Yogi) off home - Gorakhpur. Now, he can stay back”. Akhilesh, indirectly, also said that his party will defeat Yogi on the seat when he said: “The SP will win all the assembly segments of Gorakhpur.”Hours earlier, the BJP, in Delhi, had announced that Yogi will contest from the Gorakhpur City seat. Gorakhpur is the hometown of Yogi Adityanath from where he had been the MP since 1998 until he became the chief minister in 2017.Addressing a press conference at the SP state headquarters, Akhilesh said, “So much of anticipation was created as far as CM’s contesting elections was concerned. It was said that he will contest from Ayodhya, Mathura, Prayagraj, or Deoband. But instead, the BJP sent him home (Gorakhpur).”The former CM said: “Although he is in Gorakhpur, he had a ticket dated March 11 (counting of votes on March 10) booked for it earlier (by an SP leader). I think that he should stay back in Gorakhpur, no need for him to return (to Lucknow). Heartiest congratulations.”Continuing the attack in the same vein, Akhilesh said: “Despite staying five years as chief minister, he could not bring metro rail to his own town and lay sewer lines. So, when today, the BJP has sent him home, the voters will keep him there (by defeating him)”When asked about Yogi’s gesture of eating at a Dalit family’s home in Gorakhpur on Friday on the occasion of Makar Sankranti, Akhilesh said: “Did you not notice the disinterest with which he was eating. Anyway, now his days of eating khichdi have come.”One BJP leader to join the party soon, doors closed for all others:“No MLAs or ministers quitting the BJP will be taken into his party anymore. I will tell the BJP that I am no longer going to take BJP MLAs or ministers (into SP), you can cut their tickets,” he said. However, he later said that a BJP leader will soon be joining the SP but did not reveal his name.On temples, Ayodhya“We will also build temples. We will build temples in Saifai and Etawah, but first we will do progressive politics by building hospitals, schools, education infra, civic infra”. Regarding Ayodhya, he said: “On coming to power, the SP government will announce 100% exemption to people of Ayodhya from house and water tax.”On giving tickets to women:“Of course, the party will field women candidates...but only those women who can win”.On ex-minister Dara Singh Chauhan“He will join the SP tomorrow at a simple ceremony”. While ex-ministers Swami Prasad Maurya, Dharm Singh Saini, five BJP MLAs and one BJP ally Apna Dal (S) MLA had joined the SP on Friday, Dharma Singh Saini was conspicuous by his absence at the event.On Congress:“Congress is busy only in doing conspiracy against the SP: how to make SP lose...there will be no alliance with the Congress”On poll code, prohibitory orders violation: Akhilesh said: “I ask all leaders and workers to follow the model code of conduct (MCC) of the Election Commission and follow Covid-19 safety protocols or else the party might be victimised in all such places (constituencies) where it is strong”. He further said: “I was not even aware that section 144 (CrPC) was imposed inside the SP office premises...and I was not aware that the virtual rally was in violation. I was under the impression that there will be some leaders speaking on the mike and some audience in the front, and the proceedings will be transmitted online to various districts...we will be careful now”Calls himself progressive backwardCalling himself “a progressive backward”, Akhilesh said: “The SP does progressive and positive politics. The SP will go to people with progressive politics, progressive manifesto. The manifesto will focus on health, education, social security, welfare, women, etc”On alliances:“We have connected with small, regional parties...we brought together all (various parties). I accorded equal respect to partners and we made a lot of sacrifices in seat-sharing with the allies”.Elections for the 403-member Uttar Pradesh Assembly are scheduled to be held in seven phases starting from February 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-has-packed-yogi-off-home-akhilesh-takes-swipe-at-cm-101642272795237.html
16-01-2022||Other||FDs can be surety bonds: HC||Chandigarh The Punjab and Haryana high court has said courts should give a choice to the accused for granting bail with surety to either furnish surety bonds, handover a fixed deposit, direct electronic money transfer or create a lien (claim against assets) over his bank account. “The option lies with the accused to choose between the sureties and deposits and not with the court or the arresting officer,” the bench of justice Anoop Chitkara added.The order was passed in a drugs seizure case, wherein the accused belonged to West Bengal and arrested by Gurugram police. The court took note of the submission from amicus curiae JS Mehndiratta, that not suspending the sentence only because the convict was a native of a distant state would violate Article 21 of the Constitution, which extended to all persons residing anywhere in India.The bench observed that people worldwide were travelling more, covering huge distances with exponential growth in technology and the opening up of borders. Persons were living far away from their ancestral places and it exposed them to the risk of being arraigned as accused in locations distant from native places or residence.People also switched over jobs much more frequently, shifted residences overnight, and were frequently on the move, it said adding that they had started relying on dedicated digital services and platforms. The dependence of individuals on communities appeared to be decreasing day by day, it said.“The generation ‘Z’ neither would like to stand as someone’s surety nor ask a stranger to stand as their surety. Against this backdrop, the youth neither appears inclined to take favours nor return. Given this, requesting someone to stand as surety might be seeking favours and may not appeal to the younger generation,” the bench remarked.It underlined that comprehensive data on role of sureties in bringing the accused to justice was absent. Fixed deposit, electronic transfer, or creating a lien over the bank account in place of cash or sureties was likely to improve the possibility of attendance, because the accused would be aware that their money was safe and accruing interest. They would also keep in mind that failure to appear would lead to the forfeiture of the money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fds-can-be-surety-bonds-hc-101642272505936.html
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab Nirman scheme: NGO stages protest over ‘embezzlement’ in Ludhiana||After hue and cry by the opposition parties, including Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), accusing the ruling party MLAs of embezzlement and corruption under Punjab Nirman programme’ members of Yuva NGO staged a protest over the issue in Haibowal area on Saturday.The protesters said the funds under the programme were meant for poor or SC and BC category residents, but only in North constituency funds worth crores have been allocated to the ‘wealthy’ Congress supporters by the MLA, and the poor residents for whom the scheme was launched, have been left behind.President of the NGO Kumar Gaurav said, “The leaders have tried to bribe voters ahead of elections but the residents should cast their votes wisely. The residents should step up to eradicate corruption from the society, as only then they will get proper infrastructure for themselves and their children.” “ I have proof that a few cheques were given to residents who do not even live in North constituency. We will submit these with election commission and will also seek action against MC officials who issued cheques without verification of the documents,” said Gaurav.Inquiry initiatedAfter opposition raised by BJP and SAD over ‘unlawful’ allocation of cheques to the supporters of congress party, the administration has commenced an inquiry into the complaints. As per the information, municipal corporation’s (MC) additional commissioner Aaditya Dachalwal has commenced an inquiry into the allegations that cheques were issued to some residents, who are not even the resident of Ludhiana. Superintending engineers of all four MC zones have been directed to verify the documents.One of the MC officials requesting anonymity said there many cases wherein it has been claimed that the beneficiaries are not residents of the city. As the authorities took the Aadhar card as proof, it is also being said that residents from other cities/states, who have been living in the city for a long time, failed to change the address on the Aadhar card. Things will be clear only after the inquiry. Despite attempts made to reach Dachalwal, he was not available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-nirman-scheme-ngo-stages-protest-over-embezzlement-in-ludhiana-101642272498419.html
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Consumer forum penalises bank for not remitting money before closing branch||For failing to return the money deposited in the bank account of the complainant before closing a branch in Ludhiana, the district consumer disputes redressal commission directed Citi Bank to return the money with interest and also to pay compensation of ₹8,000.Pawan Sood, 68, of Miller Ganj, said he was maintaining a joint savings account in the bank with his wife Vandana Sood, since 2002. An amount of ₹35,810.20 was lying in the account, a bank statement for the period April 01, 2017 to March 31, 2018 showed.In August 2018, the complainant came to know that the bank’s branch in Feroze Gandhi Market, Ludhiana, was closed. The complainant wrote to the bank’s Chennai office, requesting a complete statement of the account from April 01, 2017 to August 21, 2018.The bank informed that as per record, the balance in the account was nil which was closed on May 03, 2017.The bank further supplied a statement of the account which showed that a sum of ₹ 35,810.20 was standing to the credit of the complainant as on May 03, 2017.However, the said amount was not received by the complainant nor was any information supplied to him as to why the money was transferred.The complainant requested the commission to order the bank to remit the amount of ₹ 35,936.20, along with interest from May 31, 2018 till the date of payment and also sought ₹ 2 lakh compensation on account of deficiency of service.Meanwhile, resisting the complaint, the counsel for the bank stated that the bank had sent prior communications to all its customers.“The complainant had not provided his mobile number or email id to the bank and therefore, emails and SMS communications have not been received by the complainant and only physical communications were sent to him,” said the bank.However the commission, in its order, observed that there was no evidence of physical communication sent to the complainant.“At the time of closure of the account, a sum of ₹35,936.20 was outstanding balance which the bank was supposed to pay to the complainant immediately on the closure of the branch. The bank can be held liable to pay this amount along with interest @6% per annum from May 03, 2017 till the date of actual payment. The bank is further liable to pay ₹8,000 compensation,” stated the commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-consumer-forum-penalises-bank-for-not-remitting-money-before-closing-branch-101642272497179.html
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Camera, documents stolen from vernacular daily office||A camera and other documents were stolen from the office of a vernacular daily in Jagron on Saturday. Chief editor of the newspaper Jaspal Singh alleged that as the government agencies are snooping on him, it could be the handiwork of such agencies. He also claimed that his phone was infected with the spying tool Pegasus.Jaspal said he has installed CCTV cameras at his house and office. On the intervening night of January 11 and 12 when he was checking the footage of his office using his phone, he noticed two masked men in the premises. He rushed to the office, but by then the accused had already left and his office was ransacked. Assistant sub-inspector Darshan Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case under Sections 457 (lurking house trespass or house-breaking by night ) and 380 (theft in dwelling house) of Indian Penal Code has been registered against the unidentified accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-camera-documents-stolen-from-vernacular-daily-office-101642272496025.html
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | 2 arrested for stealing revolver, Canadian dollars from farmer’s house||The police on Saturday arrested two drug addicts allegedly involved in burglary of 7100 Canadian dollars, cash and a .32 bore revolver from house of a farmer at Golden Avenue, Hambran Road, on January 12 . The police have recovered a revolver and dollars from their possession.The accused Akash of Haibowal Kalan and Raj Kumar of Kohara, who are labourers,said they barged in the house with the intent to only steal taps to meet their need for drugs. As they broke open the locks of almirah, they found a revolver and canadian dollars and decided to steal the valuables.The accused said they found the house locked. One of them climbed up to the first floor of the house through a vacant plot, while other remained outside to keep tab on the movement. They broke open the grills of the window to barge in.The accused also confessed their involvement in such burglaries and claimed that they had stolen only taps.Sub-inspector Rajinderpal Singh, station house officer at PAU police station, said tracing the CCTV cameras, the police arrested the accused on Saturday and produced them before the court, which remanded the accused a day in police custody.On January 12, a farmer Sukhdeep Singh made a complaint to the police that he had gone out-of-station along with his family members but when returned found the house ransacked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-2-arrested-for-stealing-revolver-canadian-dollars-from-farmer-s-house-101642272494820.html
16-01-2022||Lucknow||UP polls: Happy at being replaced by deputy CM, says BJP’s Sirathu MLA||Sheetla Prasad Patel, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA from Sirathu in Kaushambi district, welcomed the announcement of him being replaced by deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya for the seat in the UP polls. “Keshavji was elected from the seat in 2012 and in the 2017 UP polls, he had introduced me from this seat. So, in a way, it’s like returning his seat to him. He is a big leader and his being fielded from the seat is a happy occasion for all of us,” the BJP MLA from Sirathu said. “The organisation has fielded both chief minister Yogi Adityanath and deputy CM with a specific purpose and both will win their seats with a handsome margin,” the Sirathu MLA said in the context of the UP polls.The Sirathu assembly constituency is dominated by Dalits and OBCs. It will witness voting in the fifth phase of the UP polls on February 27. Two years after his win in 2012, Keshav Prasad Maurya was elected to the Lok Sabha from Phulpur. After he became deputy chief minister in 2017, he vacated his Lok Sabha seat and became a member of the state legislative council (Vidhan Parishad).Elections to the 403-member Uttar Pradesh assembly will be held in seven phases. The polling will be held on February 10, 14, 20, 23, 27, and March 3 and 7. The counting of votes will take place on March 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uppolls-happy-at-being-replaced-by-deputy-cm-says-bjp-s-sirathu-mla-101642272015989.html
16-01-2022||Other||Kairana’s SP candidate Nahid Hasan arrested under Gangsters Act||MEERUT In a major jolt to the Samjawadi Party (SP) ahead of Assembly elections, its candidate from Kairana seat Nahid Hasan was arrested on Saturday by the Uttar Pradesh police under the Gangsters Act. Hasan was wanted in connection with a case registered against him under Uttar Pradesh Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act in Kairana Kotwali in February last year. He was produced in the MP/ MLA court of Shamli district and sent to jail for 14 days in judicial custody. Hasan’s lawyer Raahid Ali said that Samajwadi Party had declared Nahid his candidate from Kairana constituency and he had filed his nomination papers on the first day of the election notification issued on Friday. “His oath papers could not be filed yesterday. To complete the procedure, Hasan, along with his few supporters, was on the way to Shamli collectorate on Saturday when a team of police arrested him,” said Ali. He said the court would be requested to allow him to do his oath procedure to complete his nomination and later legal proceedings would be initiated for his bail as well. Circle officer of Kairana, Jitendra Kumar, said that the court sent Nahid Hasan to jail for 14 days in judicial custody. “He was arrested in connection with a case registered against him under the Gangsters Act in Kairana Kotwali in February last year,” said Singh.In the case, MLA Hasan was made prime accused and his mother and former MP Tabassum Begum along with more than two dozen people were mentioned as members of the gang, he added. Allahabad High Court had granted bail to Tabassum Begum and other accused, but rejected the bail plea of Hasan. The SP MLA had defeated BJP’s Mriganka Singh by a margin of over 21,000 votes in 2017 Assembly elections amid landslide victory of BJP in the region. However, the BJP has again fielded Mriganka Singh in the fray against Hasan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kairanas-sp-candidate-nahid-hasan-arrested-under-gangsters-act-101642272014668.html
16-01-2022||Delhi||A year since jabs drive, nearly 12 million in Delhi fully vaccinated||Delhi has administered nearly 29 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines in the year since India kicked off its massive Covid-19 immunisation programme, showed data from the Centre’s CoWin dashboard.Till January 15, Delhi administered a total of 28,539,313 doses of Covid-19 vaccines. Nearly 16.5 million people in Delhi have taken the first shot, and nearly 12 million have received both. On Saturday, the city administered 165,431 vaccination shots, according to government data. The nationwide immunisation programme kicked off on January 16 last year. Since then, all 15 million adults in Delhi have taken at least one vaccine shot, and over half the roughly one million children aged between 15 and 17 have got their first dose.The number of first doses administered in Delhi according to the CoWin dashboard is higher than the city’s adult population likely because a large number of residents of cities in the National Capital Region (NCR) may have been vaccinated in the Capital.Senior health department government officials said the government is making good progress in immunising teenagers between ages 15 and 17 and precautionary doses for senior citizens, health care workers and frontline workers. “We are also now encouraging more people to come and get themselves vaccinated if they have not already,” said a senior health official. The official also said that the government is now expanding its efforts to get people fully immunised in light of the ongoing fifth wave of Covid-19, which has expanded its footprint in Delhi in recent days. Further, recent analyses of Covid-19 deaths in Delhi by the government have established the effectiveness of vaccinations at preventing death and severe disease. According to government data, of the 97 people who died of Covid-19 in the city between January 9 and 12, 70 were unvaccinated, while 19 had taken the first jab. Just eight of them were fully vaccinated. Besides seven were minors. “The data, especially during this wave, has proved the effectiveness of vaccinations. While those who are fully vaccinated are getting infected, we are seeing that the symptoms in such patients are milder and the need for hospitalisations is rare,” another Delhi government official said. In Delhi vaccines are currently being administered at 1,587 government and private. Experts said that the severity of cases and hospitalisation in Delhi are relatively lower because of the city’s high vaccination numbers. “The vaccination rate is reasonably high in Delhi and so is the sero-positivity. The cases are high but the fall is also expected to be rapid,” said Dr Suneela Garg professor of excellence (community medicine) member of the Lancet Commission Covid India Task Force.
16-01-2022||Lucknow||Bhim Army chief blames Akhilesh for alliance falling through||A day after announcing a pre-poll alliance with the Samajwadi Party (SP) for the Assembly election, the Bhim Army chief, Chandrashekhar Azad, on Saturday, said that the alliance with SP could not happen since he felt that the SP chief Akhilesh Yadav just wanted the Dalit vote and not a Dalit leader.Refuting the allegation of Chandrashekhar the SP chief said that he had offered two seats to the Azad Samaj Party (ASP), the political front launched by the Bhim Army, but Azad backed out of the alliance stating that his organisation was against contesting the Assembly election. Immediately after the alliance talk Azad talked to someone on the mobile then walked out of the alliance. Was there some pressure on him or he voluntarily decided against the alliance, it is not known, Yadav said.“I had talked with the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) chief Jayant Chaudhary about offering two seats to the Bhim Army in West UP- Rampur Maniharan and Ghaziabad and he agreed. The Samajwadi Party is working for the welfare and dignity of the Dalit and Backward community, the leaders of both the communities have been given tickets and are also part of the SP alliance,” he said. Earlier, addressing a press conference, Chandrashekhar said that he has been trying for an alliance with the Samajwadi Party for over a month but it didn’t materialise, alleging that Akhilesh Yadav humiliated the people of scheduled caste community. “I had been holding discussions with Akhilesh Yadav for over six months. I met him several times to finalise the alliance but it seems that he is not interested in an alliance with ASP. He does not want Dalits in this alliance but wants Dalit vote. I have been mobilising the Dalit community across Uttar Pradesh for over nine years. The Bhim Army will continue its fight for the justice and dignity of the Dalit community,” he said. The Bhim Army was working for a pre-poll alliance with like-minded parties to stop the BJP from returning to power, he said.In a tweet Chandrashekhar said, there is great power in unity. It is not easy to defeat a party like BJP without strength and unity. It is the responsibility of the leader of the coalition to take care of the representation of all communities and respect all the people in a society. Today, the Dalit community in UP expects that Akhilesh Yadav will fulfil this responsibility, he said.
16-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi: Draft policy pushes for up to 50% EVs in aggregators’ fleet by 2023||The Delhi government will soon direct all cab aggregators and delivery companies operating in the city to ensure that up to 50% of the new vehicles added to their fleet are electric vehicles (EVs) by March 31, 2023, state environment minister Gopal Rai said on Saturday.According to the draft aggregators policy, within three months of notification of the final policy, 10%of newly-onboarded two-wheelers and 5% of new four-wheelers will have to be EVs. Subsequently, by March 31, 2023, 50% of all new two-wheelers and 25% of all new four-wheelers taken by aggregators and delivery services will have to be electric, said a senior government official who asked not to be named.“This new policy will be the first of its kind and will provide the necessary push to the aggregator industry to become environment friendly. It is a robust initiative to combat air pollution in Delhi. The Delhi government will also be making a representation to the Commission For Air Quality Management (CAQM) to direct other states in the national capital region to also adopt the policy. With this, the Kejriwal government has become the first in India to notify a policy to mandate EV fleets for aggregators,” said Rai.As per the government data, Delhi has 130,544 registered EVs as on Saturday, the second highest among all states and union territories. Uttar Pradesh has the most EVs, with 271,365 vehicles registered so far.While the draft notification is yet to be released, officials said it will put in the public domain soon, and comments will be sought from people for about 60 days. Subsequently, the policy will be reviewed and it will be notified for implementation with modifications if any.“The draft notification has been signed and it will be put up in public domain through the Delhi government’s website for objections and suggestions on Monday in all likelihood,” said a government spokesperson.Reena Gupta, advisor to the state environment minister, said, “The essence of the proposed policy by the Delhi government is to ensure that the entire spectrum of vehicles used by aggregators and delivery service providers are brought into the fold of sustainable and clean electric mobility, knowing the impact of large-scale adoption of clean vehicles can have on the air quality of Delhi.”Transport minister Kailash Gahlot said the Delhi government has been taking effective vehicular pollution initiatives, including measures like better traffic management system, augmentation in public transport system, generating mass awareness, and implementation of stringent emission norms for both new and in-use vehicles.“Drafted in accordance with the regulations set forth by the Delhi Electric Vehicle Policy 2020, the aggregator policy proposes incentives to ensure the transition to EVs amongst the ride hailing industry happens in a time bound manner,” Gahlot said.Amit Bhatt, executive director (Transport), WRI India, said the zero-emission vehicles (ZEV) mandate has played a significant role in accelerating the adoption of electric vehicles worldwide. “For example, California in the US and China have mandates requiring manufacturers to put more ZEVs on the market. The European Union has proposed a voluntary target mechanism for ZEVs. However, ZEV mandates have not been part of India’s EV story as agencies fear a backlash from the incumbent auto industry. Delhi is the first state in India to propose such an initiative. If implemented well, it could be a game-changer for EV uptake in Delhi and the rest of the country,” he said.
16-01-2022||Delhi||IED at Ghazipur: Police await NSG answer to key RDX question in probe||Even as Delhi Police are yet to catch the person who planted a crude bomb in the city’s Ghazipur flower market on Friday, officials said the case is being probed as a terror attack.The development came after National Security Guard officers, based on preliminary findings, said on Friday that the bomb found in an unattended bag was stuffed with RDX, ammonium nitrate and shrapnel.Delhi police officers said they are awaiting a report from the elite anti-terror unit, likely on Monday, which will detail the nature of the explosives, materials used and the type of detonating device used to trigger the blast.The last time RDX was used in Delhi by a terror group was in 2005 during the Delhi serial blasts. Since 2005, Delhi has reported at least five terror attacks – serial blasts in September 2008, blast at the Mehrauli flower market in September 2008, explosion in an Israeli diplomat’s car in February 2012, the High Court bomb blasts in September 2011 and the low-intensity explosion outside the Israel embassy in January 2021. RDX was not used in any of these incidents, police investigation showed.“If the NSG report on Monday confirms RDX, then it will point towards the role of people or groups from abroad. RDX is not available in the market. In past terror cases, police have found that the chemical is usually smuggled from across the border,” said a police officer, who asked not to be named.On Friday morning, an improvised explosive device (IED) was found in an unclaimed bag at one of the entrances of the largest flower market in Delhi. It was neutralised before its timer could trigger a detonation. The national capital has been on high alert since the discovery just two weeks before Republic Day celebrations.TWO CCTVs HOLD THE KEYOn Saturday, officers of the police’s special cell started looking at the footage of the two CCTV cameras – one each at the entry and exit gate of the market where the black bag containing the IED was recovered. These are the two cameras installed by the government that have a large storage capacity, and has recordings dating back to at least 15 days. Apart from these, there are cameras installed privately by flower traders in the market.“We have found video of a few people carrying such black bags, which is fairly common, but are yet to zero on the person who left the IED filled bag at the gate. We are not making announcement because the examination of the CCTV footage is yet to yield anything concrete,” said a second police officer, who too declined to be named.The market remained shut for the second day, even as Delhi police teams visited it to conduct their investigation. Police have asked for CCTV footage from more shopkeepers in the market. During the day, the market association also held a meeting to discuss steps to improve security and co-ordinate with police to reopen the market.The market was shut and shopkeepers were evacuated on Friday morning after a passerby spotted the unclaimed black bag at 10.16 am and informed security. By noon, the bomb squad, sniffer dogs, firemen and fire tenders, special cell sleuths and experts from the NSG arrived and the market was evacuated. Between noon and 2 pm, an 8-feet deep pit was dug within the market premises where the NSG bomb squad carried out a controlled explosion in their efforts to diffuse the bomb.LINKS TO SEPT 2021 ARRESTS OF 6 TERROR OPERATIVES?Investigating officers in the special cell said that they have begun investigation and different teams are at work, each with a specific task. Police said they are probing if the people behind the Ghazipur IED case has links with the September arrests of six suspected terror operatives.On September 14, 2021, police conducted raids in Delhi, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh and arrested the six suspects. Jan Mohammed Sheikh was arrested in Kota, Rajasthan while on his way to Delhi; Osama in Okhla in Delhi; Mohd Abu Bakar in Sarai Kale Khan; Zeeshan in Allahabad; Javed in Lucknow; and Moolchand in Rae Bareilly.Police are probing a possible link with this case because they had then recovered RDX-based crude bombs from these six. Police had then said the six men were trained to strike at markets with heavy footfalls in Delhi.“We had recovered a RDX-IED type from Zeeshan. The suspects had then said that the explosive was smuggled into Punjab from across the border. This coupled with the recovery of RDX in Punjab on Friday and also the blast inside Ludhiana court makes it worth for us to have a look at the module behind the September 2021 arrest,” the second officer said.Police had then said that the six were tasked by Pakistan-based Anees Ibrahim and terror groups based in Pakistan to plant explosives during the festive season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ied-at-ghazipur-police-await-nsg-answer-to-key-rdx-question-in-probe-101642269919879.html
16-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi shivers as daytime temperature drops to season’s lowest of 14.8°C||The maximum temperature in the national capital dipped to its lowest this season as low cloud cover and foggy conditions ensured cold day conditions for the second consecutive day on Saturday. Air quality improved as well, reaching the ‘poor’ range, as winds picked up speed.The India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Safdarjung observatory, the official marker of the city’s weather, recorded the season’s lowest maximum temperature of 14.8 degrees Celsius (°C) on Saturday, nearly five degrees below normal, and a minimum temperature of 6.1°C, a degree below normal. Severe cold day conditions were recorded in isolated parts, weather officials said.Before this, the season’s lowest maximum temperature was seen on January 9, when it dipped to 15°C. Last year too, the lowest maximum temperature was 15°C on January 25.A cold day is declared when the minimum temperature is less than or equal to 10°C and the maximum temperature is at least 4.5°C below the normal. A severe cold day is one when the maximum temperature’s departure from normal is 6.5°C or greater.A western disturbance is likely to affect northwest India from January 18, which will affect the weather over Delhi. “There will be change in weather from (January) 18. The night temperature and the day temperature will improve slightly,” said weather scientist RK Jenamani, adding that though a cold day is likely on Sunday, there may be a slight rise in temperature.While severe cold day conditions were reported at the Delhi ridge, cold day conditions prevailed at Safdarjung, Palam, Lodhi Road and Ayanagar. Narela, which recorded a maximum temperature of 10.7°C, was the coldest area in the city.The weather bureau attributed the cold day conditions to a low cloud cover and moderate fog. “Similar to Friday, today (Saturday) also there was a layer of moderate fog /low cloud during the day over Delhi NCR, also over Punjab, Haryana, UP and north Rajasthan, which prevented sunlight from reaching the surface. Also, light winds are blowing over the region. These conditions led to a severe cold day/cold day over Delhi NCR,” the Met department said in a statement.IMD has forecast partly cloudy skies along with moderate fog on Sunday, with cold day conditions expected to prevail in many places.Meanwhile, air quality improved in the Capital, with the air quality index (AQI) settling in the ‘poor’ range (258), down from Friday’s ‘very poor’ reading of 348, as per the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) 4pm bulletin.The CPCB classifies an AQI of 0-50 as “good”, 51-100 as “satisfactory”, 101-200 as “moderate”, 201-300 as “poor”, 301-400 as “very poor” and above 400 as “severe”.The Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), on Saturday said that the air quality is likely to worsen and stay in the ‘very poor’ category until Monday on account of prevailing foggy and partly cloudy conditions, low wind speed and moderate mixing layer height leading to weak ventilation of pollutants. It is likely to improve to within the ‘very poor’ category on Tuesday due to relatively higher wind speed, stated the forecast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-shivers-as-daytime-temperature-drops-to-season-s-lowest-of-148c-101642269554734.html
16-01-2022||Lucknow||UP Polls: OBCs, Dalits get lion’s share in BJP’s first list, 20 dropped||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday dropped 20 sitting lawmakers, while announcing candidates for 105 seats that will go to polls in the first two phases of the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections on February 10 and 14.The party has fielded chief minister Yogi Adityanath, a five-term former Lok Sabha MP, for his first assembly election from the Gorakhpur urban seat, his political and spiritual home turf. Adityanath is also the chief priest of the Gorakhnath temple in Gorakhpur. Gorakhpur urban will go to the polls in the sixth phase on March 3.The names on the first list include 44 OBCs, 19 dalits, 10 women and a few turncoats at a time when the BJP facing anti-incumbency and a mini exodus of sorts ahead of the 2022 Uttar Pradesh (UP) elections.BJP’s OBC heavyweight and deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, along with former Uttarakhand governor Baby Rani Maurya, a Jatav dalit who had been campaigning across the state, are among the most prominent names from backward and dalit communities on the list. Sirathu, from where Keshav Prasad Maurya has been fielded, goes to polls in the fifth phase on February 27. Baby Rani Maurya has been fielded from Agra (rural) which goes to polls in the first phase on February 10.The names of Yogi and Keshav Prasad Maurya are in addition to the 105 for the first two rounds.Mriganka Singh has found a place in the list from Kairana, the place from where her father the late Hukum Singh had flagged the “Hindu palayan (exodus)” issue, which became a poll plank for the BJP in 2017 assembly polls. The issue is still being mentioned by BJP leaders during the 2022 poll campaign. Of the 113 seats in the first two phases of the seven-phase UP polls, the BJP has declared candidates for 105 seats, amid the buzz that declaration in eight seats has been left out for some opposition leaders, holding last minute consultations with the BJP. The party’s two pre-poll allies, Apna Dal (Sonelal) and Nishad party, both are primarily OBC parties of east UP, but said to be eyeing some of these eight seats in west UP too. The list is expectedly OBC-heavy not just due to the numerical dominance of the other backward castes, but also because majority of the leaders who recently quit the party, including three ministers, were all OBCs. Adityanath has been named the candidate from Gorakhpur (urban) assembly seat replacing popular sitting lawmaker Dr Radha Mohandas Agarwal who, two days ago, launched his own YouTube channel to talk about his achievements as a lawmaker. Immediately, after the announcement, Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav, while declaring that his party won’t admit anymore BJP rebels, however, indicated the SP could make an exception for “Agarwal.” Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya has been named for the Sirathu assembly seat that he had won despite the Samajwadi Party wave in 2012 elections and where he had as the state’s PWD minister, carried out major infrastructure development. Keshav Prasad Maurya had subsequently quit as MLA after winning the Phulpur Lok Sabha seat for the first time for the BJP in the 2014 polls. Both Adityanath and Keshav Prasad Maurya are currently members of the upper house of state legislature and are contesting as part of the party plan to get top leaders to contest to influence party’s prospects in adjoining seats.Both Yogi and Keshav Prasad Maurya welcomed the announcement.Prominent Yogi ministers who would contest the elections include veteran Suresh Khanna, an eight-term lawmaker from Shahjahanpur, power minister Shrikant Sharma (Mathura), sugarcane development minister Suresh Rana (Thana Bhawan), Atul Garg (Ghaziabad), Kapil Dev Agarwal (Muzaffarnagar) among others. The axing was received differently at different places. In places, it was opposed, at others it was expected. From Etmadpur, the BJP axed its sitting lawmaker Rampratap Singh Chauhan and replace him with turncoat Dharam Pal Singh who had joined the BJP couple of days back in Delhi. The decision has angered Chauhan’s supporter, who said they would oppose BJP’s move. The BJP, however, claimed the decision was based on feedback. Another turncoat Naresh Saini of the Congress, who joined the BJP with Dharampal, only recently was named candidate from the Behat assembly constituency.Those axed include Hari Shankar Mahaur (Hathras), Rajesh Mishra (Bithri Chainpur) – the two BJP lawmakers who had denied the buzz about joining the Samajwadi Party. From Bilsi, where sitting lawmaker Radhakrishna Sharma defected, the party has now fielded Harish Shakya, a young OBC and RSS cadre. From Naugawan Sadat assembly seat, the BJP replaced its sitting lawmaker Sangeeta Chauhan with Devendra Nagpal, who was previously with the Rashtriya Lok Dal, an ally of the Samajwadi Party. Sangeeta, a retired senior bank official, is the widow of former cricketer and UP minister Chetan Chauhan. She had won the by-polls after Chetan Chauhan’s demise in 2020. Defence minister Rajnath Singh’s son and sitting MLA Pankaj Singh has been retained from Noida as is the case with Sandeep Singh, the UP minister and grandson of late BJP stalwart Kalyan Singh, who has been retained from Atrauli. Symbolism was at play in many seats as the BJP sprang a surprise. Jagpal Singh, a scheduled caste candidate, has been named for the Saharanpur assembly seat. This is a general seat and by naming him, the party has, along with OBCs, also shown its dalit focus in the most populous state. At Bihthri Chainpur seat in Bareilly, the BJP replaced its sitting lawmaker with Raghvendra Sharma, a prominent orthopaedic surgeon. Ramvir Upadhyaya, a prominent Brahmin face in Hathras and former minister in the Mayawati government, formally joined the BJP in Agra. In Sikandarabad, the BJP has given the ticket to young party hand Laxmiraj Singh. 
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Farm leaders contesting polls will not be part of SKM, say senior leaders||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella union of multiple farm organisations, on Saturday held a meeting at Singhu-Kundli border and took some decisions.In a joint statement, SKM leaders Darshan Pal, Yogendra Yadav, Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Shivkumar Sharma ,Yudhveer Singh and others said no political party or farm leader can use the banner of SKM in the assembly polls, which are due next month.“If any farm leader or SKM member contests the upcoming assembly polls, he/she will no longer be a part of the SKM. If needed, this decision will be reviewed in April after the assembly polls,” said Yogendra Yadav while talking to HT over the phone.The SKM’s decision seems to be a blow for the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha led by farm leader Balbir Singh Rajewal, whose is the outfit’s chief ministerial candidate in the Punjab assembly polls.He is contesting from Samrala and the outfit had released a list of 10 nominees. This decision can also hurt the prospective of Haryana farm leader Gurnam Singh Charuni, who had also launched his political outfit and is aiming to field candidates in the Punjab assembly polls.‘Centre, state betraying farmers’The SKM leaders alleged that the Union government has failed to fulfil its promises made to the five-member committee of SKM on December 9.“No action has been taken by the Union and state governments of Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, and Himachal Pradesh on the promise of immediate withdrawal of cases registered during the farm agitation. The Haryana government has also just done some paperwork. Rest of the state governments have not even received a letter from the Union government in this regard,” SKM leader Yudhveer Singh said while interacting with reporters at Singhu.“The UP government has not initiated any action on giving compensation to the deceased farmers’ families. No announcement has been made by the Haryana government regarding the amount and nature of compensation,” the SKM leader said.“On the issue of MSP, the government has neither announced formation of a committee nor has it given any information about the nature of the committee and its mandate,” he added.SKM announces future plansThe SKM leaders announced that they will observe ‘betrayal day’ on January 31 across country and protest demonstrations will be organised at district and block levels.“Despite a conspiracy being acknowledged in the SIT report, Union minister of state Ajay Mishra Teni is yet to be removed from the Union cabinet. The UP Police have implicated farmers in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri incident,” the SKM leaders said in a joint statement.“To oppose this, the SKM has decided to start a permanent morcha at Lakhimpur Kheri. Mission Uttar Pradesh will continue, through which, anti-farmer politicians will be taught a lesson,” the SKM leaders added.The SKM leaders have decided to extend support to central trade unions for nationwide strike on February 23 and 24 on issues of withdrawal of the four anti-labour codes, MSP to farmers, and against privatisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farm-leaders-contesting-polls-will-not-be-part-of-skm-say-senior-leaders-101642265654704.html
16-01-2022||Other||26-year-old jobless man found hanging in Mohali||A 26-year-old man was found hanging from a tree in a vacant plot in Phase 8 on Saturday. The deceased was a native of Uttar Pradesh and living with a relative in Kumbra village, Mohali, for a month to find a job in the city. The body was spotted by a passer-by, who sounded the police. The deceased was identified with the help of a PAN card and Aadhaar card found in his pocket. No suicide note was recovered. Police said the deceased’s relatives shared that he was stressed as he was unable to a find a job for the past one month. Father of a two-month-old girl, he had gone missing on Friday night. The body has been moved to the civil hospital in Phase 6 for autopsy. MORE NEWS IN BRIEFUT police course for personal security officers ends
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Biting cold sweeps Punjab, Haryana||Chandigarh: Cold weather conditions prevailed in many parts of Punjab and Haryana on Sunday with Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recording a low of 8.2 degree Celsius. The maximum temperatures in the two states have also registered a sharp fall and have been hovering in the range of 11 degrees Celsius to 14 degrees Celsius.In Punjab, Gurdaspur recorded a minimum temperature of 5.6 degrees Celsius while Bathinda saw the mercury settle at 6.2 degrees Celsius, according to the meteorological department.Patiala experienced a cold night at 7.5 degrees Celsius. Jalandhar recorded a low of 8.6 degrees Celsius while Moga registered a low of 6.3 degrees Celsius. Ludhiana’s minimum settled at 8.7 degrees Celsius while Amritsar recorded a low of 8.4 degrees Celsius.Hisar in Haryana reeled under intense cold, recording a minimum temperature of 6.8 degrees Celsius while Ambala recorded a low of 7.7 degrees Celsius. Sirsa also experienced a cold night recording a low of 6.1 degrees Celsius while Gurgaon’s minimum settled at 7.2 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/biting-cold-sweeps-punjab-haryana-101642357592548.html
16-01-2022||Mumbai||Jayant Patil invites Elon Musk to set up Tesla unit in Maha||Mumbai Maharashtra Minister and state Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Jayant Patil on Sunday invited Tesla CEO Elon Musk to set up a manufacturing facility in the state. Replying to a Twitter user’s query, Musk had earlier spoken about the challenges of doing business in India. “Still working through a lot of challenges with the government,” Musk on 13 January replied to a Twitter user who enquired about Tesla’s launch in India. Taking to Twitter, Maharashtra’s water resources minister said, “@elonmusk, Maharashtra is one of the most progressive states in India. We will provide you all the necessary help from Maharashtra for you to get established in India. We invite you to establish your manufacturing plant in Maharashtra.”On Sunday afternoon, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu also pitched Musk to invest in the state. “I invite@elonmusk, Punjab Model will create Ludhiana as hub for Electric Vehicles & Battery industry with time bound single window clearance for investment that brings new technology to Punjab, create green jobs, walking path of environment preservation & sustainable development,” he said. Earlier, Telangana and West Bengal had also invited Tesla to set up its EV manufacturing unit. A day after Musk’s tweet, KT Rama Rao, Commerce and Industries Minister of Telangana, had tweeted that they “Will be happy to partner Tesla in working through the challenges to set shop in India/Telangana.” Md Ghulam Rabbani, Minister for Minority Affairs and Madrasah Education, in West Bengal, had on Saturday tweeted, “Drop here, we in West Bengal have best infra & our leader @MamataOfficial has got the vision.”  The EV giant has pitched for a cut in import duties ahead of its launch in India. Tesla had said that it can consider setting up a manufacturing unit locally if it succeeds with imported models.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/jayant-patil-invites-elon-musk-to-set-up-tesla-unit-in-maha-101642346072621.html
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||With 3,251 cases, Jammu and Kashmir sees highest Covid spike in 8 months||Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday recorded four Covid-induced deaths and 3,251 Covid-19 infections – the highest single-day surge after May 23.The daily infection count increased by 32% over Friday’s 2,456 cases. Officials said a record 72,989 tests had been conducted in the last 24 hours. Authorities have been conducting an average 42,000-56,000 daily tests every month between May to December.Of the total infections, Kashmir valley saw 2,122 infections and two fatalities, while 1,129 cases and two deaths were reported in Jammu division. Jammu district reported the highest 685 cases, followed by 125 in Udhampur and 93 in Sambha.The summer capital Srinagar saw 624 cases, followed by 471 cases in Baramulla, 416 in Budgam and 228 in Anantnag. Kashmir director health Mushtaq Ahmad Rather issued a circular saying that both Covid and non-Covid activities. including outpatient facilities (OPDs) and elective surgeries, will continue to function normally till further orders.“ The decision about closure of routine OPDs or elective surgeries will be taken after taking into consideration the Covid situation as it evolves in coming days,” it said.Earlier, on Friday the valley’s prominent hospital Sheri Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences(SKIMS),Soura, which is not under the control of the health directorate, had stopped outpatient facilities and will be offering tele-consultation for non-emergency cases. Jammu district has the highest number of active Covid cases at 3,464, followed by Srinagar and Baramulla districts with 2,768 and 1,805 active cases, respectively. This is the first time since forth week of May that the UT has witnessed infections above 3200. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 390 with active positive cases reaching 12,860. The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 62,407 vaccine doses were administered taking overall doses administered in the UT to 1.981 crores.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,38,453 prompting the recovery rate to reach 95.10%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,55,874 and the death-toll has reached 4,561. Jammu district has the highest number of fatalities at 1,167, followed by Srinagar with 885 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-3-251-cases-jammu-and-kashmir-sees-highest-covid-spike-in-8-months-101642281975294.html
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh man fined ₹30,000 for preparing sweets without licence||The court of Chandigarh chief judicial magistrate on Friday slapped a fine of ₹30,000 on a city-based man for manufacturing sweets without a licence.“The UT food safety department had found a person manufacturing sweets without the requisite licence at Palsora village, Sector 55. A prosecution was launched against the accused and he was convicted under the Food Safety and Standard Act, 2006. He has to pay ₹30,000 as fine or can undergo simple imprisonment of one month,” UT health secretary Yashpal Garg said.During a special drive in November and December 2021, action was initiated in 52 cases where food items were being manufactured or sold without licence, registration or in unhygienic conditions. The conviction and penalty in all cases will be decided by the competent court or adjudicating authorities.“All food business operators in Chandigarh need to ensure that their food articles satisfy the requirements of the Food Safety and Standard Act at all stages of production, processing, import, distribution and sale within the businesses under their control,” Garg said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-man-fined-30-000-for-preparing-sweets-without-licence-101642275140910.html
16-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Murder accused brought on production warrant from Hoshiarpur Jail||The PAU police on Saturday brought a murder case accused lodged in Hoshiarpur Jail for drug peddling on a production warrant from the jail. The court has remanded the accused for two days in police custody.The accused Manpreet Singh was wanted by the police in murder case of his colleague Subhash Jaiswal.Sub-inspector Rajinderpal Singh, station house officer at PAU police station said Manpreet used to deliver liquor to the vends of the liquor company, while Subhash Jaiswal worked at liquor vend at South City chowk.On July 19, 2020, Manpreet had come to liquor vend to deliver the liquor. He asked help from Subhash for picking up the cartons from the vehicle and to keep it in the vend, but the latter refused, following which both indulged in a spat. Things turned ugly after Manpreet took sword kept in his vehicle and stabbed Subhash following which he died at the spot.A murder case was lodged against the accused at PAU police station following the complaint of Manish Jaiswal, brother of the victim. Manpreet had fled from the city to evade his arrest. Meanwhile, he was arrested by Hoshiarpur police in a drug peddling case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-murder-case-accused-brought-on-production-warrant-from-hoshiarpur-jail-101642272504684.html
16-01-2022||India||NIA arrests absconding trafficker in West Bengal fake currency notes case||Malda: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested an absconding person who was allegedly involved in a case of smuggling fake Indian currency notes from Bangladesh, an official said on Sunday.In a joint operation with the BSF, the NIA arrested Aladu from his native place in West Bengal’s Malda.The case was registered in September 2019 by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) unit in Malda following the seizure of high-quality fake Indian currency notes (FICNs), with a face value ₹1,99,000, from an accused, an official of the investigation agency said.Subsequently, the NIA re-registered the case and took up the probe in October 2019.Earlier, the NIA had filed a charge-sheet against four accused, including Aladu, who was absconding since 2019, for his role in the FICN trafficking, the official said.He had been involved in the procurement of fake notes from his Bangladeshi associates and circulating the same in India, the NIA official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-arrests-absconding-trafficker-in-west-bengal-fake-currency-notes-case-101642357231090.html
16-01-2022||India||Woman tortured with cigarettes, raped in Madhya Pradesh, husband among 5 arrested||Indore: A 32-year-old woman was allegedly gang-raped and tortured by her husband and four of his friends in Madhya Pradesh’s Indore district, police said on Sunday, adding that five accused were arrested.The woman claimed that she was brutalised by her husband and others who performed unnatural sex and also singed her private parts with cigarettes. They also threatened to kill her when she resisted the sexual assault, an official said quoting the FIR.The alleged gang-rape occurred at a farmhouse under the Shipra police station area of Indore between November 2019 and October 2021, the official said.He said the woman, hailing from Chhattisgarh, got married to an Indore-based man after meeting him on a matrimonial site. However, the man is already married, the police sub-inspector said.The complainant told the police that she somehow escaped from the farmhouse and travelled to her parent’s home in Chhattisgarh. But one of the accused men followed her there intending to harm her, the official added.Five men, including the victim’s husband, were booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and were arrested from various areas of Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, he said, adding that further investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-tortured-with-cigarettes-raped-in-madhya-pradesh-husband-among-5-arrested-101642357051509.html
16-01-2022||India||Odisha para-athlete covers 213 km in 24 hours on manual wheelchair||BHUBANESWAR: A 28-year-old para-athlete from Odisha on Sunday claimed to have broken the existing world record in covering the maximum distance in a manual wheelchair after rolling 213 km on a cycle track in a span of 24 hours. Kamalakanta Nayak of Puri district who started pushing his wheelchair at 4.30 pm on Saturday, completed 575 laps between two busy traffic squares in Bhubaneswar by 4.30 pm on Sunday covering 213 km as video cameras, GPS trackers and mobile phones recorded his feat. Except taking a break of 2 hours for hydrating, physiotherapy sessions, attending nature’s call and taking food and water, Nayak did not stop for a single moment between Rajmahal square and Master Canteen square – approximately 570 metre — for the entire duration. “The previous record was held by Portugal’s Mario Trinidad who covered 182.4 km in a manual wheelchair in a span of 24 hours. Nayak broke Trinidad’s record in 20 hours. We have sent all the evidence including video records of last 24 hours, GPS data and report of independent witnesses to the Guinness Book of World Records for final validation. We had independent witnesses coming for 4 hours each from ICAI, Kalinga Runners Group. They basically timed every lap that Kamal achieved. Once Guinness Book approves the evidence, Nayak would become the world record holder,” said Siddharth Daga, his mobility partner. After achieving the record, Nayak said: “Nothing is impossible in life. I am thankful to my sister and mentors who motivated me to overcome the physical barriers. I have been practicing for the last six years to achieve this and was confident of covering the distance in a record time.” Nayak, who suffered a spinal cord injury that rendered him paralysed waist down, is the only Indian who has completed a wheelchair ultra-marathon of 139.57 km in 15 hours. He has so far completed 16 half-marathons and 13 full marathons. He is the captain of the Odisha Wheelchair Basketball Team. He is also a champion in Peer Mentoring Paralysed Spinal Cord Injury Person across the country changing the lives of about 500 persons with spinal cord injury. Founder of Odisha Wheelchair Association Durga Prasad Patnaik who helped Nayak, said they have been planning to hold the event for the last 15-20 days. “We started playing to become independent,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-para-athlete-covers-213-km-in-24-hours-on-manual-wheelchair-101642355551062.html
16-01-2022||India||Covid 3rd wave: What are the projections for other states as Delhi, Mumbai cases dip?||Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata on Sunday continued the declining trend of the Covid-19 cases following what experts have been saying that metro cities would see a quick rise and fall of the ongoing wave of the pandemic. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday said the fall in the numbers indicates a plateau though there has been a decrease in the number of Covid tests too, as the positivity rate is also declining.According to the latest projection of the Cambridge tracker updated on January 13, in the later part of January, cases will rise in other states.Here are 5 things you need to know about the third wave in India1. Cambridge tracker has projected that Bihar, Chandigarh, Karnataka, Punjab, Rajasthan and West Bengal are likely to see their maximum daily cases in the ongoing third week.2. Arunachal Pradesh, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand are likely to peak in the fourth week of January.3. Apart from the projections, the local administrations of some districts have also said they are apprehending a peak. For example, the Indore administration is apprehending a peak in the last week of January or in the first week of February, seeing the progression of the cases.4. Pune district administration has recently said that Pune is at least three weeks behind Mumbai in terms of the pace of infection. Hence, the Pune administration too is apprehending a peak by the last week of January.5. As far as the R-value is concerned, it has come down in the week between January 7 and 13, IIT Madras analysis said. It has also been found that in the first week of January, the R-value reached beyond 4.On Sunday, Delhi reported 18,286 Covid cases and 28 deaths and the positivity rate dropped from 38.64% to 27.87%. Mumbai's daily tally fell below 10,000 as the city reported 7,895 cases. Kolkata's 24-hour tally was 3,893. Bengaluru Urban district saw 21,071 infections and five deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-3rd-wave-what-are-the-projections-for-other-states-as-delhi-mumbai-cases-dip-101642353204116.html
16-01-2022||India||Former SBI employee arrested for stealing gold from bank locker||BHUBANESWAR: A former contractual employee of State Bank of India (SBI) in Odisha’s Koraput district was arrested after he stole around 1.6 kg of gold jewelries from the bank locker after hiding himself in a corner, police said on Sunday. Shekhar Kuldipiya, who worked as a messenger of SBI’s Laxmipur branch in Koraput district between 2014 and August 2020 was arrested on charges of stealing around 1.6 kg of mortgaged gold ornaments kept in the locker room in November last year. Koraput SP Varun Guntupalli said Kuldipiya entered the bank on November 30 afternoon on the pretext of some work. “He then hid himself in the computer server room of the bank. Unaware of Kuldipiya’s presence in the bank’s room, the bank employees locked the gates at 8 PM after banking hours. At night, Kuldipiya came out of the hideout and went to the branch manager’s room to get the strong room and locker keys. He then took away the gold jewelry kept in 21 packets in the strong room and locker, and hid inside the bank’s toilet. He managed to sneak out after the bank opened for regular transactions at around 10 am the next day,” said the SP. Though the theft of the gold ornaments occurred in November, the bank’s manager became aware of the theft this month following which he lodged a formal complaint on January 14. When the police examined the footage of CCTVs installed at the branch, they saw Kuldipiya stealing the gold jewelry from the bank. “As he worked as a messenger for 6 years, he was well aware of the bank’s functions and timings. Due to Kuldipiya’s involvement in irregularities, the bank had earlier disengaged him,” the SP said. Apart from the stolen gold ornaments, police have also seized ₹2.95 lakh cash and household articles worth over ₹1 lakh. The police are probing why the siren and safety alarms of the bank did not blow when the heist happened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-sbi-employee-arrested-for-stealing-gold-from-bank-locker-101642353150717.html
16-01-2022||India||Sena-NCP to contest election without Congress in Goa as seat-sharing talks fail||MUMBAI: After the collapse of seat-sharing talks with the Congress for the Goa assembly elections, the Shiv Sena is girding its loins to contest the polls in alliance with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). The two parties are likely to formalise their alliance for the coastal state on January 19, and the Sena may contest 15 seats. “The NCP and Shiv Sena are in an alliance in Maharashtra and the Congress is also with us. But in Goa, they seem to have some issues with seat sharing. Our talks were going on well, but this (alliance) could not happen. The NCP’s talks with them too have been unfruitful. But this does not mean we will not contest the elections,” said Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut. Earlier, the Shiv Sena was eager to replicate a Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA)-like experiment in Goa with the Congress and the NCP to take on the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Jitesh Kamat, Shiv Sena state unit chief, Goa, said their talks with the Congress hit a roadblock over the seats to be shared. “The Congress was offering seats like Priol, Porvorim, Pernem, and Sanvordem, while we were eager to contest from Mapusa and Siolim, where our workers have been active for the past five years,” he explained. Hs said the tie-up with the NCP was likely to be announced on January 19. The Sena is likely to contest 15 seats, mostly in North Goa, which borders Maharashtra. He charged that the politics of Goa revolved around 10 to 12 individuals, who were corrupt, often jumped ship from one party to another and had links with the land and drugs mafias. The BJP recently inducted those with links to the drugs mafia, added Raut. “We want that the voters of Goa must elect the common people who contest the elections. We will put up candidates from among the people,” he stated, adding that the late Shiv Sena chief Bal Thackeray similarly gave leadership opportunities to those from the masses. Raut also took a swipe at Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal for conducting door-to-door campaigns for the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Goa, while Covid-19 cases in his state were rising. Despite Goa bordering Maharashtra and the cultural and historic links between the two states, the Shiv Sena has not been able to secure a political opening in the coastal state. In 2017, the Sena fought the assembly elections in an alliance with the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) and the Goa Suraksha Manch (GSM), floated by veteran Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) hand Subhash Velingkar, but was severely drubbed in all the three seats that it fought from. The only face-saver for the alliance was the victory of the MGP, which has an organic base in the Hindus, on three seats, though the party supported the BJP soon after. The Sena’s foray in the 2012 Goa assembly elections also came a cropper. Political analyst Hemant Desai noted that the Shiv Sena and the NCP had little presence on the ground in Goa, and the NCP’s lone MLA and Benaulim strongman Churchill Alemao shifted to the Trinamool Congress. The Shiv Sena made little attempts to create an organic base in Goa unlike the AAP. The political developments in Goa are less likely to impact the fate of the MVA in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senancp-to-contest-election-without-congress-in-goa-as-seat-sharing-talks-fail-101642348050159.html
16-01-2022||India||News updates HT: Mumbai revises Covid-19 rule for passengers from Dubai and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has withdrawn the additional restrictions that it mandated for passengers flying to the city from the United Arab Emirates, including Dubai. The new rules will be applicable from January 17, the civic body said. In its earlier order, the civic body had mandated compulsory 7-day quarantine and RT-PCR test on arrival for passengers arriving from the UAE. Read MorePunjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi's brother Manohar Singh has said he will be contesting as an independent from Bassi Pathana assembly seat where he was expecting to get a ticket from the Congress. The party has fielded MLA Gurpreet Singh GP from the seat. Calling the party's decision as ‘injustice’ Manohar Singh Channi said it is also an injustice to the people of the constituency. Read MoreMumbai's daily caseload fell below 10,000 on Sunday as 7,895 fresh Covid infections were recorded in the last 24 hours, continuing the downward trend, which is also kindling hopes that the pandemic has plateaued in the city. 84% of the new cases are asymptomatic while 11 deaths were recorded in the last 24 hours. A total of 57,534 tests were conducted. The recovery rate stands at 92% and the doubling rate of the infection in Mumbai is 48 days. Read MoreReligious leader Yati Narsinghanand was on Sunday sent to 14-day judicial custody by a Haridwar court in connection with the ‘Dharma Sansad’ hate speech case. Narsinghanand, who was the organiser of the controversial event, was arrested by the Haridwar Police last night; this was the second arrest made in the case after Waseem Rizvi, former chairman of the Uttar Pradesh Central Shia Waqf board. Read MoreThe hostage situation at a synagogue in Texas was resolved on Saturday night with the release of four hostages and the death of the hostage-taker, but the demand of the suspect has raised brought back global jihad on the agenda. Read MoreIndia's Lakshya Sen produced a magnificent effort to beat world champion Loh Kean Yew of Singapore 24-22 21-17 in the final of men's singles at the Indian Open. This is Sen's first BWF World Tour Super 500 title and third overall. Read MoreAmid Omicron spread, a cup of hot tulsi tea could not only give your day a refreshing start but also boost your immunity and help you ward off Covid-19 risk. Tulsi or holy basil, also known as the queen of herbs is grown and worshipped in many Indian houses. Read MoreLet's face it. The Hotel Transylvannia series was never Shrek or Ice Age. It had half-decent films, propped up by some amazing inventive animation and direction from a master - Genndy Tartakovsky. The star power of Adam Sandler helped as well. The fourth and final instalment of the series - Hotel Transylvania: Transformania - lacks both of these. And that, along with some unimaginative writing, makes the film the worst chapter of an already mediocre franchise. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-ht-mumbai-revises-covid-19-rule-for-passengers-from-dubai-101642345309064.html
16-01-2022||India||'Why insult an officer': Priyanka Chaturvedi, Himanta Biswa Sarma fight it out on Twitter||Reacting to Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma's public act of schooling a government official, the video of which surfaced on social media, Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi said the chief minister should share clear instruction before "choosing to insult an officer who was doing his job".The job here was to clear Himanta Biswa Sarma's convoy by halting the traffic on National Highway 37. The chief minister called deputy commissioner Nagaon and gave him an earful for stopping the traffic for him. "Arrey DC sahab yeh kya natak hain. Kyun gadi ruka hain? Koi raja, maharaja aaraha hain kya? (What is this drama? Why are the cars held up in traffic? Is any king coming for a visit?)," he asked the deputy commissioner.Watch how Himanta Sarma got off his car to clear traffic jam; scolded officer The chief minister was quoted as saying that there was a clear direction to not create inconvenience for people during his visit. "For over 15 minutes, National Highway was blocked including ambulances. This VIP culture is not acceptable in today's Assam," Sarma said. I think everyone in the country would want VIP culture to end- but does not happen by recording videos of publicly humiliating an ‘over active’ bureaucrat who has earned his rank to be there, was my limited pointAlso, ref Protocol: (1/2) https://t.co/BHoprkK0tR"DC Nagaon, Sh Nisarg Hivare, was just following the protocol duty. If the CM wants to give up his protocol, rather than being disrespectful to the DC, he can issue a notification for new norms. This seems a publicity exercise, to achieve that by humiliating an officer is condemnable," Priyanka tweeted.As Sena MP implied that the public humiliation of a government official was uncalled for and the show was a publicity exercise, Himanta told her that halting traffic on National Highway is not the standard practice. It was the "over-activism" of the Police, which needs to be stopped. "If we are trying that in Assam, you should bless us, not criticise," Sarma wrote.To this, Priyanka Chaturvedi cited the VIP security rules of the home ministry and said that changing the VIP culture, which everyone in the country would want, does not happen by recording videos of publicly humiliating a bureaucrat.“For a minute if one was to pause and think, if these words to humiliate a DC were used by a non-BJP Chief Minister, there would be an explosion of TV debates asking CM to step down. But he’s from BJP, toh jo bhi kiya acche ke liye hi kiya hoga," Priyanka added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-insult-an-officer-priyanka-chaturvedi-himanta-biswa-sarma-fight-it-out-on-twitter-101642343190451.html
16-01-2022||India||Tripura students’ body calls for strike on Monday over assault by traffic police||AGARTALA: The Twipra Students Federation (TSF), an indigenous students’ organisation of Tripura announced that it will hold a 12-hour strike across the state on Monday protesting against the reported assault on two varsity students by a Traffic police three days back, after their two-wheeler broke down on the road through which chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb’s convoy was supposed to pass. The strike will be held from 5 am to 5 pm. Two students, Angel Reang and Abhijit Debbarma were allegedly beaten up by a traffic policeman after their two-wheeler broke down at Circuit House in Agartala on January 13. “The matter is very serious. This is violation of the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. Though the students filed complaint in the police station, the case is not registered yet. We called for the 12-hours strike demanding action against the traffic police, “ chairperson of TSF advisory board Upendra Debbarma told reporters while announcing the strike in Agartala. Debbarma is also joint secretary of North East Students Organization (NESO). TSF general secretary John Debbarma said, “ We request people from all sections of the society to cooperate during the strike.” Soon after the incident, different students’ organisations including the National Students Union of India (NSUI) and Left students’ bodies protested against the incident and demanded prompt action against the traffic police. Police registered a case based on the complaint filed by Traffic Police unit against the two students under Section 253 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Later, they started an inquiry into the incident under the supervision of deputy superintendent of police (Traffic) Koyal Debbarma. The traffic constable, accused of assaulting the students, was removed from field duties till completion of the inquiry. Tribal Welfare minister Mewar Kumar Jamatia condemned the incident and stressed on the inquiry into the matter. He didn’t comment on the strike called by the student body. Jamatia is also general secretary of the BJP’s ally Indigenous People’s Front of Tripura (IPFT). BJP spokesperson Prabir Chakraborty said, “The government has already ordered for a probe into the matter. After inquiry, everything will be clear. This bandh has no logic and I appeal people not to support the bandh. I also appeal to the TSF to lift away their bandh till the inquiry report comes in.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-students-body-calls-for-strike-on-monday-over-assault-by-traffic-police-101642343371331.html
16-01-2022||India||Less than 10,000 cases recorded in Mumbai; 7,895 infections in 24 hours||Mumbai's daily caseload fell below 10,000 on Sunday as 7,895 fresh Covid infections were recorded in the last 24 hours, continuing the downward trend, which is also kindling hopes that the pandemic has plateaued in the city.  84% of the new cases are asymptomatic while 11 deaths were recorded in the last 24 hours. A total of 57,534 tests were conducted. The recovery rate stands at 92% and the doubling rate of the infection in Mumbai is 48 days.As the cases are dropping, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has withdrawn the additional restrictions that it mandated for passengers flying to the city from the United Arab Emirates, including Dubai. "No special SOP henceforth will be applicable for passengers coming from UAE, including Dubai. Guidelines applicable to international travellers arriving from countries other than countries at-risk will be made applicable to travellers arriving from UAE," the notice issued on Sunday said.Maharashtra on Sunday reported 41,327 fresh cases and 29 deaths. On Saturday, the state reported 42,462 cases and 23 deaths.Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Sunday said the state government will be considering reopening schools after the next 10-15 days if the declining trend continues. "Demands are rising from certain quarters for reopening of schools as children are suffering the education loss. We will consider it after 10-15 days as there is a low (rate of) infection among children. The chief minister will take the final call in this regard," the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/less-than-10-000-cases-recorded-in-mumbai-7-895-infections-recorded-in-24-hrs-101642340930670.html
16-01-2022||India||Dharma Sansad case: Religious leader Yati Narsinghanand sent to 14-day judicial custody||Religious leader Yati Narsinghanand was on Sunday sent to 14-day judicial custody by a Haridwar court in connection with the ‘Dharma Sansad’ hate speech case. Narsinghanand, who was the organiser of the controversial event, was arrested by the Haridwar Police last night; this was the second arrest made in the case after Waseem Rizvi, former chairman of the Uttar Pradesh Central Shia Waqf board.The religious leaders had apparently called for genocide and the use of arms against Muslims while speaking at the ‘Dharm Sansad’ event in Haridwar from December 17 to 19, 2021.Subsequently, an FIR was registered against Yati Narsinghanand and Wasim Rizvi alias Jitendra Narayan Tyagi, along with many others, including another Hindu seer named Sagar Sindhu Maharaj, in the hate speech case.According to the PTI news agency, Narsinghanand, the head priest of the Dasna temple in Ghaziabad, has been booked under Sections 295 (A) and 509 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sent to Roshnabad Jail.Section 295 (A) deals with deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs while section 509 deals with the word, gesture, or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman.Rakinder Singh Kathait, station house officer (SHO) of the jail, told PTI that Yati Narsinghanand was picked up on Saturday night from Sarvanand Ghat of the Ganga, where he was staging a ‘satyagraha’ against the arrest of another accused in the case – Jitendra Narayan Tyagi, earlier known as Waseem Rizvi.Tyagi is already in jail, Kathait said. Many of the other speakers at the ‘Dharma Sansad’ are accused of delivering hate speeches.Two FIRs have been lodged in Haridwar against more than ten people, including Narasinghanand and Tyagi, in this regard. Meanwhile, a special investigation team is probing the case, the police official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dharma-sansad-case-religious-leader-yati-narsinghanand-sent-to-14-day-judicial-custody-101642339953164.html
16-01-2022||India||Karnataka announces seed funding up to ₹50 lakh each for 200 startups||To promote technological innovation in Karnataka, 200 startups will be provided with seed funding of up to ₹50 lakh each in the current year, the State Higher Education and Minister for IT/BT and Skill Development Dr CN Ashwatha Narayana said on Sunday.Addressing the occasion of the first 'National Startup Day' event observed at Vidhana Soudha, the education minister said, "The seed funding will be facilitated to additional 75 startups to achieve the tally to 200 startups in the year."In the present year, the state has so for attracted ₹1.60 lakh crores of foreign direct investment which is more than 50 per cent of the investment made in the entire country.The state is home to over 13,000 startups out of the total 57,000 in the country.In view of maintaining the leading position of the state in the sector, the stress on digital education and skill development will be focussed through effective implementation of the National Education Policy of India (NEP) 2020, he explained.Narayana pointed out that Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that the role of startups will be crucial in India becoming "Vishwaguru and super power".Going forward along the lines of the Prime Minister's thought, the growth of hardware will also be facilitated together with software in the state, the minister said.Under Electronics System Design and Manufacturing (ESDM) policy, ₹5,000 crores will be given as subsidy, and out of this ₹2,000 crores has already been given in the first year, Narayana said.The Union government has observed the 'Startup India Innovation Week' from Jan 10-16 and announced national awards for the Startups for their innovative product development.Out of the 56 startups awarded, 14 from the state have bagged the same to put the state on top in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-announces-seed-funding-up-to-rs-50-lakh-each-for-200-startups-101642338144901.html
16-01-2022||India||Mumbai revises SOP for people travelling from Dubai as Covid cases drop||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has withdrawn the additional restrictions that it mandated for passengers flying to the city from the United Arab Emirates, including Dubai. The new rules will be applicable from January 17, the civic body said. In its earlier order, the civic body had mandated compulsory 7-day quarantine and RT-PCR test on arrival for passengers arriving from the UAE. "No special SOP henceforth will be applicable for passengers coming from UAE, including Dubai. Guidelines applicable to international travellers arriving from countries other than countries at-risk will be made applicable to travellers arriving from UAE," the notice said.However, according to the latest guidelines issued by the civil aviation ministry, which came into effect from January 11, all international travellers have to undergo a seven-day home quarantine.The daily cases of Mumbai reached the peak of over 20,000 in January and since then, cases have been coming down. On Sunday, Mumbai reported 7,895 infections. The decision to remove the additional surveillance on people coming from Dubai was taken in a virtual meeting of the civic officials where it was discussed that Mumbai seems to have reached its peak of the third wave.Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Sunday said the state government will be considering reopening schools after the next 10-15 days if the declining trend continues. "Demands are rising from certain quarters for reopening of schools as children are suffering the education loss. We will consider it after 10-15 days as there is a low (rate of) infection among children. The chief minister will take the final call in this regard," the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-revises-sop-for-people-travelling-from-dubai-as-covid-cases-drop-101642339356112.html
16-01-2022||India||Delhi court rejects bail plea of 'Sulli Deals' app creator Aumkareshwar Thakur||A Delhi court on Sunday rejected the bail plea of Sulli Deals app creator Aumkareshwar Thakur.Metropolitan Magistrate Vasundhra Chhaunkar has dismissed the bail plea of Sulli Deals app creator Aumkareshwar Thakur.The IFSO unit of Delhi Police's Special Cell arrested the mastermind of the Sulli Deals app from Indore last week after receiving information about him from Bulli Bai app case mastermind Neeraj Bishnoi during the investigation.The Court noted that the investigation in the case is at an initial stage and the accused has been arrested after great and time-consuming efforts following the MLAT process."The accused had consciously used Top Browser to disclose his identity and various complaints have been received against the 'Sulli Deals' app throughout the country. The investigation is at a nascent stage where crucial evidence and further chain of events are yet to be conclusively unearthed," the Court observed.According to the Court, granting bail to the accused at this juncture will prejudice a fair investigation. "Therefore, in the opinion of the Court, the accused is not entitled to bail at this stage, " the court said."On the basis of above observations and reasons, bail application of accused Aumkareshwar Thakur is dismissed," the court said.In July 2021, the 'Sulli Deal' app was made on the Github platform to auction Muslim women. The matter came to light when Delhi Police took suo moto cognisance of this matter. The Delhi Police were investigating the case for the last six months but the first arrest in the case came after Bulli Bai app case mastermind Niraj Bishnoi was apprehended from Assam's Jorhat.Delhi Police, during the investigation, found out that the Bulli Bai mastermind Niraj Bishnoi and Aumkareshwar Thakur were virtually connected over the internet through chat rooms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-court-rejects-bail-plea-of-sulli-deals-app-creator-aumkareshwar-thakur-101642337498893.html
16-01-2022||India||Possible neotectonic activity behind collapse of Konark Temple: IIT researchers||KOLKATA: The main portion of the 13th century Konark Temple in Odisha, a UNESCO World Heritage site, may possibly have collapsed due to involvement of some neotectonic activity, a team of researchers from the Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur has suggested. The researchers claim that even though there are multiple speculations about how the main portion of the temple collapsed, this is for the first time that they have got some scientific evidence to suggest that tectonic movement may have led to the collapse of the temple. The massive temple dedicated to the Sun God was built by King Narasimhadeva-I of the Ganga dynasty between 1243 and 1255. It is one of the most popular tourist spots of the eastern state. The temple as seen today is actually the Jagamohana (assembly hall) of the actual temple. The main temple tower, known as Garbha Griha, which enshrined the presiding deity has collapsed and only the remains can be seen. “There are many theories and speculations about how the main temple collapsed. But none could be proved scientifically. Our study looks at this old historic problem from a geological perspective. The findings reveal that neotectonic activity may have been responsible for the collapse of the earlier temple structure,” said William Kumar Mohanty, a professor of department of geology and geophysics at IIT Kharagpur. Earlier in 2016, the same team found evidence of the extinct Chandrabhaga River near the UNESCO world heritage site. The researchers took the help of satellite images and then validated it with other field data to trace the paleochannel of the ancient river. Odisha’s coastal region is undergoing tectonic activity even today as a result of reactivation of the faults which crisscross the basement of the Mahanadi delta. The subsidence and uplift of basement blocks is responsible for morphological changes along the trajectories of the river channels flowing through the coastal region. These tectonic movements are likely to have disrupted any existing river flowing along the fault planes and may be one of the causes for the drying of many river channels, including the ancient Chandrabhaga River passing north of the Konark temple. “Low to moderate magnitude earthquakes in this region, which lies in seismic zones II and III, indicate significant slow movement on basement faults (tectonic creeps) most likely as a result of the northward movement of the Indian plate. Collapse of the Konark Sun Temple is likely linked to neotectonic activity in this region” said Saibal Gupta, professor of Department Ggeology and Ggeophysics at IIT Kharagpur. The findings have been published in Journal of Earth Science System, a peer-reviewed journal brought out by the Indian Academy of Sciences. The four-member team comprising researchers Subhamoy Jana and Prakash Kumar was led by Mohanty and Gupta. The exact date and reason for the collapse of the temple is shrouded in mystery. Even though it is difficult to ascertain how long the temple stood the test of time, there are many speculations on this. The researchers said that some theories and their drawbacks were discussed in a book titled Suryakhetra Konark by Balaram Mishra. One of the theories suggests that the structure of the temple was never completed because of the early death of King Langula Narasimha Dev. Another theory states that after the suicide of Dharmapada (son of Bisu Maharana, main engineer of the temple), the temple lost its sacredness and was subsequently abandoned by the devout, leading to the temple falling into a state of disrepair. Another common belief is that during construction of the temple, the interior and exterior of the temple was filled with sand and when the sand was removed the temple collapsed. But there are researchers, who have a different opinion and claim that had there been a tectonic movement, other temples that are contemporary to the Konark Temple would have also been affected. “The IIT team may have their own evidences but there are many other smaller temples in that area within a radius of 10 km. Take for example the Chaurasi Varahi temple and the Gangeswari temple. Both are contemporary to the Konark temple and are still intact and well preserved by the Archaeological Survey of India. Had there been a tectonic movement they all would have been affected,” said Anam Behera, assistant professor of ancient Indian history, culture and archaeology at Utkal University in Odisha. The IIT team, however, said that the two faults located within 30 km from the surface of the earth intersect close to the Konark Temple. The ancient Chandrabhaga River too used to flow close to the temple. Hence, the loose sediment deposits below the temple would amplify any slow tectonic movement around these faults, affecting only the Konark Temple. “There are indeed two faults close to the Konark Temple and tectonic movements centering around these faults might have possibly led to the collapse. The Lingaraja Temple in Bhubaneshwar and the Puri Temple were not affected because they were located far off. Tectonic movement is still going on in the area and in future even mild earthquakes may reactivate the faults which in turn could take a toll on the existing temple structure,” said Kabir Mohan Sethy, professor of geography at Utkal University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/possible-neotectonic-activity-behind-collapse-of-konark-temple-iit-researchers-101642337369067.html
16-01-2022||India||Tamil Nadu shuts schools for all classes till January 31 amid Covid-19 spread||In view of the rising cases of the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19), being driven by the Omicron variant, the Tamil Nadu government on Sunday declared a holiday in schools for all classes till January 31.Further, the state government has also postponed the exams that were scheduled to be held on January 19.While a holiday has already been declared for students of classes 1 to 9, physical classes are being held in schools only for those in the 10-12 grades. However, considering the welfare of students against the background of rising virus cases, a holiday has been declared for all classes, according to a government release.“Fresh dates for the examinations would be announced later for classes 10 and 12, ” news agency PTI quoted the release as saying.On January 5, announcing fresh curbs to tackle the virus spread, the government had barred physical classes for students of classes 1 to 9 in all schools across the state and had permitted it for only those in 10-12 standards.Meanwhile, there are currently 1,31,007 active Covid-19 cases in Tamil Nadu. While the total deaths from the Covid-19 disease stood at 36,967, the cumulative recoveries in the state reached 27,47,974.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-shuts-schools-for-all-classes-till-january-31-amid-covid-19-spread-101642335330880.html
16-01-2022||India||Tigress Collarwalli, mother to 29, dies at the age of 16 at Pench Tiger Reserve||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh’s most popular tigress T 15, popularly known as Collarwalli, which created a record of sorts by giving birth to 29 cubs, died due to prolonged illness in Pench Tiger Reserve on Saturday in Chhindwara district, forest officials said. The 16-year-old tigress was also known as Mataram for giving birth to 29 cubs in eight litters, said Alok Mishra field director, Pench Tiger Reserve. Mishra said, “The tigress was ill for the past two days due to old age. She was last spotted on January 14 near Bhura Dev Nullah. She was lying down there and a large number of tourists spotted her. She was under observation of veterinary doctors and was unable to walk. The tigress took last breath at 6.15 PM on Saturday.” “The exact cause of death will be known after post mortem but prima facie it appears to be multi-organ failure due to old-age,” he added. “The Collarwalli was the most popular tigress among tourists and got her name because she was spotted with radio collar tied around her neck. She was born to T 7, popularly known as Badimada and T 1, known as Charger in 2005. In 2008, a team of experts from Dehradun fitted radio collar. In 2008, the tigress gave birth to three cubs but all of them died. In October 2010, she delivered five cubs at a time which increased her popularity among wildlife lovers,” said Alok Kumar, principal chief conservator of forest, (wildlife). “She lived in the wild for more than 16 years which is also a record. Her legacy is not limited to Pench as her female cub was shifted to Panna Tiger Reserve who gave birth to five cubs and contributed a lot in success of relocation project of tigers in Panna Tiger Reserve,” said Aniruddha Majumder, a scientist at the state forest research institute, Jabalpur. Majumder said he was devastated with the news. “Collarwalli was a legend,” he added. 
16-01-2022||India||Earthquake measuring 2.6 on Richter scale hits Uttarakhand’s Chamoli||DEHRADUN: Earthquake tremors measuring 2.6 on the Richter scale were felt in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district on Sunday, according to National Center for Seismology website. The earthquake occurred at 3:35 am and was located 23 km west of Joshimmath and 5 km beneath the earth’s surface. National Center for Seismology (NCS) is the nodal agency under earth sciences ministry for monitoring earthquake activity in the country on 24X7 basis. Earthquakes continue to shake up the fragile Himalayas. In August 2021, earthquake tremors measuring 3.8 on the Richter scale were felt in Dehradun district. Last year on January 8, an earthquake measuring 3.3 on the Richter scale was reported in Bageshwar district. On December 1, 2020, an earthquake hit Haridwar after a gap of 40 years. The earthquake measuring 3.9 on the Richter scale was reported from the Haridwar region at 9:41 am. Experts pointed out that the source of the earthquake was due to stress release in the Himalayan Frontal Fault which is located in this area. In February 2020, Bageshwar was hit by an earthquake measuring 4.7 on Richter scale. On December 8, 2019 Joshimath area was hit by an earthquake measuring 3.2 on the Richter Scale. On November 12, 2019, an earthquake measuring 4.5 on the Richter scale was felt in Pithoragarh district. In September 2019, an earthquake measuring 3.6 on the Richter scale was reported from Chamoli district. In February 2017, a magnitude 5.1 earthquake struck at a depth of 16 km near Rudraprayag district. The Himalayas being the youngest mountain chain (around 50 million years old) in the world, which is still rising (around 5 mm per year) due to Indian plate folding under the Tibetan plate, Uttarakhand reports high seismic activity, with most areas falling under Seismic Zones IV and V.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/earthquake-measuring-2-6-on-richter-scale-hits-uttarakhand-s-chamoli-101642334548735.html
16-01-2022||India||Mamata writes to PM Modi over R-Day tableau rejection, says ‘profoundly shocked’||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday wrote to PM Modi urging him to reconsider the decision of excluding West Bengal's proposed tableau for the Republic Day parade. "It is even more baffling for us that the tableau was rejected without assigning any reasons or justifications," Mamata wrote adding that she was profoundly shocked and hurt by the decision.The proposed tableau was to commemorate Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and his Indian National Army on his 125th birth anniversary. The tableau would have carried portraits of Vidyasagar, Rabindranath Tagore, Vivekananda, Chittaranjan Das, Sri Aurobindo, Matangini Hazra, Birsa Munda, Nazrul Islam, Mamata wrote,"All the people of West Bengal are deeply pained by this attitude of the central government. Bengal was at the forefront of the Indian freedom struggle and has paid the heaviest price for the country's Independence through the partition," Mamata added.Defence Ministry rejects Kerala’s Republic Day tableau againThis is the fourth time West Bengal's tableau proposal got rejected in the past few years, In 2015, 2017 and 2020, West Bengal's tableau proposals were rejected.Before Mamata, leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury wrote to defence minister Rajnath Singh over the rejection. "I am disappointed and shocked to learn that the Central Government has rejected the proposal of the State Government of West Bengal for tableau showcasing its cultural heritage and Netaji's life and contributions in our Freedom Struggle on Republic Day 2022. This is an insult to the people of West Bengal, its cultural heritage and our great hero Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose," Chowdhury wrote.The Central Government has decided to start the Republic Day celebrations every year from January 23 instead of January 24 to include the birth anniversary of freedom fighter Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose.The Centre has also rejected the Kerala government's proposed tableau on social reformer Sree Narayana Guru and the Jatayu Park monument. According to reports, the Centre wanted a tableau on Adi Sankaracharya but the government insisted on Sree Narayana Guru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-writes-to-pm-modi-over-r-day-tableau-rejection-says-profoundly-shocked-101642332142255.html
16-01-2022||India||India's Covid R-value dropped between January 7 and 13: 5 points||The latest analysis of India's Covid R-value by IIT Madras has revealed that the value dropped between January 7 and 13 in comparison with the previous weeks. R-value is a crucial parameter to track the movement of the pandemic curve. Going by the latest R-value, the pandemic situation has bettered in the second week of January, compared to the first week.R-value indicates the transmissibility of the virus. If the value is over 1, it is considered pandemic as a value above 1 means one infected person can spread the virus to more than one person. In the past week, the R-value was 2.2, which is still high as this value means 100 infected people can infect 220 people, which is more than double.Here are 5 things to know about India's present R-value and its implications:1. The R-value of Mumbai was 1.3, Delhi 2.5, Chennai 2.4 and Kolkata 1.6 in the second week of January. Researchers said the R-value was close to 4 in the first week.2. In the last week of December, the R-value was close to 2.9.3. R-value is different for different cities and it depends on transmissibility probability, contact rate and expected time interval in which infection can happen.4. For the past few days, the 24-hour Covid tally of metro cities has been moving towards stabilisation. After breaching the 20,000-mark, Mumbai's daily infection fell to 11,000 and is expected to dip below 10,000 on Sunday. Delhi health minister Satyandra Jain has also been claiming that the Covid-19 situation in the Capital is moving towards stabilisation. However, the dip in the number of daily cases could be attributed to the decrease in the number of testing. But going by the R-value, it can be said that the pandemic situation has been improving.5. The situation is different for districts, which saw the surge late.The ongoing pandemic has been driven by Omicron, the latest variant of Covid. Scientists projected a short and sharp spike of the wave which will recede fast, depending on immunity and vaccination coverage.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-r-value-dropped-between-january-7-and-13-5-points-101642331312198.html
16-01-2022||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: IMD predicts severe cold in many states across country, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday predicted severe cold day conditions across multiple states of the country over the span of the next week. Read moreCongress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Sunday the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) politics of "hatred" is very harmful for the country and is also responsible for unemployment. Read moreVirat Kohli's decision to quit Test captaincy out of the blue has gotten everyone talking. While members of the cricketing fraternity are paying their tribute to Kohli on their respective social handles, some pundits and experts are attempting to understand the reason behind the unexpected decision. Read moreActor Anushka Sharma on Sunday shared a post for her husband, cricketer Virat Kohli, a day after he quit as the Test captain for the Indian cricket team. Taking to Instagram, Anushka also attached pictures to her note and in one of them, she was seen kissing Virat. Read moreEnough data is yet to be processed to determine how the Omicron variant is affecting the children but the recent death of seven kids in Delhi (between Jan 9-12) has put the spotlight on children with co-morbidities getting infected by the deadly virus. Read moreTata Safari is all set to become the automaker's fifth model with a Dark theme, as the homegrown automaker is ready to launch Tata Safari Dark Edition on January 17 in India. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-imd-predicts-severe-cold-in-many-states-across-country-and-all-the-latest-news-101642330590018.html
16-01-2022||India||A day after Twitter poll, Rahul Gandhi's another attack on BJP||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Sunday the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) politics of "hatred" is very harmful for the country and is also responsible for unemployment.The attack came a day after Gandhi attacked the BJP government by posting an online Twitter poll asking his followers which are its biggest shortcomings.“Domestic and foreign industries cannot run without social peace,” he said in a tweet."Will defeat this growing hatred around you everyday with brotherhood. Are you with me? #NoHate," Gandhi added.मैं भी यही मानता हूँ कि भाजपा की नफ़रत भरी राजनीति देश के लिए बेहद हानिकारक है। और ये नफ़रत ही बेरोज़गारी के लिए भी ज़िम्मेदार है। देशीय व विदेशी उद्योग बिना सामाजिक शांति के नहीं चल सकते।रोज़ अपने आस-पास बढ़ती इस नफ़रत को भाईचारे से हराएँगे- क्या आप मेरे साथ हैं?#NoHate https://t.co/Bzc7IMruXQCongress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Sunday the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) politics of "hatred" is very harmful for the country and is also responsible for unemployment.The attack came a day after Gandhi attacked the BJP government by posting an online Twitter poll asking his followers which are its biggest shortcomings.“Domestic and foreign industries cannot run without social peace,” he said in a tweet."Will defeat this growing hatred around you everyday with brotherhood. Are you with me? #NoHate," Gandhi added.|#+|In the online quiz, the Congress leader asked people about the "biggest shortcoming" of the BJP government and gave them three options to choose from including "unemployment", "tax extortion", "price rise" and an "atmosphere of hatred".The poll elicited 3,47,396 votes, with most of them (35 per cent) voting for the fourth option, indicating the prevalence of hateful atmosphere was the central government’s biggest failure.भाजपा सरकार की सबसे बड़ी कमी क्या रही है?According to the post, the second biggest failure of the government was unemployment, with 28 per cent of those interacting with the poll voting for it.Two days ago, Rahul Gandhi chose the newest craze on social media, Wordle, to take a swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government.On Twitter, Gandhi used the format of the game but changed the letters to reflect Congress’s allegations against the Prime Minister. The photograph shared by the leader contained words like ‘Jhumla’ (scam), ‘Taxes’, ‘snoop’, ‘photo op’, in an obvious attack on the ruling party.Wordle is an online word game and gives a player six chances to guess the day’s secret word, which has five letters. The aim is to figure out the secret word with the fewest guesses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-day-after-twitter-poll-rahul-gandhi-s-another-attack-on-bjp-101642327273023.html
16-01-2022||India||Vaccination added great strength to fight against Covid: PM Modi||Lauding India's Covid-19 vaccination drive as it completes a year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said it has added great strength to the fight against the pandemic and has resulted in saving lives and protecting livelihoods.When the pandemic first struck, not much was known about the virus. However, our scientists and innovators immersed themselves in developing vaccines, he noted. India feels proud that our nation has been able to contribute to fighting the pandemic through vaccines, Modi tweeted."I salute each and every individual who is associated with the vaccination drive," he said, adding that the role of our doctors, nurses and healthcare workers is exceptional."When we see glimpses of people being vaccinated in remote areas, or our healthcare workers taking the vaccines there, our hearts and minds are filled with pride," he said. The prime minister asserted that India's approach to fighting the pandemic will always remain science based. Health infrastructure is also being augmented to ensure that fellow citizens get proper care, he said, asking people to keep following all Covi-19 related protocols. The countrywide vaccination drive against Covid-19 on Sunday completed one year, during which over 156.76 crore vaccine doses were administered.  According to Health Ministry officials, over 92 per cent of the adult population have received at least one dose while over 68 per cent have been fully vaccinated. The Centre will issue a postal stamp on Sunday afternoon to mark the completion of one year of the inoculation drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccination-added-great-strength-to-fight-against-covid-pm-modi-101642326420450.html
16-01-2022||India||Severe cold approaching; these states may see heavy rain, dense fog next week||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday predicted severe cold day conditions across multiple states of the country over the span of the next week. In a post from its official handle on Twitter, the IMD warned of isolated to scattered rains and snowfall in several areas and also a very dense fog cover over others, most of these regions being in northwest India.The latest IMD bulletin, issued this afternoon, alerted of cold day to severe cold day conditions in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, West Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, and Rajasthan during the next two days and over eastern Uttar Pradesh during the next three days.According to the MeT department, this is how the forecast for the next week looks:Rainfall Alert:1. Isolated to scattered light/moderate rainfall over Telangana on 16th January; over coastal Andhra Pradesh and Rayalaseema on 16th & 17th January and over Tamil Nadu, Kerala, and Mahe during the next three days.2. Isolated light/moderate rainfall very likely over sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim, and Andaman & Nicobar Islands during 18th-20th January.3. Isolated thunderstorms with lightning very likely over Telangana and coastal Andhra Pradesh on 16th January.4. Isolated to scattered light/moderate rainfall over Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram, and Tripura during 19th and 20th January.5. Isolated to scattered light/moderate precipitation over Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh during 16th-20th January. 6. Isolated light/moderate precipitation over Himachal Pradesh during 17th-20th January and over Uttarakhand during 18th -20th January.Snowfall alert:Thereafter, under the influence of another Western Disturbance, scattered to fairly widespread rainfall/snowfall likely over western Himalayan region and isolated to scattered rainfall over adjoining plains of northwest India during 21st to 23rd January.Fog conditions:Dense to very dense fog in isolated parts during the night/morning hours very likely over Rajasthan and eastern Uttar Pradesh during the next two days and dense fog in isolated parts over Jammu division and Himachal Pradesh on 16th-17th January; over western UP and northern Madhya Pradesh during next the two days.Cold wave conditions:1. Cold day to severe cold day conditions in some/isolated pockets very likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, western Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, and Rajasthan during the next two days and over eastern Uttar Pradesh during next three days.2. Cold wave conditions in isolated pockets are very likely over eastern Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh during the next 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/severe-cold-approaching-these-states-may-see-heavy-rain-dense-fog-next-week-101642324707120.html
16-01-2022||India||'Omicron a deviant': Virologist says probably 2 pandemics going on side by side||At a time when scientists are exploring whether Omicron is a different pandemic altogether, virologist and former chief of the Indian Council of Medical Research Dr T Jacob John said it is very likely that two pandemics are going on side by side -- one by the Delta and the other by Omicron.Providing some fresh insight into the origin of Omicron, the virologist told news agency PTI that Omicron is not "fathered, or mothered, by Wuhan-D614G, Alpha, Beta, Gamma, Delta, Kappa or Mu and that much is for sure".According to Dr Jacob, Omicron's immediate parentage is not known but it has some distant connection with Wuhan-D614G, which began the pandemic."Since Omicron is illegitimate or 'deviant' from COVID-19 pandemic progression script, we must think of two pandemics going on side by side -- Delta and close relatives, and Omicron and its variants in future.Delhi may see about 17,000 cases today, dip in positivity rate: Health ministerThis is also the reason why people infected by Omicron, which can only be confirmed by genome sequencing, are reporting different symptoms than traditional Covid, Dr Jacob said. Traditional Covid impacts the respiratory system, while Omicron's effect is mostly in the throat region.As far as the peak of the third wave is concerned, Dr Jacob said metro cities will reach and end the peak of Omicron faster.Recently, John Bell, a professor of medicine at the University of Oxford, said Omicron is not causing the same disease as the previous Covid strains.Omicron was first identified in South Africa in November 2021. Initially, it was thought to be a mild variant leading to fewer complications and hospitalisation. It was also seen as the beginning of the end of the pandemic. However, following Omicron's fast transmission and its impact on unvaccinated people, scientists are now saying that Omicron is not mild, but less severe for vaccinated people. A more dangerous variant or a combination of variants might be the future of the pandemic.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-a-deviant-virologist-says-probably-2-pandemics-going-on-side-by-side-101642324057701.html
16-01-2022||India||CBI arrests GAIL director, five others in bribery case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has arrested a director of Gas Authority of India Limited (GAIL) and conducted searches at his residence in connection with an alleged bribery case. The CBI has also arrested five more people in the matter.According to the CBI, atleast 1.29 crores cash, gold jewellery worth ₹1.30 crores and other valuables have been recovered during searches from the premises of the accused.The CBI had conducted searches in Delhi and Noida in connection with a bribery case filed against the Director (Marketing) at GAIL on Saturday.A senior CBI officer informed that CBI has registered a case against the Director (Marketing) GAIL, and others including Private persons, private companies and unknown others on the allegations/ information that they are indulged in corrupt and illegal activities by obtaining bribes from the private companies buying petrochemical products marketed by the GAIL.It was further alleged that at the direction of representatives of the private company, a private person had requested the Public Servant of GAIL for allowing some discount to the buyers on petrochemical products being marketed by GAIL in lieu of illegal gratification. It was also alleged that another private person has also collected ₹40 lakh from the accused earlier in this matter.The CBI laid a trap and apprehended a private person and a Director of a Private Company based in Delhi when the alleged bribe of ₹10 lakh was received by the private person from the said Director of Private Company allegedly on behalf of the Director (Marketing) GAIL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-arrests-gail-director-five-others-in-bribery-case-101642323435245.html
16-01-2022||India||Now, Maharashtra minister Jayant Patil has an offer for Tesla CEO Elon Musk||A minister in Maharashtra on Sunday came up with an offer for Tesla CEO Elon Musk to start business in the west Indian state, a day after his counterpart in Telangana made a similar proposal.The offers came close on the heels of the maverick billionaire American entrepreneur sharing a tweet about the challenges his electric car-making company was facing while dealing with the Indian government.Tagging the now viral tweet of Musk, Maharashtra Water Resources Minister Jayant Patil wrote, “Maharashtra is one of the most progressive states in India. We will provide you all the necessary help from Maharashtra for you to get established in India. We invite you to establish your manufacturing plant in Maharashtra.”.@elonmusk, Maharashtra is one of the most progressive states in India. We will provide you all the necessary help from Maharashtra for you to get established in India. We invite you to establish your manufacturing plant in Maharashtra. https://t.co/w8sSZTpUpbThe senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader was only two days late in making a similar offer that came from Telangana’s urban development minister KT Rama Rao, who is also the son of chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao.“Hey Elon, I am the Industry & Commerce Minister of Telangana state in India. Will be happy to partner Tesla in working through the challenges to set shop in India/Telangana. Our state is a champion in sustainability initiatives & a top notch business destination in India," the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) leader wrote.On January 13, Musk, while replying to a Twitter user regarding Tesla’s business plans in India, said, "Still working through a lot of challenges with the government."Musk had said in 2020 that Tesla would set up manufacturing units for electric vehicles in India. A Tesla subsidiary firm named India Motors and Energy Private Limited has been set up. The company is based out of Bengaluru.Government sources have said that while Tesla was free to use the Production-Linked Incentive (PLI) window to produce electric vehicles in India, Musk wanted to slash import duties without offering any commitment to produce in India. And, there lay the challenges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-maharashtra-minister-jayant-patil-has-an-offer-for-tesla-ceo-elon-musk-101642316856539.html
16-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Mansukh Mandaviya hails Covid-19 vaccine drive, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.As the country completed a year of administering vaccines to its citizens against the coronavirus disease that has disrupted life and livelihood of both poor and rich alike, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Sunday hailed the inoculation campaign as the most successful one in the world. Read moreUnion law and justice minister Kiren Rijiju on Sunday shared a video on Twitter showcasing the vibrant Sarok festival – a carnival of the Akas community in the East Kameng district of Arunachal Pradesh wherein locals come together wearing colourful traditional attires, dance and celebrate on the streets. Read moreFormer India captain Sunil Gavaskar has made a big statement, saying that Virat Kohli's decision to step down as captain of the Test team could stem from the possibility that he might get sacked for a second time in just over a month. Read moreEV startup Ola Electric has different plans for customers who have booked its S1 electric scooter in the latest round. The company will upgrade its S1 customers to S1 Pro hardware, providing them with all S1 features. Read moreThe year 2022 marks 10 years of Sidharth Malhotra in the film industry. And from the looks of it, the actor is all set to stamp his authority on Bollywood this year. Read moreNewly-married Ankita Lokhande celebrated her first Makar Sankranti after tying the knot with Vicky Jain. The Pavitra Rishta actor took to Instagram recently to share a video that offered a sneak peek into her celebrations with family. Read moreFormer Chief Election Commissioner S.Y. Quraishi believes that the charge by India's opposition parties and certain former bureaucrats that the country poll panel favours ruling party has a merit, citing the case of Ashok Lavasa over the violation of model code conduct. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mansukh-mandaviya-hails-covid-19-vaccine-drive-and-all-the-latest-news-101642316161355.html
16-01-2022||India||Watch: Kiren Rijiju shares video of Sarok festival, says ‘we are nothing without our culture'||Union law and justice minister Kiren Rijiju on Sunday shared a video on Twitter showcasing the vibrant Sarok festival – a carnival of the Akas community in the East Kameng district of Arunachal Pradesh wherein locals come together wearing colourful traditional attires, dance and celebrate on the streets.Rijiju shared a small clip of his visit to Bana village in the district and expressed the importance of restoring one's culture.“A small clip of colorful Sarok Festival of the Akas at Bana in East Kameng Dist. of Arunachal Pradesh. We are nothing without our original culture,” tweeted the minister, who is also the state ambassador for Arunachal Pradesh.Sarok festival is celebrated as a prayer to Mother Earth for the well being of all humankind.Earlier, Arunachal Pradesh chief minister Pema Khandu conveyed his greetings and offered prayers for peace, prosperity and progress of every community of the state.He congratulated the Akas community for keeping the tradition alive and taking pride in their heritage and indigenous identity, native only to the northeastern state.Governor BD Mishra had also extended his greetings to the people of the state on the occasion and said he hoped the festivities would usher in peace, prosperity and happiness among people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-kiren-rijiju-shares-video-of-sarok-festival-says-we-are-nothing-without-our-culture-101642311895271.html
16-01-2022||India||A year on, India's Covid vaccine coverage surpasses 150 crore. Leaders hail drive||As the country completed a year of administering vaccines to its citizens against the coronavirus disease that has disrupted life and livelihood of both poor and rich alike, senior leaders, including Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya and home minister Amit Shah on Sunday hailed the inoculation campaign as the most successful one in the world.Congratulating health workers, scientists and citizens of the country, Mandaviya said the campaign was launched under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi with ‘sabka prayas’ (endeavour of all).“Today the world's largest vaccination campaign completes one year. This campaign started under the leadership of PM @NarendraModiji with 'Sabke Prayas' is the most successful vaccination campaign in the world today. I congratulate all the health workers, scientists and countrymen,” he wrote on Twitter.Also read | Covid-19 pandemic cannot go on forever, will end soon: ExpertShah wrote, "I congratulate the talented scientists, health workers, all corona warriors and countrymen of the country on the successful completion of 1 year of the world's largest free vaccination campaign in the fight against corona under the strong and inspiring leadership of Prime Minister," he wrote on Twitter.The home minister too lauded the PM for his continuous efforts towards working in the interest of the nation and setting India as an example for the world. "With the efficient leadership, determination and continuous efforts of Prime Minister @narendramodiji, India has set an ideal in the world that if the government and citizens unite in the interest of the country and set a common goal, then how the country can overcome the impossible by conquering every challenge. may also make it possible. #1YearOfVaccineDrive," he wrote.Exactly a year ago, India began its vaccine campaign against pandemic with the first doses administered to its healthcare workers, fighting the battle from the front. It has since administered more than 156.76 crore doses. The drive was later expanded to cover frontline workers, followed by people above 60 years of age and those above 45 years with comorbidities.Later, the vaccine coverage was also expanded to all above 45 years of age and recently to those above 18 years of age.The country started vaccinating its teenagers between the age group 15-18 on January 3, 2022. The process of administering precautionary doses to the healthcare workers, frontline workers and sixty plus individuals also commenced from January 10 this year.According to the health ministry, 1,56,76,15,454 vaccine doses have been administered to eligible beneficiaries, as revealed by provisional reports till 7am on Sunday.In the last 24 hours, more than 66 lakh vaccine doses were administered.Meanwhile, the vaccines have been termed as one of the biggest weapons in wake of the emerging new variants of Covid-19. The highly transmissible Omicron variant, first detected in South Africa last year and later across the world, is possibly fuelling the third wave of infections in the country.With 2,71,202 fresh infections being registered in the past 24 hours, India reported yet another surge in its Covid-19 tally on Sunday, maintaining the upward trend since the past few weeks.The current active caseload stood at 15,50,377, comprising 4.81 per cent of the total infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-year-on-india-s-covid-vaccine-coverage-surpasses-150-crore-mandaviya-hails-drive-101642311689290.html
16-01-2022||India||Odisha notifies task force for drug trafficking||BHUBANESWAR: A fortnight after it named former state police chief Abhay as head of State Task Force against Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse, the Odisha government on Saturday formally constituted the task force mandated to formulate the state’s policy on narcotic drugs within the context of national policy.While Abhay, who goes by one name, will chair the taskforce, a multi departmental co-ordination committee headed by chief secretary and co-chaired by him will formulate the state policy on drugs. The multi-departmental committee will comprise secretaries of home, health and family welfare, social security, excise, school and mass education, higher education, information technology and information and public relations departments.The home department, which notified the government order, said the mandate of the task force will be to coordinate, suggest action in drug demand reduction, raise community awareness, increase community participation and public cooperation, focussed intervention in schools, colleges and among youth.“In Odisha, it is imperative to give a serious push to efforts to contain drug abuse and drug trafficking, so that the emerging problem is nipped in the bud. This can be done by a combination of demand reduction, supply reduction, and harm reduction measures,” the resolution said.Odisha has over last few years emerged as a major centre for drug trafficking with cannabis grown in erstwhile Maoist-affected areas being trafficked all over the country. As compared to the seizure of 198 quintals of cannabis in 2015, enforcement authorities seized a record 1600 quintals of cannabis in the state in 2021.As per the Smuggling In India report for the year 2019-20 released by Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, Odisha has emerged as the source state of cannabis in India apart from Andhra Pradesh. “There is a distinct trend emerging from these seizures which indicates a flow of huge quantities of Ganja coming from Odisha and Andhra Pradesh, passing through Telangana, Chattisgarh and MP before reaching the consumption centres in northern states of India, mainly U.P. and Bihar. Ganja not only has narcotics angle but also a national security concern as the illicit proceeds from the trafficking of it are used for feeding the growth of extremist activities,” the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-notifies-task-force-for-drug-trafficking-101642307846075.html
16-01-2022||India||India sees another surge with 2,71,202 new Covid cases, positivity rate dips marginally||India on Sunday reported another major surge in Covid-19 cases with 2,71,202 fresh infections being registered in the past 24 hours. With this, the active caseload currently stood at 15,50,377 that comprised 4.81 per cent of the total infections.According to latest updates available with the Union ministry of health and family welfare, the daily positivity rate currently stood at 16.28 per cent, while the weekly positivity rate was at 13.69 per cent. The daily positivity rate is marginally lesser than Saturday’s when it was 16.66 per cent.The ministry said 7,743 cases of the Omicron variant that is said to be the cause behind the latest surge have been so far detected in the country.With 314 deaths due to related complications, the cumulative fatality tally touched 4,86,066. Also, 1,38,331 patients were cured from the disease in the last 24 hours taking the total recoveries to 3,50,85,721.The government said a total of 70,24,48,838 samples have been tested so far for the virus of which 16,65,404 tests were conducted on January 15.Meanwhile, 156.76 crore doses of vaccine have been administered against Covid-19 so far as part of the nationwide inoculation drive launched last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sees-another-surge-with-2-71-202-new-covid-cases-positivity-rate-dips-101642305520332.html
16-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Tamil Nadu to observe Sunday lockdown today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.2nd Sunday lockdown in Tamil Nadu today; existing Covid curbs extended till Jan 31Tamil Nadu will be placed under a complete lockdown on Sunday in view of the rising cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The government has been reimposing a Sunday lockdown in the state since January 9. Read moreSKM announces stir in Lakhimpur to push for MoS Mishra’s removalThe Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farm unions that spearheaded the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s three laws, on Saturday announced an agitation in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri to push for the dismissal and arrest of junior home minister Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’, whose son Ashish Mishra is the key accused in the October 3 violence. Read moreWill Punjab raise a toast for AAP’s Bhagwant Mann before polls?Arvind Kejriwal has resorted to the virtual to get real on the oft-raised question of his Aam Aadmi Party’s chief ministerial face for Punjab. The move requires political decoding as unlike in the Congress, there’s just one serious contender for the top job in his party. Read moreSouth Africa ready to live with Covid, no plan to impose lockdown, quarantineSouth Africa said that it is ready to live with the Covid-19 pandemic and does not plan to impose a lockdown or quarantine rules. A PTI report said the government has decided to take a more pragmatic approach while keeping an eye on severe Covid and whether or not health systems are imminently under threat. Read moreBCCI president Sourav Ganguly opens up on Virat Kohli's decision to step down from Test captaincyBCCI president Sourav Ganguly on Sunday opened up on Virat Kohli's decision to step down as India's Test captain. The 33-year-old made a sudden announcement on Twitter on Saturday evening, an announcement that came following the series defeat in South Africa and which was preceded by an array of public exchanges between him and the administrators of the BCCI. Read moreKareena Kapoor in ₹43k top and velvet pants enjoys day out with family: Can you guess her bag's price?Actor Kareena Kapoor Khan visited her father, Randhir Kapoor, yesterday with Saif Ali Khan, Karisma Kapoor, and her two sons, Taimur Ali Khan and Jehangir Ali Khan. The style icon, known for making heads turn with her glamorous fashion choices, did the same for the casual outing in a chic and comfy ensemble. Read moreSuniel Shetty to Swara Bhasker, stars react to Virat Kohli stepping down as Test captain: ‘Teary-eyed but grateful’As Virat Kohli stepped down as the Test captain of the Indian cricket team, many Bollywood celebrities praised him for his achievements. He announced his decision in a statement posted to his social media accounts on Saturday. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-tamil-nadu-to-observe-sunday-lockdown-today-101642302455405.html
16-01-2022||India||2nd Sunday lockdown in Tamil Nadu today; existing Covid curbs extended till Jan 31||Tamil Nadu will be placed under a complete lockdown on Sunday in view of the rising cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The government has been reimposing a Sunday lockdown in the state since January 9.As part of restrictions, restaurants are allowed to offer only take away services from 7 am-10 pm and food delivery is allowed too. Essential services workers are allowed to continue their routine work.On January 9, the state woke up to deserted arterial roads, bylanes, markets and malls, and other public places.Barring flights, suburban and other train operations, bus and other public transport services, including the Metro rail, has been suspended. People are allowed to attend family functions, including marriages, during the Sunday lockdown. According to the state government, only 100 people are allowed to attend marriages.The existing Covid-19 restrictions in Tamil Nadu, including the closing of schools from classes 1 to 9, kindergarten, coaching centres and limited seating capacity in public transport, have been extended to January 31.Tamil Nadu is also observing a night curfew from January 6 between 10 pm-5 am.Since January 14-18, all places of worship have been shut across the state to prevent crowding.In view of the mid-January Pongal (harvest) festival, the government has allowed travel in state-run buses with 75% occupancy to enable people to travel to their native districts.The daily coronavirus disease daily in Tamil Nadu continued an upward trend with a high of 23,978 cases on Saturday. This is the second straight day that the daily infections were above the 23,000-mark. As many as 11 patients died and nearly 11,000 patients were discharged on Saturday, taking the cumulative count of deaths and recoveries to 36,967 and 27,47,974, respectively. The active cases in the state stand at 1,31,007.According to the Union health ministry, Tamil Nadu along with seven others states has emerged as states of concern with high Covid-19 cases and positivity rate.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2nd-sunday-lockdown-in-tn-today-existing-covid-curbs-extended-till-jan-31-101642291598685.html
16-01-2022||NA||Breaking: Punjab logs 7,396 new Covid-19 cases, 13 deaths; positivity rate at 20.76%||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Punjab logs 7,396 new cases, 13 deaths; positivity rate at 20.76%COVID19 | Punjab records 7,396 new cases & 13 deaths; Active case tally at 41,250Today's positivity rate at 20.76% pic.twitter.com/d6oD6rWzPWNoted thespian Saoli Mitra passes away in KolkataNoted thespian Saoli Mitra has died in Kolkata. Her family made the news public at night after cremation as she wished. Mitra was the daughter of legendary theatre artistes Shambhu Mitra and Tripti Mitra, and also the recipient of the Sangeet Natak and Padma Shree awards.West Bengal records 14,938 new Covid-19 cases, active cases rise to 160,305COVID19 | West Bengal registers 14,938 fresh cases & 36 deaths today; Active cases rise to 1,60,305. Positivity rate at 27.73% pic.twitter.com/CgCTwsQhlFDelhi records 18,286 new Covid cases, active case count dip to 89,818COVID19 | Delhi reports 18,286 new cases & 28 deaths in last 24 hours; Active cases declines to 89,819. Positivity rate at 27.87% pic.twitter.com/vlyymZVN0rGoa: Former Curtorim MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco quits TMCGoa: Former Curtorim MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco has resigned from the primary membership of the Trinamool Congress Party: Mahua Moitra, Lok Sabha MP and AITC Goa in-chargeLourenco resigned from Congress and joined TMC on December 21Cop, civilian injured in grenade attack on security forces in SrinagarJammu and Kashmir: Terrorists lobbed a grenade on security forces in the Saraf Kadal area of Old Srinagar city. A cop and a civilian were left injured in the attack, more details are awaited.Punjab BJP urges EC to postpone February 14 assembly pollsPunjab BJP writes to Chief Election Commissioner requesting him "to postpone Feb 14 State Assembly polls as many people from SC community from the State would visit Varanasi, in view of Guru Ravidas birth anniversary on Feb 16 pic.twitter.com/OvLrSYiVnsMumbai reports 7,895 new Covid-19 cases, 11 deathsCOVID19 | Mumbai reports 7,895 new cases & 11 deaths today; Active cases 60,371 pic.twitter.com/Grv3TRMtmhChandigarh reports 1,358 new Covid-19 cases, positivity rate at 22.49% Chandigarh reports 1,358 new cases today; Active cases at 9,203. Positivity rate at 22.49% pic.twitter.com/WJsA3V8mYzMumbai: International passengers from UAE now exempted from 7-day home quarantine, RT-PCR on arrivalMaharashtra | International passengers arriving from UAE including Dubai in Mumbai are now exempted from compulsorily 7-day home quarantine, RT-PCR on arrival: BMC pic.twitter.com/TnUlASMANhMaharashtra | International passengers arriving from UAE including Dubai in Mumbai are now exempted from compulsorily 7-day home quarantine, RT-PCR on arrival: BMCReligious leader Yati Narsinghanand sent to 14-day judicial custodyHaridwar Court sent religious leader Yati Narsinghanand to 14-day judicial custody in the 'Dharm Sansad' hate speech case: Haridwar PolicePunjab CM Channi's brother says will fight as independent from Bassi Pathana seatPunjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi's brother Manohar Singh, who was eyeing a Congress ticket from Bassi Pathana assembly seat, on Sunday said he will contest as an independent from the constituency after the ruling party fielded its sitting legislator. In its first list of 86 candidates, Congress on Saturday gave the ticket to party MLA Gurpreet Singh GP from Bassi Pathana (SC) seat.Mamata urges PM Modi to include tableau of freedom fighters from Bengal in Republic Day paradeWest Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee writes to PM Modi over the "rejection of proposed tableau of West Bengal for the ensuing Republic Day Parade" and requests to "include the tableau of freedom fighters from West Bengal in the parade" pic.twitter.com/2vtVEA2HoeIndia not only manufactured vaccines but also vaccinated large part of population in short time: Health minister"As a result of country's solidarity & PM Modi's commitment during #COVID19, India not only manufactured vaccines but also vaccinated large part of population in short time," tweeted Union health minister Mansukh Madaviya.Tamil Nadu: Schools for all classes shut, exams postponed in view of Covid-19 surgeSchools have been declared shut in Tamil Nadu for all classes, due to an increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state. The exams which were supposed to be held on January 19 are now postponed: Tamil Nadu govt‘The world is amazed’: Health minister on India completing 1 year of vaccine drive“Today is an important day for us as we've completed one year of vaccine drive,” said Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya. “The world is amazed by our vaccination drive; over 156 crore doses have been administered. 93 per cent of people above 18 years of age are vaccinated with the first dose of the vaccine and 70 per cent of the population is fully vaccinated.” Australian Open 2022: Djokovic 'disappointed' with losing deportation appealDjokovic released a statement shortly after three Federal Court judges unanimously upheld a decision made on Friday by Immigration Minister Alex Hawke to cancel the 34-year-old Serb’s visa on public interest grounds because he is not vaccinated for Covid-19. Read More‘Yogi ate khichdi for votes,’ SP chief Akhilesh Yadav hits out at UP CMTaking a dig at Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath eating lunch at a Dalit's household in Gorakhpur on Makar Sankranti on January 14, Akhilesh said: “You all must have seen he ate Khichdi with so much disinterest. He must be remembering, oh we forgot to send shampoo, soap (for the family to have a wash beforehand)… He ate khichidi for votes.”Former UP minister Dara Singh Chauhan joins Samajwadi Party in presence of party chief Akhilesh YadavFormer UP minister Dara Singh Chauhan joins Samajwadi Party in the presence of SP supremo Akhilesh Yadav, in Lucknow.“I welcome Dara Singh Chauhan and his supporters who have come along large numbers,” Yadav said.UP assembly polls: Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel participates in door-to-door campaign in NoidaCongress leader & Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Bagehl participated in a door-to-door campaign in Noida, ahead of UP Assembly elections. pic.twitter.com/OsjWcJidBmNovak Djokovic loses legal fight, to be deported from AustraliaNovak Djokovic’s hopes of playing at the Australian Open were dashed Sunday after a court dismissed the top-ranked tennis star’s appeal against a deportation order. Read moreUttar Pradesh shuts schools, colleges till Jan 23 due to Covid surgeUttar Pradesh has extended Covid-19 restrictions and closed all schools, colleges and educational institutions till January 23 in view of the rising infections.North Korea train makes 1st crossing to China for since lockdownNorth Korea train makes first crossing into China since border lockdown, reports Reuters.Mansukh Mandaviya hails India's vaccination drive as “most successful in the world”Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya hails India's vaccination drive as "the most successful in the world," as the country completes one year of nationwide vaccination drive.India’s cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage has exceeded 156.76 crore. More than 66 lakh vaccine doses have been administered in the last 24 hours.Telangana extends vacation for all educational institutions till January 30Chief Secretary, Telangana told news agency ANI, “It has been decided to extend the vacation of all educational institutions in Telangana till January 30, 2022.”All Texas synagogue hostages out 'alive and safe', says Guv Greg AbbottAll Texas synagogue hostages are out 'alive and safe', says governor Greg Abbott.India reports another surge with 2,71,202 new Covid infections, active cases up by 1,32,557India's Covid-19 tally continued its upward trend with 2,71,202 new cases on Sunday. Active cases rose by 1,32,557, while 314 new deaths were accounted.Tsunami threat from Tonga volcano eruption has ‘passed’, reports AFPTsunami threat from Tonga volcano eruption has 'passed', reports news agency AFP.Delhi AQI slips to ‘very poor’ category againDelhi's air quality remains in the 'very poor' category, with overall AQI at 301 as per the data provided by System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR)-India.One hostage released uninjured in Dallas area synagogue, say police"A hostage was released uninjured," said the Colleyville police department in a statement. Four people were held hostage in Dallas-area synagogue by a man demanding the release of convicted Pakistan scientist Aafia Siddiqui.81 police personnel in Mumbai, 31 in Pune test positive for COVID-19 in last 24 hoursAs many as 81 Mumbai policemen tested positive for COVID-19 in the past 24 hours, informed police on Saturday. With this, the tally of positive police personnel rose to 1,312 in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-january-16-2022-101642291738239.html
16-01-2022||India||SKM announces stir in Lakhimpur to push for MoS Mishra’s removal||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farm unions that spearheaded the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s three laws, on Saturday announced an agitation in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri to push for the dismissal and arrest of junior home minister Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’, whose son Ashish Mishra is the key accused in the October 3 violence that left eight people dead in the district.Four farmers and a journalist died when an SUV owned by Ajay Mishra ran over farmers from behind in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3. In the ensuing violence, three more people — two of whom were Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers and one was the driver of the car — were killed. Ashish Mishra has been in jail since October 9, 2021.“We will start a protest at the site where the farmers were killed in Lakhimpur Kheri from January 21, if the government fails to accept our demand to remove Teni,” said Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Takait, after a meeting of farm unions.In a statement, the SKM said a permanent protest would be organised at Lakhimpur Kheri against the “brazen insensitivity” of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party in the case and its failure to remove Teni.The SKM also called to observe a nationwide “Day of Betrayal” on January 31, against the government’s “reneging on its assurances to the farmers”.“To protest this betrayal to the farmers, the SKM has decided that on 31st January, Day of Betrayal will be observed across the country,” the statement read.“If the government does not accept our demands before January 21, we will visit every village in Uttar Pradesh to tell people about their anti-farmer policies,” Takait added.On farm bodies contesting Punjab polls, SKM said any leader who participates in election or is part of any political party cannot be part of the morcha. “If needed, this decision will be reviewed in April after these assembly elections,” a statement issued by farm leaders Darshan Pal, Hannan Molla, Yogendra Yadav and Joginder Singh Ugrahan, among others, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/skm-announces-stir-in-lakhimpur-to-push-for-mos-mishra-s-removal-101642286770686.html
16-01-2022||India||Pakistan national held along IB in Jammu, repatriated||A Pakistani national was arrested after he inadvertently crossed into the Indian side along the International Border (IB) in Samba sector of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, BSF officials said.A BSF spokesperson said that the Pakistan national, Rehman of Narowal in Pakistan, was apprehended by the BSF men while he was roaming suspiciously along the border in Ramgarh sector of Samba district. “One Pakistani national crossed over inadvertently to India on the Balhad border today (Saturday) at about 1300 hours. He came about 200 metres inside India and was apprehended by the alert troops,” said the spokesperson, adding that on preliminary questioning, it was found that he had accidentally crossed the IB into this side.At around 6.45pm, the Pakistan national was handed over to the rangers on a proper receipt at a flag meeting, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pakistan-national-held-along-ib-in-jammu-repatriated-101642281435414.html
16-01-2022||India||Gujarat: Two shot dead by former armyman during clash in Porbandar, 11 booked||A former Army man allegedly gunned down two persons during a clash between two groups of a community in Gujarat’s Porbandar town, police said on Saturday.An offence has been registered against 11 persons, including a local BJP councillor and his son, for the incident that took place on Friday night, an official said. The two groups held a grudge against each other over some past dispute about the municipality election held in February last year, Superintendent of Police Porbandar Ravi Mohan Saini said. “Last night, some members of two groups from Maher community clashed. One of them was a former Army man, who had a licenced weapon. Two persons died from shots fired from the weapon at a close range,” the official said. According to the police, the clash erupted after vehicles of some members of the two groups were hit, following which people started hurling abuses and firing in the air.Armed with a revolver, swords and baseball bats, they attacked each other, leaving two dead and one (the complainant) seriously injured, it was stated. The police have arrested three persons including ex-Army man Arbham Odedara and seized the weapon, he said, adding that efforts are underway to nab others.An FIR has been registered under sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 143 (unlawful assembly), 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting armed with deadly weapons) and 504 (intentional insult) of the IPC against 11 persons, an official of Kamla Baug police station said.The deceased persons were identified as Kalpesh Bhutia and Raj Keshwala, he said.Local BJP councillor Bhima Odedara and his son Nilesh are among 11 persons named in the FIR, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-two-shot-dead-by-former-armyman-during-clash-in-porbandar-11-booked-101642275074789.html
16-01-2022||India||NIA, ED call for AIIMS panel to assess jailed Kashmiri businessman’s health||Days after former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti urged the government to release businessman Zahoor Ahmad Shah Watali on humanitarian grounds because he is suffering from cancer, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) have proposed forming a panel of doctors from AIIMS to assess his illness.Facing terror and money laundering charges for supporting secessionist and terrorist activities in Kashmir, Watali was arrested by the NIA in August 2017, and has been in judicial custody since then.Seeking urgent bail, Watali’s lawyer Shariq J Reyaz informed the special judge NIA court – Parveen Singh at Patiala House Courts – on January 11 that the businessman has been diagnosed with stage IV prostate cancer that requires immediate, supervised medical treatment.Watali, 70, is suffering from chronic multiple ailments, including acute diabetes mellitus, hyperthyroidism, and dyslipidemia hypertension marked by high blood pressure, his lawyer said. On account of severe back pain, he has been rendered immobile and was carried around on a stretcher for the past two months.Watali was admitted at Max Hospital in Saket on December 30 after doctors opined that his was a case of prostate cancer that could lead to paralysis, according to Watali’s bail plea, which was reviewed by HT. The reports of Max hospital have been submitted along with it.Appearing for NIA, senior advocate Sidharth Luthra informed the court that the agency wants to refer the case to the director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Delhi to constitute a panel of doctors to assess Watali’s condition and submit a status report on his illness. ED’s special prosecutor Nitesh Rana echoed Luthra’s stand.Agreeing with both sides, the court adjourned the matter till January 28. Meanwhile, it has asked the jail authorities not to remove Watali from Max Hospital till the next hearing.In her appeal to the central government, Peoples Democratic Party president Mufti tweeted on December 31: “Zahoor Watali imprisoned in Tihar jail is suffering from malignant cancer & is critically ill. He is in urgent need of medical attention & needs to be with his family. Request GOI (Government of India)to release him on humanitarian grounds so that he can get the necessary care.”She had tagged home secretary Ajay Bhalla and the home ministry in her tweet.The law enforcement agencies have alleged that Watali was receiving money from Hafiz Saeed, chief of terror outfits Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jamaat-Ud-Dawa, from ISI, from the Pakistan High Commission at New Delhi and also from a source based in Dubai, which he was remitting to the Hurriyat leaders, separatists and stone pelters in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-ed-call-for-aiims-panel-to-assess-jailed-kashmiri-businessman-s-health-101642274836393.html
16-01-2022||India||Uttar Pradesh elections: EC notice to Samajwadi Party for Covid norms’ breach during induction event||Lucknow: The Election Commission of India issued a notice to the Samajwadi Party on Saturday over a violation of the model code of conduct and Covid-19 guidelines in an event organised by the party on Friday. The poll panel has asked the SP to explain its stand within 24 hours, failing which the commission will take appropriate action without further reference to the SP. The poll overseer had announced the schedule for Uttar Pradesh assembly election on January 8. It had also issued a broad guideline with regard to conduct of the election during Covid-19 pandemic, imposing a ban on rallies, road shows, processions and street corner meetings till January 15, the commission’s secretary Ajoy Kumar wrote in a letter to the general secretary of the SP. The commission on Saturday extended the ban till January 22.Taking cognizance of media reports of violation of the commission’s Covid-19 guidelines in a public gathering in the office compound of the SP on Vikramaditya Marg in Lucknow, the watchdog sought a report from UP’s chief electoral officer (CEO). The CEO in his report sent on January 14 informed that the existing Covid-19 protocol had been violated by organizing public gathering in the SP office premises in the name of a virtual rally. A police complaint under sections 188, 269, 270 and 341 of the Indian Penal Code, section 54 of Disaster Management Act, 2005, and section 3 of the Pandemic Act, 1897, had been lodged against some two thousand functionaries of the SP on Friday, he said. Political parties were important stakeholders in the electoral process and they have always cooperated with the election commission in carrying out its constitutional duties of conducting election during challenging times, Kumar said. The available reports suggested that the SP had violated the lawful directions of the commission, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-elections-ec-notice-to-samajwadi-party-for-covid-norms-breach-during-induction-event-101642274114846.html
16-01-2022||India||‘Miscarriage of justice’: Uproar mounts on court order||Thiuruvananthapuram: Widespread outrage continued in Kerala on Saturday, a day after a Kottayam court acquitted Roman Catholic bishop Franco Mulakkal of charges of repeatedly raping a nun. The court’s verdict cast aspersions on the victim, many women activists, artists and legal experts said. Some have started an online campaign called Avalkoppam (with her) to vent their anguish at the court order that gave a clean chit to the lone accused in the case, former bishop of Jalandhar diocese, Franco Mulakkal (57). Others asked the state government to immediately challenge the verdict in the Kerala high court. “None of the witnesses backed down. Medical evidence was supportive. The only drawback was delay in reporting the crime. It is disgusting the man walked free,” said actor Reema Kallingal.“It is sad the court questioned the integrity of the victim. It will give a wrong message to the suffering,” said lawyer and activist Asha Unnithan.  The verdict was a clear case of “miscarriage of justice, ” said B Kemal Pasha, former judge at the Kerala high court. Justice Pasha questioned some of the findings in the verdict. The Supreme Court has clearly stated that a rape accused can be convicted on a victim’s testimony, if she is found to be credible and trustworthy, he said. “I found it interesting that the trail court said prosecution failed to produce the mobile phone used by the victim at that time of the assault and later. And delay in reporting such a case cannot be the reason for the acquittal. Reason for delay is well explained, going by the social background of the case,” the former justice said. Acquitting Mulakkal, the judge of the additional district and sessions court I in Kottayam said in the verdict that the victim’s claim that she was raped on 13 occasions under duress cannot be taken as reliable on the basis of her solitary testimony. “There are exaggerations and embellishments in the statement of the victim. Police failed to seize the mobile phone of the victim as it would have given some input into alleged messages sent by the accused. The in-fight... of the nuns and desire for power and position to control congregation is evident in the case,” judge G Gopakumar said in his verdict on Friday. The court dismissed the case, also citing reasons that the victim’s statements were contradictory on several occasions and corroborative evidences were missing. “This is a case in which grain and chaff are inextricably mixed up. It is impossible to separate chaff from the grain. She made every attempt to hide certain facts. It is also evident that the victim was swayed under the influence of others who had vested interests in the matter,” said the 289-page verdict. The order further said: “This court is unable to place reliance on the solitary testimony of the victim and hold the accused guilty of offences charged against him.” The verdict was disappointing for all women, said human rights activist Joemon Puthanpurakkal, who fought to get justice for Sister Abhaya, who was murdered in 1992, for 28 years. “It seems that instead of going after the accused, the court has done a good research on the victim and agreed to all contentions put forward by the defence,” Puthanpurakkal said. “Besides this, prosecution was also overconfident. It is disappointing verdict for all suffering women.” Abhaya’s body was recovered from a well in a convent, and while initially the police dismissed it as suicide, a nun and a priest were convicted in the case 28 years later in December 2020. Friday’s verdict was a temporary setback and the nun should continue her fight for justice, Puthanpurakkal said. Mulakkal is the first Indian bishop arrested in connection with a rape. In her complaint to police in June 2018, the victim nun had alleged that she was subjected to sexual abuse by Mulakkal between 2014 and 2016. The special investigation team probing the case arrested the bishop in September 2018, and charged him with wrongful confinement, rape, unnatural sex and criminal intimidation. Mulakkal was the bishop of the Jalandhar diocese of the Roman Catholic church. The 43-year-old complainant nun is a member of the Missionaries of Jesus, a congregation under the same diocese. The case attracted national attention after five fellow nuns staged a two-week sit-in protest in Kochi, seeking action against the bishop. Though the victim filed a complaint on June 29, 2018, it took three months for police to arrest Mulakkal on September 19. Trial in the case, which started in November 2019, had concluded on January 10. The court had restrained media from publishing any matter relating to the trial. Interestingly, right before the trial started in the case, a relative of the victim, her cousin’s husband, had reportedly sent a lewd message to her, which she promptly informed her cousin. Soon after the case came up for hearing, the cousin filed a police compliant against the nun, and the defence used this to question the morality of the victim. “Soon after she filed a police complaint, there was a concerted social media attack on her by people close to the church. Many theories and stories were floated once she filed a complaint about this. And this case was part of it and it was summarily rejected the police. Sad that the court also fell into the trap set by the defence,” said Sister Jesme, who came out of the congregation, questioning the alleged ill-treatment by church authorities. The court was trying to give an interpretation that the relationship between the victim and accused was consensual, Jesme said, which she found shocking. Meanwhile, the prosecution has started discussion to file an appeal in the high court. “We have given the go-ahead. We will approach the high court in a couple of days,” said former police superintendent S Harishankar, who supervised the three-year-old investigation. His outburst against the verdict on Friday that “it was unprecedented in legal history” triggered a controversy. A defence lawyer said it was not expected from an Indian Police Service officer and this will be brought to the notice of the high court’s registrar. After walking free, Mulakkal visited some of his relatives and also Kerala Congress leader PC George on Saturday, with people close to him saying he is likely to leave for Jalandhar. A big reception was waiting for him in the diocese headquarters, they said. George, who supported Mulakkal since the case first came up, said, the “move to dent the powerful church was foiled by believers”.
16-01-2022||India||January 16 to be marked as Startup Day, says PM Modi||January 16 will be celebrated as National Startup Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi declared on Saturday, saying that this is India’s “golden era of startups” with immense growth potential in rural and semi-urban areas, as they will be the backbone of a new India.The number of startups in the country has jumped to 60,000 from 500 five years ago, with 42 unicorns coming up last year, signifying “self-reliant and self-confident” India. The country currently has 82 unicorns, officials said, each valued in excess of $1 billion; the number is the third highest in the world. Modi had launched the Startup India movement on January 16, 2016.“Today India is rapidly moving towards hitting a century of unicorns. I believe the golden era of India’s startups is starting now,” the Prime Minister said during an interaction with young entrepreneurs at Startup India Innovation Week, organised by the department for promotion of industry and internal trade.Startups have immense growth prospects in semi-urban and rural areas, as only half of India’s population is currently online, he said, urging the entrepreneurs to move towards villages as well. “Whether it is mobile internet, broadband connectivity or physical connectivity, aspirations of villages are rising, and rural and semi-urban areas are waiting for a new wave of expansion,” Modi said.Earlier, the startup community shared their ideas with the Prime Minister on a variety of sectors, including data-collection mechanism in agriculture, agri-marketing, health care, edtech, retail, promoting green sustainable products and sustainable means of transport. The virtual meeting was attended by ministers Piyush Goyal, Mansukh Mandaviya, Ashwini Vaisnaw, Sarbananda Sonowal, Parshottam Rupala, G. Kishan Reddy, Pashupati Kumar Paras, Jitendra Singh and Som Parkash.“I congratulate all the startups of the country, all the innovative youth, who are raising the flag of India in the world of startups,” Modi said. “For this culture of startups to reach the far-flung parts of the country, it has been decided to celebrate January 16 as National Startup Day.”Recalling the concept of the current decade as the ‘techade’ of India, he listed three important aspects of the changes that the government is making to strengthen innovation, entrepreneurship and start-up ecosystem. First, to liberate entrepreneurship and innovation from the web of government processes and bureaucratic silos. Second, creating an institutional mechanism to promote innovation. And third, handholding young innovators and young enterprises, he said.The government has taken several measures to make lives of entrepreneurs easy, he said, for example, removing problems of ‘angel tax’, simplification of tax procedure, arranging for government funding, allowing self-certification of nine labour and three environment laws, and removal of more than 25,000 compliances.The government is institutionalising innovation by involving students since childhood, the Prime Minister said. “More than 9,000 Atal Tinkering Labs are giving children a chance to innovate in schools and work on new ideas,” he said.India is experiencing exponential rise in the indicators of innovation, he said. As compared to 4,000 patents approved in 2013-14, over 28 thousand patents were granted last year. In 2013-14, about 70,000 trademarks were registered. In comparison, more than 2.5 lakh trademarks were registered in 2020-21. In 2013-14, only 4,000 copyrights were granted, compared with more than 16,000 last financial year, he said.India’s campaign for innovation has resulted in improvement of India’s ranking in the Global Innovation Index, the Prime Minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/january-16-to-be-marked-as-startup-day-says-pm-modi-101642273874859.html
16-01-2022||India||DMK likely to hold indirect polls for civic body chiefs||The DMK government in Tamil Nadu has no plans to hold direct elections for the post of mayors in corporations and chairmen in municipalities and panchayats, party leaders said. Almost 10 months after coming to power in May 2021, the ruling DMK is set to test electoral waters again in urban local body polls, likely to be held in February, almost after a decade. The stakes are high as whichever party wins a majority of the wards in the 21 corporations, 138 municipalities and 490 town panchayats in the state will also get to win positions of mayors and chairmen and hold control over cities and districts. In an indirect election for heads of local bodies, the ward members elected by the people will elect a corporation mayor, municipal chairman and panchayat head. “As of now we will be going for indirect elections (to these top posts) and if there is any change, it will have to be tabled in the assembly but that is unlikely. We are just waiting for the election dates to be announced,” said a senior DMK leader in the state on condition of anonymity. Late J Jayalalithaa in 2016 had passed a legislation that provides 50% quota for women in urban local bodies and there have been indications that the ruling DMK is planning to have a woman mayor for Chennai. The capital city has had two women mayors in the 1950s and 1970s. “But, we cannot say that for sure now because the government is yet to notify details about which corporations are reserved for women and SC/STs,” says the DMK leader. “Our discussions are ongoing. What I can say is that we will ensure representation of women and people for backward classes get representation.” This is evident from the party restructuring its booth committees with members from the women’s wing and youth wing. The DMK is confident on urban local body polls as they have been on a winning streak since the 2019 parliamentary elections. After forming the government in May last year, the DMK notched a huge victory in the rural body polls held in nine newly carved districts in October last year. “We generally have a good hold in corporations and municipalities. But we are concentrating in all regions. Because governing the state and the local bodies will ensure a smooth administration, which is why we think it is better to continue with indirect elections,” the DMK leader said. TN’s seesaw in indirect polls DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi brought in direct elections to mayor’s post in 1996. His son and current chief minister M K Stalin became the first directly elected mayor of Chennai. This saw a departure in 2006 when the party decided to conduct indirect elections to the local bodies. Current health minister M Subramanian occupied the Chennai mayor’s post. This was reversed when the AIADMK rule began in 2011. The AIADMK passed a legislation in the state assembly that allowed people to directly elect the heads of urban local bodies. However, in 2016, the AIADMK decided to hold indirect elections, but the polls were deferred and have not been conducted since then. During its rule, the AIADMK government conducted elections only for local bodies in rural areas in 2019. Experts say that holding indirect elections to these posts is a way for the ruling party to exercise control over those occupying the positions. “Jayalalithaa had several issues with Saidai Duraisamy (Chennai mayor between 2011 and 2016) but she couldn’t remove him because he was the mayor elected directly by the people. Which is why in 2016 they changed it to indirect elections,” said Jayaram Venkatesan, convener of Arappor Iyakkam, a grassroots movement which has exposed several cases of corruption in local bodies. “A mayor is meant to serve public interest and not political interest. So if the mayor is indirectly elected by the councillors, there is no accountability and the party can change the mayor anytime they wish to if he doesn’t toe the line,” Venkatesan said. 
16-01-2022||India||8 dead in suspected hooch tragedy in Bihar’s Nalanda district||Eight people died after drinking illicit liquor in Nalanda, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar’s home district, police said on Saturday.The incident took place on Friday evening and the deceased were identified as Bhago Mistri (55), Manna Mistri (55), Dharmendra alias Nageshwar Mistri (50), Kalichanra Mistri (48), Sunil Kumar (24), Arjun Pandit (51), Jaipal Sharma (49) and Rakesh Kumar (45), all of them residents of Chhoti Palari and Pahar Talli under Sohsarai police station.Confirming deaths of eight people, superintendent of police (SP), Nalanda, Ashok Kumar, said the toll may go up as many others are injured. “We are trying to locate all those who have taken ill in the incident. At present, two people are admitted to hospitals and are said to be in critical condition, but the number could be more,” the SP said.Shivaji Chauhan and Ram Swarup, both around 50 and from the same locality, were left critically injured in the incident, police said, adding that they are being treated at Bihar Sharif sadar hospital.Family members of the deceased said the victims, who worked as construction labourers, had consumed alcohol together and fell sick after reaching home.Deputy superintendent of police, sadar, Sibli Nomani, under whose jurisdiction the incident took place, said the reasons for the death were yet to be ascertained. “Statements of the bereaved families are being recorded. Postmortem reports of the deceased are being awaited to know the exact cause of the deaths,” said Nomani.Bihar director general of police SK Singhal could not be contacted for comments. Additional chief secretary, home, Chaitanya Prasad refused to comment, saying the state police chief was the right person to comment on the incident.This is the seventh incident of hooch tragedy in Bihar in the past six months, claiming lives of more than 40 people, even as the state has been under total prohibition since April 2016.Most of the hooch tragedies have been reported from East Champaran, West Champaran, Muzaffarpur and Samastipur districts in recent times.State Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief and West Champaran MP Sanjay Jaiswal on Friday once again batted for the review of prohibition law, saying the “legislation might be well-intentioned, but its implementation had brought shame to the state”. His reaction was to a social media post of Janata Dal (United) spokesperson Abhishek Jha, who had questioned Jaiswal’s visit to the houses of victims of hooch tragedy in the latter’s home constituency.In a post, Jaiswal also claimed to have personal knowledge of many instances in which people from other states had to suffer for carrying liquor, though they were merely passing through Bihar.Expressing shock over the Friday’s incident, Janata Dal (United) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan said those responsible for the incident will be dealt with strictly. “Such incidents are abated by unsocial elements, who are utterly disappointed by the liquor law. So far as the state BJP chief’s assertion is concerned, I hope that leaders of the alliance partner must abide by the coalition dharma and help the government enforce the law with full firmness. After all, they too have taken pledge to make Bihar liquor-free,” said Ranjan.Congress leader and former MLC Ajay Kumar Singh said that recurring hooch tragedies exposed the failure of the state government, adding that it was high time the liquor law is reviewed to save the poor, who generally fall prey to spurious liquor.“Leaders of the ruling parties have openly said that alcohols of good brands are easily available. But the poor mostly resort to the illegally produced country liquor as they are available cheap. The government should better focus on social awareness to dissuade people from alcohol consumption rather than using the stringent legal route,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-dead-in-suspected-hooch-tragedy-in-bihar-s-nalanda-district-101642273514853.html
16-01-2022||India||Curbs will hit industry, rue K’taka traders||The small-time business owners have questioned the Karnataka government’s decision to extend the night and weekend curfew till January 31.Opposing the government’s move, the Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and India (FKCCI) president IS Prasad said, “The state government should avoid succumbing to the temptation of announcing a lockdown or imposing harsher curbs due to the rising caseload in Karnataka.”“As per many experts, even if there is a surge in cases in third wave, the focus should be on stricter enforcement of protocols, including masking, maintaining social distancing, washing hands regularly, rather than imposing a lockdown that will impact industry and trade,” read the statement. The traders, who have been suffering losses for past two years, are questioning the rationale behind the imposition since several vaccination drives have been carried out in the state. “As per the estimates of last year, the lockdown-induced losses incurred by the industries in Karnataka were nearly around ₹75,000 crore and the state suffered a revenue loss of around ₹10,000 crore per month. Before taking any decision, these factors should be considered,” said Prasad. Meanwhile, restaurant owners in the city also raised similar concerns. Bruhat Bangalore Hotels Association president PC Rao said, “As many as 2,000 restaurants and hotels in Bengaluru suspended operations during the second wave, which peaked in May 2021. Of them, only half have reopened.” “If these restrictions continue, 10-15% of the existing places in Karnataka might go out of business. Many owners have invested large amounts to make sure their restaurants have a better dining facility. With these restrictions, their financial burden is only going increase,” he said. “Business was slowly picking up and we had taken our workers back, but now again the process has been disrupted,” said Chandrashekhar Hebbar, president, Karnataka Regional Hotel and Restaurants’ Federation. Ola Uber Taxi Drivers and Owners’ Association president Tanveer Pasha, said option of work from home is suitable only for the rich and people in blue-collar jobs. “Since the imposition of curfew, the demand has slashed by more than half. If these restrictions continue, more than half of Bengaluru’s auto and cab drivers will be off the road. Many have not even paid of their loans yet,” he said.  Auto driver Rajaappa said apart from his usual trips his monthly earning used to come from dropping off children at school and a daily drop of an employee to the IT park. “What was the point of the vaccination, if they are going to continue with these lockdowns?” he asked. Meanwhile, the Karnataka government is expected to take a decision on further restrictions in January last week. 
16-01-2022||India||Netaji’s birth anniversary to now be part of Republic Day celebrations||Republic Day celebrations from this year will start on January 23 instead of January 24 to include the birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, in line with the Prime Minister Narendra Modi government’s “focus to commemorate important aspects of our history and culture,” an official said on Saturday.It was not immediately clear what this will entail. One possibility is that the government will count events to commemorate Bose’s birth anniversary held every year to be part of the Republic Day celebrations.Last year, the central government announced that January 23 will be celebrated as Parakram Diwas, or day of valour.Other such days, observance of which has become a yearly affair, are August 14 as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day, October 31 as National Unity Day (birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel), November 15 as Janjatiya Gaurav Divas (Birsa Munda’s birth anniversary), November 26 as Constitution Day, and December 26 as Veer Baal Divas (a tribute to the four sons of Guru Gobind Singh), the official said, requesting anonymity.Although it was a good decision, the government needs to understand and implement his ideology to really honour the freedom fighter, according to Chandra Bose, kin of Netaji.“Subhas Chandra Bose is extremely relevant in 21st century India. We see all across the country, I don’t suggest any specific political party, all parties are engaged in divisive politics. This must stop,” he said. “Netaji envisioned a united India. If Netaji had returned to India, there would not have been a partition of India or partition of Bengal. India will again get divided, unless you bring Netaji’s ideology into the national mainstream of politics.”Ahead of Netaji’s 125th birth anniversary this year, Chandra Bose, who is a member of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, asking him to have the freedom fighter’s image on currency notes. He also suggested declaring January 23 a national holiday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/netaji-subhas-chandra-bose-s-birth-anniversary-to-now-be-part-of-republic-day-celebrations-101642273214983.html
16-01-2022||India||Seer Narsinghanand held in Haridwar hate speech case||The Haridwar Police on Saturday arrested seer Yati Narsinghanand in connection with hate speeches made at a three-day-long Dharm Sansad in Haridwar on December 17-19.This is the second arrest in the hate speech case after public uproar as videos of the event were widely circulated on social media and the Supreme Court sought a response from the state government on what it had done about the speeches. On January 13, the Uttarakhand Police arrested Jitendra Narayan Tyagi, the former Uttar Pradesh Shia Waqf Board chairman who until last month went by the name Waseem Rizvi, in connection with the case.Narsinghanand is the sect chief of the influential Juna Akhada, and one of the five accused named in the FIR.Circle officer (Haridwar), Shekhar Chandra Suyal, confirmed the arrest, saying: “Narsinghanand was arrested in Haridwar on Saturday night as part of the case which was registered against him on Thursday.”“Narsinghanand would be presented before the local court on Sunday. A probe is on in the case and proper action would be taken as per law,” he added.During the Dharm Sansad, some participants had called for violence against religious minorities while one of the speakers said he wished to shoot former prime minister Manmohan Singh.The FIR, filed by the police on December 23, initially listed only one accused, Tyagi. On December 25, names of Pooja Shakun Pandey alias Annapurna Maa, and Dharamdas Maharaj, a general secretary of the Hindu Mahasabha, were added. On January 1, police added the names of event organiser Narsinghanand and Sagar Sindhu Maharaj. Another case was registered the following day against Tyagi over the same incident.A second case was also lodged against Narsinghanand at a Haridwar police station on charges of insulting religious beliefs, and making derogatory remarks about women. The complaint was filed by a third-year law student Ruchika (who goes by her first name), police said. Narsinghanand, who is based at Dasna Temple in Ghaziabad, said that he did not say anything that offended or insulted women. 
16-01-2022||India||Woman’s version is inconsistent and exaggerated: Kerala Court in acquittal order||A court in Kerala on Friday acquitted Roman Catholic bishop Franco Mulakkal on charges of repeatedly raping a run in a convent, saying the victim’s statement was “inconsistent” and police failed to provide evidence to back her claim.In the copy of the order made available on Saturday, the court made scathing remarks on victim’s intentions, saying she was swayed under the “influence” of others and had once “accepted to drop the matter” if her convent was placed under the diocese of Bihar.Mulakkal, 57, was accused of raping the nun multiple times during his visit to a convent in Kottayam district between 2014 and 2016, when he was bishop of the Jalandhar diocese of the Roman Catholic church. The complainant is a member of the Missionaries of Jesus, a congregation under the Jalandhar diocese.Acquitting the bishop, Gopakumar G, judge of the additional district and sessions court I, Kottayam, said in his order that the victim’s claim that she was raped on 13 occasions cannot be relied upon based on her sole testimony.The court compared the victim’s statement with that of the witnesses and said there was no consistency in her statements as she gave different versions of the rape incidents. The court also doubted her statement saying that she has photographs and had exchanged emails with the bishop a day after the incidents.“She had travelled long distance with the accused in his car and had attended many functions on almost all days, next to the days of the alleged forceful sexual violence,” the court pointed out, adding that the witness who had travelled with the victim and the accused during some of those occasions had no hint about the sexual violence to which she was subjected to on the previous nights.The grievance projected by her to her companion sisters was that the accused was taking retaliatory steps for not yielding to his sexual desires, the court said, whereas her version before the court was that she was forced into sexual intercourse on 13 occasions.“Prosecution has failed to give proper explanation for the inconsistent version,” the court said. “In view of the inconsistent version of the victim, this court is of the view that she cannot be categorised as a sterling witness.”Apart from the victim’s testimony, “there is no corroborative evidence to prove the prosecution case,” the court said.“The police could not seize the mobile phone used by the victim which would have provided some input into the alleged vulgar messages sent by the accused,” it said. “The explanation offered for the non-production of the phone is thoroughly dissatisfactory.” It said the laptop also was not subjected to scientific analysis, as it was claimed that the hard disk was damaged.Although the hymen of the victim was found torn in her medical examination, it did not confirm rape, the judge said in his verdict. “Even if it is assumed that the complaint was a false complaint, from the mere fact that the victim’s hymen was found torn, penile penetration or forceful sexual intercourse cannot be inferred,” the court said in 289 page judgement.In its remarks on the trial, the judge said it was a case in which the grain and chaff were inextricably mixed up.“It is impossible to separate the grain from the chaff. There are exaggerations and embellishments in the version of the victim. She has also made every attempt to hide certain facts,” the court said.It was evident that the victim was swayed by others who had vested interests in the matter, the judge said.“The in-fight and rivalry and group fights of the nuns, and the desire for power, position and control over the congregation is evident from the demand placed by PW1 (victim) and her supporting nuns who were ready to settle the matter if their demands for a separate region under the diocese of Bihar is accepted by the church,” it said.“In the said circumstances, this court is unable to place reliance on the solitary testimony of PW1 (victim) and to hold the accused guilty of the offences charged against him,” the court said in its order acquitting Mulakkal of the offences under various sections of the Indian Penal Code.Many women activists, artists and legal experts criticised the verdict. some started an online campaign called Avalkoppam (with her) to vent their anger and outrage. Many of them asked the state government to move the High Court immediately.The verdict was a clear case of “miscarriage of justice,” said B Kemal Pasha, former justice of the Kerala high court. Questioning some of the findings in the verdict, the retired judge said that the Supreme Court has clearly stated that a person accused of rape can be convicted on the testimony of the victim, if she is found to be credible and trustworthy.“And delay in reporting such a case cannot be the reason for the acquittal,” justice Pasha said. “Reason for delay is well explained, going by the social background of the case.”Lawyer and human rights activist Joemon Puthanpurakkal, who fought for justice in the murder case of Sister Abhaya case for 28 years, said the court seems to have agreed with the defence. “It is a disappointing verdict for all suffering women,” he said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/womans-version-is-inconsistent-and-exaggerated-kerala-court-in-mulakkal-s-acquittal-order-101642270340561.html
16-01-2022||India||New combat uniform unveiled on Army Day||The Indian Army on Saturday unveiled a new battledress that will provide soldiers better camouflage and more comfort at an impressive parade in Delhi Cantonment to mark the 74th Army Day. The highlight of the parade was a refreshing blend of the old and the new to demonstrate the army’s evolution over the years.The elite warriors of the Parachute Regiment took part in the parade sporting the new battle fatigues with a digital camouflage pattern that will gradually replace the existing decades-old combat uniform, even as marching contingents from the Assam Regiment and the Jammu  & Kashmir Light Infantry turned heads with the soldiers donning vintage uniforms from the 1960s and 1970s.Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane inspected the Army Day parade that was attended by Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari, Navy chief Admiral R Hari Kumar and top officers of the armed forces. January 15 is celebrated as Army Day, as it was on this day in 1949 General (later Field Marshal) KM Cariappa took over the command of the Indian Army from General FRR Bucher, the last British Commander-in-Chief.The parade ground in Delhi Cantonment is named after Cariappa.The new combat uniform pattern was selected after a careful study of the army’s working requirements and the need to introduce uniformity in battle fatigues worn by soldiers. The National Institute of Fashion Technology (NIFT) helped the army finalise the new uniform.While paratroopers sporting the new battledress took part in the parade with their trademark Tavor TAR-21 assault rifles, soldiers from the Assam Regiment were attired in their service uniform from the 1960s and marched with their vintage .303 rifles.The military hardware showcased by the army included tanks, infantry combat vehicles, artillery guns and surface-to-air missiles – weapons systems that are a staple at the Army Day parade.But the format of the parade was different this time. The main battle tank Arjun featured in the parade alongside the vintage Centurion tank that took part in the 1971 India-Pakistan war.Second Lieutenant Arun Khetarpal, who was posthumously awarded the hallowed Param Vir Chakra, commanded a Centurion tank named Fama Gusta JX202 during the 1971 war and single-handedly inflicted maximum damage on the enemy.Arun was only 21, and commissioned in Poona Horse only six months before the war began, when he destroyed seven Pakistani Patton tanks in the Battle of Basantar fought on December 16, 1971.Another vintage element was the OT-62 Topas armored personnel carrier inducted into the army in the 1960s. It led the mechanised infantry column of BMP-II infantry combat vehicles. Also, the locally made 155mm 45-calibre Dhanush towed artillery guns followed the vintage 75/24 Indian field gun from the 1960s.“The Army Day Parade this year showcased the evolution of various weapon systems held in the Indian Army’s inventory,” the army said in a statement. The Indian Army’s theme for the year 2022, In Stride with the Future, is an acknowledgement of the increasingly critical role played by niche and disruptive technologies in modern warfare, the statement added.The army chief awarded 15 Sena Medals, including five posthumously, for gallantry, and 23 citations to different units for outstanding performance. Naravane also released a commemorative postage stamp on Permanent Commission to Women Officers in the Indian Army.Earlier in the day, the three service chiefs laid wreaths at the National War Memorial to honour India’s fallen soldiers.Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended his best wishes to soldiers, veterans and their families. “The Indian Army is known for its bravery and professionalism. Words cannot do justice to the invaluable contribution of the Indian Army towards national safety,” Modi tweeted.Defence minister Rajnath Singh said the army had distinguished itself as a courageous and professional force, unwavering in its commitment to defend the country.
16-01-2022||India||‘Most underrated concepts in our society’: Rahul on ‘consent’ in marital rape||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday took to Twitter to share a thought on marital rape. He wrote consent is among the most “underrate concepts in our society” and that it must be “foregrounded” in order to ensure women's safety in the country.“Consent is amongst the most underrated concepts in our society. It has to be foregrounded to ensure safety for women,” Rahul tweeted.
16-01-2022||India||Delhi, Mumbai may have hit Covid peak as cases fall, Bengal extend curbs to contain spread||India's Covid-19 infections have spiralled to see more than a lakh cases daily over the past week as the Omicron variant spreads to every corner of the country. Fresh tally of infections increased from about 1.8 lakh on Monday to nearly 2.7 lakh on Saturday, as per data available on the Union health ministry website.Although a majority of the patients in the third wave of the pandemic have so far complained of symptoms no different from a flu, experts have warned that the Delta strain, which caused the devastating second wave, is still around.Here's how this week in the pandemic looked for India:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-mumbai-may-have-hit-covid-peak-as-cases-fall-bengal-extends-curbs-to-contain-spread-101642298413498.html
16-01-2022||Today's||Will the wildlife amendment bill save India’s rich biodiversity?||On December 17, 2021, Union minister for environment, forest and climate change, Bhupender Yadav, introduced the Wild Life (Protection) Amendment Bill, 2021, in the Lok Sabha. The bill amends the Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972, the most comprehensive legislation for protecting India’s biodiversity. Any changes to this law will have profound implications for India’s conservation policies.
16-01-2022||Today's||In UP 2022, it’s back to Mandal vs Kamandal||The battle for Uttar Pradesh (UP) has thrown up unforeseen twists and turns. The coalition led by Samajwadi Party (SP) leader, Akhilesh Yadav, has now taken on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) head on, and brings back to mind the old Mandal versus Kamandal battle.Chief minister (CM), Yogi Adityanath, contesting from Gorakhpur, is trying to propagate the message that the saffron party should be given credit for the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. Earlier, deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya added to the BJP’s religio-political mix by raising the issue of Mathura. Later, the CM joined in asking whether Mathura could be left out if a grand temple could be built in Ayodhya and the Vishwanath corridor in Kashi was opened by Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi himself. The message is clear, the BJP is going into the election on a plank largely comprising religion and development.Official figures show that to date 4.3 million poor people have been given houses in UP; 150 million are getting five kg extra foodgrain per unit per month. The BJP has promised 450,000 full-time jobs and 350,000 contractual jobs; 2.5 million people have also been given jobs under the One District One Product scheme. Under the Saubhagya scheme, 14.1 million houses have been given free electricity connections and 16.7 million have got free gas connections. The state government claims that arrears of ₹1.5 lakh crore have been paid to sugarcane farmers so far.But is this enough?The farmers’ movement is a new factor in the political mix. When the PM announced the repeal of the three farm laws, the farmers and the Opposition felt that they could take advantage of related issues like inflation and unemployment. The Opposition has been stressing that the employment figures given by the government are inaccurate. This has led to a new electoral narrative taking shape.BJP dissidents and Opposition leaders have been saying that the government is anti-Brahmin. Yogi Adityanath has personally worked hard to ensure that there are no corruption allegations against him. But this has not addressed all the problems. Swami Prasad Maurya, Dara Singh Chauhan, Dharam Singh Saini and 11 BJP Members of the Legislative Assembly (MLAs) resigned on the grounds that the government was anti-Dalit and anti-backward castes. They have been dismissed as opportunists, but it cannot be denied that five years ago, the same leaders were used by the saffron party to win the state elections. The judicious use of a mix of the “Muzaffarnagar model”, 2013, in western UP and the most backward castes paved the way for the saffron party’s route to success in the 2017 and 2019 elections.The farmers’ movement and now the defection of party leaders have changed the political narrative. Akhilesh Yadav is trying to woo the most backward castes; he already has the support of the Muslims and Yadavs. If the most backward castes weigh in with him, he has a fighting chance now.Akhilesh Yadav has done all this on his own. Earlier, his father Mulayam Singh Yadav and his uncles played a significant role. Now he is the undisputed leader of his party, a status his father once enjoyed. Akhilesh Yadav has deftly joined hands with his uncle Shivpal Yadav, who was his political rival until recently, even when the latter refused to merge his party with the SP. Akhilesh has learnt the art of headline management which explains why the BJP ministers and MLAs were asked to resign one by one, ensuring constant media coverage.But, is this enough for him to win the election?This question cannot be answered right now. The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and its leader Mayawati appear unruffled. The party has already distributed more than 70% of its tickets. Its performance will play a major role in the formation of the next government. In the Congress party’s first list, of the 125 people, 50 are women. Among them is the mother of the rape victim of Unnao and an anganwadi worker from Shahjahanpur. This is certainly healthier than the religion and caste equations, but does not seem to be too popular with the rank and file, and four out of seven Congress MLAs have switched sides so far.No one should make the mistake of assuming that the BJP will not be able to form the next government. With the CM’s clean reputation, the backing of the PM, a well-oiled organisational machine and abundant resources, the party is in a fairly advantageous position. But, it has to work to keep its house in order.The renowned poet Jigar Moradabadi once wrote about Ishq (love), Ik aag ka daria hai aur doob ke jana hai (it is a river of fire and you have to drown to find it). Politicians know this only too well come election time.Shashi Shekhar is editor-in-chief, Hindustan The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-up-2022-it-s-back-to-mandal-vs-kamandal-101642345075617.html
16-01-2022||Today's||Covid-19: The perils of the digital divide||In recent years, several cross-currents impacted by the communications revolution, the mushrooming of social media platforms and the spread of the pandemic in its various manifestations, have affected lifestyles at all levels. During the ongoing pandemic, online activity allows for an alternative way of living, working and providing goods and services. While we extol the virtues of digital platforms, we lose sight of the India that is deprived and is feeling isolated. Connectivity is largely for those already connected and far removed from those who feel disconnected.
