17-01-2022||Other||Fog to continue for next three days in Gurugram: IMD||The city on Monday recorded another “cold day” with a maximum temperature of 14.4 degrees Celsius (°C), even as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted that fog and mist will continue for the next three days over the city. According to IMD, Gurugram on Monday recorded a minimum temperature of 7.5°C, which was two degrees above normal. On Sunday, the city had recorded the maximum and minimum temperatures at 15.5°C and 7°C, respectively.On January 15, the city had recorded the coldest day of this season, with the maximum temperature dropping to 12°C which was eight degrees below normal. However, the IMD said that over the next four days, the maximum temperature is likely to rise and stay around 20°C, while the minimum temperature is likely to be around 10°C. Manmohan Singh, director of Meteorological Centre Chandigarh, a regional centre of IMD, said, “Over the next two days, shallow to moderate fog in isolated parts during the night and morning hours is very likely over Punjab and Haryana. Due to a fresh western disturbance in the Himalayan region, light rainfall is also likely around the weekend. The minimum temperatures are also likely to rise by two to four degrees Celsius over the state during the next five days.” Meanwhile, the air quality of Gurugram dipped to “poor” category with an air quality index of 219, after staying in “moderate” category for the past two days, according to the 4pm bulletin of the Central Pollution Control Board. On Sunday, the city had recorded an AQI of 181. According to the weather bulletin issued by the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi-NCR, the air quality over the national capital territory is likely to remain in lower end of very poor category on Tuesday. The air quality is likely to improve marginally and remain in poor category on Wednesday, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fog-to-continue-for-next-three-days-in-gurugram-imd-101642443941389.html
17-01-2022||Lucknow||UP polls: BJP launches video of campaign song on lines of Manike Mage Hithe||For the UP polls, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has launched the video of a new promotional campaign song, made on the lines of the viral Sri Lankan ditty “Manike Mage Hithe”. The new song shows the BJP, besides OBC and dalit leaders of its allies in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh talking about various schemes of the Narendra Modi and Yogi Adityanath governments. It reminds voters of “goondaraj aur bhrastachar (crime and corruption)” in previous regimes. The reference to “goondaraj aur bhrastachar” is tactical as it features in almost all of BJP campaigns. These were the major themes during the party’s 2017 campaign when it replaced the Samajwadi Party (SP) and came to power with its biggest-ever haul of 312 assembly seats in the 403-member UP assembly.The BJP’s latest campaign song, being widely shared by party leaders, opens to foot-tapping music and lyrics that start with “janata hai janardan (people are gods)”. It goads the voters to remember the party’s symbol “lotus” while going to vote. The seven-phase UP assembly polls will begin on February 10. In the absence of rallies, road shows and rath yatras that have been banned by the election commission to check the spread of Covid-19, all political parties have fallen back on virtual campaigns and door-to-door campaigning. “Our latest promotional video is a virtually like an entire campaign condensed into a two- minute song. So, this song provides a quick recap and campaign focus,” said Manish Dixit, BJP’s media in-charge in UP. Showing video clips of Prime Minister Narendra Modi washing the feet of sanitation workers in Kumbh and greeting them with a flower shower during the inauguration of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Kashi, the campaign song appeals to the voter with “bhool nahi jaana re (don’t forget us)” line. Through montages, recent happenings like income tax raid on politicians and recovery of big cash, that led to BJP and SP sparring at each other over, are established. The song has reference to backwards, dalits, farmers and women and BJP leaders state that more such songs would be launched soon. “Usually, allies don’t feature in such videos. But, here BJP’s OBC allies Anupriya Patel and Sanjay Nishad of Apna Dal (Sonelal) and Nishad Party, respectively, figure in the video. That is one novelty and maybe it is to balance the recent mini exodus of OBC leaders away from BJP. But irrespective of the reasons, I am personally happy at the fact that all parties are now using music videos to connect with voters. This musical outreach is soothing to the ears,” says Irshad Ilmi, a political expert. “This song virtually says everything that we are telling the voters, including reminding them to not fall into the trap of opposition parties who are out to mislead the voters,” says Dixit. The BJP and its supporters have so far launched several musical video campaigns. There are a few that are personality based like “Yogi bahut zaroori hai (Yogi is quite necessary)” and “Ujiyara hai charon taraf andher na koi, Yogi jaisa UP mein sher na koi (It is all lit up everywhere and there is no darkness anywhere. Yogi ji is a lion and there is none like him).”One of them is a six-minute song “Aayenge to Yogi hi (Yogi will come for sure)” sung by prominent Bhojpuri singer Dinesh Lal Yadav aka ‘Nirahua’ who had unsuccessfully contested the 2019 Lok Sabha polls on the BJP ticket against Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav. This song has garnered millions of hits. Now, as the polling dates near and opposition steps up the heat, the campaign songs are becoming more issue-based, say party leaders.
17-01-2022||Noida||Malicious campaign against Covid vaccine fell flat, says UP CM Yogi Adityanath||After reviewing Covid preparedness in Ghaziabad during a visit to the district on Monday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath lauded the efforts of the government to ensure better “Covid management” during the first and second waves and said a “malicious campaign” against the Covid-19 vaccine by those opposing it had fallen flat. Assembly elections will be held in Uttar Pradesh in seven phases, starting on February 10 when voting will be held in western UP. The CM on Monday inspected the L3 category facility of Santosh Medical College in Ghaziabad and also a nearby vaccination camp where he interacted with children (15-18 years). “As part of our Covid management, we have been able to save the lives and means of livelihood of people. I visited Ghaziabad during the first and second Covid waves and I am here during the present third wave as well. There was a malicious campaign against the vaccine by people and it was a campaign against humanity. Such campaigns have fallen flat and everyone now recognises that the vaccine made in India is one of the finest,” Adityanath told reporters at Santosh Medical College. He said the government has done its best in saving lives and also livelihoods. “We imposed the night curfew from 10pm to 6am while schools and colleges have been shut till January 23. During this period, we have a target to complete the first dose vaccination of children as well as all other categories. Besides, we also plan to complete the precautionary dose for eligible beneficiaries. At present, Uttar Pradesh administers the highest number of vaccines,” Adityanath said. He also said the first dose coverage in Ghaziabad is currently 98% (with a revised target) while the second dose coverage was about 69%. “The patients admitted to hospitals during this wave is less than 1% of active cases. The third wave is less harmful as compared to the second wave. But it is a disease and we have to save children, women and senior citizens. For that, we have also installed 5,500 public address systems to give out public awareness messages. People should avoid going to crowded places. We are hopeful that we will be successful in controlling and saving lives and livelihoods during this third wave too,” the chief minister said. On the other hand, the members of the opposition parties took a jibe over the “Covid management” of the BJP government and said the debacle over Covid will be a major factor in the elections. The Congress leaders said the hardships people faced during the pandemic are still fresh in the minds of everyone. “It is for the first time that people saw dead bodies floating in river Ganga and people even died on roads. There were tokens issued for cremation of dead bodies while people were running helter-skelter for oxygen. The migrant workers were out on roads, walking to their native places. So, everyone has seen how things were dealt with by the UP government during the pandemic,” said Dolly Sharma, member of All India Congress Committee and spokesperson of UP Congress Committee. Others said almost every family suffered during the pandemic one way or the other. “We have seen how people were lined up and running pillar to post for oxygen for their family and loved ones. During the past two waves, the people of UP suffered a lot and almost everyone has a tale of loss to tell. All these difficulties are fresh in the minds of people and their suffering will play a major role in these elections,” said Rashid Malik, district president, Samajwadi Party. Adityanath, during his press briefing, also said the government, after the second wave, added about 550 new oxygen plants. Eleven of these plants are in Ghaziabad, he said. According to the state control room figures, on Monday, the state had a total of 1,849,665 Covid-19 cases and 22,972 deaths. A total of 1,720,077 patients have been discharged after treatment while the number of active cases is 106,616. The Ghaziabad district on Monday registered 1,301 fresh cases of Covid-19 which took the overall tally to 72,201. The number of active cases is 10,493, the district figures showed. The total cases in the month of January is at 16,287 which is the highest for any month since the start of the pandemic, the data showed.
17-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi: New cases dip to 12-day low amid testing drop, positivity up slightly||The Capital continued to record a dip in the number of daily Covid-19 infections, with cases on Monday dropping to a 12-day low of 12,527, even as tests fell below the 45,000 mark for the first time in 50 days, showed data released by the Delhi government. Hospitalisations, meanwhile continue to remain low, with 2,784 patients occupying beds in Delhi’s health care facilities, up from 2,711 a day ago. Of Delhi’s 15, 505 dedicated Covid-19 beds, over 82% were still vacant as on Monday, showed the state government’s health bulletin. Compared to nearly 65,000 tests conducted on Sunday, Delhi, on Monday conducted only 44,762, of which 27.99% samples returned positive results. This number, known as the test positivity rate, went up marginally from 27.87% on Sunday. Delhi last added fewer cases on January 5, when the city recorded 10,665 fresh infections. Data released on Monday also showed that 24 people succumbed to the virus. While the government has said the consistent decline in cases could be an indication of the easing of the current Covid-19 wave, it is important to note that the reduction in infections over the last four days came on the back of lower than usual testing. From over 105,000 tests on January 12, to 98,832 tests the day after that, then 79,758 on Friday, 67,624 on Saturday, 65,621 on Sunday and finally 44,726 tests on Monday - tests have dipped consistently in the city, a fall that the state government has attributed to a change in testing protocol by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Monday clarified that who wanted to get tested was being tested and added that no doctors’ prescription is required to get checked for Covid-19 in the Capital. “We are following the testing protocol set by the Centre, and everyone who wants to get tested is being tested. There was also a rumour that people need doctors’ prescription for tests now, but that is not true,” Jain said. As on Monday, just fewer than 84,000 people in Delhi were battling Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhinew-cases-dip-to-12-day-low-amid-testing-drop-positivity-up-slightly-101642443102904.html
17-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi Police bust betting syndicate, arrest mastermind||The Delhi Police crime branch on Monday said they have arrested a 39-year-old fugitive who was one of the masterminds of an organised betting syndicate busted in northeast Delhi’s Bhajanpura in 2015. Police said the accused, Lalit Verma alias Neetu, was operating another betting racket from a hideout in Himachal Pradesh and was arrested when he came to his home in east Delhi’s Uttam Nagar to visit. He carried a reward on ₹50,000 on his arrest.“On Sunday, our team learnt about Verma’s arrival at his home in east Uttam Nagar. A raid was conducted and he was arrested. His name in the Bhajanpura case had surfaced during the interrogation of his arrested father and other accused ,” said deputy commissioner of police (crime) Monika Bhardwaj.Verma’s father was among several associates arrested after the 2015 racket bust. Later in July 2016, the northeast district police arrested former Uttar Pradesh minister DP Yadav, who at that time was already serving a life term in a prison in Dehradun for a murder, on alleged charges of accepting protection money from members of the gang, police said.“They were doing the illegal activities without any difficulty because they were getting protection from former cabinet minister of Uttar Pradesh DP Yadav. The mafia don DP Yadav used to provide them shelter and harboured this syndicate,” said the DCP.Two of the key accusedarrested in 2015 had claimed that they used to send ₹2 lakh per day as protection money to Yadav and his family members, the then deputy commissioner of police (northeast) Ajit Kumar Singla had said on July 26, 2016, after arresting Yadav.Verma was last arrested in 2010 in Ludhiana by the Punjab Police for running an organised betting racket. His interrogation had then revealed that he had earned over ₹100 crores using which bought a number of vehicles and properties across the country, said DCP Bhardwaj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-bust-betting-syndicate-arrest-mastermind-101642442501322.html
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Full dress rehearsal for Republic Day celebrations to be held at Ludhiana’s Guru Nanak Stadium||Additional deputy commissioner (ADC) (general) Rahul Chaba on Monday said the full-dress rehearsals for the district-level Republic Day celebrations would be held at Guru Nanak Stadium on January 24. The same was announced at a meeting called to review the arrangements for the January 26 celebrations.The meeting was also attended by the deputy commissioner of police Simrat Pal Singh Dhindsa, assistant deputy commissioner of police Dr Pragya Jain, Municipal Corporation joint commissioner Ankur Mahindroo and district revenue officer Pardeep Singh Bains in addition to the heads of all government departments.The ADC (general) said in view of Covid and the government directions, no cultural function or physical training show would be organised on the occasion before appealing to city residents to celebrate Republic Day as a national festival.Further outlining guidelines, he said all attendees must wear masks and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. He also directed officers on duty to ensure that people participating in this function not face any problems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/full-dress-rehearsal-for-republic-day-celebrations-to-be-held-at-ludhiana-s-guru-nanak-stadium-101642442260974.html
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Special Task Force in-charge Harbans Singh awarded fifth DGP commendation disc||Special Task Force (STF) Ludhiana zone in-charge, inspector Harbans Singh was awarded the director general of police (DGP) commendation disc, awarded in recognition of outstanding police achievements and public service, for a fifth time. Singh, who earlier worked as the in-charge of the anti-narcotics cell of police commissionerate, has seized large quantities of drugs and arrested the highest number of smugglers from the state during his tenure with the STF.He joined the Punjab police in 1986 and was promoted to the post of assistant sub-inspector in 1995 and to inspector in 2011. He was recently promoted to Inspector.In 2013, Singh was awarded with the President Police Medal from the then President of India Pranab Mukherjee. In 2017, he was decorated with his first DGP commendation disc.Speaking on the occasion, Singh said it was because of his strong team and supportive family that he was able to perform his duties and received such honours.During his tenure as STF in-charge, Singh and his team have recovered a total of 281kg heroin, 57kg opium, 1334kg poppy husk, 10kg ice drug, 34.1lakh intoxicant pills and capsules as well as ₹2.59 crore in drug money. His team has also seized 12 AK-47 rifles, 24 magazines, 642 cartridges of 7.62 mm, 17 illegal pistols and 232 bullets, while also having made 15 arrests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/special-task-force-in-charge-harbans-singh-awarded-fifth-dgp-commendation-disc-101642442203573.html
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana reports over 1,000 fresh Covid cases for fourth straight day||With the third wave of the coronavirus pandemic continuing to sweep the state, the district recorded 1,041 fresh infections, and two Covid-induced fatalities on Monday. This marks the fourth consecutive day when the district has seen over 1,000 cases.At present, active cases in the district stand at 7,348, of which 7,221 people are in home isolation, 113 are undergoing treatment at different private hospitals and 14 are admitted at government health facilities.The latest casualties include an 84-year-old man from Phullanwal village and a 68-year-old man from SBS Nagar. They were undergoing treatment at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital and Fortis Hospital on Chandigarh Road, respectively.Civil surgeon Dr SP Singh said the fresh cases include healthcare workers, residents with influenza-like symptoms and contacts of positive patients. He appealed to residents to follow Covid protocol and get vaccinated at the earliest. The district had on January 14 recorded its highest-ever single day count with 1,808 cases, which was followed by 1,283 cases on January 15 and 1,144 on January 16. The district’s cumulative case count has now reached 98,087, of which 2,144 patients have succumbed and 88,595 have recovered.The health department has also formed 15 micro-containment zones across the district to check the spread of virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-reports-over-1-000-fresh-covid-cases-for-fourth-straight-day-101642442141030.html
17-01-2022||Mumbai||BMC likely to send redrawn ward boundaries to SEC today||Mumbai Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will send revised electoral ward boundaries for all 236 wards in the limits of Greater Mumbai to the state election commissioner for approval on Tuesday, according to civic authorities. In November this year, the Maharashtra government decided to increase nine seats in the BMC from the present 227 to 236. Following this, BMC was tasked with redrawing the boundaries of the existing 227 wards, on the basis of the population of each ward. Suresh Kakani, the additional municipal commissioner in charge of handling the preparations for BMC polls 2022, said on Monday, “The state government wanted to conduct elections for 14 to 15 municipal corporations together. Some municipal corporators had not completed their procedure, and hence, we were waiting to send out the ward boundaries to the EC. We will send it mostly by tomorrow itself.”Following this, reservations for each of these seats will be decided, Kakani said and added that the documents will be made public for suggestions and objections from citizens. “Reservations such as an electoral ward seat reserved for female candidates, or for scheduled caste candidates, are decided by drawing of chits. It is likely that chits will be drawn first, after which the election commission will invite suggestions and objections,” Kakani said.According to BMC officials, five electoral wards will be added in the western suburbs, three in the eastern suburbs, and one in the island city. BMC has redrawn these boundaries by dividing the total population of Mumbai with 236 to determine the population requirement per ward before boundaries are redrawn. A 10%+/- difference in this figure will be accepted as the number of voters per ward. If any electoral ward has a population above that figure, its geographical parts are to be extracted to add to a new ward. This is likely to have a ripple effect on all or neighbouring electoral wards as well, hence the boundaries of several wards will change.The current composition of the civic body has remained unchanged since 2001. The state government did not increase the number of corporators in 2011 even when the population increase was 3.87% between 2001 and 2011. The BMC has also maintained that in the past 20 years, many people who were residing in the island city has relocated to the western and eastern suburbs. The officials said that this intra-city migration has also affected the population density of Mumbai According to senior civic officials, the population at present has increased by 4 per cent in the past 20 years which is why it is now important to increase the number of wards to maintain a uniform voter-councillor ratio.Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar said that she welcomed the decision of the Bombay HC. “The Election Commission and state government have the ultimate say on this and they have taken this decision in the larger interest of the people. The decision to increase wards did not happen in a day as there were discussions before also about increasing the number of wards so that the civic administration can govern the city smoothly,” said Pednekar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-likely-to-send-redrawn-ward-boundaries-to-sec-today-101642442082411.html
17-01-2022||Mumbai||HC dismisses petition challenging increase in BMC seats||Mumbai: The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday dismissed the petition challenging the November 30, 2021 ordinance by which the number of seats in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) for the forthcoming elections were increased from 227 to 236.Detailed and reasoned order will be made available in the evening or tomorrow. The division bench of justice A A Sayed and justice Abhay Ahuja which was hearing the petition filed by BJP councillors Abhijit Samant and Rajshree Shirwadkar had been informed by senior advocate Dr Veerendra Tulzapurkar and advocate Nikhil Sakhardande that the increase of seats was not valid as it was not based on a fresh census. They had argued that as the census of 2011 was used to redraw the ward boundaries for the 2017 BMC elections, so, the same census figures could not be used to increase seats in the 2022 elections.On Monday, the court sought clarity from the Election Commission as to whether the increase of seats was based on the 2011 census and whether any reservations were being implemented through the November 30 ordinance to which the counsel for the EC replied in the negative. Thereafter the bench sought to know whether the petitioners were seeking a stay on the conduction of elections. After advocate Sakhardande responded that the petitioners were not seeking stay on the elections, the court said that it was dismissing the petition and would pass a detailed and reasoned order in due course.Reacting to the order, Bhalchandra Shirsat, senior BJP corporator and spokesperson of the party in BMC said, “We have not yet decided if we want to approach the Supreme Court or not. The petition was filed because the number of seats were being increased to provide political advantage to the ruling Shiv Sena. According to the government of Maharashtra there has been 3.87 percent increase in the population of the city, but these numbers are based as per the census data of 2011. There has been no census conducted since then and if the delimitation was so necessary then why it was not done before the 2017 elections?”Earlier in December 2020, the Congress in BMC had written to the state government demanding fresh delimitation of civic wards. Ravi Raja, Congress corporator and leader of opposition had written to the CM saying that certain ward boundaries were redrawn during the 2017 elections to favour the BJP.“We welcome the Court’s decision and the state government has the power to change the number of seats if they want to. Increasing the ward boundaries will make governance easier and will help in maintaining an uniform voter-corporator ratio in many wards,” said Raja.Yashwant Jadhav, Shiv Sena corporator and chairperson of the BMC standing committee, said, “Moving the court in every trivial issue is part of a pressure tactics of the BJP. We welcome the court order because considering the change in demography, population and infrastructure in the city of Mumbai fresh delimitation of wards was very much necessary in the city.”The councillors had also argued that the Supreme Court had stayed the ordinance promulgated by the Maharashtra government for the Other Backward Class (OBC) category for local body elections across the state as it was not based on any empirical data in the 2011 census and hence the November 30 ordinance allowing increase of nine seats in BMC should also be set aside.However, the state government represented by advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni had argued that the Ordinance had the status of a legislation and hence the court could not interfere. Kumbhakoni had further stated that as the census for 2021 was not conducted due to the pandemic, hence there was no restriction on basing the increase of nine seats for the 2022 BMC elections on the 2011 census as such an exercise had not been undertaken during the 2012 or 2017 BMC elections.AG Kumbhakoni had also argued that the stay by the Supreme Court was for OBC reservation as the 2011 census did not have any empirical data of the persons belonging to such a category, however, there was no such condition for increasing seats for the general population and hence the apex court order could not be applied for the November 30 ordinance.Senior advocate Anil Sakhare for the BMC had adopted the arguments of the state government and had added that as the population had increased it was imperative to increase the seats so that there was a proportionate representation of citizens in the jurisdiction of the civic authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-dismisses-petition-challenging-increase-in-bmc-seats-101642441961298.html
17-01-2022||Lucknow||UP woman officer given triple talaq on WhatsApp, case lodged||A woman officer of Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission (UPPSC), Prayagraj, has lodged a case against her husband accusing him of divorcing her through a WhatsApp message, police said. She also alleged that the man issued threats to her when she opposed. Station house officer, Kareli police station, Anurag Sharma said a case had been registered under the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, 2019, on the basis of the complaint. Further investigation was being carried out in this connection, he added.According to reports, a resident of Gaus Nagar area of Kareli, the woman is posted as review officer at UPPSC. In 2018, she was married to one Mohd Aslam of Ballia district. The woman later alleged that her husband and in-laws were harassing her for dowry and registered an FIR with Kareli police station.In her recent complaint on Sunday, she alleged that Aslam sent her a divorce on WhatsApp and claimed that he was now going out of the country. The woman called her husband and made protests but he issued threats instead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-woman-officer-given-triple-talaq-on-whatsapp-case-lodged-101642441903852.html
17-01-2022||Mumbai||HC refuses anticipatory bail to Nitesh Rane||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday rejected the anticipatory bail application (ABA) of BJP MLA and union minister Narayan Rane’s son Nitesh Rane, who has been booked by Kankavali police station in Sindhudurg district in connection with an attempt to murder case of December 18. The state government however will continue with its statement of no coercive action against Nitesh Rane till January 27. On December 18, Parab, a Sena functionary from Kankavali in Sindhudurg, was allegedly assaulted in the backdrop of the Sindhudurg District Cooperative Bank election scheduled to take place on December 30. Parab is a close associate of chairperson Satish Sawant, who was defeated by Nitesh Rane in the 2019 assembly polls for the Kankavali seat. Parab told the police that while he was on his bike on the Kankavali-Nardave road at around 11am, an Innova car without a number plate hit his vehicle. A person alighted from the car and told Parab that since Parab worked for Sena leader Satish Sawant, he would ‘deal with him’ after which the assailant stabbed Parab in the chest. The complaint stated that Parab heard the assailant tell another occupant in the car to inform Nitesh Rane about the incident. Senior advocate Niteen Pradhan submitted that his client, Nitesh Rane, had cooperated with the investigators and given a written statement on December 24 but the criminal proceedings against him were being pursued due to the cat calls made by him on December 23 against Aaditya Thackeray outside Vidhan Bhavan. Special public prosecutor Sudeep Pasbola submitted that Nitesh Rane’s claim that the FIR was an act of vendetta due to the December 23 incident was not valid as the attempt to murder case happened on December 18 and Rane was issued notice on December 21. The state government said that there was no political vendetta involved and that it had evidence of a conspiracy wherein Nitesh Rane’s involvement came to light after the arrest of another accused. Hence, Nitesh Rane’s application should be rejected. In its order the bench observed that while the persons who allegedly hired people from Pune had been arrested, custody of Rane was not being sought by the investigators only for the purpose of recovery of any article but also for interrogation. “The court in such a case is required to balance the conflicting considerations of personal liberty and a need for proper investigation in a larger societal interest. At this stage, proper investigation is the paramount consideration,” said the court in its order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-refuses-anticipatory-bail-to-nitesh-rane-101642441661232.html
17-01-2022||Lucknow||UP: AKTU scholarship scheme for M Tech, PhD students soon||Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU), Lucknow, will soon come up with a scholarship scheme for M Tech and PhD students of government and private colleges affiliated to the university. Vice chancellor prof PK Mishra made this announcement during a meeting held in hybrid mode with directors of all the state and constituent institutions on Monday. The purpose of the meeting was to discuss the issues hindering the progress of the government and private colleges affiliated to the university.Speaking on the occasion, the vice chancellor said a common online platform would soon be developed by the university for state and constituent institutions. He said that emphasis will be on entrepreneurship development. “Work will be done in all the institutions in a planned manner to develop an eco-system for entrepreneurship development,” prof Mishra added. He also said initiatives would be taken for agro-incubation to promote rural and agricultural entrepreneurship.“Personality development programmes will be conducted for soft skills and personality development of the students of government and constituent institutions,” he said. Along with this, internal relations of the industry-institute will be improved for the upgradation of knowledge of the students and the faculty.The VC said a review meeting would be held every month to assess the progress in this regard. In the meeting, directors prof Sandeep Tiwari and prof SP Shukla were present physically while other directors attended the meeting online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-aktu-scholarship-scheme-for-m-tech-phd-students-soon-101642441541034.html
17-01-2022||Pune||Candidates arriving late for CTET gatecrash exam centre at Ramtekdi, cause chaos||PUNE Candidates who were appearing for Central Teacher Eligibility Test (CTET) barged in at the examination center at Ramtekdi, Hadapsar after arriving late at the centre, causing chaos and a quarrel between officials and candidates.CTET exam is the minimum criteria required for the eligibility of central government teaching jobs.Deepak Lagad, police Inspector from Wanowrie police station said, “40 students arrived late at the examination centre and they tried to barge in which led to a quarrel among gatekeepers and candidates. Once police reached the spot, the situation was brought under control and no FIR was registered in the case.”As CTET exams norms, all the candidates had to enter the exam centre between 7.30am to 9.15am, the candidates arrived at the centre after 9.15 am. All the 40 candidates were not allowed to write the exams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/candidates-arriving-late-for-ctet-gatecrash-exam-centre-at-ramtekdi-cause-chaos-101642441365634.html
17-01-2022||Lucknow||UP polls: Keshav Prasad Maurya targets SP over selection, replacement of Kairana candidate||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya on Monday targeted the Samajwadi Party (SP) for replacing Nahid Hasan, the SP candidate from the Kairana assembly seat in west UP, with his sister Iqra.Deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya also hit out at SP chief Akhilesh Yadav for taking a pledge with grain in hand about working for the welfare of the farmers, if voted to power. “I have heard that under severe criticism, the SP has now replaced its tainted candidate from Kairana with his sister. This is unacceptable as the BJP believes that fielding a tainted individual or any of their family members is equally wrong,” Keshav Prasad Maurya said, addressing media persons at the BJP headquarters in Lucknow on Monday. Nahid Hasan was arrested under the Gangsters Act on Saturday. Immediately after that, top BJP leaders, including chief minister Yogi Adityanath, had targeted the SP for fielding ‘tainted’ candidates. Union information and broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur had also hit out at the SP on the issue. He said while the BJP was drawing honest leaders and professionals, the SP was fielding those lawmakers who were either on jail or just out on bail. “As for Akhileshji’s pledge to work for farmers, all I can say is that it is just a political stunt. What did the SP do for farmers when it was in power? They should have then provided MSP to farmers for their produce, cleared dues of sugarcane farmers,” Keshav Prasad Maurya said. “Yeh koi nayi sapa nahin, wahi sapa hai (this is no new SP, it’s the same old SP),” Keshav Prasad Maurya said. This remark was made in the context of a SP campaign theme – ‘nayi sapa hai, nayi hawa hai .. (it’s a new SP and welcome winds of change are blowing). Several political leaders joined the BJP on the occasion. The new joinees included former lawmaker and state vice-president of the Congress Daljit Singh, Rashmi Arya, former Samajwadi Party lawmaker from Mauranipur in Bundelkhand, Brajmohan Singh Kushwaha, a former zonal coordinator who held a position equivalent to a minister of state, Dr Surbhi, who had earlier contested the elections on the Samajwadi Party ticket, and Satendra Chauhan, former state chief of the Janwadi Party in Azamgarh.“Virtually daily, someone or the other is joining us and the list of those eyeing entry into the BJP from across parties is huge,” BJP co media-incharge Himanshu Dubey said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-polls-keshav-prasad-maurya-targets-sp-over-selection-replacement-of-kairana-candidate-101642441360942.html
17-01-2022||Mumbai||Cannot rule out further surge in Maha, say experts as Mumbai breaches 1 million mark||Mumbai Maharashtra on Monday added 31,111 new Covid-19 cases, the drop can be attributed to a lower number of tests done in the last 24 hours. Between January 12 and January 16, Maharashtra clocked over 40,000 cases daily, with over 2,00,000 tests conducted every day. Experts said the next two weeks will be crucial in the state’s battle against the third wave of Covid-19 as the state could see a rise in cases due to the spread of the Omicron variant.In the last 24 hours, the state tested 1,50,489 samples and had a positivity rate of 20.67 percent. The state’s active case count stood at 2,67,334 on Monday. Meanwhile, Mumbai breached the million mark in terms of cumulative Covid-19 cases on Monday with the addition of 5,956 fresh cases. Mumbai’s active case count was 50,757. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the State Covid task force, said that Mumbai is likely to see a decline in cases now and it could follow the pattern of the wave in South Africa. “Mumbai’s Covid-19 cases were at their peak last week, and the curve is flattening now. Cities like Mumbai which are past their peak will see cases declining. But that doesn’t mean that we should relax. It appears that we are following the South African pattern where there was a rapid rise and a quick fall,” Dr Joshi said.State Covid task force members said that Maharashtra’s numbers were primarily driven by the surge in Covid cases in Mumbai. The Delta strain is present to a considerable degree in other parts of the state, if Omicron replaces it, there could be a rise. However, the experts also pointed out that numbers could remain low due to a change in the Centre’s testing protocol, which now mandates Covid tests of only symptomatic and senior citizens.Joshi said it would be “difficult to predict numbers”. Maharashtra’s numbers were driven mainly by Mumbai and the next two weeks are going to be crucial, he said, adding that “We cannot rule out a similar surge (like Mumbai) in the rest of Maharashtra.”Joshi said it would be “difficult to predict numbers” and added, “Maharashtra numbers were driven mainly by Mumbai. And the next two weeks are going to be crucial.” He further added, “Maharashtra is on an upswing. We cannot rule out a similar surge (like Mumbai) in the rest of Maharashtra.”A senior health department official said it would be early to say that the wave was stabilising in Maharashtra. “It has been only 12 days to a week that we have seen an increase [in daily cases]. The numbers need to remain consistent for a period with enough daily tests to know if it was stabilising. Mumbai Covid cases drove the numbers for Maharashtra, but now Mumbai seems to be stabilising. The district administration and civic bodies need to remain vigilant for the next two weeks as well,” he said, requesting anonymity.Dr Joshi said that the testing guidelines which were revised recently could show low numbers. “The testing guidelines have changed. Nearly 80 percent of positive cases are asymptomatic. Now, only symptomatic people are tested so the numbers may remain low due to the change in the testing strategy.”The task force member added that those contracting the infection must not take it lightly. “We are still getting a proportion of the [infected] population with the Delta variant. Many are getting hospitalised. So people should not dismiss as mild and remain in touch with their doctors, check their saturation, and follow the Covid timetable. Even if people are asymptomatic and they step out of isolation after seven days, they must wear double-mask so that others are not affected.”Maharashtra on Monday also reported 122 new cases of Omicron variant, taking the total tally to 1,860. Out of these, 959 have been discharged following a negative RT-PCR test. Of the new cases reported on Monday, 40 were from Pune city, 29 from Mira-Bhayander, 26 from Nagpur, 14 from Aurangabad, seven from Amravati, four from Mumbai, and one each from Bhandara, Thane city and Pimpri-Chinchwad.The Omicron cases are largely concentrated in Mumbai (656), Pune (742), Nagpur (116), Thane (114) districts. Rural and semi-urban centres such as Amravati, Satara, Kolhapur, Aurangabad, Osmanabad, Akola, Ahmednagar, Jalna, Wardha, and Bhandara also have reported Omicron variant cases. The spread of the heavily mutated variant in these parts need to be contained to keep the spread of covid in control, officials said.
17-01-2022||Lucknow||Check past records of exam centres, ensure Covid norms: CM Yogi on UPTET-2021||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has tasked senior bureaucrats to make concrete preparations to systematically conduct the UP Teachers’ Eligibility Test (UPTET)-2021 on January 23. “Covid-19 protocol must also be followed. There should be availability of masks, sanitisers, infrared thermometers at every centre,” Yogi said in a Covid review meeting with “Team 9” on Monday.UPTET-2021 was cancelled on November 28 last year after a paper leak came to fore following which several people were arrested. Some senior officials of the examination regulatory body in Prayagraj were also found guilty in a subsequent probe by the state government. In order to maintain the integrity of the examination, the additional chief secretary, home, additional director general, law and order, the principal secretary, basic education, along with district magistrates, basic education officers and other officers concerned have been asked to look into the arrangements through videoconferencing.The chief minister also instructed the officials that past record of institutes must be taken into account before making them exam centre. He said the institutions with dubious image must not be made exam centres at all. The result of UPTET-2021 will be declared on February 25. The examination would be conducted in two shifts: 10am to 12:30pm for primary level teachers and from 2:30pm to 5pm for upper primary level teachers.The Examination Regulatory Authority (ERA), Prayagraj, will release the answer key of the examination on January 27 and aspirants will have the opportunity to register their online objections to it by February 1. A special committee will go through the objections on February 21 and publish the final answer keys on February 23, an official said.After evaluation of the answer sheet based on the amended answer keys, the result will then be declared on February 25. UPTET is a state-level exam conducted once a year to enable candidates to gain eligibility to teach primary (classes 1-5) and upper primary (classes 6-8) in schools of the Uttar Pradesh government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/check-past-records-of-exam-centres-ensure-covid-norms-cm-yogi-on-uptet2021-101642441062174.html
17-01-2022||Lucknow||AAP releases theme song for Uttar Pradesh polls||LUCKNOW The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday released its video-based election theme song titled: ‘Yahan bhi Kejriwal ka jhadu chhap aaya hai, pehli pehli bar jhadu chhap aaya hai’ (for the first time, broom - AAP’s symbol - has come to UP). The party’s promises to voters of UP have been narrated in the 4.49-minute song penned by Lokesh, president of AAP’s cultural cell, Bihar. Famous Bhojpuri singer Antra Singh has given voice to it. AAP’s promises of free electricity (300 units), unemployment allowance, ₹1,000 to women and good education have been mentioned in the song. “This song will help us connect with the voters. During door-to-door campaigning, party workers will make sure that it reaches to every voter,” said Sanjay Singh, state in-charge of AAP. The theme song also shows Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal visiting Ram Janmabhoomi and performing ‘Saryu Arti’ on the banks of river Saryu in the temple town. Soon, AAP will launch two more theme songs and one of them will be dedicated especially to Purvanchal (eastern Uttar Pradesh). It has a tag line, ‘saare system mein aa jai sudhar, jab bane Aam Aadmi ki sarkar’ (entire system will improve when AAP’s government will be formed). The other soon-to-be released song will be ‘subah savere ghar se nikal kar line mein lag jayenge, jhanse mein nahin aaenge, AAP ka batan daba ayenge’ (early morning we will leave home to get in the queue, will not be misguided and will press AAP’s button).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/aap-releases-theme-song-for-uttar-pradesh-polls-101642440941004.html
17-01-2022||Pune||Social media crime recorded 100% rise in 2021 in Pune||PUNE Technology has been a silver lining during the ongoing Coronavirus pandemic as communication, business and personal interactions moved online. But cybercrime remains a problem for citizens and the police in Pune.The number of cybercrime complaints reported based on misuse of social networking sites doubled in 2021 compared to 2020. The overall number of complaints have seen an exponential increase since 2018. The city cybercrime cell received 19,023 total complaints in 2021 that belong to various categories, such as monetary frauds, sending vulgar messages on phones, email hacking, stealing online data and defaming people by posting morphed pictures in social media and many more. According to Pune cybercrime police data, 14,950 such complaints were reported in 2020 and 7,795 in 2019.The methods of defrauding people have become innovative, according to Bhagyashree Navatake, deputy commissioner of police, cybercrime and Economic offence wing of Pune police. “There were innovative ways of defrauding people every 8-10 days. When Covid began, the number of cases of calling up positive patients and duping them increased. This happened in addition to the casual approach of people who click on links and share OTP. The use of e-commerce and various kinds of software also increased . These factors contributed to the rise in cases,” said DCP Navatake.Among social media-related cybercrime, the cases from popular platforms Facebook and Instagram are the highest. The city police introduced a new section for its records for “sextortion” and “friendship fraud”, on Facebook and Instagram, which consist of cases of using sexual images or videos for extortion. The highest number of cases were of defamation and posts by making fake profiles or making vulgar comments on posts or through messages. The number of cases doubled from 791 in 2020, to 1,518 in 2021.On other platforms including Twitter, the new section added for record was of posting vulgar comments on Zoom meetings and uploading of videos on social media sites other than Facebook and Instagram. The trend has seen a worrying rise among minor victims and adults equally. Children were exposed to added screentime owing to the online schooling necessitated by the lockdown, said officials.While social media cases rose exponentially, the highest contributor of cybercrime complaints was online banking fraud. The cases of online banking fraud include bank cards, third party payment options, QR code scan, lottery fraud, job fraud, matrimonial fraud, loan fraud, and KYC update fraud. Among the cases of online banking fraud, the number of cases of misuse of bank cards was the highest contributor followed by job fraud, loan fraud, money transfer using third party methods. The new entrant in this list is Fastag cheating which took up pace when the central government made use of Fastag mandatory.The police have managed to get a refund of the money lost in some of the cases. The total amount refunded in 2021 by the cybercrime cell, however, has seen a record low in the past four years. The cyber cell refunded ₹37,902,535 in 2021 compared to ₹ 96,090,893 in 2020, ₹113,935,459 in 2019, and ₹41,855,975 in 2018, according to police records.“In 2020 as well as 2019, there was a major chunk of refund from cases like Cosmos bank fraud and Bitcoin case. That way, the recovery in multiple smaller cases is much more this year compared to earlier years,” said DCP Navatake.In the final quarter 2021 year, the cybercrime cell has registered five major cases related to malpractices in exams including Teacher eligibility test (TET) 2018, TET 2020, health department recruitment exam Group D, Group C, and Maharashtra housing and area development authority (MHADA) recruitment exam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/social-media-crime-recorded-100-rise-in-2021-in-pune-101642440822471.html
17-01-2022||Lucknow||Interests of youth, OBCs, women security overlooked in UP: Rewati Raman||Veteran Samajwadi Party (SP) leader and Rajya Sabha MP Kunwar Rewati Raman Singh on Monday expressed his displeasure on the way the “interests of the youth, Other Backward Classes (OBCs) and women security had been overlooked by the incumbent BJP government in UP”. Addressing party workers via online medium, he alleged that there had been rampant corruption in the recruitment process of all government jobs. He also alleged that the UP government had deliberately sidelined the OBC youth from getting selected.Singh further alleged that on one hand both the state and the central governments had failed to create jobs for the youth, multiple leakages of question papers of exams had rubbed salt on their wounds on the other. “In 2017, the BJP leadership lured the OBCs with promises and did not deliver on them by which OBCs, which constitute nearly 55-60 percent of the electorate, feel cheated,” he said while expressing confidence that SP will wrest power from the BJP in the upcoming UP assembly polls. On women safety, he alleged that in last five years there had been large number of incidents of brutal atrocities and rape in most districts of UP in which the government did not take necessary action. The government lacked the genuine intention to provide a safe and secured environment to the women of UP, the SP leader alleged. “The skyrocketing rise in prices of edible oils, petrol, cooking gas has disturbed the household expenditure of the poor and they are infuriated,” claimed Singh while urging party workers to motivate people to vote for the SP. He urged the party workers to visit door to door and ensure a thumping victory of all SP candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/interests-of-youth-obcs-women-security-overlooked-in-up-rewati-raman-101642440700852.html
17-01-2022||Pune||This is the end of Kathak: Prabha Marathe remembers her guru Pandit Birju Maharaj||Pune: Looking at a life-size painting of Pandit Birju Maharaj at her dance studio, Kala Chaya, frail yet strong 85-year-old Kathak dancer Prabha Marathe paid respect to her guru by bending forward with folded hands. “This is the end of Kathak,” she said, remembering her guru who taught her the finer nuances of the dance representing his Lucknowi Gharana, “his style, his passion is gone with him.” Pandit Birju Maharaj breathed his last in Delhi in the early hours of Monday after suffering a heart attack on January 17, 2022. He was 83. “My guruji Padma Vibhushan Birju Maharaj was born Brij Mohan Nath Mishra on February 4, 1937, in a well-known family of Kathak dancers. I first saw him perform in Mumbai at Birla Matoshree and simply knew then that I wanted to train under his tutelage; I found my calling,” said Marathe, who was then a disciple of Rohini Bhate for ten years. According to Marathe, his dance had so much impact on her that she was ready to move to Delhi. “I was 22 then and once he realised I was serious, he called me to be part of his dance ballets and train under his guidance. I used to get paid ₹100 a month then and learned a lot. He is all about being graceful and his ‘kalai mod’ (wrist movements) bring magic in every dance. His form, well-balanced proportionate style of dancing and grace made him stand out,” she said. Marathe set up Kala Chaya first at Prabhat road in 1965 and until 2017, Pandit Birju Maharaj has visited it every year, to be part of the annual dance recitals. This also encouraged Marathe to set up a chair in Panditji’s name for advanced studies in dance. It was an honour to establish a chair in his name on his 73rd birthday on February 4, in 2010, Marathe stated saying his special scholarship helped facilitate yearly workshops on Indian classical dance by established artists for the advanced level dance students of the organisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/this-is-the-end-of-kathak-prabha-marathe-remembers-her-guru-pandit-birju-maharaj-101642440640758.html
17-01-2022||Lucknow||UPPCL takes U-turn on Lalitpur thermal plant’s capital cost||LUCKNOW Taking a U-turn, the UP Power Corporation (UPPCL) on Monday told the UP Electricity Regulatory Commission (UPERC) that the capital cost of Bajaj’s thermal plant set up in Lalitpur under an MoU (with power corpn) during the previous government in 2015 was only ₹10,890 crore and not ₹18,575 crore as projected by the company, people aware of the issue said. The corporation made this admission during the virtual hearing of the case by the commission and urged it to cut the capital cost under different heads by ₹4,642 crore because the cost, as claimed by the company, was ₹5.50 crore per mw, which the corporation’s lawyer argued was too high. “The capital cost of the 1980 mw Lalitpur plan should not be allowed to be more than ₹10,890 crore,” he demanded. The commission asked the petitioners to submit their objections by January 25 and asked Bajaj Group to submit their response to the same. “The same UPPCL, which today admitted the plant’s capital cost to be inflated once used to justify the cost and defend the developer when the UPERC would hear our petition,” said UP Rajya Vidyut Upbhokta Parishad chairman Avadhesh Kumar Verma who participated in the hearing as a petitioner. “The UPPCL is buying power from the Lalitpur plant at high tariff because of very high capital cost,” said Verma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uppcl-takes-u-turn-on-lalitpur-thermal-plant-s-capital-cost-101642440580801.html
17-01-2022||Pune||Sharad Pawar takes Pune metro trial ride, draws flak from BJP||PUNE: Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar takes metro trial ride between Phugewadi and Pimpri-Chinchwad on Monday. However, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders raised objection to Pawar’s metro ride before the inauguration of the project. The NCP chief was accompanied by the party office-bearers and Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (Maha-Metro) managing director Brijesh Dixit. Pune Metro plans to start commercial operations of two priority stretches —Phugewadi to Pimpri-Chinchwad and Vanaz to Garware college — by January end or February this year. Dixit shared with Pawar the ticket system and other details of the project during the trial run. With the BJP ruling Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal corporations, the party plans to invite Prime Minister Narendra Modi to inaugurate the Pune metro rail. Deputy chief minister and Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar has also kickstarted the metro trials in the city in the past. BJP state unit president Chandrakant Patil said, “Pawar is not holding any constitutional post and yet the Maha-Metro officials offered him a trial ride before the inauguration of the project. I am going to raise this issue in the assembly. Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad have 11 MLAs and MP Girish Bapat. Pawar is a Rajya Sabha MP. If Maha-Metro wants to offer trials to political leaders, they should invite all MPs and MLAs from the city.” Patil said the credit for Pune Metro project goes to the prime minister while the then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis took up the plan on priority. “However, others having no contribution to the metro project are trying to take the credit,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sharad-pawar-takes-pune-metro-trial-ride-draws-flak-from-bjp-101642439986000.html
17-01-2022||Pune||MNS attack BJP for non-operational e-toilets in the city||PUNE The Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS), on Monday attacked the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) for non-operational e-toilets in the city. The MNS blamed BJP for executing this failed scheme.MNS city unit president Vasant More said, “Former MP Anil Shirole erected 15 e-toilets from MP fund as his son and MLA Siddharth Shirole batted for the construction of e-toilets. While these toilets were constructed in the wards of the BJP members, none of the 15 toilets are functional.”“We conducted a site inspection and found all toilets to be non-operational. This is tax payers money and its been wasted,” added More.MNS also blamed that now the PMC administration is bringing a proposal to give ₹18 lakh per annum for the maintenance of these toilets.PMC solid waste department head Ajit Deshmukh said, “These toilets have been constructed under MP fund. PMC did not utilise these funds. As per the available information 12 toilets are not working.”The MNS also said that these toilets were constructed on footpaths and near existing public toilets. As the e-toilets are not operational, people tend to urinate in public in the surrounding areas of the toilets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mns-attack-bjp-for-non-operational-e-toilets-in-the-city-101642439681854.html
17-01-2022||Pune||Nal stop flyover gains pace, Maha-Metro eyes Feb finish||PUNE After listing it under priority work, the Maha-Metro is eyeing completion of vehicular flyover at Nal Stop chowk on Karve road by February. The completion work has reached its final stages. While the initial deadline was June 2021, the project was delayed due to Covid-19 pandemic and traffic congestion on the road.Maha-Metro PRO Hemant Sonawane said, “The flyover work is nearly complete. The finishing and painting work is going on. Major work has been completed. It will take three to four weeks more.”The project is jointly executed by Pune Municipal Corporation and Maha-Metro. “It can also get completed early; however, we are expecting it by mid-February. Traffic flow was the main concern as we cannot block the complete road while working on the flyover. We can block only one side of the road. Even at night the majority of work was carried by blocking one side of the road. During the first wave many workers left for their hometowns which slowed down the work. Now it is on track,” said an official requesting anonymity.Commuters are also hoping for the flyover to commence operations. ““There should be no more delays from PMC to begin the operations, the traffic has increased now like it was in pre-Covid days,” said Pradeep Deshmukh, resident of Pratiknagar.Work almost completeFlyover is 572 metres in length and 6.1 metres wide.PMC contributed ₹30 crore and Maha-Metro will add ₹26 crore to construct this flyover.It has 13 pillars with three of them in the middle of Nal Stop square.The top tier of the flyover will be for the metro rail while the lower tier will cater to vehicular traffic.Flyover starts after SNDT chowk on Karve road and passes over Nal Stop chowk and will descend just before the next square.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nal-stop-flyover-gains-pace-maha-metro-eyes-feb-finish-101642439203613.html
17-01-2022||Mumbai||Use Molnupiravir with “abundant caution”: State||Mumbai The state government asked all districts and corporations to use the new antiviral drug Molnupiravir with “abundant caution” on Monday. A letter issued by the additional chief secretary Pradeep Vyas stated that the drug must not be prescribed to Covid patients below 18 years and pregnant women. It also stated that the drug should be avoided for women in the reproductive age group. “The biggest concern with Molnupiravir is its potential for adverse effects such as induced mutations on the reproductive cells, such as males and female gametes,” Vyas said in his letter. “Secondly, the fast-dividing cells may accumulate mutations in bone and cartilages. Most importantly, Molnupiravir, when taken in suboptimal doses, is likely to cause sublethal mutations and perpetuate further variants. Hence, it is very very important to take a full course, once the medicine is started,” he said. Molnupiravir was granted emergency use approval by the Indian drug regulator at the end of December. However, the Centre’s latest treatment protocol issued on Monday does not include the drug. Recently, Odisha stopped the use of the drug. In his letter, Vyas said that the drug should be prescribed to Covid patients who have mild illness and does not require oxygen in the first five days of the illness. “If prescribed to patients in the reproductive age group, women with childbearing potential are advised to use a reliable method of birth control correctly and consistently during treatment with Molnupiravir and for three months after the final dose. Men with reproductive potential who are sexually active with women of childbearing potential should also be advised to use a reliable method of birth control correctly and consistently during treatment with Molnupiravir and for at least three months after the final dose as the drug impacts the sperm cells,” the letter said. Doctors across the state have been widely prescribing the drug since it hit the market. A doctor said that many patients who don’t fit the criteria have also been prescribed the drug. In a media briefing held on January 5, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) head Dr Balaram Bhargava has said that Molnupiravir was not included in the Covid treatment protocol because of its safety concerns such as teratogenicity (ability to cause defects in a developing fetus), mutagenicity, risk of cartilage and muscle damage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/use-molnupiravir-with-abundant-caution-state-101642439140599.html
17-01-2022||Pune||AAP raises doubts over PMC’s new garbage processing proposal||PUNE The leaders of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) alleged the Pune Municipal Corporation is paying double the amount to the contractor than the Pune Cantonment Board (PCB).The PMC plans to hand over the money to the Pune cantonment for garbage disposal.The PMC has put the proposal before the general body to give Rs443 per tonne for garbage disposal to the contractor but the same contractor working with PCB is getting Rs277 per tonne, say AAP leaders.Vijay Kumbhar, AAP’s state convener, said, “PMC has put a proposal before the general body. The civic body plans to give funding to increase the capacity of the garbage plant which is run by the Pune cantonment. But many things are not clear in the proposal.”Kumbhar raised the question of whether it is legally possible to give funds to another local body for doing garbage disposal? Even it is not mentioned in the docket exactly how much capacity the contractor will increase?Kumbhar blamed that it is proved many times that corruption happening in the garbage disposal department. “This is another new scam which the ruling party planning to execute and we oppose it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/aap-raises-doubts-over-pmc-s-new-garbage-processing-proposal-101642439080855.html
17-01-2022||Pune||Pune district reports 7,598 new Covid cases, 1 death||PUNE As per the state health department, Pune district reported 7,598 new Covid-19 cases and one death on Monday. This took the progressive count to 1.26 million out of which 1.18 million have recovered, 20,238 deaths and 60,686 are active cases.Pune also saw 59,667 vaccinations on Monday.As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 1,358 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 386,262 and the death toll stood at 7,055.Pune city reported 3,971 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 580,717 and the death toll stood at 9,303.Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 2,269 new cases and the progressive count went up to 293,949 and the toll stood at 3530 as one more death was reported.Pune district also saw 59,667 vaccinations on the day as per the CoWin dashboard on Monday and in total, 16.16 million doses have been registered in the district. Out of which 9.23 million are first doses, 6.87 million are second doses and 51,230 are precautionary doses. A total of 687 sites saw vaccination out of which 535 were government centres and 152 were private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-7-598-new-covid-cases-1-death-101642438660703.html
17-01-2022||Mumbai||NCP-Sena to finalise alliance for Goa polls on Tuesday||Mumbai: Sharad Pawar led Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Shiv Sena are set to forge an alliance in Goa after Maharashtra. Senior leaders from both parties will hold a meeting to finalise their alliance for the upcoming Goa assembly elections scheduled on February 14. The two parties have decided to go ahead with an alliance without Congress after seat sharing talks with the latter did not materialise. This will be for the first time that NCP and Sena will be contesting elections together in Goa. Both the parties wanted Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) type, a three-party coalition along with Congress in Goa as well but Congress leaders are reluctant to join hands with any of the parties for assembly polls.“We wanted to contest assembly polls along with Congress but it is not happening because of local Congress leaders. Even if Congress wants to go solo, senior NCP leader Praful Patel and housing minister Jitendra Awhad will hold a meeting with Shiv Sena leaders to finalize the alliance in Goa. Patel will also be making the announcement after the meeting,” said Nawab Malik, chief spokesperson and NCP minister on Monday.Patel is in-charge of the Goa NCP unit. Malik said that the three-party coalition comprising Congress, NCP and Sena would have helped in ousting BJP from power. He also accused Goa Congress leader and former chief minister Digambar Kamat of obstructing the alliance between the old allies.“If Congress, NCP and Shiv Sena would have come together, it would have helped a lot. But a few Congress leaders who had taken a stand (against alliance with NCP) five years ago, especially Digambar Kamat, who had imposed several conditions then, it is because of them that BJP has been in power in Goa for the last five years. The same set of people is creating trouble (for alliance) even now,” he said.The Congress-NCP alliance had ruled the coastal state in 2007-2012. NCP had alliance with Congress during 2012 polls and had contested on seven seats but could not win a single seat. In 2017, their talks with Congress for a pre-poll alliance failed and both the parties contested on their own.NCP contested on 14 seats and managed to win one seat. Its lone MLA Churchill Alemao joined the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in December last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncpsena-to-finalise-alliance-for-goa-polls-on-tuesday-101642438480599.html
17-01-2022||Lucknow||Seers of two Akhadas at loggerheads over control of Prayagraj’s Veni Madhav Temple||Two factions of seers belonging to Shripanchayati Akhada Mahanirwani and Juna Akhada are at loggerheads over the control of the ancient and revered Veni Madhav Temple located in Daraganj area of Prayagraj. Akhadas are the Hindu monastic orders. The tussle started following the recent death of the temple priest, and both the factions tried to take control of the temple, dedicated to Lord Vishnu and his consort Goddess Lakshmi, on Saturday night. The district police and administration were forced to intervene following a face-off and for the time being, the temple, located close to Sangam, has been closed. Both the factions have been asked to present documents in support of their demand to the authorties. The tussle began when a group of seers belonging to Shripanchayati Akhada Mahanirwani entered the temple premises on Saturday night and demanded the removal of temple mahant Vibhuti Narayan Tripathi, who belongs to Juna Akhada. Soon seers of the other group also assembled at the temple resulting in a brawl. Daraganj police intervened after receiving information and managed to restore peace. Senior officials including ADM City Madan Kumar, ACM fourth Kanchan and CO Astha Jaiswal also reached the spot. The temple premises were evacuated, and both factions were called to the police station for discussion. Daraganj circle officer Astha Jaiswal said police intervened to maintain peace and order on the temple premises. Both factions have been asked to arrive with relevant documents and resolve their dispute in presence of administrative officials on January 18, she added. The seers belonging to Mahanirwani Akhada under mahant Raghuraj Giri said after the death of temple mahant Omkar Giri, he was given ‘Bhu Samadhi’ by Uma Shankar Giri, Prabhat Giri, Abhishek Dubey, Vibhuti Narayan Tripathi and Vivek Tiwari during the lockdown period without informing him. Later they came to know that except for Umashankar Giri and Prabhat Giri, all other seers have been ousted from the temple. Vibhuti Narayan Tripathi proclaimed himself as mahant “illegally” and used funds worth ₹97 lakh received during Kumbh for the renovation of the temple premises. Raghuraj Giri said that Shripanchayati Akhada Mahanirwani has been traditionally taking care of the temple and performing puja. The seers also obstructed the Aarti. After the intervention of the police, Aarti was performed, and force has been deployed on the temple premises. Guru Parampara has been followed at Veni Madhav Temple traditionally which included mahant Kailash Giri, mahant Saryu Giri, mahant Madhav Giri, mahant Ramgiri, mahant Omkar Giri, mahant Satyanand Giri and Purushottam Giri heading it from time to time. Mahant Purushottam Giri was guru of Raghuraj Giri and made Omkar Giri the mahant of Veni Madhav Temple. Before 2013, Veni Madhav Temple was taken care of by Mahanirwani Akhada, but later Juna Akhada anointed Omkar Giri as mahamandaleshwar. After his death, Vibhuti Narayan Tripathi was given the responsibility of the temple, which triggered the dispute of control of the temple between seers of Mahanirwani and Juna Akhada, informed a senior seer aware of the developments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/seers-of-two-akhadas-at-loggerheads-over-control-of-prayagraj-s-veni-madhav-temple-101642438242829.html
17-01-2022||Lucknow||Union minister Sanjeev Balyan meets BKU chief Naresh Tikait in Sisauli||Union minister of state Sanjeev Balyan met Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) chief Naresh Tikait at the latter’s residence in Sisauli in Muzaffarnagar district on Monday, less than a month before the seven-phase Uttar Pradesh assembly elections begin on February 10. Sanjeev Balyan is also the BJP MP from Muzaffarnagar.Bhartiya Kisan Union media incharge Dharmendra Malik said it was a courtesy visit by the minister to enquire about Naresh Tikait’s health after he underwent shoulder surgery last week.Sanjeev Balyan said to the news agency ANI after his meeting, “We are like a family. We keep meeting often. As of now, I came here to know about his health. He is recovering well. We had a good meeting.”Dharmendra Malik said it was the minister’s first meeting with Naresh Tikait after withdrawal of the farmers’ protest at Delhi borders.Before this, Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) chief Jayant Chaudhary had visited the BKU chief in hospital.Naresh Tikait had sustained a shoulder injury after he slipped in the bathroom last week and was operated upon in a Noida hospital, the BKU media incharge further said.Sanjeev Balyan remained with Naresh Tikait for over half an hour along with a few associates.This courtesy meeting, however, is being seen as a significant move by Balyan who arrived in Sisauli after a long time. At the height of the farmers’ agitation, Naresh Tikait had earlier cautioned BJP leaders against entering Sisauli, the BKU headquarters, and said if they came it would be at their own risk.Sanjeev Balyan interacted with Naresh Tikait a day after the latter blessed three RLD candidates Rajpal Balyan (Budhana), Chandan Chauhan (Meerapur) and Pankaj Malik (Charthawal), who met the BKU chief.Malik further said Naresh Tikait has clarified that his blessings are for all who visit him but being a member of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), he can’t get involved with any political party or their candidates.So far, both Samyukt Kisan Morcha, which is the umbrella body of several farmer unions, and BKU has refrained from promoting any political party.Last year, Naresh Tikait, while addressing a mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar, had said supporting the BJP was a “mistake” and farmers will correct it.The BJP won all the six seats in Muzaffarnagar in the 2017 assembly elections in which the Hindutva plank worked well after the Muzaffarnagar riots of September 2013.The BJP broke the RLD’s winning combination of Jats and Muslims, resulting in the defeat of the then RLD chief Ajit Singh and his son Jayant Chaudhary on their home turf in the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha polls.The farmers’ movement, however, succeeded in reviving the unity of Jats and Muslims, which gave a new lease of life to RLD and BKU chief Naresh Tikait’s blessings to its candidates have further strengthened its hopes.Shiv Sena Rajy Sabha MP Sanjay Raut had met BKU leader Rakesh Tikait, Naresh Tikait’s brother, on January 13.Rakesh Tikait is scheduled to go to Lakhimpur Kheri on January 21. He said to reporters on Saturday that he will meet the farmers there and decide upon the future course of farmers’ agitation.The polling in Uttar Pradesh will be held on February 10, 14, 20, 23, 27 and March 3 and 7 in seven phases. The counting of votes will take place on March 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/union-minister-sanjeev-balyan-meets-bku-chief-naresh-tikait-in-sisauli-101642437940492.html
17-01-2022||Lucknow||FIR against Waseem Rizvi on charges of defamation, issuing threats||An FIR has been lodged against former chairman of Uttar Pradesh Shia Central Waqf Board (UPSCWB) Waseem Rizvi alias Jitendra Narayan Tyagi, Zameer Naqvi and others under Saadatganj Police Station on charges of defamation and issuing threats on Sunday night. The FIR was lodged on the complaint of Kaneez Fatima, who blamed Rizvi for using abusive words against senior Shia cleric Maulana Kalbe Jawad and UP minister for minority welfare and Hajj, Mohsin Raza.The FIR was lodged after an audio clip, which appears to be a recording of a phone call of the former waqf board chairman, went viral.Kaneez Fatima alias Chhoti Begum alleged that the 90-second clip is that of Waseem Rizvi, who was in conversation with Zameer Naqvi. “It hurts religious sentiments and maligns the image,” said Fatima. She said in the clip the two, during the conversation, used many bad words against the family members of Maulana Kalbe Jawad.Brijesh Kumar Yadav, inspector Saadatganj Police Station, said the FIR has been registered under sections 500, 504, 505 (2) and 509 of IPC, and the matter is under investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/fir-against-waseem-rizvi-on-charges-of-defamation-issuing-threats-101642437760459.html
17-01-2022||Mumbai||Clarify if online poker amounts to gambling: HC to State||Mumbai Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) has asked the state government whether online poker amounts to gambling or it’s a game of skill.The court has sought clarification following a public interest litigation (PIL) which sought a ban on companies promoting online poker games as people spend a lot of money on wagering and betting which is illegal as per the Bombay Prevention of Gambling (BPG) Act, 1887. The state has been asked to file its stand through an affidavit and posted the hearing of the PIL to February 8.The division bench of justice V K Jadhav and justice Sandipkumar More, while hearing the PIL filed by Munawwar Ahmed through advocate Ajay Deshpande, was informed that some companies were hosting online poker games and passing them off as a game of skill. However, as the participants were expected to play using money, the companies were encouraging the illegal activity of wagering as well as betting.The bench was informed that as per Section 3 of the BPG Act, gaming was defined as any form of wagering or betting except the wagering or betting on horse or dog races amounted to gambling. The petition has further stated that as the outcome of each round of the game depends on the luck of each player there is no element of skill involved and hence the claims of the companies offering the game are false and is an illegal activity as per Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution.The said Article while dealing with the right to practice any profession or undertake any trade or business states under subclause (g) that the Article does not confer the right to do anything considered illegal in the eyes of law. The petition states that as online poker game falls under the purview of section 3 of the BPG Act, the online poker game is illegal and the companies offering it should be restrained.The petition has further stated that the online game can become addictive and thus affect morality and to maintain public health, such companies offering online poker games should be restrained.After hearing the petition, the bench asked the state to clarify its stand on whether it considered the game of poker to be gambling or a game of skill and sought an affidavit in reply on the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/clarify-if-online-poker-amounts-to-gambling-hc-to-state-101642437640538.html
17-01-2022||Lucknow||LMC starts sanitisation drive to curb spread of Covid||Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) has started a massive sanitisation drive in all the 110 wards of the city in wake of the recent spurt in Covid-19 cases. LMC has started sanitisation with 85 tractor mounted machines, 440 cycle-mounted sanitisation machines and nine anti-smog guns.Municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi said, “To control the spread of Coronavirus in the state capital a special sanitisation drive would be carried out by LMC in all the affected areas. The focus will be especially in Aliganj, Gomti Nagar, Indira Nagar, Alambagh, Aishbagh, Chowk, Thakurganj, where the number of patients is more than other areas.”The sanitisation would be the responsibility of zonal officers of all eight zones.They (zonal officers) would be responsible for making a roster and conducting sanitisation of the areas. Besides that, the sanitisation of various government departments would also be carried out by the LMC, said the municipal commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lmc-starts-sanitisation-drive-to-curb-spread-of-covid-101642437460526.html
17-01-2022||Patna||PMC to rope in Anand of Super 30 among brand ambassadors for cleanliness drive||In its bid to shed the “dirtiest city” tag for Bihar’s capital, the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to rope in noted personalities of different fields as brand ambassadors to improve its performance in the upcoming Swachhata Sarvekshan this year, officials said. In the cleanliness survey, which is conducted by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs every year, Patna has continued to rank at the bottom for the past several years. It was ranked 44th among the 47 towns of similar population in the country in 2021. In 2020, Patna stood at the last position among the cities with 10 lakh-plus population in the nationwide survey.Municipal commissioner Animesh Kumar Parashar said the standing empowered committee of the PMC had approved the plan of engaging former international cricketer Amikar Dayal, Anand Kumar of Super 30 fame, littérateur Usha Kiran Khan, medical practitioner Ajay Kumar, transgender leader Reshma, thespian Sanjay Upadhyay and cartoonist Pawan as brand ambassadors for an intensified cleanliness drive and other contests aimed at salvaging the image of the historic city. Parashar, whose initiatives as the district magistrate of Rohtas was lauded by the state and central government in making the district open defecation free (ODF), said a lot other activities such as jingle competition, digital poster making, short film, street play and wall mural making contest would be carried out in different parts of the city to sensitise the people about significance of the event. The PMC will also conduct cleanliness challenge among the city schools, hotels, hospitals and health care centres, markets and malls, government offices and in localities to instil a sense of competitiveness for sanitation. “We have invited the students, artists and other stakeholders to nominate in various competitions beginning next month,” said a senior officer. 
17-01-2022||Patna||Nalanda hooch tragedy: CCA to be invoked against accused||Amid widespread outrage over the suspected hooch tragedy has left 13 people dead so far since Friday last, top officials of the Bihar government on Monday visited Nalanda and directed the local police too book all accused under the stringent Crime Control Act (CCA) and ensure an expeditious trial of the case, police sources said. On Friday night, 35-40 people in Hiranya Parvat area falling under Sohsarai police station limits of Nalanda district allegedly consumed spurious liquor, leading to the death of 13 of them and loss of vision for two of them, in the latest such incident over the past few months in the state where total liquor ban was imposed in April 2016. On Monday, additional chief secretary (prohibition, excise and registration) KK Pathak, home secretary K Santhil Kumar, excise commissioner B Kartikey Dhanji, additional director general (law and order) Sanjay Singh, inspector general (prohibition) Amrit Raj and IG (central range) Rakesh Rathi reached Biharsharif town, the headquarter of Nalanda district, and held a meeting with local officials.Nalanda district magistrate Shashank Subhankar told HT that police have so far registered six separate FIRs (first information report) and arrested six persons, including one of the wanted liquor suppliers, who goes by the name of Karoo.Subhankar, however, said autopsy reports for the 13 dead were still awaited. 
17-01-2022||Ranchi||J’khand workers stuck in Mali seek help for return home||Around three dozen residents of Jharkhand, working at a power transmission line laying project in the African country of Mali, have sought help from the authorities back home to ensure payment of their pending salaries and safe return to India. In all, 33 migrant workers from Giridih and Hazaribag districts are stuck in Mali’s capital district Bamako. They claim they haven’t been paid for the last three months and the contractor who hired them for the project has fled from Mali with their passports. “The contractor, Ramesh Chakravarty, fled to India on January 6 this year. He didn’t inform us and he also took away our passports. We have not been paid for past three months. We are hardly left with any money. In the next 2-3 days, even our ration would exhaust. We don’t even know if the contractor has paid the rent for our present accommodation. We want authorities to help us in getting back home and also ensure our pending salaries are cleared,” Dilip Mahto, one of the workers stuck in Mali, said over phone. Dilip Mahto belongs to Tirla village under Bagodar police station in Giridih district. Other workers also belong to Giridih and neighbouring Hazaribag district. Topeshwar Mahto, whose father Chhedilal Mahto is also among those stuck in Mali, said the contractor had been exploiting the workers ever since he took them there in January 2021. “My father informed us the contractor never paid them on time. Moreover, they were not paid the salary as promised,” said 25-year-old Topeshwar, who does odd jobs in his village Murma in Hazaribag while preparing for government job examinations. The whole issue was raised by Sikander Ali, a local rights activist in Giridih, on different platforms, including social media.State’s education minister Jagarnath Mahto, in a tweet, urged union external affairs minister S Jaishankar to intervene in the matter, besides requesting state’s labour minister Satyanand Bhokta to follow up.Bhokta said he was monitoring the situation and has directed the state migrant workers’ control room to the needful. Convener of the control room, Johnson Topon, said they have established contact with the stuck workers and speaking to authorities for their safe return. “We are lining up a virtual meeting with the management of the Hyderabad-based company at the work site in Mali. We will also soon be in touch with the Indian embassy there. We are also getting the exact details of the contractor so that we can ensure a case is registered against him and penal action taken as per law,” said Topno.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jkhand-workers-stuck-in-mali-seek-help-for-return-home-101642437100404.html
17-01-2022||Lucknow||Malicious campaign against Covid vaccine fell flat, says UP CM||GHAZIABAD Chief minister Yogi Adityanath lauded the efforts of the state government for “better Covid management” during the first and second waves of the pandemic and said that a “malicious campaign” by those opposing the Covid vaccine had fallen flat. In Ghaziabad to review Covid preparedness, the CM on Monday inspected the L3 category facility of Santosh Medical College here and nearby vaccination camps where he interacted with children in the 15-18 age group. “As part of our Covid management, we have been able to save lives and means of livelihood of people. I visited Ghaziabad during the first and second Covid waves and I am here too during the third wave. There was a malicious campaign against the vaccine by people and it was a campaign against humanity. It fell flat and everyone became aware that the vaccines made in India are one of the finest,” CM Yogi said at Santosh Medical College. “We imposed night curfew from 10pm to 6am while schools and colleges have been closed till January 23. During this period, we have a target to complete the first dose vaccination for children as well as first dose for all other categories. We also plan to complete the precaution dose for beneficiaries. At present, UP has the highest number vaccine doses given to people,” he added. “During this wave, the number of patients in hospitals is less than 1% of the active cases. The third wave is less harmful in comparison to the second. But it is a disease and we have to save children, women and senior citizens. For this, we have also installed 5,500 public address systems for awareness,” the CM said. Office-bearers of the Congress said that the hardships people faced during the previous waves of the pandemic were still fresh in minds of people. “It is for the first time that people saw dead bodies floating in river Ganga and people even died on roads. Tokens issued for cremation of bodies while people were running here and there for oxygen supplies. Migrant workers were out on roads headed to their native places. So, everyone has seen how things were dealt with in UP during the pandemic,” said Dolly Sharma, member of All India Congress Committee and spokesperson of UP Congress Committee. “We have seen people running from pillar to post for oxygen supplies for their friends, family and relatives. During the past two waves, the people of UP suffered a lot. All the difficulties are fresh in the minds of people and the sufferings will also play a major role in the elections,” said Rashid Malik, district president of the Samajwadi Party. During his address, the CM also mentioned that the UP government, after the second wave, added about 550 new oxygen plants. Eleven of these plants had come up in Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/malicious-campaign-against-covid-vaccine-fell-flat-says-up-cm-101642437043455.html
17-01-2022||Patna||NDA crossfire in Bihar flares up with state BJP chief’s FB post||PATNA The ongoing crossfire between the two key constituents of the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in Bihar flared up on Monday when Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) state unit president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal warned ally Janata Dal (United) of chief minister Nitish Kumar that “76 lakh party workers know how to answer” if JD(U) leaders continue to tag Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Twitter. BJP in Bihar has been increasingly assertive against JD(U) since it outperformed the ally in the 2020 assembly polls, picking 74 seats against 45 won by the latter.In a hard-hitting post on Facebook on Monday, Jaiswal wrote, “To keep the NDA strong, we all will need to follow the basic decorum. It cannot be one sided. The first step in that direction is to stop playing Twitter-Twitter with PM, as he is the pride of every BJP leader and worker. If anything has to be said to him, the talks should be direct. If one plays Twitter-Twitter, the 76 lakh BJP workers know how to answer. I hope we all will take note of this.” Jaiswal was alluding to tweets by JD(U) leaders like its national president Rajiv Ranjan alias Lalan Singh and parliamentary board chief Upendra Kushwaha ssues like special status for Bihar, special assistance and withdrawal of award from the writer for objectionable portrayal of Emperor Ashok.Jaiswal, who represents West Champaran in the Lok Sabha, further said there could not be anything more absurd than asking the PM to withdraw an award given by the President. JD(U) leaders like Kushwaha have been demanding that the awards given to Dayal Prakash Sinha, recipient of Padma Award and Sahitya Akademi Award, should be withdrawn after his controversial portrayal of Emperor Ashok, whose empire’s capital was Patliputra, the present day Patna.“We are 100 times more critical of Sinha than you. For you, it is an issue just like your campaign for educational improvement in Bihar (Kushwaha had launched it when he was not in JD-U), but Jan Sangh and BJP were born out of cultural nationalism. We cannot tolerate any tampering with our culture and golden legacy, but we also want the coming generations to be made aware of the deeds of Bakhtiar Khilji (Nitish Kumar’s ancestral place is Bakhtiarpur named after him and the BJP has been demanding renaming it) and Aurangzeb. In the last 74 years, there has been not even one instance when Padma Shri was returned. Wrestler Sushil Kumar has been convicted in murder. case, but the President has not withdrawn his medal, as there is no established yardstick for that. But the government has not been hesitant in cracking down on wrongdoers — be it in relation of hate speech or Dharm Sansad,” wrote Jaiswal, who had filed a police case against Sinha last week. He said the Bihar government should first act on his FIR against Sinha, get him arrested and ensure punishment through speedy trial. “After that, a delegation of the Bihar government should meet President and press for withdrawal of award to a convict,” he wrote. In an apparent reference to opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal, which has been attacking the government, he wrote, “We certainly don’t want the CM house to become a place for extracting ransom for murder and kidnapping, like it happened before 2005.”Jaiswal was referring to the 15-year RJD rule in Bihar that ended in 2005, when Nitish Kumar first became the chief minister.The state BJP chief has often taken to Facebook to express his views. Of late, his attacks on ally JD(U) have been getting more direct.In an earlier post on Sunday on the hooch deaths in Nitish Kumar’s home district of Nalanda, he had asked “if all the members of the 11 deceased families would be sent to jail”.Asked to respond, JD(U)’s Kushwaha said on Monday. “A party does not take action. Action is taken by the government of which the BJP is also part. Any body found guilty in such incidents will not be spared by the Nitish government, ” he said, adding that the NDA was united as ever. “We raised the issue of disparaging comments against Emperor Ashok, and that is a separate issue. Everything that Jaiswal has written in his post need not be answered,” he said.Kushwaha said he was with Jaiswal on the need to ensure that the NDA ran smoothly in state’s interest and it was the duty of all the constituents. “But our opposition on the issue of emperor Ashol will continue till withdrawal of award from Sinha, whether it is done at the level of President or PM. Please make it clear if you are with us on award withdrawal or not,” he tweeted. Social analyst professor Nawal Kishore Choudhary said both BJP and JD-U were trying to appear bigger to each other, but none was in a position to dictate terms. “So, both will keep sparring, just keeping the opposition interested. Both know their limitations in Bihar and they will not cross the line unless it becomes impossible to continue,” he said.
17-01-2022||Patna||84-yr-old man who took ‘12 shots’ of Covid vaccine surrenders, gets bail||The 84-year-old man from Bihar’s Madhepura district, who was on the run after being booked by police following his claims that he had so far taken 12 shots of Covid-19 vaccine, against the norm of two, surrendered himself with the local police station on Monday and was granted bail immediately, superintendent of police (SP) Rajesh Kumar said. Brahmdev Mandal, resident of a village falling under Puraini police station jurisdiction, was booked under sections of 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 419 (cheating by personation), and 420 (cheating) of the India Penal Code, all of which are non-bailable sections. The case was registered on January 8 on the basis of the statement of a medical officer in charge of primary health centre, Puraini. SP Rajesh Kumar said that in consideration of Mandal’s old age, police give him relief in the form of immediate bail from the police station. Mandal, a retired postal department employee, will not be arrested, though the police will file a charge sheet against him. 
17-01-2022||Lucknow||LU’s fine arts college partners with UK’s varsity||To provide new opportunities for the students of the Faculty of Fine Arts, Lucknow University formalised a partnership with Bath Spa University, UK, via a meeting held virtually on Monday.The meeting was conducted virtually with vice-chancellor Prof Alok Kumar Rai and Dean, Faculty of Fine Arts, Prof Alok Kumar Kushwaha attending from LU, while Daniel Allen, Roger Clarke and Kristin Doern were present on behalf of Bath Spa University, UK.Prof Kushwaha introduced the Faculty of Fine Arts in context with its historical perspective and its contributions to contemporary Indian art.Prof Rajan Shripad Fulari, who has been deputed as the liaison officer on behalf of the LU, proposed various introductory activities between the two universities which were welcomed by his counterpart Roger Clarke and others.“Both the institutions agreed for speeding up of ties on art and aesthetics between the two and strongly welcomed the initiative taken by the V-Cs of both the universities, the press statement said.It was also mutually agreed that due to the current pandemic and social distancing protocols, the initial events will be conducted on a virtual platform, the press statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lus-fine-arts-college-partners-with-uk-s-varsity-101642436920536.html
17-01-2022||Mumbai||Yogi’s meal at Dalit household for publicity, BJP playing vote bank politics: Shiv Sena||MUMBAI: Days after Uttar Pradesh (UP) chief minister Yogi Adityanath enjoyed a meal at a dalit household in Gorakhpur, the Shiv Sena on Monday took on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) saying that the party is playing vote bank politics. An editorial in the Sena mouthpiece Saamana targeted Adityanath and Prime Minister Narendra Modi calling it a ‘publicity’ event. Sena leader and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut questioned as to when the BJP would forget the caste divide.Saamana slammed the BJP saying that the caste divide is in the minds of the BJP leaders. The editorial taunted the BJP saying that a party which cannot let go of the caste divide is out to bring about a social transformation.“BJP leaders still organise lunch in a dalit household and need to publicise it. This clearly shows that caste is in their minds and they are not ready to let go of it. The country has been divided on the basis of caste for political gains. So the caste eradication programmes are a mere sham... Even today, tickets to contest elections are distributed based on caste arithmetic. The chief minister and Prime Minister give importance to caste and organise meals. They can’t let go of caste and are out to bring about social transformation,” it said.The editorial said that for the past few years, the BJP has used caste as a ‘formula for social transformation’. Referring to the PM who washed the feet of five sanitation workers in UP’s Prayagraj in February 2019, Raut said, “Modi took a dip in the river Ganga and then washed the feet of the dalits. Now BJP leaders are going to their homes. When will you forget caste? We are all human beings and there should not be any caste divide. But you go to a dalit household for meals, this is all pretense. Stop this vote bank politics otherwise the country will once again be divided on caste lines.”As a policy, the Maharashtra unit of the BJP does not respond to criticism in the Sena mouthpiece.Meanwhile, Raut said that the Congress, Samajwadi Party and other non-BJP parties in UP can bring about a change of guard in the largest state of the country. Uttar Pradesh goes to polls in February. Raut also dismissed BJP’s claims that it will win 300 seats. “The manner in which people have seen dead bodies in the Ganga and still they think they will win 300 seats? Will the bodies from the Ganga vote for them? Certainly those who suffered will not vote for them. Akhilesh (Yadav) must completely focus on the election and must take everyone together. People are looking at Akhilesh with a lot of expectations. We are contesting in UP but the power to bring about a change of guard is with the Samajwadi Party and Congress,” Raut said. 
17-01-2022||Lucknow||Magh Mela: Over 3 lakh take dip on Paush Purnima at Sangam as Kalpwas begins||The month-long Kalpwas started in the tent city of Magh Mela-2022 on Monday that also saw over 3 lakh devotees taking a holy dip in Sangam on the occasion of Paush Purnima-- the second major bathing day of the annual religious event. Like the previous year, this year too only those who are fully vaccinated are being allowed to camp for the kalpwas. In the shadow of Covid-19 and strict vigil of authorities, there are less numbers of Kalpwasis this time but those present have braved the intense cold and pandemic and arrived for the camping that would end on February 16 on the occasion of Maghi Purnima.“Till 4pm, around 3 lakh devotees had taken holy dip in Sangam. The entire bathing festival passed off peacefully,” said Mela Adhikari Sheshmani Pandey. Although the numbers of devotees arriving in the mela area was thin during the wee hours because of the chilly conditions but as the bright sunshine dominated the blue sky later in the day the footfall gradually increased. By around 11 am, 1.25 lakh devotees had taken dip and by 4pm the figures crossed 3 lakh, he said. The official said arrival of Kalpavasis in the mela area had continued on Saturday and Sunday. Almost all the Kalpwasis are associated with some seer and stay in the camps arranged by their ‘gurus’. Although some of the seers and Kalpwasis complained about incomplete work pertaining to facilities like tap water, electricity, toilets and tin-sheds in sector 5A, but for a chunk of Kalpwasis, it was the devotion and religious belief that overshadowed the threat of Coronavirus, extreme cold or amenities. From Monday onwards, thousands of Kalpvasis from different parts of the state and country, started their month-long religious practice of restrained and disciplined life. With the desire to be freed from the shackles of life and death, as it is believed that by practising Kalpavas, the door of heaven opens for the devotees after their demise. Along with spiritual, scientific outlook is also important in Kalpavas. “According to religious beliefs, one receives virtuous results in the month of Magh on the bank of Sangam at Tirtharaj Prayag. Taking a dip in the holy waters during Kalpavas bears the same fruit as donating crores of cows daily,” said noted astrologer Hemant Bhaduri. Further, inspired by a feeling of detachment with hard austerity, Kalpwasis attain self-purification, he added. Diwakar Tripathi Purvanchali, director of Utthan Jyotish Sansthan, Prayagraj said there are 21 rules of Kalpavas as per scriptures. These include not telling lies, staying free from household worries, bathing in the Ganges thrice a day, planting a Tulsi plant in the camp, following celibacy, taking food prepared by oneself or wife, attending sermons, sleeping on the ground. Not wearing gold, not consuming sweets or fruits, freedom from worldly worries, restraint on the senses, pind daan for ancestors, following non-violence, renunciation of luxury are some of the rules that are followed by Kalpwasis. The noted astrologer also informed about another interesting aspect pertaining to Kalpwas. “The month-long Kalpwas for Dandi Sanyasi and those coming from Mithila region of the country starts from Makar Sankranti itself whereas for others, it began from Monday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/magh-mela-over-3-lakh-take-dip-on-paush-purnima-at-sangam-as-kalpwas-begins-101642436444995.html
17-01-2022||Bhopal||‘Gang raped, tortured’: MP builder married teacher in 2019. Her horror starts||BHOPAL: A builder In Madhya Pradesh’s Indore has been arrested after his wife complained that she was locked up in his farmhouse for nearly two years, sodomised, tortured with cigarette butts and repeatedly gang-raped by his friends. The main accused, Rajesh Vishwakarma’s employee, and two friends have also been arrested.Police said Rajesh Vishwakarma finally let her go home in north Chhattisgarh’s Bemtara late last year. The 32-year-old woman, a school teacher before her marriage, however, returned to Indore city about a week ago to file a police complaint against her husband because, she said, she had come to believe that she and her family could be killed. On Sunday, the woman filed a formal complaint at the city’s Shipra police station.District collector Manish Singh ordered officials to demolish the farmhouse where she was locked up after collecting the evidence. The illegal structure was razed to the ground by a joint team of police, district administration and municipal corporation by Monday evening, police said.Vishwakarma’s lawyer Neeraj Soni said the builder is being framed. “The woman was demanding ₹1 crore and also threatened to implicate him in a false gang-rape case. He is innocent,” Neeraj Soni said.The woman, a school teacher from Chhattisgarh, told the police that Rajesh Vishwakarma approached her via a matrimonial website in 2019.“The woman, who works as a school teacher, met the builder Rajesh Vishwakarma through a matrimonial site in 2019. They got married in November 2019… No family members of Vishwakarma attended the marriage. Later, the woman shifted to Indore with Vishwakarma and started living in a farmhouse in the Shipra area. For 15 days, they were living like a normal couple but later, the accused started torturing her,” said city superintendent of police (CSP), Pankaj Dixit said, “He took away all the clothes of her and forced her to live naked. The woman was raped, sodomised and singed with cigarettes several times. He used to arrange doctors for her treatment at the farmhouse as she was injured badly. In November 2021, the accused let the woman go on the condition that she will not speak about this to anyone,” said the police officer. Dixit said the police have also arrested Rajesh’s employee, Ankesh Baghel, and his two friends, Vivek Vishwakarma and Vipin Bhadoriya.The woman told local news outlets that she didn’t speak about her torture after marriage. The accused, she said, had made multiple video clips of her when she was raped by him and his friends, and she had reconciled to her past. “But I recently came to know that he has sent two men to kill me and my family,” she alleged.The accused, who were arrested under section 376 d (gang-rape), 377 (unnatural sex), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC, were produced before the court on Monday and sent to jail.Police said Rajesh Vishwakarma’s family ended relations with him in 2018 because of his past conduct.
17-01-2022||Mumbai||Mumbai vaccinated just 24% teens, half of state’s average||Mumbai A fortnight after the vaccination drive to inoculate the age group of 15 to 17 years started, Mumbai has managed to cover just about 24% of its target. The city’s first dose coverage in this category is much below the state’s average at 43% and some other districts like Thane (45%) and Pune (44%), that have administered double the number of doses compared to Mumbai. Maharashtra’s target population is over six million and the state had administered over two million doses to beneficiaries between 15 to 17 years by Monday evening. Thane with a target of 5,00,000 had administered 2,27,566 doses while Pune with a target of 5,53,190 had administered 2,44,510 doses. Mumbai’s civic body had first estimated its target as 9,00,000. It revised its target based on the numbers given by the state government to 6,12,000. As of Monday evening, Mumbai had administered 146,618 doses. “Two factors are driving the younger crowd to vaccination centres- awareness and anxiety among parents,” said the state’s immunisation officer Dr Sachin Desai. “Some districts like Pune and Thane opened their vaccination drive for minors with over 100 centres, while Mumbai started with less than 10 centres in the beginning. Also, other districts had tied up with schools and colleges to conduct the drives, which proved beneficial,” he said. FOr instance in Thane, the health authorities had tied up with schools and colleges much in advance before the vaccination drive started on January 3. “We had taken the authorities and parents in confidence before rolling out the drive,” said Thane collector Rajesh Narvekar. “Even as the schools and colleges are not fully operational, special sessions are being organised in smaller groups,” he said. According to Narvekar, the drive for minors started at a time when the adult vaccination had hit saturation levels. “We could direct all our focus on the 15 to 17 age group,” he said. The Centre has approved Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin for the 15 to 17 age group. “Initially, we only had the jumbo centres where the minors could get vaccinated, but now we have increased the number of centres to 139,” said Mumbai’s executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare, adding that the pace of the drive will pick up in the coming days. “We have asked for more centres to hold camps at ward level so that youngsters don’t have to travel much to get the jabs,” she said. The state currently has a stock of over two million Covaxin doses, including 1,75,000 in Mumbai. State health officials said that this stock will suffice for a week and more is anticipated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-vaccinated-just-24-teens-half-of-state-s-average-101642435240130.html
17-01-2022||Mumbai||UG medical admission to begin from Jan 19, first list on 31st||Mumbai: The much-awaited revised schedule for undergraduate (UG) medical admission was released late Monday by the state Common Entrance Test (CET) cell. As per the new schedule, the state general list and the provisional merit list will be released on January 19 for all UG health science aspirants. Seat matrix for undergraduate medical (MBBS) and undergraduate dental (BDS) courses will be released on January 20. Eligible candidates can start filling out their preference forms between January 21 and 28. The first seat allotment list for the 2021-22 academic year for MBBS and BDS will be released on January 31. “In order to ensure obedience of time schedule and keeping in view the limited time available to conduct counselling, all participating institutes/colleges are requested to treat all Saturdays/Sundays and gazette holidays as working days,” states the notification by state CET cell.The National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET-UG) exams were conducted in September 2021, and the results were announced by the National Testing Agency (NTA) on November 1. A four month stay on admissions was vacated by the Supreme Court in the first week of January, thereby giving a go-ahead to state government admission authorities to start the process. Maharashtra CET cell started pre-admission registrations on December 30 and the first provisional merit list was scheduled to be announced on January 13, which was postponed and will now be announced on January 19.“We are happy this process has finally started. Students have already lost nearly four months of academic time, and lectures will not begin until the second and third seat allotment rounds. We are praying there’ll be no more delays,” said Anishka Puri, an MBBS aspirant.CET cell will release the schedule for remaining rounds of admissions for MBBS and BDS as well as other health science courses soon, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ug-medical-admission-to-begin-from-jan-19-first-list-on-31st-101642433800085.html
17-01-2022||Other||Defection a fashion today, says Dhinda (junior)||Sangrur Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) senior leader and Lehra MLA Parminder Singh Dhindsa has lashed out at the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Congress the for ‘promoting defection’ and simply deserting principled politics. Dhindsa, who was campaigning in the Lehra segment on Monday, said, “Leaders see their interests and change parties during elections. Defection has become a fashion and political parties honour such leaders with tickets. I feel that politicians should play a responsible role. People are not showing faith in political leaders amid defection.” “We respect political differences, but when politicians change parties for not getting a ticket, it is not a good sign in democracy. Leaders, who work with personal interests, are responsible for voters losing confidence in all politicians. It is the need of the hour to win the confidence of the people,” he said, adding that his party will announce candidates in a couple of days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/defection-a-fashion-today-says-dhinda-junior-101642433320058.html
17-01-2022||Mumbai||IIT Bombay student dies by suicide||Mumbai A second-year master’s in engineering student at the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay (IIT-B) died by suicide early Monday morning. This incident took place around 4:30 am and the 26-year-old student was declared dead on arrival at Rajawadi Hospital.Powai police recovered a suicide note from the deceased’s hostel room wherein he said that he was suffering from depression and blames nobody for his decision.“We have registered a case of accidental death and are recording the statements of his colleagues and professors. His family has been informed about his death,” said Budhan Sawant, senior police inspector of Powai police station.“A very unfortunate incident took place at IIT Bombay today morning and we have lost a second-year masters student. We condole the death of our student. We presently await his parents who are on their way to Mumbai and also the complete police report,” IIT-B said in a statement.(If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to a mental health specialist.) Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iit-bombay-student-dies-by-suicide-101642432422284.html
17-01-2022||Pune||Pune’s BJ Medical College to study symptoms in Omicron patients||PUNE The city-based BJ Medical College will begin the study of symptoms in over 100 Omicron positive patients. These patients across different age groups were admitted to the hospital and have been confirmed to be infected with the Omicron variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus.While the perception of Omicron being mild is leading to people ignoring Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, the study will help establish the exact severity of the symptoms and the cause of it by studying the patient’s case history and other factors.Dr Rajesh Karyakarte, head of the microbiology department at BJ Medical College and Sassoon General Hospital, said, “We have reported over 100 Omicron positive patients in our hospital who were admitted due to moderate to severe symptoms of Covid-19. After genome sequencing, we have been able to confirm the new variant infection in all these patients. This is an extension study and would require inter-departmental coordination so that the study could be done extensively. The symptoms in these patients would be assessed and monitored.”“It is a good thing that BJ Medical College sequencing lab is a part of Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG -approved laboratory for genome sequencing and RT-PCR testing as well and so the work can start faster. These are not random samples but of patients who had to be admitted and are confirmed omicron patients,” he said.Currently, the symptoms of Omicron have been identified as body ache, fatigue, headache, weakness, runny nose and cough as described by the World Health Organization (WHO). However, the study will access the symptoms in all age groups and whether or not it differs in those with comorbidity. The detailed study will also help understand the oxygen consumption and also D-dimer levels in the patients.The results of the same would be released to the government and help strategise in case of admissions due to Omicron increases in the near future as Omicron is soon replacing the deadly Delta variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-bj-medical-college-to-study-symptoms-in-omicron-patients-101642431879846.html
17-01-2022||Mumbai||RPF saved 138 lives on Mumbai suburban railway in three years||MUMBAI: As many as 138 lives were saved by the Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel and railway authorities on the city’s suburban railway tracks in the past three years. 82 were saved from Central Railway (CR) and 56 from Western Railway (WR) from getting killed or injured.In 2019 the authorities on the Central Railway saved 22 passengers, 13 passengers in 2020 and 47 in 2021. On the Western Railway in 2019 20 passengers were saved, 18 in 2020 and 18 in 2021 were saved by railway personnel.Highest number of passengers were saved at Dadar, Kalyan and Kurla — all three major railway stations and junctions. Maximum number of passengers that were saved were attempting to board a moving local train or trying to alight a moving train. Anil Kumar Jain, senior public relations officer, Central Railway shared, “This shows that RPF personnel are alert and vigilant on-duty, and this is commendable. Central Railway once again appeals to the passengers not to board or get off the running train. Life is precious.”The zonal railway has also started a campaign ‘Mission Jeevan Rakshak’ and have trained it’s RPF and commercial railway staff in assisting passengers that are in distress on the local train network. Passenger associations have urged passengers to take precautions while traveling by local trains. “People need to be extra cautious. A single mistake can cost someone their life. Commuters should not board or alight a moving train.” said Subhash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rpf-saved-138-lives-on-mumbai-suburban-railway-in-three-years-101642431579804.html
17-01-2022||Bhopal||65-year-old man arrested with heroin worth ₹3 crore||Mumbai A 65-year-old man was on Sunday arrested with a kilo of heroin worth ₹3 crore by the Anti-Narcotics Cell (ANC) of the Mumbai police crime branch.The accused, Pyare Amanulla Khan, is a native of the Pratapgarh district in Rajasthan and came to the city to deliver the contraband to a drug supplier.Khan is a repeat offender as the ANC had previously registered a case against him in 2013 for possession of 500 grams of heroin.“He spent a few months in jail and after being released, he went to his native place and started delivering the contraband to Mumbai again,” said police inspector Rajendra Dahifale of the Azad Maidan ANC unit.Besides, Khan is wanted in a heroin seizure case registered by the Worli unit in October 202, added Dahifale. Deputy commissioner of police (ANC), Datta Nalawade, said that Khan was among the major suppliers of heroin in Mumbai from Rajasthan.“We got specific information about a new consignment coming to the city. Accordingly, the team laid a trap in Borivali. As soon as he got off the bus, we nabbed him. During the search we found one kg heroin,” Nalawade said.The accused was produced in court and has been remanded to police custody till January 19. “We have arrested 14 people in heroin seizure cases since June 2021 and seized contraband worth ₹44 crore. Six people out of 14 are from Rajasthan,” Nalawade added.“In Mumbai heroin is mainly supplied from three districts — Pratapgarh and Jhalawar from Rajasthan and Mandsaur in Madhya Pradesh. We have found the list of all major suppliers of heroin in the city after we arrested two persons Hakim Gul Khan and Jeevanlal Bherulal Mida in October. We had seized 5 kg of heroin worth ₹15 crore from them. Both of them are residents of Rajasthan,” added Nalawade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/65yearold-man-arrested-with-heroin-worth-rs-3-crore-101642431400272.html
17-01-2022||Pune||Veteran leader of working classes and progressive thinker N D Patil passes away in Kolhapur||PUNE Veteran Shetkari Kamgar Paksha (peasants and workers party) leader Narayan Dyandeo Patil, popularly known as N D Patil, passed away due to age-related ailments in Kolhapur on Monday, doctors treating him said. He was 93. Patil, who fought for the cause of farmers and the marginalised sections, was active in public life till last year when he had contracted Covid though he recovered later. A towering figure in leftist movement in the state, Patil had joined the Shetkari Kamgar Paksha (SKP) for justice and rights of farmers and labourers in 1948. While working with the outfit, Patil studied academic and social issues in depth. He fought for the protection of the interest of the downtrodden during his life. Patil also participated in mill workers’ movement. Patil had served as cooperative minister in Maharashtra cabinet during 1978 to 1980. He was also an MLC for 18 years. He also participated in Sayukta Maharashtra movement and fought for merger of border areas like Belgavi, Nipani into Maharashtra. A leader of the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti, Patil had also served as an MLA from 1985 to 1990. He had worked as the secretary-general of the SKP. He was born on July 15, 1929, in Dhavali village in the Sangli district in western Maharashtra. Several leaders including chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and NCP president Sharad Pawar, paid tributes to Patil and said that with Patil’s death, the farmers and labourers have lost their voices. Following Patil’s demise, NCP chief Sharad Pawar visited Kolhapur hospital to pay tribute. “A principled and selfless leader, who had faith in the working class, is lost. He raised voice in the legislature for issues of marginalised class. He defeated many battles but lost this one,” Pawar said. Patil is Pawar’s brother-in-law. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray directed authorities to conduct the minister’s last rites with state honours. “The strong voice of farmers and working people is now lost. His leadership was inspiring for Maharashtra. The state of Maharashtra will suffer a lot due to Patil’s death,” said Thackeray in his tweet. The CM said Patil espoused the cause of making Karnataka’s Belgaum, with a large number of Marathi-speaking people, as a part of Maharashtra. Patil completed M A in Economics from Willingdon College in Sangli. After completing LL.B from Pune University, he worked as a professor at the Chhatrapati Shivaji College in Satara. He was also a former dean of the sociology department at the Shivaji University in Kolhapur. From 1959, he has been a member of the managing council of the Rayat Shikshan Sanstha in Satara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/veteran-leader-of-working-classes-and-progressive-thinker-n-d-patil-passes-away-in-kolhapur-101642430919936.html
17-01-2022||Kolkata||As Covid-19 cases dip, Bengal eases virus restrictions: Details here||The West Bengal government on Monday added a few more relaxations in its coronavirus disease (Covid-19) protocols in the wake of a fall in the daily case count.In an official order, the state government allowed gyms to reopen and operate with half their original capacity and also permitted outdoor shooting of films and television programmes.However, all pre-existing safety procedures, pandemic-necessitated guidelines and physical distancing protocols would have to be followed, read the order signed by the chief secretary of West Bengal.All the additional relaxations listed in the order will come into effect from Tuesday, that is, January 18, 2022:1. Gyms may remain open with 50 per cent of the capacity at a time up to 9pm, provided the staff and users are fully vaccinated or are RT-PCR negative.2. Jatra shall be allowed in a very restricted manner up to 9pm, only with 50 per cent of the capacity in an outdoor venue and in case of an indoor venue with a maximum of 200 people or 50 per cent of the capacity, whichever is lower.3. Outdoor shooting for films and TV programmes will be allowed with adherence to physical distancing and Covid-19 appropriate protocols.At the same time, the wearing of masks, maintenance of physical distance, and all health and hygiene-related protocols must be followed at all times, the government order specified.West Bengal’s Covid-19 tally climbed to 18,97,699 on Sunday with 14,938 fresh cases, while 36 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 20,088, a health department bulletin said. The state had registered 19,064 new infections and 39 deaths on Saturday.The state’s positivity rate stood at 27.73 per cent, the bulletin said.Kolkata registered the highest number of fresh fatalities at 12, followed by five in neighbouring North 24 Parganas district and four in Howrah. The state capital logged 3,893 single-day cases.West Bengal now has 1,60,305 active cases, and 17,17,306 people have recovered from the disease, including 9,973 since Saturday.The state has tested over 2.23 crore samples so far, taking into account 53,876 such clinical examinations in the past 24 hours, down from 64,572 samples the previous day, the bulletin added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-eases-covid-19-curbs-gyms-may-reopen-with-50-capacity-outdoor-shoots-allowed-101642428914804.html
17-01-2022||Pune||Jan 5-16: 298 cases of mask violations in PMC, Rs1.52L collected in fines||PUNE Amidst the rising Covid-19 cases in the city, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has marginally increased its action against the mask violators since January 5. According to the PMC data till January 16, the corporation has recorded 298 cases of mask violation since January 5, among which 296 of them have been fined. A total of ₹1,52,000 fine has been collected.On January 5, PMC recorded ten cases of mask violation, which was only the second time in two months that the number has reached two digits. On January 7 recorded the highest cases of mask violation and fines levied on mask violators since July 14, 2021, with 50 people fined for not wearing masks. “PMC officials should be stricter in implementing the guidelines that have been set,” said Sanjeev Wavare, PMC assistant medical officer of health.“This omicron variant spreads quickly, so the rise is Covid cases is nothing unexpected. The cases are likely to rise in the next two weeks as well,” Wavare said.The number of cases of mask violation recorded by PMC was considerably higher during the second wave with a daily average of around 107 such cases between March 1 and June 30. Although PMC has stepped up its action against mask violators in January as compared to December, the daily average is still around 18 cases in January so far. December recorded an average of fewer than five cases of mask violations in public places every day.Since January 5, only two days have recorded less than ten cases of mask violation, which are January 9 and 16, according to the PMC data. A total of ₹1,52,000 fine has been collected by the PMC from citizens for not wearing masks till January 16, which is almost twice as much collected in December, ₹77,260.According to the data, no Covid-appropriate behaviour has been flouted in cinema halls since January 1 and only three times Covid-19 norms have been violated in restaurants. According to Wavare, strict actions should be taken against the hotels and restaurants which are open after 10pm and are not following the 50% capacity guideline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/jan-5-16-298-cases-of-mask-violations-in-pmc-rs1-52l-collected-in-fines-101642430019867.html
17-01-2022||Mumbai||Mumbai's dip in Covid graph continues with 5,956 new cases, total tally past 10L-mark||Mumbai on Monday continued to register steady decline in its fresh Covid-19 tally with 5,956 new cases being reported in the last 24 hours. The country’s financial capital had recorded 7,895 cases a day ago. With this, the active case count now stood at 50,757, while the cumulative tally crossed the 10 lakh-mark at 10,05,818. With 12 patients succumbing to the viral disease, the cumulative toll was pushed to 16,469.According to the latest data shared by the health department of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), 47,574 samples were tested for the virus in the last 24 hours.With 15,551 patients being declared cured or discharged, the total number of recoveries now stood at 9,35,934. The current recovery rate in the Maharashtra capital stood at 93 per cent.Last week, HT had reported that Mumbai -- one of the earliest hot spot centres in the country’s Omicron wave -- has started showing early signs of decline in cases as well as positivity rate.Meanwhile, Maharashtra reported 31,111 new infections, 10,216 less than previous day's count and 24 more deaths. The state also registered 122 fresh Omicron cases, taking the total tally of the fast-spreading variant to 1,860.Of the new cases, 40 were from Pune city, 29 from Mira-Bhayander, 26 from Nagpur, 14 from Aurangabad, seven from Amravati, four from Mumbai and one each from Bhandara, Thane city and Pimpri-Chinchwad.Also, 29,092 people recovered from the viral disease taking the total recoveries to 68,29,992||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-dip-in-covid-graph-continues-with-5-956-new-infections-12-deaths-101642429580028.html
17-01-2022||Pune||State has over 23,500 qualified, trained doctors, most concentrated in Pune, Mumbai||The Centre has asked the state government to plan and judiciously use the healthcare staff as more breakthrough infections are being reported and more staff is reporting infection in the third Covid-19 wave.The Centre’s notification issued by the central health ministry secretary Dr Rajesh Bhushan on January 10 to ensure that the medical staff and faculty from the medical colleges are conserved.Out of the close to two lakhs qualified and trained doctors in the colleges registered under National Medical Commission (NMC), in the country, Maharashtra has a lion’s share with over 23,500. However, the staff is not equally distributed in the state with 23 of the 64 medical colleges located in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and Pune Metropolitan Area (PMR) region.Most districts do not have even a single medical college and are dependent on neighbouring districts. Such districts include; Buldhana, Washim, Beed, Osmanabad, Parbhani, Hingoli, Raigad, Bhandara, Gadchiroli, Nandurbar and Satara.Dr Dilip Mhaiskar, director of directorate of Medical Education (DMER), said, “We already have plans to set up three more medical colleges at Sindhudurg, Alibaug and Satara and more are in pipeline as and when we get approval from NMC. Earlier the medical education minister had said that every district will have a medical college. As of now we do not have any shortage of health care workers and most of them are recovering within one-three days.”The state has asked the district to utilise the services of final year MBBS students, interns, senior residents, junior residents as well as B.Sc nursing students (third and fourth year), M.Sc Nursing students (first and second year). As most districts are coming up with the establishment of jumbo hospitals, field hospitals, temporary hospitals, etc. the human resources required for the same should also be managed.The Central government in its earlier issued guidelines stated that the service of interns, being provisionally registered as doctors and MBBS students must also be trained in the clinical management of Covid-19 cases under the supervision of their faculties in Covid-19 health facilities.The NMC had also issued directions to medical colleges earlier that the final year MBBS students may also be taught about Covid-19 management in theory and practice under the supervision of faculties in Covid-19 health facilities, but they cannot be assigned clinical duties.As more healthcare workers report infections, the risk of shortage of staff or even those with mild symptoms spreading the infection to the immuno-compromised patients looms large and so the resident doctors and interns could be a great help in relieving the doctors who are either infected or stressed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/state-has-over-23-500-qualified-trained-doctors-most-concentrated-in-pune-mumbai-101642429719730.html
17-01-2022||Delhi||Lockdown refunds are the new clause for gym memberships||The surge in Covid-19 cases has forced gyms to shut shop yet again, with many fitness centres struggling to survive in this bleak period. In an attempt to break even, gym owners are putting forth a host of offers to gain membership, one such being a refund clause, in case of imposition of any curbs or a lockdown. “We’ve got no bookings at all this new year, virtual or physical. We are requesting people to book memberships and assuring them that we will refund the money for the period of the lockdown, when they couldn’t visit the gym. We are also giving major discounts so that we get some bookings at least and can pay our fixed expenses,” says Tavdeep Singh from Deep Gym in South Extension I.Ankur Sehgal from Strength Gym in Tilak Nagar also has a set of similar offers in place. “We’ve lowered prices by more than half and have promised to refund the money during the lockdown, when we would be holding virtual classes,” he says.With curbs being imposed on an industry that’s already struggling to make ends meet, the situation is now worse than ever. “We have no funds left. Aisi situation ho gayi hai ki now, after two waves, we have no capacity to survive. Kisi ko bandh nai karna apna kaam, lekin ab kya karein nahi samajh aa raha. We are even open to having discussions with people where we are negotiating membership prices and also refunding money for the time they can’t come to the gym,” says Kapil Chand from Health 2 Offer Gym in Ashok Vihar, hoping the refund clause will help bring customers. “Paise vapis dene ka promise karenge toh farak toh zaroor padega, plus humein bhi acha lagega. Humein customer ka nuksaan nahi karana,” he adds.And that’s not all. Gym owners are coming up with a wide variety of virtual workout options for their customers to choose from. “To enhance sales, we have started an online group course twice a day, wherein we give aerobics and Bhangra workout sessions for one hour,” shares Singh. Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lockdown-refunds-are-the-new-clause-for-gym-memberships-101642428228883.html
17-01-2022||Mumbai||Bombay HC rejects plea against increasing BMC seats: What it means in 5 points||MUMBAI: The Bombay High court on Monday dismissed a plea by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), challenging the Maharashtra government’s decision to increase the number of electoral seats in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The state government on December 3 last year increased the number of electoral seats in the BMC from 227 to 236 ahead of the civic elections of 2022.Here is a look at why this decision is significant, and how it is set to impact Mumbai.Change came after 2 decadesThe BMC seats are being increased after nearly two decades. The government last increased the number of electoral wards in the city in 2001 when their number went up from 221 to 227. This change was made after 10 years. Ahead of the 1992 civic polls, the city’s electoral wards were increased from 170 to 221.Addresses the change in Mumbai’s populationThe current composition of the civic body has been unchanged since 2001. The state government did not increase the number of corporators in 2011 even when the population increased by 3.87% between 2001 and 2011. BMC has maintained that in the past 20 years, many people residing in the island city have relocated to the western and eastern suburbs. Officials said that this intra-city migration has also affected the population density of Mumbai as the rate of population in the island city has fallen while the population in the suburban belt has seen massive growth. According to senior officials of BMC’s election department, it was important to increase the number of wards to maintain a uniform voter-councillor ratio since the city’s population has risen by 4% in 20 years.Boundaries of many electoral wards will changeAccording to BMC officials, five electoral wards will be added in the western suburbs, three in the eastern suburbs, and one in the island city. BMC will divide the projected population of Mumbai by 236 to determine the ideal population per ward. A 10% variation difference from this average figure will be considered acceptable. If any electoral ward has a population above that figure, a part of the ward will be added to a new ward. This is likely to have a ripple effect on many wards.Will impact local political calculationsPresently, the Shiv Sena has 97 corporators in BMC, the BJP has 83 corporators, Congress has 29 and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) has nine (one of them was disqualified in a court case on reservation), and the Samajwadi Party (SP) has seven (one of them was disqualified in a court case). With the change in boundaries of multiple wards, the political arithmetic in electoral wards is likely to change and thus may have an impact on the plans of political parties.Upholds state election commission’s powers The high court order upholds the right of the state election commission, a statutory body, to change the number of electoral seats. This decision by the state government to increase the number of seats from 227 to 236 in BMC has received the state election commission’s (SEC) nod.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-rejects-plea-against-increasing-bmc-seats-what-it-means-in-5-points-101642427860976.html
17-01-2022||Other||Questioning Channi’s position as Punjab CM after polls suicidal: Rana Gurjeet||Jalandhar Asserting that Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi had done an ‘exceedingly outstanding job’ in his three-month tenure to date, senior Congress leader and technical education minister Rana Gurjeet Singh on Monday said raising a question mark on his continuation as the CM, if the party returns to power can be suicidal. “The issue of chief ministership was settled for the Congress in Punjab, three months ago. and there is no need for any further debates or discussions about it,” Rana said in a statement issued on Monday. The note also regretted that confusing signals were being circulated about the fate of the CM, when he was leading from the front and that too when elections have already been announced. “When you already have a CM, who is doing a great job, why put a question mark about his continuing after winning the elections?” he asked, while asserting, it will be unfair to Channi to make him lead the party into elections, and keep suspense about his own position in future.“It will not only be political unwise, but suicidal to raise question marks about his continuation as the Punjab CM, after winning the elections under his leadership,” he claimed, adding, “When you have ‘tried-and-tested’ the CM, who proved his mettle in a brief period of three months, why do you want to experiment with someone unknown and untested?” he asked, requesting the party high command to set all speculation to rest by making Channi’s position clear. “It is in the interest of the party,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/questioning-channi-s-position-as-punjab-cm-after-polls-suicidal-rana-gurjeet-101642427859561.html
17-01-2022||Mumbai||Bulli Bai accused also involved in Sulli Deals: Police||Mumbai The Mumbai Police Cyber Cell on Monday opposed the bail pleas of the three arrested in the Bulli Bai app case, stating that their investigation suggested that the accused were also involved in Sulli deals case. They said that further investigation needs to be conducted to ascertain their roles.The Cyber Cell of the Mumbai Crime Branch filed a reply before the Metropolitan Magistrate Court at Bandra. The court has now posted the matter for hearing on Tuesday.In its reply filed opposing the bail pleas of Vishal Kumar Jha, Shweta Singh and Mayank Rawat, the police said that preliminary investigation has revealed that the accused committed the crime with the help of Niraj Bishnoi, the person arrested by the Delhi police.A team of Mumbai Police is already in Delhi to take custody of Bishnoi, who is alleged to be the creator of the ‘Bulli Bai’ app, and Omkareshwar Thakur who is believed to be the creator of ‘Sulli Deals’ app wherein photos of prominent Muslim women were used for auction. The bail applications of Thakur and Bishnoi were already rejected by the Delhi Court, the Mumbai police informed the court.“The accused have targeted women from a particular community. It needs to be investigated if anybody has inspired them and also if there are more accused involved in the matter. We need to find if they were paid to commit such crimes.”They further added that the accused used names of people from the Sikh community to mislead people.“Rawat operated eight Twitter accounts, one Instagram account and five Gmail accounts and Singh had seven Twitter accounts, one Instagram and Gmail account. The investigations regarding the same are pending,” said the reply of Cyber Cell police filed before the court. It further said that some of these accounts have already been deactivated, deleted or suspended. So, to analyse the data further, the accused will be needed. “The investigation is at a primary stage as the process is complicated and lengthy,” it added.Rawat, a resident of Uttarakhand, filed his bail plea through Sandeep Sherkhane, who argued on Monday for the bail. Sherkhane told the court, “Rawat was an innocent student, he had a very limited role. He had just followed a link and he was misguided and brainwashed. He is falsely implicated and made a scapegoat in the matter. He is a student whose whole career will be destroyed if he is kept with habitual criminals as his exams are also approaching.” Meanwhile, Shivam Deshmukh and Aarti Deshmukh, who argued bail plea of Jha, a resident of Bihar who was studying in Bengaluru, said, “The main accused in the case is someone else from Delhi and the other accused are of different states and in no manner connected to them. He has been falsely implicated in the case and denies committing any such offence as alleged. He is from a respectable family and such overt acts are beyond imagination.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bulli-bai-accused-also-involved-in-sulli-deals-police-101642426899400.html
17-01-2022||Pune||Barshi stock market scam: Vishal Fate appears in live video, surrenders before police||PUNE Prime accused in the ₹15 crore Barshi stock market scam Vishal Fate, who was under the radar of central agencies after a lookout notice was issued against, appeared live on a social media video on Monday and surrendered before the police. He was arrested on Monday, said officials.Fate in his video said, “It is being said that I am involved in a ₹200 crore scam, this is untrue. Why would a person with such a big sum stay in India. This was not pre-planned. I do not have any plans to flee. Who will flee keeping ₹2 crore in the bank. I can stay in any five star hotel in the country with this amount of money. I had never promised 28 per cent returns on investment and written agreements were signed with the customers. I had even given blank cheques to them. Police must get my bank account statements to validate this. I am ready to face legal action. My family is not connected to this business.”Fate’s father and brother are currently in police custody. According to the police, the scam runs around ₹15 crore wherein Fate promised thrice the invested amount in the stock market to his victims but never paid them. Among his victims are politicians, media persons and also women who trusted his words and invested large sums in three of the companies owned by him expecting unprecedented returns.Additional superintendent of police, Himmat Jadhav said, “We have received around 80 complaints and the fraud amount is in the range of ₹17- ₹18 crore till now. Fate has surrendered and the process of arrest is being completed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/barshi-stock-market-scam-vishal-fate-appears-in-live-video-surrenders-before-police-101642426779332.html
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Overcoming development challenges before Punjab economy||The people of Punjab will vote next month to elect the 16th assembly that will provide governance for the next five years. The experience of the past six assembly elections has shown that Punjabis have given a decisive mandate to a political party for fulfilling their expectations. Except once (2012-17), the state’s electorate has expressed its dissatisfaction and changed the government for a better performance. In the past 30 years, which coincide with three decades of liberalisation, privatisation and the globalisation policy of India, the two dominant parties, the Shiromani Akali Dal and the Congress, ruled the state for an equal period. An important achievement of the past 30 years is the peaceful completion of the terms of each democratically elected government headed alternately by the two political parties of Punjab. But a big disappointment is on the development front. Both the parties failed to match the economic challenges and could not meet the expectations of Punjabis. On broad social and economic indicators, Punjab has been consistently lagging behind. Its per capita income ranking across Indian states has fallen from first to 10th rank. But the less known qualitative indicators such as governance institutions, services and employment quality and opportunities have also deteriorated compared to other states of India. The educated youth is facing the highest unemployment rates in the country and those who are serving the state they are highly dissatisfied with their service conditions. That explains the scramble among youngsters to migrate overseas for better opportunities. They feel the future is hopeless if they continue to stay in the state. When we look at the development situation of each sector of the economy (agriculture, industry and services), the economy is facing a multidimensional crisis. Capital, brain drain from Punjab At the root of this crisis is the low social overhead capital formation in the state (GFCF/GSDP is 15.75 in 2018-19 and share of agriculture is 5.8%). The GFCF is the capability or capacity of the economy to produce output and given the capital-output ratio, the low GFCF results into slow growth of Punjab’s economy. An important fact of Punjab economy needs to be noted here is that it is a highly private/individual enterprise-based economy among the Indian states. The low investment in the Punjab state indicates that private enterprises have a limited capacity to address to the challenges faced by the Punjab economy. Therefore, the role of the state government to disentangle the multidimensional crisis and induce the dynamism in various sectors of the economy is crucial. But political consensus on the economic policy of liberalisation, privatisation and globalisation has also limited the capacity of the state to intervene in economic affairs. Instead to accept and face the current challenges of the Punjab economy, the political leadership has changed its character and turned from statesmen political leaders to business-oriented leaders. They have indulged in competitive populism to capture power and using power to enhance their own narrow interests/businesses. This has also limited the dynamic role of the private sector in development and that is why the private players prefer to invest either in other states or abroad. Most of the well to-do parents of the migrants have been investing to establish businesses abroad. This has led to both capital and brain drain from Punjab. Breaking two vicious circles Can the grand challenges faced by Punjab economy be resolved to generate a hope? The answer is affirmative. No challenge is big enough that humanity cannot resolve provided it is willing to recognise and find an alternative holistic approach to resolve it. Punjabis are famous to take risks and have philosophy of supreme sacrifice and thus have a capacity to accept and resolve the challenges. For this, two vicious circles, that is, self-serving politician-bureaucratic-police gridlock and competitive populism-fiscal profligacy needs to be broken. Only a dynamic and progressive state economy can provide hope to all the stake holders. The revival and rejuvenation of Punjab’s economy is also required to involve non-state actors, while ensuring the participation of the people in the economic decision-making through a decentralised development process. The restoration of the functioning of the defunct top institutions such as state planning board and revenue generating and collection machinery can play a catalytic role. Given the level of high consumption in Punjab, the taxable capacity is also high provided the tax revenue should go to the public exchequer. It is possible to harness this revenue along with controlling the multipronged mafia that is plundering the resources and revenue of the state. The suggested strategy probably can sow the seeds of revival of Punjab’s economy if subsidies are rationalised and targeted rather than allowed to develop vested interest. This will enable the state to raise adequate revenue resources for developmental needs. Tap diaspora, open land route Punjab can harness two important resources while generating a development-oriented environment. One, Punjabi diaspora has a strong presence in the western developed countries. They have adequate financial, intellectual and technological resources. They can be tapped for organisation practices and developmental resources to make the Punjab economy dynamic. Moreover, the government can develop long-tenure bonds so that accumulated debt burden of the state can be shared by the diaspora. Two, Punjab is landlocked and needs opening up of the land route to access the markets of neighbouring countries. This will give a boost to investment in Punjab and adjoining north Indian states. On top of it, there is a dire need to change the course of development that is environment-friendly. New technological revolution can be harnessed for ensuring development with social justice. Punjab cannot afford to be bypassed by the fourth industrial revolution. For this, the electorate has to ensure two things: One, elect a political leadership that has the will to face the grand development challenges; and two, stay vigilant in the post-election scenario to keep the rulers focused on the agenda. Punjab cannot afford to waste this chance of turning the tide. lakhwindergill@pbi.ac.in The writer is former professor-head of economics department at Punjabi University, Patiala. Views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/overcoming-development-challenges-before-punjab-economy-101642426419356.html
17-01-2022||Kolkata||Actor, playwright Shaoli Mitra dies in Kolkata at 74||Noted actor, playwright and director Shaoli Mitra died of age-related ailments at her home in Kolkata around 3.40 pm on Sunday. She was 74. Mitra was the daughter of legendary theatre personalities Shambhu Mitra and Tripti Mitra. Nobody got to know of Mitra’s death in the afternoon because, like her father, she had made a will in 2019, saying the news of her demise should be made public only after cremation. She also wished to die at home and among very close relatives. She received the Sangeet Natak Akademi award in 2003, the Padma Shree in 2009 and the Bengal government’s Banga Bibhushan Award in 2012. Mitra wrote, directed and acted in the famous play Naathavati Anaathavat, which is considered one of her finest creations. It was also produced in Hindi. Some of her other famous plays include Katha Amitrasaman, Chandali, Pagla Ghora and Dakghar. Mitra also acted in Ritwik Ghatak’s landmark 1977 movie Jukti Takko Aar Gappo alongside her mother. “With her, an era has ended. Shaoli Mitra was an example if you spoke of education and skills. But above all that, she was an exceptional human being. Her life is a lesson for us,” theatre personality Debesh Chattopadhyay told the media on Sunday night when the news became public. Thespian Rudraprasad Sengupta said, “She had a lot more to give us but successful people never die. They live forever in our thoughts and culture.”Offstage, Mitra maintained a low profile all her life but took a strong stand on the Left Front government’s move to acquire farmland for the Tata small car factory at Singur in Hooghly district. Mamata Banerjee, then the state’s opposition leader, started a movement that forced the government to shelve the project. Banerjee offered her condolences to Mitra’s family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/actor-playwright-shaoli-mitra-dies-in-kolkata-at-74-101642425279293.html
17-01-2022||Mumbai||Fraudster poses as ISRO scientist, dupes woman of ₹22L||Mumbai A 37-year-old woman from Girgaum was cheated of over ₹22 lakh by a man who posed as an Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) scientist and befriended her on a popular matrimonial site.In early 2021, the complainant created a profile on a popular matrimonial site as she was looking for a suitable match.In June 2021, she was approached by a man, who claimed to be Nahush Mhatre, a senior scientist at ISRO and also said that he earns a handsome salary. She liked his profile and soon shared their numbers. They started interacting with each other on social media. Mhatre soon proposed to her and she accepted.“After gaining her confidence, he started asking her for money. She trusted him and gave him every time. Till November 12, 2021, the accused took total of ₹22.47 lakh from her on various false pretexts,” said a police officer.Eventually, the woman started suspecting him and when she confronted him, he started avoiding her and later cut off all communication.She then approached the VP Road police station that registered a case on Saturday. As the said cyber fraud involved an amount of over ₹10 lakh, the case was transferred to the South Region Cyber ​​Police station for further investigation. A preliminary probe indicated that the name might be a fake one. The accused had created fake accounts on social media to win the woman’s trust, another cyber cop said.Cyber ​​police officials are now analysing the online activity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fraudster-poses-as-isro-scientist-dupes-woman-of-22l-101642424979232.html
17-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi records 12,527 new Covid-19 cases, daily tests down 31.7%||Delhi recorded 12,527 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Monday, a 31.4 per cent drop from Sunday’s case count.According to the health bulletin issued this evening, the number of daily tests in the national capital also dropped by 31.7 per cent when compared to the number of samples tested a day ago.As many as 44,762 Covid-19 tests were conducted on Monday, while 65,621 samples were checked for the virus on Sunday.With this, the positivity rate in the national capital now stood at 27.99 per cent, which is marginally higher than the 27.87 per cent recorded on Sunday. On Saturday, the positivity rate was 30.64 per cent.The number of fresh Covid-19 cases per day in the national capital has been decreasing for four consecutive days now. Prior to the 31.4 per cent dip today, the daily tally had dropped 11.7 per cent on Sunday, and 15 per cent on Saturday.The number of new deaths also saw a dip with 24 related fatalities registered during the day. As many as 28 patients had died on Sunday and 30 the day before that. The cumulative fatality toll has now reached 25,387, according to the updated health bulletin.Health minister Satyendar Jain had said a day ago that less testing does not equate to fewer Covid-19 cases. "Mild, asymptomatic, or high-risk contact cases, everyone gets tested,” he had said. “We (the health authorities in Delhi) are conducting three times more tests than that required by the ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) guidelines.”The number of patients admitted to hospitals due to coronavirus climbed to 2,784 on Monday, up from 2,711 on Sunday and 2,620 on Saturday.In the past 24 hours, as many as 18,340 patients recovered from the coronavirus infection and were discharged from hospitals after being treated for the same.Barring the 2,684 patients who have confirmed Covid-19 infections and are currently hospitalised in Delhi, as many as 100 patients are suspected cases of the virus.Delhi is currently under night curfew between 11pm and 5am along with a weekend curfew in place. Schools, colleges, gyms, cinemas, and restaurants have also remained shut for the past few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-12-527-new-covid-19-cases-daily-tests-down-317-101642422887671.html
17-01-2022||Lucknow||MSP for all crops, cane arrears in 15 days: Akhilesh promises farmers||LUCKNOW Samajwadi Party national president Akhilesh Yadav on Monday made several promises to the farmers of Uttar Pradesh, including MSP (minimum statutory price) for every crop, payment of arrears to cane growers in 15 days, free irrigation facilities, interest-free loans, insurance and pension.Yadav, along with farm leader Tejinder Singh Virk, 48, took a pledge to defeat the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the forthcoming UP Assembly elections. Virk was one of the farm leaders who led the Lakhimpur Kheri farmers’ protest and he too was severely injured in the Lakhimpur violence on October 3.“With grains in our hands (wheat and rice from Lakhinpur Kheri), we take ‘ann sankalp’ (pledge) to defeat and remove those who unleashed atrocities on farmers,” said Yadav, Virk, and all the SP leaders present at an event at the SP state headquarters in Lucknow.“Apart from free power to farmers for irrigation, the SP also promises that on forming the government, we will introduce MSP on all crops, clear dues to cane farmers within 15 days, and make provisions for interest-free loans, insurance and pension for farmers. If need be, we will create a farmers’ revolving fund to ensure timely payments to them,” said Yadav, adding that these promises will be included in the SP’s manifesto. The SP chief reiterated his earlier promise of ₹25 lakh aid from the government to the family of farmers who died in the farm struggle.When asked how would all this be possible, he said: “It’s possible. We fulfill all promises we make. But did anyone ask those (Prime minister Narendra Modi) when they had said they will make India a $5-trillion economy and when the UP chief minster too made similar projections.”Talking about Virk, Yadav said: “When the Lakhimpur incident happened on October 3, and I learned that Tajinder Singh Virk was badly injured and was in a hospital, I spoke to him and also the doctor on duty. I asked the doctors to do their best to save his life, and if needed, shift him to any other hospital. God saved his life.”Akhilesh Yadav said the farmers’ struggle made the government relent and the farmers succeeded in making the government withdraw the “three black farm laws.” But the BJP actually withdrew the farm laws for votes,” he added.Will SP field Virk in polls?When asked if the Samajwadi Party will field farm leader Tajinder Singh Virk from Nighasan (a Lakhimpur Kheri assembly seat) or any other, Akhilesh said: “We will accord him full respect.” The comment fuelled speculations that the SP might field Virk from Nighasan. The area where the Lakhimpur violence took place on October 3 falls in the Nighasan assembly constituency. Reacting to Yadav’s ‘Ann Sankalp’, UP minister Suresh Rana said: “It was during the SP government’s tenure that rioters were flown in aircraft and given feast of biryani. Farmers were troubled and used to hold dharnas all over the state over cane dues.”
17-01-2022||Pune||Court rejects bail application of Pune couple in ₹10.65 crore chit fund scam||PUNE Sessions Judge PP Jadhav on Monday rejected the bail application of a husband –wife duo were booked for cheating scores of investors in a ₹10.65 crore chit fund scam. Chenkeshwallu Chennaya and his wife Sujata, both residents of B T Kawade road in Ghorpadi were booked after a 38-year-old victim lodged a complaint against them with the Mundhwa police.The complaint stated that the couple; from March 2018 till October 2021 accepted huge amounts from the women investors and promised them high returns. The couple made each investor pay ₹2.50 lakh per month. A large number of women fell for the scheme and when they went to the couple seeking a return on investment after completion of their payment tenure, they found themselves cheated as the duo refused to return the amount. Public Prosecutor Premkumar Agarwal opposed their bail plea submitting that a large number of investors had been duped and the amount could increase further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/court-rejects-bail-application-of-pune-couple-in-10-65-crore-chit-fund-scam-101642422158673.html
17-01-2022||Other||Plea by 2 BJP councillors against BMC seat increase dismissed by Bombay HC||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Monday dismissed the petition challenging the November 30 ordinance issued by the Maharashtra government to increase the number of seats in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) for the forthcoming elections from 227 to 236.Two BJP councillors, Abhijit Samant and Rajshree Shirwadkar, challenged the ordinance on the ground that since the government used the 2011 census to redraw the ward boundaries for the 2017 BMC elections, it could not use the same census figures to increase the seats in the 2022 elections.BMC elections are expected to be held next month.The division bench of justices A A Sayed and Abhay Ahuja rejected the petition. The detailed order, which will have the reasoning of the judges, is not available yet.The Maharashtra government represented by advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni, however, insisted that since the 2021 census has not been conducted due to the pandemic, there was no restriction on using the 2011 census to increase the number of BMC seats for the 2022 elections. He also pointed out that the government did not increase the number of seats ahead of the 2012 or 2017 BMC elections.Senior lawyer Anil Sakhare, appearing for the BMC, added that there was a need to increase the number of seats so that there was a proportionate representation of citizens in the jurisdiction of the civic authority in view of the increase in the population.On Monday, the court asked the state election commission if the increase of seats was based on the 2011 census and whether any reservation was being implemented through the November 30 Ordinance. When the court was told that the ordinance merely increased the number of seats and did not get into the reservation of seats, the bench inquired from the petitioners if they were seeking a stay on the BMC elections.After the petitioners made it clear that they were not seeking a stay on the elections, the court said that it was dismissing the petition and will pass a detailed and reasoned order in due course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/plea-by-2-bjp-councillors-against-bmc-seat-increase-dismissed-by-bombay-hc-101642421738880.html
17-01-2022||Dehradun||Expelled Uttarakhand minister for seeking two tickets: BJP||DEHRADUN: Less than a month before the assembly elections, Uttarakhand minister Harak Singh Rawat was expelled from the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) late on Sunday amid reports that he was planning to return to the Opposition Congress, which he quit in 2016.The BJP leadership maintained the decision to expel Rawat was taken after he allegedly demanded a ticket for his daughter-in-law to contest from Lansdowne as well as Doiwala seat for himself. Harak Singh Rawat is a member of the assembly from Kotdwar while former chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat represents Doiwala.Chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said the demand for two tickets was totally against the BJP’s principle of one ticket, one family, which the party conveyed to him. “But he remained adamant, leading to this decision (expulsion).” Dhami said there will be no impact of the expulsion on the party. “There is no crack in the organisation. The party is united in the upcoming elections. But those who are not working as per the party norms will have to face such action as the discipline is foremost.”Also Read | Uttarakhand elections: BJP may not field up to 12 sitting MLAsBJP state in-charge Dushyant Kumar Gautam echoed Dhami. “The party has a clear principle of one ticket to one family. But Rawat despite being a senior leader of the party was adamant about two tickets. We clearly said it is not possible.” Gautam said the demand for another ticket apart from his own was also unacceptable. “He also approached the rivals. Hence, he was shown the door,” said Gautam.Harak Singh Rawat denied having asked for two tickets. “The BJP leadership believed some social media reports of me joining Congress and expelled me in haste without verifying.” He added after taking the decision in haste, BJP was levelling false and baseless allegations. “I said that my daughter-in-law is doing good work in her constituency and if the leadership wants, it can give her ticket. When they cited the one ticket, one family principle, I said that I do not want to contest.”He added he always sought development projects in his constituency. “I demanded a medical college for Kotdwar, a central school, good pay for nnganwadi workers, grade pay for police personnel which they never paid heed to. I never thought of my personal interests but party’s.”He added he was in touch with Congress leaders. “(Congress) state president Ganesh Godiyal and leader of Opposition Pritam Singh called me up and asked about my future plans. But as of now, there are no talks about joining the party. Having said that, now after I am not in the BJP, if Congress wants, then I will work for it and help bring it to power.”Godiyal said it was up to the Congress’s senior leadership to induct Harak Singh Rawat. “Even as we did not have a political relationship for the last five years but we have a personal one. He has not joined Congress but despite that, he was expelled by BJP whom he supported when it needed the most. He left Congress in 2016. He has now confessed that it was mistake,” said Godiyal.
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Book launch | Revel in the Gift Of Life||Was life created by chance or did God create it? What is the purpose of life? Just to live and procreate or more? These are some of the profundities explored by former director general of police and author P Lal in his latest book Gift Of Life.The book, which also discusses the seven levels of human consciousness and a yoga regimen, was released by Punjab governor and Chandigarh administrator Banwarilal Purohit at the Raj Bhawan.On what readers can learn from the book, Lal says, “ The pursuit of happiness, health and developing a scientific temper are very important.”Controversial subjects such as the existence of UFOs, aliens, near-death experiences and out-of-body experiences and reincarnation have also been explored in the book.Lal points out the limitations of man’s sensory perceptions, hinting at the possibility of reality being different from what is perceived.In the foreword, former Punjab and Haryana high court judge NC Jain says, “ Though he (Lal) has brought out religious and spiritual aspects of the matter (life and its myriad shades) also, his emphasis remains on ‘logical deduction’ which is what is required for the development of the self.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/book-launch-revel-in-the-gift-of-life-101642417958022.html
17-01-2022||Pune||Monday Musings: Lavasa, from dream city to ghost town... now what?||Lavasa, some 60 kilometres from Pune, was once touted as a hilltop paradise, modelled on the cotton-candy harbour of Italy’s Portofino. It would be India’s first privately built and managed city. Curious tourists and locals looking for a break from city life often flocked to the streets of Dasve village, where the hill city has come up. In the process, many restaurants and coffee shops came up on the promenade facing the lake situated in the middle of the city.Through its journey, it faced flak for many wrong reasons. The result: it resembled a ghost town with incomplete structures, sporadic garbage collection and non-existing maintenance. Slowly, the number of visitors dropped and the roads started looking deserted.Last month, there was some positive news. A Mumbai-based firm Darwin Platform Infrastructure Limited (DPIL) won the bid for Lavasa hill city, offering hopes that there will be an improvement of the essential services like roads, street lights and water have brightened up for the residents who had been at the receiving end of infrastructural bottlenecks for the past one decade. At the same time, small investors who purchased properties, which couldn’t be built, have expressed hope for completing the project. These are hundreds of people who have put down their life savings or borrowed money to buy property here, only to fear it may never get built.More than two decades ago, then-billionaire Ajit Gulabchand envisioned something different after Sharad Pawar floated the idea of developing Lavasa hill city while travelling in a helicopter. Later, at a programme in Pune during 2014, Pawar even said Maharashtra has 26 sites with waterbodies that can be developed as hill cities, on the lines of Lavasa.Gulabchand and his Hindustan Construction Company (HCC), known for building roads, power plants, tunnels and more than 300 bridges around the country, made attempts for the retreat through a possible IPO during 2010 when the national environment and forests ministry halted construction for about a year, alleging rule violations. Its cash flow quickly dried up. Efforts to tap equity markets fell through with investors nervous of further government intervention.About a year later, construction resumed after approvals came through to build on 21 square kilometres—almost the size of Macau. But by that point the project was cursedThe hill township project Lavasa construction and development were started as per Maharashtra’s government policy and regulations for new hill stations as India’s first privately built smart city. Lavasa corporation was accused of defaulting on bank loans. The company on its website admitted claims of Rs5,561 crores from financial creditors.After almost a decade there is hope. The DPIL has won the ₹1864 crore bid to acquire Lavasa Corporation through the insolvency process which was approved by the debt-ridden firm’s lenders. The resolution plan submitted by Darwin Platform bagged 97 per cent votes of the Committee of Creditors (CoC). At least 66 per cent of votes are required for bid approval. After CoC approval, the bid has to be cleared by the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT).The DPIL taking over Lavasa is also good news for local villagers, who had lost employment in the process. Initially wary of the large size project, the villagers were unsupportive, and at times, confrontational. As the project began acquiring shape, many found employment, something Dasve village had never thought of.Yogesh Joshi can be reached at yogesh.joshi@htlive.com
17-01-2022||Punjab||Punjab polls pushed back to February 20 to avoid clash with Guru Ravidas Jayanti||NEW DELHI: The Election Commission of India on Monday rescheduled the assembly polls in Punjab to February 20 after political parties requested the poll panel to slot it until after the festival of Guru Ravidas Jayanti, which will be celebrated on February 16.Polling in Punjab was earlier scheduled for February 14. Political parties had told the EC that many voters could miss polling if it were held just two days before Guru Ravidas Jayanti.”They have brought to notice that a large number of devotees start moving for Varanasi around a week before the day of the celebration, and keeping the poll day on February 14, 2022 will deprive a large number of electors from voting,” the EC said in a statement. “[Following] inputs from the state government and the chief electoral officer, past precedence, and [considering] all facts and circumstances in the matter, the commission has decided to reschedule [the polls].”Guru Ravidas Jayanti is a festival that is popular among the Dalit community, which makes up more than 30% of Punjab’s electorate at the coming elections.A senior official said that initially the EC felt that scheduling the polls two days before the festival would be appropriate, but Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi pointed out that many devotees would be travelling to Varanasi just before polling day.Channi sent across a letter, requesting the national electoral body to postpone the assembly polls “for enabling around 2,000,000 SC devotees to utilise their right to vote” in Punjab.The Punjab CM’s plea was followed by similiar requests by the Shiromani Akali Dal, the Bhartiya Janata Party, the Bahujan Samaj Party and other parties contesting the elections in the state.The counting day for the Punjab polls remains the same for all, which is March 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-pushed-back-to-february-20-to-avoid-clash-with-guru-ravidas-jayanti-101642413217613.html
17-01-2022||Patna||Bihar Hooch tragedy triggers fresh war of words between ruling NDA allies||PATNA: Another hooch tragedy in Bihar, which claimed the lives of 13 people in the state’s Nalanda over the weekend, has triggered a fresh war of words between the main allies of the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA).The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) hit out at ally Janata Dal (United) or JD (U) over poor implementation of prohibition in the state. Sanjay Jaiswal, the BJP state chief, asked JD (U) if all the members of the families of those killed in the tragedy would be sent to jail.JD (U) leader Upendra Kushwaha responded saying a party does not take action. “Action is taken by the government of which the BJP is also part.” He added chief minister Nitish Kumar’s government will not spare anybody found guilty even as he maintained the ruling alliance remained strong.Kushwaha said the talks about an alliance for Uttar Pradesh polls were not over as the BJP has said anything in this regard so far. “We hope some solution will emerge.” He earlier said JD (U) will contest the polls with the BJP even as the number of seats was yet to be decided.Also Read | Toll in Nalanda hooch tragedy climbs to 13, SIT to probe caseJaiswal said to keep the NDA strong, they need to follow the basic decorum. “It cannot be one-sided.” He added there could not be anything more absurd than asking the Prime Minister to withdraw awards given by the President to writer Daya Prakash Sinha for his remarks against emperor Ashoka. JD (U) leaders including Kushwaha have been demanding that the awards be withdrawn.Jaiswal said the Bihar government should first act on his FIR against Sinha, get him arrested, and ensure punishment through speedy trial. “After that, a delegation of the Bihar government should meet President and present our viewpoint about withdrawal of award to a convict. It is our collective responsibility to peacefully run the government and any issue can be amicably resolved through discussions. If any matter has to be taken up with BJP central leadership, that should also be direct.”Former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, whose party is also a part of the NDA, also wondered why Nitish Kumar has made prohibition a prestigious issue. “When Prime Minister can withdraw agriculture laws, why cannot Nitish Kumar review it? This time hooch tragedy struck in Nalanda. Earlier it happened in Gopalganj.”Analyst Nawal Kishore Choudhary said the trend was apparent that both BJP and the JD (U) were trying to have an upper hand while none is in a position to dictate terms. “So, both will keep rubbing the other the wrong way on any given opportunity and carry on... Both BJP and JD (U) know their limitations in Bihar and they will not cross the line...”
17-01-2022||Mumbai||IIT Bombay student found dead, suicide suspected||MUMBAI: A 26-year-old postgraduate engineering student at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Bombay was found dead outside his hostel on Monday morning, police said and added he is suspected to have died by suicide.Police said that the student’s body was spotted by a watchman outside the seven-storey hostel building when he was making his regular rounds. The watchman called up an official of the institute who informed the police, which searched his room and found a purported suicide note. “In the suicide note, he stated he was in depression and under treatment and has not blamed anyone else,” said a police officer from the Powai police station, who did not want to be named.Budhan Sawant, senior inspector, Powai police station, said that they have registered a case of accidental death and were recording the statements of the student’s colleagues and professors. “His family has been informed about his death,” said Sawant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iit-bombay-student-found-dead-suicide-suspected-101642410036659.html
17-01-2022||Lucknow||UP polls: AIMIM releases list of 9 candidates||The All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul- Muslimeen (AIMIM) led by Hyderabad Lok Sabha MP Asaduddin Owaisi on Sunday released the first list of the nine candidates for the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly election. AIMIM launched its election campaign demanding a share in power for the Muslim community in the state.The party is working to expand its base in the Muslim dominated West UP and the Rohilkhand region and all nine candidates have been fielded on the Muslim dominated seats, including Behat, Dhaulana, Loni, Kithore, Sardhana, Siwal Khas, Garh Mukteshwar and Bareilly. AIMIM had decided to contest assembly election on 100 seats after joining Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha (BSM) led by the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) chief Om Prakash Rajbhar.After Rajbhar joined the Samajwadi party alliance, Owaisi also proposed to join hands with the SP. But with no offer forthcoming from SP chief Akhilesh Yadav, the AIMIM decided to contest the assembly election on its own.Owaisi launched an extensive election campaign in the Muslim dominated seats.Fearing division in Muslim votes, Maulana Khalil-ur- Rahman Sajjad Nomani, a senior member of All India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB), has shot off an open letter to Owaisi on Thursday urging him to check the division in the Muslim votes by fielding candidates only on those seats on which AIMIM is sure of winning.Reacting to the letter, the national spokesperson of AIMIM and Uttar Pradesh in-charge, Syed Asim Waqar said, Nomani is not a political person and should not interfere in politics as AIMIM does not meddle in the working of the AIMPLB. AIMIM chief will also take the final call on two alliance offers in the coming days., the spokesperson said. The Rashtriya Ulama Council led by Maulana Aamir Rashadi that has a base in Azamgarh, Mau and Ghazipur districts and Peace Party led by Dr Mohammad Ayub that has a base in Gorakhpur and Basti division in East UP, have offered Owaisi to form a coalition for the elections.The AIMIM spokesperson said Owaisi would take a final decision over the alliance with both parties. AIMIM had fielded candidates on 38 seats in the 2017 assembly election but failed to open its account. The only consolation was that party candidate Zia-ur-Rehman was runner-up on the Sambhal assembly seat. 
17-01-2022||Mumbai||Shiv Sena hits out at BJP over ‘vote bank’ politics||MUMBAI: Days after Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath had lunch at a Dalit worker’s home in Gorakhpur, Shiv Sena on Monday hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over “vote bank politics”.In an editorial in its mouthpiece Saamana, the Sena said the BJP leaders still organise lunches in Dalits households and need to publicise them. “This clearly shows that caste is in their minds and they are not ready to let go of it. The country has been divided on caste for political gains. So, the caste eradication programmes are a mere sham... Even today tickets to contest elections are distributed based on caste arithmetic.”The Sena criticised Adityanath and Prime Minister Narendra Modi over such “publicity” events and for allegedly giving importance to caste and organising such meals.Referring to Modi, who washed the feet of sanitation workers in Uttar Pradesh’s Prayagraj in February 2019, Sena leader Sanjay Raut said, “Modi took a dip in the River Ganga and then washed the feet of Dalits. Now, BJP leaders are going to their homes. When will you forget caste? We are all humans and there should not be any caste divide. But you go to Dalit household for meals, this is all pretense. Stop this vote bank politics otherwise, the country will once again be divided into caste lines.”As a policy, the Maharashtra unit of BJP does not respond to criticism in the Sena mouthpiece.Raut also said Congress, Samajwadi Party (SP), and other non-BJP parties in Uttar Pradesh can replace BJP in power after the February-March assembly polls. “[SP leader] Akhilesh [Yadav] must completely focus on the election and must take everyone together. People are looking at Akhilesh with a lot of expectations. We are contesting in Uttar Pradesh but the power to bring about a change is with Samajwadi Party and Congress.”
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: Ferozepur Rural candidate quits AAP, joins Congress||The Aam Aadmi Party candidate from Ferozepur Rural constituency, Ashu Banger, quit the AAP on Monday morning and by evening he was inducted into the Congress by Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi. Also read: AAP to announce Punjab CM candidate tomorrow, says party chief Arvind KejriwalThe CM also announced that Banger would be fielded from Ferozepur Rural assembly segment.Channi made the announcement at a press conference in Chandigarh after inducting Banger into the party.Earlier, Banger told reporters that he was being “humiliated and pressurised by the AAP leadership to spend more on electioneering.” Banger, who is contesting the assembly elections for the first time, said he would consult his supporters on the next plan. “But I won’t contest on the AAP ticket,” he said. Banger took objection to the AAP’s charge that the Balbir Singh Rajewal-led Samyukt Samaj Morcha is in league with Bharatiya Janata Party. “This is a baseless and defamatory charge on the farmer leaders and Punjabis,” he said. Like the BJP, he said, the AAP leadership was also trying to create a rift in the farmer leadership. Banger said it was the AAP leadership that had first encouraged Bharti Kisan Union (Rajewal) leader Balbir Singh Rajewal to contest the Punjab elections. “The party had even tried to make Rajewal the CM face but when the farmers got united as a political front, they were betrayed by the AAP,” he said. Banger said the AAP is working as a company where Punjab volunteers have no say. He charged state party affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha of issuing diktats and deciding without taking the Punjab leadership into confidence. Chadha alleges conspiracy to hurt AAPResponding to question during a press conference in Chandigarh, Chadha said that the party is gathering information about the development. He alleged that a senior Congress leader had called up Banger. “There is a conspiracy to hurt the AAP and I’m told that a senior leader of the Congress had called up the Ferozepur candidate (Banger) and put pressure on him to quit the party,” Chadha added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-elections-ferozepur-rural-candidate-quits-aam-aadmi-party-101642408957262.html
17-01-2022||Delhi||'Beginning of a new era': Kejriwal flags off first DTC electric bus||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal flagged off the first electric bus of Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) on Monday. Kejriwal said this is an “important milestone” in Delhi’s transport landscape.He further told reporters that a bus has been added to the fleet of DTC after 2011 - a jinx that has now been broken.“Today, Delhi got its first electric bus and this is an important milestone in various aspects. First, this is the beginning of a new era in the transport sector in Delhi. In the coming years, these electric buses will replace the old fleet of buses in Delhi,” said Kejriwal.“This is an important step in controlling the pollution in Delhi. It's a noise less, zero-emission vehicle,” he added.Kejriwal said that the bus takes 1-1.5 hours to charge fully and can cover a minimum distance of 120 kilometres in one full charge.“Delhi will have 300 electric buses by April and we plan to roll put 2,000 more such buses in the next few years,” he said.The prototype bus, which arrived earlier this month, will run on 27-kilometre-long Route E44 (Pragati Maidan to IP Depot via ITO, Safdarjung, Ashram). It has been manufactured by JBM Auto Limited.Fifty more e-buses are expected to be inducted into the DTC fleet next month, when the roll out for mass public transport begins.There are 2,300 total electric buses in the pipeline. Out of these, 1,300 will be procured by the DTC and the rest 1,000 will operate under the cluster scheme.The Delhi government will equip bus depots with charging stations for these e-buses. This will be done in phases.The plan to induct e-buses in Delhi was first announced in July, 2018. In the future, the Delhi government will procure only electric buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/beginning-of-a-new-era-kejriwal-flags-off-first-dtc-electric-bus-101642406006518.html
17-01-2022||Delhi||Covid cases on decline, says Delhi health minister||NEW DELHI: Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said the daily count of fresh coronavirus cases is likely to reduce to 14,000-15,000 on Monday, much less than what was reported on Sunday (18,286). “As I said earlier, the cases are on a decline,” Jain said.Jain said Delhi has administered over 28 million vaccine doses over the last year since the immunisation programme began. He added 100% eligible population has been given the first vaccine dose and 80% the second.“...128,000 people have received their precautionary dose,” Jain said.Delhi on Saturday reported 20,718 cases compared to 17,335 on January 7.On Sunday, just over 65,000 tests were conducted and of which, 27.87% of samples returned positive. This number, known as the test positivity rate, dipped from 30.6% on Friday and Saturday, and, on a day-to-day basis, fell for the first time since December 23 last year. Since then, this number has either increased or remained the same.Testing has also dipped in Delhi over the past few days, dipping from over 105,000 on January 12, to 98,832 the day after that, 79,758 on Friday, 67,624 on Saturday, and 65,621 on Sunday.Jain said that everyone in the city who needs to get a test is being tested.
17-01-2022||Mumbai||Covid-19: Marriage registration service temporarily stopped in Mumbai||In wake of the rising Covid-19 case across the city, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has temporarily suspended the marriage registration service.In a press note by BMC, it said, "Marriage registration service temporarily stopped due to current Covid-19 situation in Mumbai. The service will be restarted soon with the facility of appointment, date, and time.""Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation is also exploring the provision of a video KYC option," informed BMC.Mumbai reported 7,895 new cases of Covid-19 out of 57,534 tests conducted during the last 24 hours.According to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) bulletin, the total number of cases of the disease in Mumbai has gone up to 9,99,862.Eleven people lost their lives due to the virus during the last 24 hours and the death toll has gone up to 16,257. The city has 60,371 active cases.The bulletin said that 21,025 people recovered from the infection in the last 24 hours taking the total number of recoveries to 9,20,383.It said 688 people were hospitalised in the past 24 hours taking the total hospitalisations to 5,722.There are a total of 38,127 beds in Mumbai. The current bed occupancy rate is 15.0 per cent.Meanwhile, Maharashtra reported 41,327 new cases and 29 deaths during the last 24 hours, the state health bulletin said on Sunday.At present as many as 8 Omicron infections were reported in the state taking the case tally to 1,738.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-marriage-registration-service-temporarily-stopped-in-mumbai-101642404816856.html
17-01-2022||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay student dies by suicide after jumping from terrace of hostel building||A 26-year-old student of IIT Bombay committed suicide by jumping off the terrace of his hostel located on the Powai campus here in the early hours on Monday, police said. Prima facie, the deceased student was undergoing treatment for depression, a senior officer said. The deceased student, identified as Darshan Malviya, had written a message on the board in his hostel room, stating that no one should be held responsible for his death, a Powai police station official said. Malviya's body was spotted by a watchman outside the seven-storey hostel building who called up an official of the institute. Later police were informed. Malviya was rushed to a nearby hospital where he was declared dead before admission, the official said. The deceased student, who hailed from Madhya Pradesh, was pursuing a post-graduate course at the prestigious Indian Institute of Technology from last July. His family members were informed about his death, the official said. Police have registered a case of accidental death, said Powai police station senior inspector Budhan Sawant. "The student had written a message on the board in his hostel room which shows he was undergoing treatment for depression. Further investigation is underway,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iit-bombay-student-dies-by-suicide-after-jumping-from-terrace-of-hostel-building-101642402172515.html
17-01-2022||Other||Another leader quits Goa TMC shortly after joining||PANAJI: Former lawmaker Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco on Sunday quit the Trinamool Congress (TMC) a month after joining the Mamata Banerjee-led party, which has been seeking to make inroads into other states after sweeping back to power in West Bengal last summer.This comes days after another former lawmaker Lavoo Mamledar late last month quit the TMC two months after joining it, accusing the party of trying to divide Goans on religious lines by aligning with the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party. In his resignation letter, Lourenco said he was resigning from TMC’s primary membership without specifying any reasons for it.TMC’s Goa in-charge Mahua Moitra said they have received the letter. “We had welcomed him into the party as we have countless others. Now that he wishes to leave, we wish him well.”Lourenco quit the Congress in December saying the TMC was better placed to defeat the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party in the February 14 elections. He said he was joining the TMC to be on the “ruling side” after the elections.Former minister Michael Lobo, who joined the Congress this month, asked Lourenco to re-join the party. “To strengthen the @INCGoa and to boost our purpose of forming [a] Congress government in 2022, I request Reginaldo to join us back,” Lobo tweeted.Also Read | Former Goa lawmaker quits TMC months after joining itCongress said it was “stunned and betrayed” after Lourenco quit the party but vowed to put the “betrayal” behind it and take the party forward.Lourenco hit out at the Congress leadership last month calling it indecisive and slow in taking decisions. State Congress president Girish Chodankar even called Lourenco “unstable”.Lourenco, who was earlier too reported to be disappointed with the Congress’s functioning, seemingly kept differences aside after a call from Rahul Gandhi. He was made the party’s working president after he decided to recommit himself to Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/another-leader-quits-goa-tmc-shortly-after-joining-101642400135832.html
17-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi witnesses cold day conditions, several trains delayed due to fog||With the cold day conditions still prevailing in parts of northern India and a blanket of dense fog engulfing the national capital on Monday morning, Delhiites woke up shivering to yet another chilly day of the season.As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the minimum temperature in the city was recorded at 8 degrees Celsius at 7 am today while the maximum is expected to touch 16 degrees Celsius.Following a dip in visibility, seven Delhi-bound trains are running late due to fog, the Northern Railway informed today.IMD on Sunday predicted severe cold day conditions in the isolated pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, West Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan for the next two days.According to a statement issued by the IMD, dense to very dense fog at isolated places in night and morning hours over the national capital, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan was predicted for the next 24 hours."Cold Day to Severe Cold Day Conditions in some/isolated pockets very likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, West Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan during the next 2 days and over East Uttar Pradesh during the next 3 days," IMD stated.Meanwhile, the air quality in the national capital improved to 'poor' from the 'very poor' category on Monday, with the overall Air Quality Index (AQI) at 262, according to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-witnesses-cold-day-conditions-several-trains-delayed-due-to-fog-101642396336017.html
17-01-2022||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh shuts educational institutions till Jan 23 due to Covid-19 surge||All the educational institutions in Uttar Pradesh have been ordered to remain closed till January 23 due to the rising number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the state. These institutes, however, can continue their learning through the online mode, as per the state government order."Chief Minister @myogiadityanath has given instructions to keep all educational institutions - schools, colleges, universities, technical educational institutions etc. closed till January 23 and study only in online mode," a tweet posted by the chief minister's office on Sunday read.The decision comes after chief minister Adityanath reviewed the Covid-19 situation in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday.Previously, all government and private schools in the state were closed till January 16. Students of classes 11 and 12 were only called for vaccination and schools were allowed to continue online classes for them.Uttar Pradesh is currently placed under a night curfew from 10pm to 6am. Public places like gyms, spas, cinema halls, banquet halls and restaurants have been allowed to operate at 50 per cent capacity.In districts where the number of active cases are over 1,000, not more than 100 people are allowed to participate in wedding ceremonies and other public events.The Covid-19 tally in Uttar Pradesh went up again on Sunday with 17,185 new cases, pushing the caseload to more than 1.8 million, according to the health department's bulletin. Ten deaths were recorded on Sunday, the highest single-day toll in five months while 8,802 more patients recuperated from Covid-19.The active cases in the state crossed the 100,000-mark after over seven months and stood at 103,474, the bulletin showed. The state had 106,276 active cases on May 21, 2021 and 94,482 active cases on May 22.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-shuts-educational-institutions-till-jan-23-due-to-covid-19-surge-101642390258077.html
17-01-2022||Other||NCPCR seeks probe into Darul Uloom Deoband’s fatwas||NEW DELHI: The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has accused Islamic seminary Darul Uloom Deoband of publishing “unlawful” and “misleading” fatwas on its website and sought a thorough investigation into them. It said access to the website may be prevented till the content is removed.The NCPCR, in a letter, to the district magistrate of Saharanpur, which has also been sent to the chief secretary of Uttar Pradesh, on Saturday said it has received a complaint alleging the website carries a list of fatwas that are against the country’s law related to the adoption of children and their rights.“Taking cognizance of the complaint u/s 13 (1) (j) of the Commissions for Protection of Child Rights Act, after pursuing the complaint and examining the website, it was observed that the explanation and answers provided in response to issues raised by the individuals do not align with the Laws and Acts in the country,” the commission said in the letter.It said such statements were contrary to the rights of children and open access to the website was harmful. “Therefore, it is requested that the website of this organization may be thoroughly examined, investigated and any such content should be immediately removed. Further, access to such website may be prevented until the removal of such content for avoiding spread and recurrence of unlawful statements and consequently preventing incidents of violence, abuse, neglect, harassment, discrimination against children,” it said.“Also, action may be taken for violating provisions of the Constitution of India, Indian Penal Code, Juvenile Justice Act, 2015 and Right to Education Act, 2009.” The commission has asked the government to submit a report within 10 days.Darul Uloom Deoband spokesman Ashraf Usmani said they have not received a copy of the letter. “We will comment only after examining the notice.”The Students Islamic Organisation of India issued a statement saying the letter is another attempt to target madrasas and their education by cherry-picking fatwas and sensationalising them. “Fatwas are nothing but personal views of religious scholars on various matters pertaining to personal and social life. In fact, on a given issue, the scholars often have differing opinions and none of them carry any legal sanctity or institutional approval. People are completely free to act according to their own understanding of the religion.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ncpcr-seeks-probe-into-darul-uloom-deoband-s-fatwas-101642394014299.html
17-01-2022||Delhi||Air quality deteriorates to ‘very poor’ category in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The air quality in Delhi deteriorated on Monday to the “very poor” category as a cold day was expected with a maximum temperature of around 16 degrees Celsius. The overall Air Quality Index (AQI) was 311 at 7 am. The average 24-hour AQI at 4 pm on Sunday was 264 in the “poor” category.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”. The AQI in the poor category can lead to breathing discomfort for most people on prolonged exposure.Patna had the second-worst air quality with an AQI of 248 at 7 am. The air quality in Chennai was the best with an AQI of 40.According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research, foggy conditions and gradual increase in wind speed were likely to keep air quality in the “poor” or lower end of the “very poor” category until Tuesday. It added from Wednesday, wind speed is likely to decrease leading to low ventilation of pollutants.The mercury was likely to plunge to 8 degrees Celsius, nearly the same as on Sunday when the maximum temperature was 17 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/air-quality-deteriorates-to-very-poor-category-in-delhi-101642389934548.html
17-01-2022||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal to flag off Delhi's first DTC electric bus today||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will on Monday flag off Delhi Transport Corporation’s (DTC’s) first electric bus. The ceremony will take place at DTC’s Indraprastha’s depot at 12 noon.Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot will be present on the occasion. The electric buses are being rolled out to combat air pollution in the national capital.The prototype bus, which arrived earlier this month, will run on 27-kilometre-long Route E44 (Pragati Maidan to IP Depot via ITO, Safdarjung, Ashram). It has been manufactured by JBM Auto Limited.Fifty more e-buses are expected to be inducted into the DTC fleet next month, when the roll out for mass public transport begins.There are 2,300 total electric buses in the pipeline. Out of these, 1,300 will be procured by the DTC and the rest 1,000 will operate under the cluster scheme.According to Gahlot, e-buses will be added in batches of about 50 every month after the first roll out in February.The Delhi government will equip bus depots with charging stations for these e-buses. This will be done in phases.Further, the DTC will build four “hybrid” bus depots, which will be a combination of electric and CNG buses. These will be the Subhash Place depot, Rajghat depot, Hasanpur depot and Bawana.The plan to induct e-buses in Delhi was first announced in July, 2018. In the future, the Delhi government will procure only electric buses.Meanwhile, in a bid to further enhance public mobility, Kejriwal on Friday flagged off 100 low-floor AC CNG buses, taking the public transport bus fleet size to 6,900.Before this, Delhi saw 6,000 buses in the fleet of Delhi transport department during the 2010 Commonwealth Games.The new AC CNG buses will run from Ghumanhera depot in outer Delhi to cater to Delhi’s rural areas, on nine cluster bus routes in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-to-flag-off-delhi-s-first-dtc-electric-bus-today-101642383295819.html
17-01-2022||Real||Noida twin towers: SC deadline given to Supertech to refund homebuyers ends today||The deadline for real estate company Supertech to return money to the homebuyers of the illegal twin tower ends on Monday, failing which the Supreme Court could send its directors to jail over non-compliance.The apex court had earlier warned the builders to adhere to the decided time frame for demolishing the 40-storey twin towers of its Emerald Court project in Uttar Pradesh's Noida.More than 250 homebuyers are yet to get their refund with interest after over four months having lapsed.In view of the same, the top court took a stringent view and asked the Mumbai-based builders last week to pay back or face jail.“We are going to send your directors to jail. You are playing truant with the Supreme Court.” a bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and AS Bopanna said reviewing its order last Wednesday.On Sunday, Supertech said that it awarded a letter of intent related to demolition of its illegal twin towers, which has sought pollution and environment-related clearances from the Noida Authority."The selection of the demolition agency was done jointly by the Noida Authority as well as the CBRI. As per the analysis by the Noida Authority, the firm is technically sound to carry out the demolition safely," Supertech chairman RK Arora said in a statement.Arora clarified that the demolition firm has sought no objection certificates (NOCs) from different agencies with regard to transportation, storage and use of explosives, environment and pollution control agencies, traffic diversion plans etc, all of which are to be provided by the Noida Authority."On providing the required NOCs by the Noida Authority, the demolition agency will soon chart out schedules for demolition and carry out the same according to directions from the Noida Authority," he had added.The twin towers 'Apex and Ceyane' in Noida Sector 93A were declared illegal by the Supreme Court on August 31, 2021, and the apex court had given three months to the company to demolish and default on refunding the money to the affected homebuyers under the supervision of officials of the Noida Authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/real-estate/noida-twin-towers-sc-deadline-given-to-supertech-to-refund-homebuyers-ends-today-101642379315808.html
17-01-2022||Delhi||Daily tally dips to 10-day low of 18k, positivity at 27.9%||The Covid-19 test positivity rate in Delhi fell for the first time in nearly four weeks on Sunday, as fresh infections in the city dipped for the third straight day, showed data released by the state government.Delhi on Sunday added 18,286 cases of Covid-19, down from 20,718 the previous day, and the fewest in a day since January 7, when the city recorded 17,335 infections.The data showed that 28 people also died of the infection.The case spike on Sunday came on the back of just over 65,000 tests, of which 27.87% samples returned positive results. This number, known as the test positivity rate, dipped from 30.6% on Friday and Saturday, and, on a day-to-day basis, fell for the first time since December 23 last year. Since then, this number has either increased or remained the same every day.To be sure, testing has also dipped in Delhi over the past few days, dipping from over 105,000 tests on January 12, to 98,832 tests the day after that, then 79,758 on Friday, 67,624 on Saturday, and finally 65,621 on Sunday. State health minister Satyendar Jain, however, said that everyone in the city who needs to get a test is being tested.These numbers come even as hospitalisation numbers in the Capital remain a fraction of all infections, with over 82% of all beds free in the city’s medical facilities.According to the government’s Sunday bulletin, just over 2,700 Covid-19 patients are hospitalised, leaving 12,788 of the city’s 15,499 beds free.Of those in hospital, 738 are in intensive care units and 835 others need medical oxygen support, of whom 123 are on ventilators.Jain said most hospitalised Covid-19 patients are either unvaccinated, or have comorbidities.“The trend indicates that the number of cases in Delhi is decreasing, but the government is still keeping a close eye on the Covid cases, and it will take some time to understand the trend. Most of those affected by Covid and admitted in the hospital are either unvaccinated or have comorbid conditions,” said Jain in a media briefing.The minister said Delhi government is prepared to operationalise a total of 37,000 Covid-19 beds. “We can double the number of beds overnight if necessary, but because the number of hospitalised patients is currently so low, the need to increase the number of beds doesn’t look like arising,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/daily-tally-dips-to-10-day-low-of-18k-positivity-at-279-101642371641600.html
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Congress candidate Balbir Sidhu kicks off campaign in Mohali||A day after Congress nominated sitting MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu as its Mohali candidate, the leader on Sunday formally started his election campaign after paying obeisance at Gurdwara Singh Shaheedan in Sohana.“With the almighty’s blessings and Mohali residents’ love, I have been able to perform as per their expectations, which enabled me to get elected continuously since 2007,” said the three-time MLA, adding that this time, too, the Congress will ensure a thumping victory. Talking about his campaign, he said, “We are going into our election campaign with the works performed by us in the past years. Our agenda is very clear. We ensured development and will continue to work relentlessly after winning the polls. It’s now for the public to decide which candidate can actually work for their betterment.” Later, he also attended prayer meetings in Sectors 67 and 68, and paid obeisance at a temple in Phase 7. AAP’s Kulwant Singh visits voters in Phase 3B1, 3B2Former mayor and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) candidate from Mohali, Kulwant Singh, intensified his door-to-door campaign on Sunday. During his visit to houses in Phases 3B1 and 3B2, Kulwant assured voters that AAP’s successful Delhi model will be implemented in Punjab immediately after the party forms its government. He said a large number of Congress workers were fed up with its policies and were switching over to the AAP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-congress-candidate-balbir-sidhu-kicks-off-campaign-in-mohali-101642365939831.html
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||At 11°C, Sunday was Chandigarh’s coldest January day since 2016||The city’s maximum temperature dropped to 11°C on Sunday, 10.1 degrees below normal, making it the coldest January day since 2016, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Similar weather conditions are likely to continue through the week and rain is also on the cards towards the weekend.As per IMD records, Chandigarh had last recorded a maximum temperature of 11°C only on January 21, 2016. Interestingly, Sunday’s day temperature was equivalent to the 11°C minimum temperature recorded on Friday.Several hill stations in Himachal Pradesh were warmer than the city. While Shimla’s maximum temperature was 14.5°C, the mercury was 13.1°C in Dalhousie and 19°C in Dharamshala. IMD Chandigarh director Manmohan Singh said the city’s maximum temperature stayed so low on Sunday primarily due to fog, while the weather was clear in the hills. “We have not had any sun for the past few days, so mercury has been going down steadily,” he added. Visibility stayed between 500-1,000 metres (moderate fog) through the day.IMD also classified Sunday as a “severe cold day”. It is declared in the plains when the minimum temperature is below 10°C and the maximum temperature goes over 6.5 degrees below normal. Chances for cold days and severe cold days will continue in the coming days. “While a fresh western disturbance will affect the region from Friday and bring along some rain, it is unlikely to have any effect on the day temperature and cold days will continue,” Singh said.Meanwhile, though Sunday’s day temperature was 2.6 notches lower than Saturday’s 13.6°C, the minimum temperature rose slightly from 8.1°C to 8.2°C in the past 24 hours and was 2.5 degrees above normal. In the next three days, the maximum temperature may rise to around 15°C, but the minimum temperature will remain around 9°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-11-c-sunday-was-chandigarh-s-coldest-january-day-since-2016-101642365938581.html
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Two years on, Ambala man held for assaulting CTU conductor||Almost two years after a CTU bus conductor was assaulted during an argument over ticket fare, police have arrested the accused passenger. The accused, Sunil Kumar, hails from Ambala. He was arrested on the complaint of Kuldeep Singh, a conductor with the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU). Singh had alleged that on February 2, 2020, Sunil had boarded the bus from Sector 22 to visit PGIMER. As the bus reached his destination, Sunil told Singh that he neither gave him a ticket nor returned his balance money. As Singh claimed that he had already handed him the ticket and balance, an argument ensued. Singh alleged that during the altercation, Sunil hurled abuses at him and hit him with his tiffin box. He also hit him on the head and face, and tore his uniform. He was admitted at PGIMER for his injuries and after recovering, lodged a complaint at the public window. Following preliminary investigation and legal opinion, police registered a case under Sections 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 11 police station, and arrested Sunil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-years-on-ambala-man-held-for-assaulting-ctu-conductor-101642365936788.html
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Local SAD leaders up in arms against Mohali ticket to Sohana||Shiromani Akali Dal’s (SAD) decision to pick Parvinder Singh Sohana, 41, as its candidate from Mohali for the upcoming state assembly elections has not gone down well with the local leaders.Strongly opposing Sohana’s candidature, they said the party did not take their views before giving him a ticket and they will hold a meeting on Monday to decide the further course of action.Avtar Singh Mauli, SAD leader and block samiti member from Mauli Baidwan, said the party allotted the ticket without consulting any member. “Sohana is not acceptable to us, we oppose his candidature,” he said.Stating that all local leaders were upset with the decision, Gurmeet Singh Shampur, senior vice-president of SAD’s BC cell, Mohali, said on Monday, around 30 leaders, including sarpanches, block samiti and zila parishad members, will hold a meeting regarding this, followed by a media interaction.Another senior Akali leader, on the condition of anonymity, said several senior leaders met on Sunday as well and decided to convey their dejection to party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal. “How can the party give the ticket to a traitor, who deserted the party?” he questioned.On the other hand, speaking to HT, Sohana said there can be differences in a family, but these will be sorted out. “SAD will put up a united face and win the elections with a thumping majority,” he said.A former Labourfed chairman, Sohana, who was holding the post of Youth Akali Dal (Mohali) president, left the SAD in January last year before the municipal corporation elections, owing to differences with former member of Parliament Prem Singh Chandumajra.He joined hands with the Azad group, led by former mayor Kulwant Singh, following which the SAD expelled him from the party. In the elections, the Azad group won 11 of the total 50 seats, with his wife, Harjinder Kaur, being one of the group’s winning candidates. While 37 seats went to Congress, the SAD drew a blank.Later in October last year, Sohana, along with his wife and supporters, returned to the SAD in the presence of party president Sukhbir Singh Badal, who assured him and his team members due honour and recognition in the party.
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid snuffs out 8 lives in Chandigarh tricity; 1,831 positive in Mohali in new record||Covid-19 claimed eight lives in the tricity on Sunday, its highest-single day toll since June 2021, even as Mohali reported a record high of 1,831 cases.As many as five of the latest fatalities were reported from Mohali alone, two from Panchkula and one from Chandigarh.A one-year-old girl from Balongi was among the casualties in Mohali. She was admitted at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh.Two senior citizens, aged 86 and 73, residents of Phase 4 and Sector 91, respectively, died at Cheema Hospital in Phase 4. A 64-year-old man from Dhakoli, Zirakpur, died at a hospital in Sohana, while a 59-year-old man from Dera Bassi succumbed at PGIMER, Chandigarh.The two deceased patients in Panchkula were two men, aged 59 and 76, residents of Bhogpur village and Sector 26, respectively. The elderly man was diabetic, while the other patient had also suffered a cerebrovascular accident.The casualty reported in Chandigarh was a 38-year-old man from Sector 25, who was brought dead at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, 16, and found positive for the virus. With this, the total Covid-related deaths in Chandigarh have reached 1,087 – highest in the tricity. Mohali’s toll stands at 1,085, while Panchkula has recorded 384 deaths till date.Tricity’s daily tally hits new high for fifth straight day Apart from 1,831 cases in Mohali, 1,358 people tested positive in Chandigarh and 718 in Panchkula, taking tricity’s daily tally to 3,907, highest till date.In some respite, Chandigarh’s daily count was lower than 1,794 cases the day before. However, Panchkula’s cases were higher than 510 on Saturday.Since January 12, tricity’s daily cases have been hitting new records daily.While during the second wave last year, the cases had peaked to 2,612 on May 10, the tricity surpassed that mark with 2,822 cases on January 12. The record-breaking streak has continued since with 2,956 cases on January 13; 3,490 on January 14 and 3,802 on January 15.At the beginning of the month, the single-day tally was 125, indicating a 31-fold spike in positive patients in the first 16 days of the month.Two in five people tested positive in MohaliAs Mohali’s cases hit a fresh peak for the second consecutive day, after 1,497 infections on Saturday, the district’s positivity rate also soared to 41%, meaning two in every five people tested for the virus had it.Panchkula’s positivity rate also climbed once again from 22.2% to 35% in the past 24 hours, while the figure dropped from 26.7% to 22.4% in Chandigarh, but still remained concerning for authorities.As many as 815 cases in Mohali district surfaced in Mohali city alone, followed by 591 in Dera Bassi and 425 in Kharar. A large chunk of the infections in Panchkula were reported from Kalka, Mansa Devi Complex, Pinjore, Sectors 10 to 21, and Sectors 2, 4, 6 and 9. Tricity’s active cases near 20,000 With the latest infections, tricity’s active cases shot up from 18,120 on Saturday to 19,852 on Sunday, a figure last recorded during May last year, amid the peak of second wave.Chandigarh is leading the active caseload with 9,203 patients still infected, followed by 7,804 in Mohali and 2,845 in Panchkula.Till date, Chandigarh has reported 77,628 Covid cases, including 67,338 recoveries.In Mohali, 79,524 have contracted the virus since the beginning of the pandemic and 70,635 have beaten it. Among 36,555 people found infected in Panchkula so far, 33,326 have been cured.Contact rapid response teams for assistance in ChandigarhThe UT health department on Sunday released a list of emergency contact numbers (see box) where residents can get Covid-related help. The numbers belong to rapid response teams (RRT) of various government hospitals, which will handle the cases in their respective zones and visit patients’ houses in case of emergency. Each RRT comprises doctors, nurses and paramedical staff for efficient healthcare support.Apart from these numbers, helpline 1075 is also functional at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, where also healthcare staff will remain available round the clock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-snuffs-out-8-lives-in-chandigarh-tricity-1-831-positive-in-mohali-in-new-record-101642365934445.html
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Biker, cyclist killed in hit-and-run accidents in Mohali||Hit-and-run accidents claimed two lives in Mohali on Saturday night.A 26-year-old man was crushed to death after a truck rammed into his motorcycle in front of ATS bridge in Balongi.A civil engineer, the deceased, Nitin Sharma, lived in Zirakpur. According to police, he was returning from Kharar after work when a truck hit his motorcycle and ran over him, before speeding away. In another accident, a speeding car drove off after hitting a 45-year-old cyclist, who was later declared dead at the Mohali civil hospital.The deceased, Harkesh Kumar Kumar, was a resident of Sector 56, Chandigarh, and worked as a security guard in Industrial Area, Mohali. He was cycling to work around 8pm when the accident took place.Separate cases have been registered against the absconding truck and car drivers under Sections 304-A (causing death due to negligence), 279 (rash driving) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code.After post-mortem examination, police handed over the bodies to the family members.Police are scanning CCTV footage from the respective areas to track down the accused.22-year-old woman run over by train 
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||PU: Shopkeepers continue protest over non-fulfilment of demands||The Panjab University Shopkeepers Association took out a protest march at the PU market on Sunday demanding fulfilment of their demands.This comes a day after the shopkeepers skipped an online meeting with PU authorities. The traders insisted that a physical meeting be held instead.They are demanding that in case of lease deed transfer, the rent be charged as per the deed instead of being increased exorbitantly. The shopkeepers are also demanding that as classes are suspended at the varsity amid the pandemic, they should get at least 50% rebate on the lines of other universities.MORE NEWS IN BRIEFSCitizens Collective submits recommendations on air qualityClean Air Punjab- a citizen’s collective working on air pollution, along with EcoSikh, in collaboration with over 50 prominent citizen groups from across the state, has submitted a detailed set of recommendations to all political parties ahead of elections on February 14. On behalf of Clean Air Punjab, Gurpreet Singh, member of the Punjab Development Forum and director of United Sikhs, submitted a dossier containing all the recommendations to tackle air pollution to Daljit Singh Cheema, SAD spokesperson and former education minister; Aman Arora, AAP MLA from Sunam and Partap Singh Bajwa, Rajya Sabha MP and senior Congress leader. Patiala man held with 300-gram opiumThe district crime cell of Chandigarh Police has arrested a resident of Patiala with 300-gram opium in Sector 45. The accused has been identified as Gamdur Singh, 55. A drugs case has been registered against him at Sector 34 police station. Sec 38 man held for theft bidA resident of Sector 38 has been arrested for stealing the stepney from the car of a Sector 36 man. The accused ha been identified as Vikas Chauhan. The FIR has been lodged based on the statement of Hari Singh. A case under Sections 379 and 451 of IPC was registered at Sector 36 police station. Sec-29 man held for stealing AirpodsA resident of Sector 29 has been arrested for stealing Apple Airpods Pro from a resident of Sector 35. The accused has been identified as Mohit. The complaint was lodged by Sanjeev Kumar of Sector 35. A theft case has been registered at the Sector 36 police station.Minor fire at OPD of Advanced Trauma CentreA minor fire broke out at the OPD of PGIMER’s Advance Trauma Centre, leaving a hospital attendant with first degree burns. The incident too placed when the attendant was opening an oxygen cylinder. and the situation was brought under control quickly. The matter is being investigated by the fire officer, PGIMER.Faculty development programme ends A six-day online faculty development program on “advances in pharmaceutical research” organised by Aryans College of Pharmacy, Rajpura, concluded on Sunday. The programme was sponsored by All India Council of Technical Education (AICTE), New Delhi and Maharaja Ranjeet Singh Punjab Technical University (MRSPTU), Bathinda. The chief guest of the valedictory programme was Indu Pal Kaur, chairperson of the University institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (UIPS), Panjab University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-shopkeepers-continue-protest-over-non-fulfilment-of-demands-101642365819264.html
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Under-19 cricket World Cup: Chandigarh’s Rajangad Bawa off to blistering start||Giving away 17 runs in the first over that he bowled for India against South Africa in the ongoing U-19 World Cup in the West Indies was not an ideal start for medium-pacer Rajangad Bawa. The South African side was chasing a target of 232 and the 19-year-old Chandigarh lad was bowling against Valentine Kitime and Dewald Brevis in the 11th over of the innings. After the shaky start, Bawa was taken out of the bowling attack.Having tried all bowlers till the 35th over in order to get Brevis’ wicket, Indian captain Yash Dhull called on Bawa again. This time, he made full use of the opportunity, as he took Brevis’ wicket. He added three more wickets to his kitty after that, ensuring that the Proteas were bundled out for 187 runs in 45.4 overs. Bawa took the scalps of South African captain George Van Heerden, along with Andile Simelane and the last man Aphiwe Mnyanda. “The South Africans did well to restrict us at 232 and it was up to the bowlers to do their job. They had come with a plan and done their homework too. I was disappointed after the first over and after that, I analysed the South African batters and bowled a tight spell in order to contain them. In the process, they gave away their wickets and fell short of the target. Our spinners did a fine job,” the city lad said. “I want to improve my economy in the upcoming matches. The pitches in the Caribbean are somewhat similar to India,” added Bawa, who forms the quick bowling attack along with Rajvardhan Hangargekar and Ravi Kumar. He was also involved in an important 35-run batting partnership with captain Yash Dhull before he departed for 13. Bawa was part of the India team that won the Asia Cup in the UAE and had taken eight wickets, including four against Pakistan. Grandson of Indian hockey Olympian Tarlochan Singh, Bawa owes his success to his coach and father Sukhwinder Bawa, who even trained Yuvraj Singh in the 90s along with other first-class domestic cricketers in Chandigarh. Emulating his father, Bawa picked up quick bowling and is a useful middle-order left-handed batter. “I was just four when I lost my grandfather. As I grew up, I got to know about his achievements. He is an inspiration for me and I want to play for India like him. My hero is Yuvraj Singh. I want to be like him and become a successful all-rounder,” said Bawa, who wants to help India win the U-19 World Cup like Yuvraj Singh did in 2000 and keep the promise he made to his 92-year-old grandmother Bhupinder Kaur Bawa. “I see a great resolve in my son as I had seen in Yuvi back in the 90s. He has been training hard since the last four years and making the India U-19 team for the World Cup was on his mind since then. He should be taking plenty of wickets in the tournament and also score quick runs,” said Sukhwinder.Bawa earlier played for Punjab U-19 but shifted to Chandigarh when UT Cricket Association got BCCI affiliation back in 2019. Bawa was disappointed when there was no tournament for the U-19 cricketers due to the pandemic.“It was very frustrating not being able to go out in the nets regularly and not get a chance to play in the Cooch Behar Trophy and the Vinoo Mankad Trophy. Then, the U-19 world cup was pushed to 2022. I practised hard with my father in the two years,” said Bawa. India takes on Ireland in their next game on January 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/under19-cricket-world-cup-chandigarh-s-rajangad-bawa-off-to-blistering-start-101642364915516.html
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir: One police official, civilian injured in grenade attack in Srinagar||Two persons, including a policeman, were injured in a grenade blast by suspected militants in Old City Srinagar on Sunday evening.Police said that the grenade was lobbed through a lane in the Safa Kadal area of the Old City towards security forces but it did not hit the intended target.“It did not fall much far away from the lane and caused minor splinter injuries to a passer-by and a policeman deployed there,” said SSP, Srinagar, Rakesh Balawal.Both injured were taken to the SMHS Hospital in Old City.The medical superintendent of the SMHS Hospital, Dr Kanwaljeet Singh said both injured were stable.“The policeman has splinter injuries in his chest while the civilian was injured in his legs,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-one-police-official-civilian-injured-in-grenade-attack-in-srinagar-101642364792051.html
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir records 3,499 Covid cases, 6 deaths; highest infections in Srinagar||Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday witnessed six Covid-induced deaths and 3,499 infections, the highest daily surge of cases after May 21. The daily infection count increased by 7.6 percent over Saturday’s 3,251cases. The last time the UT had recorded six Covid-related deaths was on July 6. The officials said record 74,593 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT. The authorities have been conducting between 42,000 and 56,000 average daily tests every month from May to December.Of the total infections on Sunday, Kashmir valley saw 2,289 infections and three fatalities while 1,210 cases and three deaths were reported in the Jammu division.Jammu division’s Jammu district reported the highest 556 cases followed by 163 in Kathua and 126 in Udhampur.Kashmir valley witnessed the highest 614 cases in the summer capital Srinagar followed by 463 cases in Baramulla, 404 in Budgam and 230 in Anantnag. The authorities have imposed restrictions over weekends in view of the surging pandemic. Jammu district has the highest number of Covid active cases at 3,843 followed by Srinagar and Baramulla districts with 3,332 and 2,247 active cases, respectively.The union territory has been witnessing a steep rise in novel Coronavirus cases since January 5.As many as 2,456 cases were detected on Friday, 1,996 cases on Thursday, 1,695 cases on Wednesday and 1,148 on Tuesday. From January 5 to 10, the union territory saw between 400 to 700 cases daily.The first four days of January had recorded daily cases ranging between 165 and 199 while in December the union territory had reported 143 average cases daily.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 470 with active positive cases reaching 15,883.The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 33,419 vaccine doses were administered taking overall doses administered in the UT to 1.985 crore.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,38,923 prompting the recovery rate to reach 94.30%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,59,373 and the death toll has reached 4,567.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,169 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 886 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-records-3-499-covid-cases-6-deaths-highest-infections-in-srinagar-101642364731927.html
17-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi govt intensifies Covid enforcement, 466 teams on ground||The Delhi government has intensified enforcement against violations of Covid-appropriate behaviour amid the city’s fifth wave of infections, with 466 teams collecting overs ₹1 crore across 11 districts on Saturday alone, showed data accessed by HT.Each team comprises an executive magistrate and four civil defence volunteers, and are split between stationary and mobile units.Only around 150 enforcement teams were deployed across the city before the Omicron-fuelled surge hit Delhi in mid-December last year.On Saturday, these teams imposed fines worth over ₹1.02 crore, after issuing 5,210 challans for violations of Covid-appropriate behaviour (including flouting mask norms, spitting in public, among others).Most of these fines were imposed in East district ( ₹14.4 lakh), followed by South-East district ( ₹13.4 lakh), North ( ₹12.9 lakh), and Central district ( ₹12.3 lakh).According to a government document seen by HT, there were 396 such enforcement teams in the city on December 15, 10 days after the Capital reported its first confirmed Omicron case. On that day, the 11 districts together issued around 3,500 challans for violations of mandated Covid mitigation norms.The number of enforcement team increased to 425 by January 1, when cases were increasing rapidly. This number further increased to 466 by January 14, and the number of daily challans increased to 5,769.A revenue department official said district magistrates are empowered to designate any official, including teachers, as an executive magistrate. “Many teachers, tehsildars and other revenue department officials have been designated as executive magistrates,” said the official who asked not to be named.Mobile teams fan out across a district, with a focus on areas prone to crowding, like inter-state bus terminals, markets and railway stations.Stationary teams, meanwhile, are deployed in crowd-prone locations like some of the city’s popular markets.“The need for more teams was necessitated in the days before New Year, when markets started swelling with crowds and it was getting difficult to maintain distancing and mask discipline,” said a district official, who also asked not to be named.Another district official said regular meetings are being held with all stakeholders, including the police, civic bodies, market groups and resident welfare associations, among others.“There is a sharp focus on enforcing Covid-appropriate behaviour at public places, especially during peak gathering hours. Further, awareness material has been placed near the enforcement teams’ pickets and prominently displayed at places of mass assemblage,” said a district official.However, enforcement officials on the ground said people are often less than cooperative.A member of an enforcement team recently deployed at Lajpat Nagar market said the unit faced several difficulties in enforcing the norms, and were rebuffed when they tried to fine people.“At times, people refuse to pay on the spot, saying they don’t have cash on hand. Occasionally, defaulters get aggressive if we try to penalise them and give us excuses for not adhering to protocols. Some people also refuse to provide identification proof,” said the official, adding that they often need police personnel to help them out.Experts said people should not discontinue Covid-appropriate behaviour, even when the case curve flattens.“The number of cases has dipped for the last three days... The peak of the curve has already been hit and further restrictions may not be beneficial. The government should now start lifting restrictions imposed on business activities and individuals’ movement after watching the trend for a couple of more days. People, however, must be encouraged to continue to follow appropriate behaviour like wearing masks in public places and maintaining social distancing. Authorities should continue to ensure that people do not violate such standards,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday said the state’s enforcement norms have proved to be beneficial. “People should continue to follow all Covid protocols and take necessary precautions like wearing masks for safety and to maintain social distance when entering public places,” he said in a briefing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-intensifies-covid-enforcement-466-teams-on-ground-101642364432437.html
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Only 3 percent of Ludhiana’s eligible teens vaccinated against Covid so far||Even as the administration has been appealing to residents to get vaccinated at the earliest in view of the fresh surge in Covid cases, only 3% of the eligible population in the 15-18 age group have so far turned up to get inoculated. The vaccination drive for this group began on January 3. As per the health department, there are about 2.15 lakh teens in the 15-18 age group but only 7,604 (3.54%) have been vaccinated until Sunday. The reason for the slow start to teen vaccinations is being attributed to hesitancy, both among the teens as well as their parents. Due to the low response, the administration has also decreased the number of teen vaccination sites from 15 to six, though officials say the number will be increased in the coming days if more teens start showing up. Jitesh, a BRS Nagar resident, said, “I have an 18-year-old son and a 15-year-old nephew. Though both are eligible for vaccination, we have decided to wait for some time and observe. We are apprehensive since the vaccination anyways does not guarantee that we won’t be infected once jabbed.” Simar, 17, a resident of Model Town, said, “I had gone for vaccination on January 3. Though the administration had promised to set up separate centres for children, there was a heavy rush at the centre on the day, so we decided to return home. Now, we are staying put as the Covid cases are increasing and we fear that we may get infected when we go for vaccination. The department should set up special camps at school for teens.”Civil surgeon Dr SP Singh said the department is working to spread awareness among the 15-18 age group and the education department has also been roped in to motivate the eligible students. “Children are more active on social networks so they pick up all sorts of information online. The state government is planning to organise vaccination camps in schools. The number of vaccination camps for the 15-18 age group is less these days because of the low response. The number of camps will be increased depending on the demand,” said Dr Singh. Non-approval of Covaxin by other countries also a hurdleDr Singh said that only Covaxin is being administered to children as per the government guidelines. The department had also received queries from children and their parents on whether Covaxin is approved by other countries like Canada, Australia, USA etc, as many children in this category move abroad nowadays. There are some countries that have not yet given approval to Covaxin and that matter has to be taken up at Union government level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/only-3-percent-of-ludhiana-s-eligible-teens-vaccinated-against-covid-so-far-101642364312209.html
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Editors Guild of India, Mumbai Press Club condemn ‘coup’ at Kashmir Press Club||Country’s prominent journalists’ bodies, including the Editors Guild of India (EGI) and the Mumbai Press Club (MPC), on Sunday came out in support of the elected management of the Kashmir Press Club (KPC), a day after it was taken over by a small ‘disgruntled’ group of mediapersons flanked by the police.The group on Sunday locked the club triggering outrage among the journalistic fraternity of Kashmir.“The club has been shut down on Sunday and this has anguished scores of its members who have been calling me. The KPC has continued to operate during the toughest times. I urge the L-G of J&K to intervene for the welfare of members and ensure the institution is allowed to function democratically,” said the president of the club, Shuja ul Haq in a statement.The EGI and the MPC condemned what they said was the forcible takeover of the Kashmir Press Club by a group of journalists with the help of armed policemen.The EGI termed the takeover of the club as a ‘coup’, demanded immediate restoration of the status quo which existed before the ‘hostile’ takeover and also wanted an independent inquiry as to how armed forces entered the club premises.“The Editors Guild of India is aghast at the manner in which the office and the management of the Kashmir Press Club, the largest journalists’ association in the Valley, was forcibly taken over by a group of journalists with the help of armed policemen on January 15, 2022,” the EGI said in a statement.On Saturday a group of journalists led by Mohammad Salim Pandit, working with a national daily, and flanked by police entered the Kashmir Press Club in Srinagar and declared themselves to be the new interim body of the KPC, which will hold elections for the new club.Although the 2-year-term of 11-member executive and management body of the 300-member strong club, which was elected in 2019, had ended last year in July but they said they could not conduct fresh elections immediately owing to mandatory re-registration of the club which was asked by the authorities.The takeover by the ‘disgruntled’ group, alleged to be supported by the local administration, had come a day after the administration suspended the KPC’s re-registration certificate - which had been issued by the authorities after seven months on December 29 - following an adverse CID report. The re-registration was suspended after the club’s elected interim body on January 13 had decided to initiate the process of fresh elections and also announced the date.Nine journalists’ bodies of Kashmir, including the elected Kashmir Press Club body, have termed the takeover as “illegal and arbitrary”. The head of the ‘disgruntled’ group Salim Pandit said that the term of the present press club had expired in July and the club was in a “mess”.The EGI said it was alarmed by the “arbitrary order” of putting the registration of the KPC in “abeyance” as the club’s interim management had announced an election for a new management body as well as the executive committee.The Mumbai Press Club also criticised the forcible takeover of the KPC and deplored the J&K administration’s ‘scuttling’ the club’s election process.On Saturday, former Jammu and Kashmir chief ministers Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti blamed the BJP’s policies for undermining and demolishing the free press in Kashmir and blamed some journalists for forcibly taking over the Kashmir Press Club with help of the administration.Reacting to the statements of the EGI and the MPC, the group said that instead of adhering to journalistic standards of verifying the other side of the story, the bodies came up with a “half-baked and sensational statement as if ”some government-sponsored coup” had really taken place.” The group said it was open to any scrutiny over the interim takeover but that “bias in issuance of statements without verification of ground reality amounts to nothing but malicious propaganda.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/editors-guild-of-india-mumbai-press-club-condemn-coup-at-kashmir-press-club-101642364191754.html
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Himachal sees over three-fold increase in Covid infections in a week; highest cases in Kangra||Himachal Pradesh saw a massive spike in its Covid trajectory with the state reporting over 11,000 infections last week as compared to just 3,069 cases reported the week before — over a three-fold increase.The positivity rate has shot up to nearly 8% which indicates the rapid spread of the virus in the state.As per the health department data, Himachal reported a total of 11,280 fresh infections between January 10-16 compared to 3,069 infections between January 3-9 — a rise of more than 260%.A total of 3,480 recoveries were reported in the last week while nine people have succumbed to the infection.There has been a three-fold increase in the active cases which have gone up from 3,148 to 11,000 adding up more than 7,500 new cases in a week.Kangra reported the highest 2,164 fresh infections during this period while the week before the most populous district had recorded 980 cases.The industrial district of Solan added up 1,882 new cases in its tally while Shimla saw 1,628 new cases. Mandi, Hamirpur and Una are the other three districts having recorded more than 1,000 cases. As many as 1,082 cases were reported from Mandi, 1,056 from Hamirpur and 1,051 from Una in a week. The lowest 22 cases were reported from Lahaul-Spiti.More than 80,000 tests were conducted in the state and the positivity rate has shot up to 14% from 6.6% a week before. It was only 1% in the last week of December.1,076 fresh casesMeanwhile, a total of 1,076 people were detected positive for the virus taking the state’s total tally to 2,43,365 while the death toll mounted to 3,874 after two patients succumbed to the contagion.A low number of infections were reported as the state conducted about half the tests (5,777) compared to Saturday (11,554). Maximum 213 cases were reported from Shimla, 193 from Shimla, 152 from Kangra, 133 from Sirmaur, 128 from Mandi, 80 from Una, 62 from Hamirpur, 47 from Bilaspur, 41 from Kullu, 23 from Chamba, three from Kinnaur and one from Lahaul-Spiti.Active cases have jumped to 11,000 while recoveries reached 2,28,454 after 624 people recuperated. Kangra remains the worst-hit district with its case tally reaching 55,568 followed by Mandi 33,366 and Shimla 30,156.
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Six killed, five injured in three road accidents in Chamba, Mandi and Shimla districts||Six persons were killed and five injured in three separate road accidents in Chamba, Mandi and Shimla districts on Sunday. The first mishap was reported from Salooni subdivision of Chamba district where three people were killed and one injured after the car they were travelling in skidded off the road and fell down several metres near Bhalei Mata Temple. The deceased have been identified as Bashir Ahmed, Iqbal and Bashir Sheikh, residents of Poonch district, Jammu and Kashmir. Injured Ghulam Nabi has been shifted to the Pandit Jawahar Lal Nehru Government Medical, Chamba, and his condition is stated to be serious. Salooni deputy superintendent of police Mayank Chaudhary said prima facie the driver lost control over the wheel while negotiating a sharp curve. The bodies of the deceased have been sent for an autopsy. The police have registered a case of rash and negligent driving and causing death due to negligence and further investigations are on. The local administration has given an immediate relief of ₹10,000 each to the kin of the deceased and ₹5,000 to the injured. In another accident reported from the Aut area of Mandi district, a couple was killed and their three children, two daughters and a son, were injured when the car they were travelling in skidded off the road and plunged into a gorge. The deceased have been identified as Gopal Singh, 32, and his wife Dimple Kumari, 30. One of the seriously injured children has been referred to the PGI, Chandigarh. Mandi additional superintendent of police Ashish Sharma said a case has been registered and investigations were on. The bodies of the deceased have been handed over to the family after conducting an autopsy. The third incident happened in Nagadhar of the Nankhari area in Shimla district in which one person was killed and another injured after a pick-up truck slipped on the snow and rolled down a gorge. The deceased has been identified as Gulab Singh of Nenaseri village. The injured has been admitted to Nankhari hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/six-killed-five-injured-in-three-road-accidents-in-chamba-mandi-and-shimla-districts-101642364133404.html
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||CM Jai Ram Thakur inaugurates 9th National Ice Hockey Championship at Kaza||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur inaugurated the 9th National Ice Hockey Championship-2022 at the Ice Skating Rink, Kaza, in Lahaul-Spiti district on Sunday. Speaking on the occasion, the chief minister said it was for the first time that the national-level ice hockey competition and development camp was being held in Himachal Pradesh.He said ice hockey was one of the most popular winter sports in the world.Thakur said the championship would also boost the tourism development in the region besides promoting ice hockey amongst the younger generation.He said ice hockey was quite popular in Uttarakhand, Ladakh, Kashmir and other Himalayan states.“Here also it would give a boost to tourism development in this remote hinterland,” said the chief minister, adding that teams from Himachal Pradesh, Telangana, Ladakh, ITBP Ladakh, Chandigarh and Delhi were participating in this mega sports event.Thakur said the first basic ice hockey 10-day coaching camp was organised at Kaza in 2019 by the state youth services and sports department in collaboration with the Ladakh Women Ice Hockey Foundation.He said the state government has announced the high-altitude sports centre in Kaza with an estimated cost of ₹16 crore. He said skate boots have been provided by the department of youth services and sports for training players at a cost of ₹27 lakh and ice rinks have been developed by the administration on a small scale in Lidang, Sagnam, Losar, Tabo and Hikmi. He announced ₹31,000 from his discretionary fund for the students of a local school for their cultural performance. Thakur said the state government has recently given approval to the Swarna Jayanti Sports Policy, 2021, to give a boost to sports activities in the state. He said under the new policy, 3% reservation would be provided to sportspersons in government jobs and the diet money for them has also been enhanced more than double.Under the revised policy, prize money of ₹3 crore would be given for winning a gold medal in Olympics, Winter Olympics or Paralympics. He said that the silver medallist will be given ₹2crore and the bronze medallist ₹1 crore, he said.Besides, ₹15 lakh would be given for participating in the Olympics, Winter Olympics, and Paralympics while Asian and Commonwealth medal winners would be given pension and Arjuna Award, Dhyan Chand Award and Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna award holders would get a monthly salary, he added.Tribal development and information technology minister Ram Lal Markanda said that adequate provision has been made in the tribal budget and special focus was being laid on creating infrastructure in tribal areas.The inaugural match was played between Delhi and Himachal, in which Delhi won 4-0. In the second match, Chandigarh won over Telangana 1-0.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cm-jai-ram-thakur-inaugurates-9th-national-ice-hockey-championship-at-kaza-101642364131705.html
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Jai Ram Thakur to inaugurate Dharamshala-McLeodganj ropeway on January 19||Aimed at giving a fillip to the tourism and ease traffic problems, the aerial ropeway connecting Dharamshala and McLeodganj would be inaugurated by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on January 19, Dharamshala MLA Vishal Nehria said on Sunday.Addressing a press conference here, Nehria said apart from the ropeway, the chief minister would also inaugurate a war museum and two parking lots near the deputy commissioner’s office and a new building of the Regional Forensic Science Lab.Envisaged in 2013, the ropeway project got final approval from the government on February 13, 2015, and the letter of intent was issued in favour of Tata Realty and Infrastructure Limited in the same year.The foundation stone of the project was laid on January 16, 2016, by the then chief minister Virbhadra Singh.The project was supposed to come up by the end of 2018 but was missed the deadline due to the delay in forest clearances which came on June 1, 2017.A total of 2.24 hectares of land was earmarked for the ropeway project out of which 1.69-hectare was forestland. As many as 439 trees were felled for the project.The Mono-cable Detachable Gondola (cabin) System ropeway with 18-24 cabins and capacity of ferrying 1,000 persons per hour, was expected to be operational in June 2020 but was again delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Meanwhile, Nehria said the clearance under the Forest Conservation Act (FCA) for the Dharamshala bus stand has also been received and the work on the project would start soon. He said the Dharamshala bus stand would be the first terminal in the state to have a charging station for electric buses.He said a ₹300-crore international convention centre is also proposed to come up in the hill town which will further boost tourism activities in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jai-ram-thakur-to-inaugurate-dharamshala-mcleodganj-ropeway-on-january-19-101642364072115.html
17-01-2022||Other||Stones pelted at Shatabdi in Jalandhar||Jalandhar The Railways Protection Force (RPF) arrested five persons on Sunday for pelting stones on the Shatabdi Express in Jalandhar on Saturday night. A spokesperson of the Ferozepur division of Northern Railways said the incident happended when the train left Jalandhar to go to Amritsar.The RPF rushed to the spot and rounded off three people, Ritik, Ragavand and Deepak on the spot. “Fifteen window panes of the train were damaged, but no one was injured,” he said. A release from the divisional office said, “On interrogation, it was revealed that this incident is the outcome of rivalry between two gangs of local area Qazimandi near Jalandhar City Railway station.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/stones-pelted-at-shatabdi-in-jalandhar-101642363771748.html
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Sustainable Development Goals Summit concludes||The three-day Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Summit 2022 organised in collaboration with United Nations Information Centres (UNIC) for India and Bhutan and Aspirant learning concluded at Sacred Heart Senior Secondary School in Sector 26 on Sunday.The opening ceremony was presided over by Vivek Atray, former IAS officer and motivational speaker, who congratulated the school’s principal, sister Arti, for the success of the summit. Bhawani Shankar Tripathy, global consultant in communication with UNICEF, New York, was the guest of honour.The opening segment featured a Model United Nations and debate where the panelists deliberated on how gender equality and empowerment of women and girls is integral. Around 700 students from 33 schools across India participated in a variety of activities that were held over three days.For the closing ceremony, Shyam Kapoor, regional officer of Central Board of Secondary Education, Chandigarh, was the chief guest. The guest of honour, Kiran Bedi, former lieutenant governor of the UT of Puducherry, interacted with the participants and reminisced about her time at Sacred Heart and the United Nations in New York as the police adviser to the secretary-general and in the department of peacekeeping operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-sustainable-development-goals-summit-concludes-101642363711573.html
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||CHB flats: Chandigarh mayor promises to take up RWAs’ issues on need-based changes with admn||The three recently appointed non-official members of the Chandigarh Housing Board’s (CHB’s) board of directors, Hitesh Puri of Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED), former mayor Poonam Sharma and architect Surinder Bahga called for a meeting with representatives of the residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) of CHB complexes at the Sector 40 community centre on Sunday. Chandigarh mayor Sarabjit Kaur was also present at the meeting.Speaking at the meeting, the mayor listened to the problems regarding need-based changes raised by the RWAs and said she will take up the issues with the administration.While Bahga was unable to attend the meeting, both Puri and Sharma were present. Puri spoke about the Delhi model, which many CHB associations have demanding for many years. “The officials have ruled out the possibility of implementing a Delhi model in Chandigarh, as it has led to problems in Delhi. But, we have been asked to develop a different model to solve the issue of need-based changes.”Former mayor Sharma added, “In the previous years, we have organised many protests to make the administration aware of these issues. The time has come to ask for our right. We will also talk to Member of Parliament Kirron Kher and take up the issue with the Centre.”Local councillor Gurbax Rawat, who was also present at the meeting, said, “There are many issues in the CHB houses in this ward. In the LIG duplex houses in Sector 40, the top floor’s bathroom has been made on top of the kitchen of the ground floor. So what if the people decided to get these changes sorted out by their own. We are willing to rise above party lines and collectively work towards the betterment of people.” Councillor from ward number 34 Gurpreet Singh, who also lives in a CHB house, expressed support for the initiative.The various RWAs demanded that the Delhi need based changes model be adopted here as well and notices on old violations not be served until it is implemented. They demanded that transfer of properties should not be stopped because of changes made in their flats. Residents demanded that Transfers based in on GPA valid before September 2011 should be accepted.Both Puri and Sharma assured the gathering that they will raise the residents’ viewpoints in the next need-based changes meeting of Chandigarh Housing Board which will be held on January 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chbflats-chandigarh-mayor-promises-to-take-up-rwas-issues-with-admn-101642363473645.html
17-01-2022||Other||Gurugram: Three weeks on, work on just one MCG project begins||Three weeks after the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) approved 26 projects in its house meeting, work on only one of them has commenced. This has prompted mayor Madhu Azad to seek a progress report from officials and convey the issue to the directorate of urban local bodies (DULB) for further action.The civic body conducted its last house meeting on December 27 last year, in which projects such as rejuvenating 72 ponds in the city, fixing water lines in DLF phases 1 and 2, fixing water lines and stormwater drains in Sushant Lok 1, constructing a Uttarakhand Bhawan, and constructing a badminton court in Sector 4, among others.According to Azad, councillors recently apprised her that little to no work has started for the projects approved for their respective wards.Of the 26 projects, MCG has only started constructing a badminton court in the Sector 4 area for ₹1.5 crore, said the officials.“While I understand that a large number of MCG officials are deputed for Covid-19 related issues amid the ongoing third wave of the pandemic, it is also imperative that development work in the city does not come to a complete standstill. Hence, I have asked for a status report on the projects approved during the last month’s house meeting,” said Azad, adding that she will send the report to DULB for taking further action.After a house meeting concludes, the MCG sends a file to the DULB containing a list of all the projects approved in the meeting.“Due to the ongoing third Covid-19 wave, a large number of workers have returned home, as a result several MCG projects are stuck. Due to this scenario, tenders for several projects approved in the last month’s house meeting are yet to be floated. We are expecting to start this process in early February and start on-ground work soon after,” said a senior MCG official, requesting anonymity.Coincidentally, the lack of action in projects approved during previous house meetings was brought up by a number of councillors as well as the mayor in last month’s house meeting. They had asked MCG’s engineering wing for an explanation on the delay, leading to MCG commissioner directing officials to carry out work approved in the house meeting on priority and in a time-bound manner.
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh woman’s murder: Even after 4 days, police groping in dark||Even after four days, police are yet to make headway in the murder of the 40-year-old woman whose naked body was found in the bushes a few metres away from her house in Maloya on Wednesday morning. The victim, a mother of three, had gone missing at about 8pm on Tuesday, after her husband had dropped her at the Maloya bus stand. At around 9.25pm, the police control room was informed by a passerby who had spotted the body lying in the bushes. Sources said that the woman’s mouth was gagged using socks, which police officials say was done to ensure she does not make any noise. The woman is survived by husband, two daughters and a son. The preliminary postmortem termed asphyxia as cause of death and a few injury marks indicating strangulation were found on the body. A murder case has been registered at Maloya police station. Police are scanning the mobile data dump and have questioned her husband at length, but so far, a suspect has not been identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-woman-s-murder-even-after-4-days-police-groping-in-dark-101642363171664.html
17-01-2022||Delhi||Group linked to Al Qaeda says it planted bomb in Ghazipur market: Police||Mujahideen Ghazwat-ul-Hind (MGH), an al Qaeda-affiliated terrorist group active in Kashmir, has claimed responsibility for planting an improvised explosive device (IED) at the Ghazipur flower market last week, said Delhi Police officers associated with the investigation, even as no arrests were made till late Sunday.Although the authenticity of the claim could not be established, agencies said they were taking the matter seriously and have sounded an alert in Delhi-National Capital Region (Delhi-NCR) and other states, including those that are headed for elections, the officers said.A Delhi Police officer associated with the probe and who asked not to be named said the group made the claim on a Telegram group, where it also claimed that “the IED did not explode due to technical glitches”.According to the officer, the Telegram message was found during social media monitoring by intelligence gathering agencies. The same message was shared with the special cell that is investigating the IED recovery case. “In the same message on the platform, the alleged terrorist outfit mentioned that the IED not going off does not mean their (the outfit’s) plan failed. Through the message, the outfit also warned agencies to prepare themselves for more such attempted terror strikes,” the officer said.The development has left central agencies as well as the top brass of the Delhi Police concerned, said the officer quoted above, since it could mean the possible entry of Kashmir-based terrorists into the national capital, especially since the attempted attack comes even as preparations for Republic Day celebrations are underway, and the dates for elections in five states – Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur – have been declared.Since the outfit’s claim was made through an encrypted platform, investigating agencies have found it difficult to ascertain the source of the message. When contacted, Vijay Kumar, inspector general (IG) of the Jammu & Kashmir Police, said MGH has been in prominence recently and was reportedly started by a person named Khitab Kashmiri, who fought alongside the Taliban in Afghanistan and is reportedly living in Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir (PoK).Some senior Delhi Police officers working on terror-related cases said that they have reasons to believe that MGH is a front for the terrorist outfit Ansar Ghazwat-ul-Hind (AGuH), which was formed by former Hizbul Mujahideen operative and Kashmiri terrorist Zakir Rashid Bhat, popularly known as Zakir Musa, who was killed by security forces in an encounter in May 2019.Musa became the commander of the Hizbul Mujahideen after the killing of its top commander Burhan Wani in July 2016. However, in 2017, Musa left the terrorist outfit and formed Ansar Ghazwat-ul-Hind in Kashmir. After Musa’s killing, AGuH was led by Burhan Koka, a terrorist of Shopian district who was killed in April 2020, and some terrorists of Tral area in Pulwama district.Asked if AGuH and MGH are the same outfit, J&K police IG Vijay Kumar said: “As of now, there is nothing to suggest that they are one and the same, but both share ideologies. Considering recent trends, where the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) has been given a facade of The Resistance Front (TRF) and The People’s Anti-Fascist Force (PAFF), or Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) of the Kashmir Tiger Force, the MGH may also be an attempt to give a facade to AGuH.”At 10.16am on January 14, the city police received a call that the owner of a scooter spotted an unclaimed black bag containing an iron box with white powder, tapes and wires around it on a pavement near Gate 1 of Delhi’s largest flower market.Around 1.30 pm, the bomb detection and disposal squad of the National Security Guard (NSG) destroyed the IED through a controlled explosion that was carried out in an 8-feet pit hurriedly dug up with the help of an earthmover 100m from the spot where the bag was found.The NSG later said the IED weighed roughly 3kg and likely consisted of powerful chemicals such as RDX and ammonium nitrate, while shrapnel was also seen in the device, which could have led to significant harm if detonated. The NSG’s bomb experts collected samples of the explosive items from both the places – where it was found and where it was destroyed – for further findings, a report of which is likely to be shared with the Delhi Police on Monday.The special cell registered a case under the Explosive Act and took up the probe, primarily from the terror angle since the use of the RDX hinted the involvement of a terrorist outfit and the fact that the explosive substance was sourced from Pakistan. The investigating team has so far collected the footage over 200 CCTV cameras installed in the radius of nearly one kilometre from the spot where the IED was spotted.“The cameras are installed on the routes leading to the flower market from Delhi as well as Uttar Pradesh. There are at least 10 points through which someone can reach the flower market from the eastern part of Delhi and from Ghaziabad and Noida. The place where the IED bag was kept was not covered by any of the cameras installed at the market’s entry and exit gates. Moreover, nobody has come forward to claim that he or she had seen anyone keeping that bag. We are trying to identify the suspect or suspects through other video footage,” said an investigator, who did not wish to be named.
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh woman found murdered near railway station: Police yet to identify suspect||A day after a 33-year-old woman who worked as a cleaner at the Maloya police station was found dead in the jungle area of Mauli Jagran, close to the Chandigarh railway station, the Government Railway Police (GRP) are yet to make any arrests. They are also working to identify who she was with and where she went after leaving work on Friday. Station house officer Vilayati Ram said that the cyber cell team of GRP Ambala was called on Sunday to get the woman’s mobile data dump. “We are trying to identify the route taken by her and will cross reference this with CCTV footage,” he added. As per sources, police have also questioned one of the woman’s acquaintances about her whereabouts. The postmortem report is still awaited. Sexual assault hasn’t been ruled out and strangulation marks have also been discovered on the woman’s throat along with cuts on her body. On Saturday morning, the woman’s body along with a small knife were discovered by a passerby after she had gone missing on Friday. She is survived by a 15-year-old son, an 18-year-old daughter and a husband who is physically challenged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-woman-found-murdered-near-railway-station-police-yet-to-identify-suspect-101642362994462.html
17-01-2022||Other||BKU (Ekta-Dakaunda) starts mobilisation drive for Jan 21 rally||Barnala Leaders of Bharti Kisan Union (BKU), Ekta-Dakaunda, faction, have started mobilising farmers in villages for a ‘massive rally’ to be held on January 21 in Barnala town against the state and the Centre. The rally has been called to highlight their pending demands. Buta Singh Burjgill, state president of BKU (Ekta-Dakaunda), said thousands of farmers will reach the Barnala grain market rally; their main demands are debt waiver, the assurance of minimum support price (MSP) on all crops, quashing of FIRs against protesters during farmers’ agitation and justice for Lakhimpur Kheri incident victims.Burjgill appealed to its cadre not to join hands with any political party, during the upcoming state assembly elections. “Farmers should fight against anti-farmer policies and join the Barnala rally along with family members,” he exhorted farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bku-ekta-dakaunda-starts-mobilisation-drive-for-jan-21-rally-101642362991693.html
17-01-2022||Other||Employment Act: Gurugram industries pin hopes on high court for relief||Industry owners and associations in the city said they will wait for the high court hearing on the Haryana government’s job reservation policy for locals, scheduled to be heard on February 2, before registering on the job portal, despite the Act coming into force on Saturday. The Haryana State Employment of Local Candidate Act, 2020, mandates 75% reservation for local youth in private sector jobs, which offer a salary of less than ₹30,000 a month. Industry owners said that they are hopeful that they will get some relief from the Punjab and Haryana high court in this matter as the new reservation policy of the state government would make hiring very difficult and they will prefer to adopt a cautious approach. According to the Haryana government, all industries must register with the job portal created by the labour department in the next three months before hiring fresh candidates. The Gurgaon Industrial Association (GIA), which has challenged the Act, moved an interim application for early hearing in the Punjab and Haryana high court on January 13, which was rejected. The next date of hearing is schedule on February 2. The Act has also been challenged by the industrial associations in Rewari and Faridabad. Ashok Kohli, president of Chamber of Industries of Udyog Vihar, said industry owners have decided to adopt a wait and watch approach with regard to the local job reservation. “We are waiting for the next hearing in the Punjab and Haryana high court and are hoping to get some relief. This is basically a political move but will hit the industries badly. The availability of skilled labour is always short in the state. Instead of job reservation, the government should have focussed on skill building among youth and ensure that they are employable,” he said. J N Mangla, president of Gurgaon Industrial Association, said most of the industrialists were waiting for the court to hear their petition on February 2. “This reservation will make running business very difficult. Freedom to hire employees should remain the prerogative of a business owner. The pandemic has already put a lot of pressure on the industries,” he said. Manmohan Gaind, vice president of Manesar Industries Welfare Association, said the job reservation act was a very regressive law and it will bring Haryana down by taking away the rights of businesses. “We will register with the portal only after clear directions are issued by the court on the petition,” said Gaind. According to industry associations, the government has asked them to share details of existing employees. The job reservation is meant for fresh employees and new recruitment but in the next three months, the labour department perhaps will be building a database of existing employees, said Kohli. Meanwhile, Ajay Pal Dudi, deputy labour commissioner, Gurugram, said the proposed reservation is meant for fresh recruitment of employees and it does not impact the existing workers. “The firms and companies have been asked to register on the portal and share the information of existing employees within three months starting from January 15. New hiring can be done only after completing online registration,” he said. In order to ensure compliance to the Act, the labour department said each employer will have to submit a quarterly report on the designated porta,l mentioning details of the local candidates employed and appointed during this period. Haryana’s deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, who is the main architect of the Act, said this was a historic move and it will secure the future of local youth. “With the implementation of this Act, new avenues for employment will open for hundreds of youth of the state in the private sector. In this regard, a dedicated portal has also been created by the labour department along with a helpline number. Companies will now have to reflect their vacancy on the portal, which will be continuously monitored by the government,” said Chautala while speaking at a function in Sirsa on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/employment-act-gurugram-industries-pin-hopes-on-high-court-for-relief-101642362931724.html
17-01-2022||Other||Three wanted men arrested in Faridabad||The Faridabad police on Sunday arrested three persons wanted in several cases of robbery, assault, and snatching. Police said the suspects were also involved in vandalising a private hospital in December last year. The suspects were identified as Manoj alias Zero, Pritam alias Manu and Hemant alias Fauji, all from Faridabad, said police, adding that there are more than 10 cases registered against them in different districts of Haryana. Narender Kadiyan, deputy commissioner of police (crime), said that a reward of ₹5,000 was announced on their arrest. “The suspects had encroached the house of a resident of Sanjay Colony in Faridabad and the owner of a private hospital had supported the victim, following which they were holding grudge against him and had vandalised his hospital on December 7,” he said. Kadiyan said the suspects had on the night of December 7 shot at a cigarette shop owner at BK Chowk after he asked them to pay for the cigarettes. They were captured in a few CCTV cameras, police said, adding that the three suspects were members of a gang. Kadiyan said the gang’s kingpin, identified as Aditya alias Katiya, is involved in encroaching land and houses built in residential areas. The gang is called Katiya gang and has more than 20 members who are involved in kidnapping and other criminal activities. “At least eight cases are registered against the gang members and they have been jailed several times. All the members are from nearby areas and are active for the past three years,” he said. Police said the suspects were produced before the duty magistrate who sent them to police remand for two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-wanted-men-arrested-in-faridabad-101642362574826.html
17-01-2022||Other||Moga MLA left red-faced as councillors support Malvika||Moga In an embarrassment to sitting MLA Harjot Kamal who was elected from the Congress in 2019, but joined the BJP on Saturday after being denied the ticket this time, 24 councillors, including the senior deputy mayor and the deputy mayor, have extended their support to Malvika Sood Sacher, who is the Congress candidate. Malvika is the sister of actor Sonu Sood. When Malvika had joined the Congress, just a few days ago, all these councillors had promised to stand by Kamal. In the Moga municipal corporation House, the Congress has support of 29 councillors, 20 from the Congress and nine Independents. The councillors met Malvika at a resort; after hearing about the meeting, the MLA reached the venue and tried to convince the councillors to back him. On his insistence, Moga mayor Nitika Bhalla left the meeting. Malvika said, “Before leaving the meeting, Nitika said that she was with Congress and 24 councillors, under the leadership of senior deputy mayor Parveen Kumar Sharma and deputy mayor Ashok Kumar Dhamija, have decided to stand by me and my party, the Congress.”When contacted on the entire episode, Kamal said, “I was not aware that the mayor Nitika was also at the meeting. I was under the impression that only my councillors were there.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/moga-mla-left-red-faced-as-councillors-support-malvika-101642362573387.html
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||PEC to offer certificate course on cyber security to Chandigarh Police, defence personnel||Punjab Engineering College (PEC) is planning to offer a certificate course to Chandigarh police and other defence personnel in the area of cyber security.The proposal, which is part of a memorandum of understanding (MoU) signed by the institute with the UT police in December, was tabled in the last senate meeting of PEC. The pact envisages some training programmes as well.The senate approved the proposal in principle and the head of PEC’s cyber security research centre was requested to prepare the course structure and syllabi and assess the financial feasibility for the new programmes. The planned certificate programmes will focus on providing the expertise in areas of cyber security and handling big data.The senate also suggested that besides training programmes, some regular certificate programmes in emerging areas may also be proposed. It was decided that the final approval will be taken from the chairman of senate, who is the director of the institute.The work on the proposal is currently ongoing and the institution intends to initiate it soon. PEC director Baldev Setia said, “In principle, we have agreed that we will be floating a certificate course in due time.”The cyber security research centre has been established at PEC in collaboration with Chandigarh administration and NASSCOM, with an initial funding of ₹3 crore, with the primary focus to conduct applied research and development on cyber threats and countermeasures, secure multi-level information sharing, resilient command and control network architectures, social media and data analytics.Revision of MTech curriculumPEC has also initiated the process to revise the curriculum of various MTech courses, which was last done in 2018. The institute has advised all heads of departments to initialise the revision process by planning workshops and brainstorming sessions with various stakeholders, alumni, students and industry experts. The institute is also considering renaming the MTech electronics engineering programme and the head of the electronics and communication engineering (ECE) department has been requested to prepare course structure and syllabi for the new programme.
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid claims six more lives in Haryana, 8,900 new cases detected||Six people succumbed to Covid and 8,900 fresh infections were detected in Haryana on Sunday, taking the active cases in the state to 51,253.Two fatalities were recorded in Panchkula, while one patient each succumbed in Ambala, Faridabad, Gurugram and Jind districts, taking the cumulative death toll to 10,104. Out of the 51,253 infected persons in the state, 45,272 are in home isolation. The new cases include 39 Omicron cases.At 3,378, Gurugram recorded the highest number of Covid cases, followed by Faridabad (1,396), Hisar (272), Sonepat (414), Karnal (360), Panipat (207), Panchkula (718), Ambala (536), Sirsa (214), Rohtak (240), Yamunanagar (196), Bhiwani (103), Kurukshetra (113), Mahendragarh (49), Jind (121), Rewari (152), Jhajjar (180), Fatehabad (65), Kaithal (95), Palwal (13), Charkhi Dadri (45) and Nuh (33).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-claims-six-more-lives-in-haryana-8-900-new-cases-detected-101642362331597.html
17-01-2022||Other||NSG contract fraud: BSF officer had bought gold coins days before arrest||Police on Sunday said that the 32-year-old old deputy commandant of Border Security Force (BSF), who allegedly orchestrated ₹150-crore contract fraud while on deputation on the National Security Guard (NSG) campus in Manesar last year, had bought gold coins worth crores of rupees five days before his arrest on January 12. Police on Saturday had recovered gold ornaments and coins worth over ₹1 crore from the house of kingpin Praveen Yadav’s brother-in-law who was posted on deputation in NSG. According to police, Praveen was planning to flee the country along with his family members and was in touch with his friends and some businessmen in the USA and the UK. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that Praveen was aware that he will be arrested soon as the victims had asked him to return money after they came to know that he has duped them. “The complainants had come to know in November that he was no longer posted in NSG and started calling him but he stopped answering their calls. He went incommunicado following which the victims started complaining to police. They also visited his village in Farrukhnagar to have a word with his father but even his phone was switched off,” he said. Police said that the economic offence wing (EOW) of Gurugram police is scanning Praveen’s bank accounts and checking all transactions in the private company he had formed. Sangwan said that a team led by Sandeep Kumar, in-charge of crime investigation unit, Manesar, arrested Praveen from Zirakpur in Punjab within 72 hours after the first case was registered at Manesar police station on January 9. Police said the deputy commandant posed as an IPS officer posted at NSG Manesar, and provided fake construction contracts for various work inside the campus. 
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||75% reservation: Jan 15 a historic day for Haryana youth says Dushyant||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Sunday termed January 15 as a historic day for the youth of Haryana after the state government implemented a 75% reservation policy for locals in the private sector.Interacting with reporters in Sirsa after inaugurating the local club, Chautala said companies will have to show their vacancies on a portal being monitored by the state government.“With imposition of this law, priorities in recruitment in private sector companies, institutions, trusts, societies and industries will be given to the youth of Haryana,” he added.The deputy CM said the state government has already floated a tender for the setting up of a medical college in Sirsa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/75-reservation-jan-15-a-historic-day-for-haryana-youth-says-dushyant-101642362091484.html
17-01-2022||Delhi||10 water bodies may be labelled Delhi’s first wetlands this March||Not a single one of Delhi’s 1,043 identified water bodies – each of which has its own unique identification number (UID) -- is currently notified as a ‘wetland’. This, however, could soon change, with the Capital expected to notify 10 major lakes and water bodies as wetlands by the end of March, according to senior officials aware of the matter. The Delhi State Wetland Authority (DSWA) is expected to release a draft notification for each water body under the Wetlands (Conservation and Management) Rules of 2017.Not only will this ensure legal protection to the water bodies, but each of the notified wetlands will see Integrated Management Plans (IMP) prepared, allowing DSWA to get funds from the Centre to protect and rejuvenate them.The water bodies identified in the first phase include Sanjay Lake, Hauz Khas Lake, Bhalswa Lake, Najafgarh Jheel, Welcome Jheel, Smriti Van (Vasant Kunj), Smriti Van (Kondli), Pooth Kalan, Sultanpar Dabas and Daryapur Kalan. Another 50 water bodies will be notified in the second phase of the programme.The Delhi SWA was constituted in April 2019, as part of the Wetlands Rules of 2017, and officials said that they began work on notification of wetlands by the end of 2019.KS Jayachandran, member secretary, DSWA, said a draft notification for each water body will soon be released to the public, with a 60-day window for feedback and comments, before they are notified.The notification will detail the geo-coordinates of each water body demarcated as a wetland and the area over which it is spread. These, officials said, will ensure the water body is not encroached in the future.“In the first phase, 10 major water bodies were identified, but we are already working on the second phase, for which Khasra numbers (land survey number that is assigned to a specific plot or property) for 50 more wetlands are being identified. If a water body is notified as a wetland, the wetland conservation rules allow for an IMP to be prepared, which is a long-term action plan. We will also be applying for funding from the Centre for each of these wetlands,” said Jayachandran.While nine water bodies are currently being considered for notification through the Delhi government, SWA officials say Najafgarh Jheel could be notified as a wetland by the Centre, as it forms part of a National Green Tribunal (NGT) judgment.In September 2020, the NGT asked the Delhi and Haryana governments to jointly prepare an environment action plan for the lake, which falls in both the states. In their report, the two states said that it will be notified as a trans-boundary wetland by the Centre as it requires management from both the states.HT has seen a copy of the draft notifications, which mention a zone of influence for each wetland, including its buffer zone, where recreational activities like cycling and walking are permitted, while commercial activities, including grazing, are not.Suresh Kumar Rohilla, senior director, Urban Water programme at the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), who is part of a technical committee formed by the Delhi SWA to notify wetlands, said the long-term plans for each water body will be detailed and can plug existing problems such as sewage in-flow and poor maintenance.“Currently, for most water body projects, STPs are being used to provide cleaner water, but there are no action plans on how the water body will be revived and then maintained over a period of time. The IMPs will help do that and also ensure there is legal sanctity for the wetland,” he says.Rohilla also said the Tikri Khurd lake was also being considered for notification in the first phase, with the NGT asking for clarity on its wetland status in 2019.A major chunk of Delhi’s 1,043 water bodies currently fall under the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) and the Block Development Office (BDO). Data with the Delhi Parks and Gardens Society (DGPS), which has mapped these water bodies, said 836 water bodies in the city fall under DDA’s jurisdiction, followed by 131 under BDO. The forest department has 18 water bodies, while the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has 15 water bodies under them.Manu Bhatnagar from Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH), who is also part of the Delhi SWA, states most water bodies that are set to be notified as wetlands in Delhi are currently without an adequate catchment area, or a source of water supply, a problem that will be addressed once they are notified.“The Bhalswa lake, which was once comparable to the Naini Lake in Nainital, now suffers from excess sewage dumping. Each water body has specific problems that will need a specific solution. We will look at plans for each of them,” he said.Diwan Singh, an environmentalist and convener of the Natural Heritage First, said while mapping 1,043 water bodies was an important step for Delhi, the next will be to make these individual plans work.“Funding is often not an issue for the smaller water bodies, but once we know exactly how many there are, they can be systematically tracked and revived. Most require efforts where they can be connected to a storm water drain or a source of water that sustains them through the year,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/10-water-bodies-may-be-labelled-delhi-s-first-wetlands-this-march-101642362031657.html
17-01-2022||Other||Turncoat, ex-mayor Kohli is AAP candidate from Patiala urban||Patiala The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has fielded turncoat Ajitpal Singh Kohli from Patiala urban assembly segment. A former Patiala mayor, Kohli, 43, had joined the party, last week, after snapping ties with the SAD. He and his family had around seven decades of association with Akali Dal as his father Surjit Singh Kohli, senior vice-president of Akali Dal, remained public works department (PWD) minister in 1997. His grandfather Sardara Singh Kohli also represented the SAD as an MLA. Kohli was Patiala mayor from 2007-2012. Sumaer Sira, another contender of AAP from the constituency, said he had worked hard for party welfare, but will continue to work for the party. “It is a well thought-out decision as AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal had a word with me on Friday. Our main motive is to end Captain Amarinder Singh’s reign in Patiala city,” he said. Kohli said, “I will take all AAP leaders and workers along to build my campaign. The party has shown interest in me and I will give my 100% in ensuring party’s victory,” he said. CONG, PLC YET TO ANNOUNCE CANDIDATE The Congress and the Punjab Lok Congress are yet announce their candidate from the seat. For the Congress, it will be a major challenge to make up for Amarinder; he won four elections in a row from here (2002-17). Even during the 2015 by-polls, his wife Preneet Kaur emerged victorious.However, after floating the PLC, even Amarinder is yet to announce a candidate from this particular segment. “The party is in dilemma on whether to float a local party leader against expected experienced opponents or bring in an outsider to retain Congress supremacy in Patiala city,” said a senior party leader.From the Congress, names of Punjab cabinet minister Brahm Mohindra and former MP Dharamvira Gandhi have been doing the rounds. Mohindra, however, has already negated this possibility. “I abide by the party’s one family, one ticket policy. My son is contesting from Patiala rural. Therefore, there is no possibility of me contesting from urban constituency,” he said.
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana affected due to uncontrolled Covid infections in Delhi: Vij||Haryana health and home minister Anil Vij on Sunday said the Covid infection rate was “very high” in three districts of the state because of “uncontrolled corona infection in Delhi.” “The increase in Covid cases in Delhi have affected the National Capital Region, because of which the infection rate has increased in Gurugram, Faridabad and Sonepat,” Vij said, adding that about half the active cases in the state were from Gurugram, Faridabad and Sonepat. Asserting that there was no need to panic as Haryana has adequate health facilities, he said, “Sufficient amount of equipment and medicines are available in the state to deal with a third Covid wave. Besides, the first dose of Covid vaccine has been administered to all eligible persons, while the second dose has been administered to 77% eligible people, and 7 lakh teenagers (15-18 years) have also been vaccinated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-affected-due-to-uncontrolled-covid-infections-in-delhi-vij-101642361911611.html
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||17 held for drug peddling in Kurukshetra in first two weeks of January: Cops||Seventeen people were arrested for drug peddling and 14 cases were registered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act in the first fortnight of the year in Kurukshetra, police officials said on Sunday. Under a special drive, the cops seized 628g opium, 30g heroin, 34.5kg ‘chura post’, 146g smack, 3kg ganja (cannabis) and 104kg sulfa. Kurukshetra superintendent of police Anshu Singla said 29 people were arrested under the Excise Act and 1,256 bottles of liquor and 60 litres of lahan liquor were seized from the accused. “The process to attach the accused’s properties has also been initiated,” she said. Two held with 1kg opium in PanipatTwo people were arrested with 1.3kg opium in Panipat on Sunday. The accused are Yadvendra Singh and Hardev Singh of Punjab. Panipat superintendent of police Shashank Kumar Sawan said the accused were transporting the opium in a truck near Siwah Bypass of Panipat. The accused said they were bringing the contraband from Assam. The SP said the accused had been arrested under the NDPS Act and they were sent to nine days police remand for further interrogation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/17-held-for-drug-peddling-in-kurukshetra-in-first-two-weeks-of-januarycops-101642361611449.html
17-01-2022||Other||Covid restrictions in peak wedding season replace families’ joy with worry||Ludhiana As Covid rages across Punjab with positivity rate also pretty high, restrictions on social gatherings have upset plans of thousands of families, and almost all organisers, who hoped to be party to grand weddings. The Punjab Marriage Palace and Resort Association (PMPARA) estimates that there are 70,000-odd weddings, scheduled at hotels, resorts, marriage palaces across Punjab from January 15 to February 28. With the number of people at gatherings restricted to 50 indoors and 100 for outdoor venues, plus the night curfew from 10pm to 5am, cancellations have become the order of the day. NRIs are also in the state, especially for weddings of close relatives. On select dates, considered highly auspicious, there were hundreds of weddings planned in a day. Deshraj Singh, general manager, Hotel Maharaja Regency on Ferozepur Road in Ludhiana, says the panic is palpable and number of cancellations for weddings booked is at an all-time high. “There are days when we have three to four functions scheduled at the hotel in a single day. With timings being limited, there is utter panic and chaos in families,” he said, adding that 50% of bookings have been cancelled. He added that for some families, guests have arrived from abroad and invites sent to 500-odd guests. “Advance payments have been made to photographers, caterers, make-up artists etc on the basis of normal estimate of guests. On postponing the function, payments become an issue, and if some parties decide do go ahead with the function, putting a limit on the guests becomes difficult,” he said. Sukhdev Singh Sidhu, president, PMPARA, and owner of Chashme Shahi Resorts in Mohali, says, “In Punjab, people are known to spend and make weddings a gala affair. January 15 is considered to be the start of the wedding season, which lasts till February-end. With the restrictions in place, we are staring at huge losses.” Rajnish Kalra, owner, Razzle Resorts on Pakhowal Road, said, “This is the season for caterers, decorators, jewellers and all industries attached to a wedding. There are people getting affected with Covid in large numbers within families and preparations have gone for a toss. Resorts have a capacity of over 1,000 and we can easily accommodate people with social distancing, but somehow the wedding and catering industry ends up bearing the brunt of such restrictions,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-restrictions-in-peak-wedding-season-replace-families-joy-with-worry-101642361370883.html
17-01-2022||Lucknow||Lucknow: Covid vaccination crosses 23-crore mark in UP||LUCKNOW: The Covid-19 vaccination crossed 23 crore mark in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday, with a total 23,09,04,866 doses of Covid vaccine administered to eligible beneficiaries, including 14,35,46,350 first dose to population above 18-year (93.21%) and 8,69,50,125 second dose to people above 18-year of age (58.28%), according to a health department data. “This is the maximum number of Covid vaccine doses administered to people by any state in the country within a year (the vaccination started on January 16, 2021),” said a senior health department official. “One year of experience has taught us that vaccination is a real safety shield against the virus. Data say majority of those who needed hospital care during second wave had not got vaccinated,” said Dr Surya Kant, HoD, respiratory medicine, King George’s Medical University (KGMU), who took his vaccine dose on the first day when vaccination started last year. Dr Kant said that using mask and following social distancing would save not only from Covid but also other infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-covid-vaccination-crosses-23-crore-mark-in-up-101642361074336.html
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||For 3rd day in row, Ludhiana records over 1,000 Covid cases, active caseload crosses 7000-mark||For the third consecutive day, Ludhiana’s daily Covid count remained above the 1,000-mark with 1,144 cases being detected in the last 24 hours, health officials said on Sunday. Three persons also succumbed to virus on the day.There are currently 7,113 active infections in the district, of which 6,995 are in home isolation and 118 in different hospitals. The latest casualties include a 56-year-old man from Dheri village, a 56-year-old woman from Khanna and another 56-year-old man from Ratan Kheri in Khanna. All three were undergoing treatment at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital. Civil surgeon Dr SP Singh said the fresh cases include healthcare workers, residents with influenza-like symptoms, contacts of positive patients etc. He appealed to residents to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and get vaccinated at the earliest. Further, residents have been urged to avoid visiting crowded places and take precautions at all times.On Friday, the district had recorded the highest-ever single day count with 1,808 cases, which was followed by 1,283 cases on Saturday. The district’s cumulative count of cases has now reached 97,046, out of which 2,142 patients succumbed and 87,791 have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/for-3rd-day-in-row-ludhiana-records-over-1-000-covid-cases-active-caseload-crosses-7000mark-101642360772913.html
17-01-2022||Delhi||Zamrudpur is cooking up a revolution in cloud kitchens||Md Shamim, a delivery executive with an online food aggregator, says that since the Delhi government banned dine-in at restaurants last week, the number of deliveries he makes every day has almost doubled. While he delivers to multiple locations in south Delhi, the pickup destination is almost always Zamrudpur, a village near Greater Kailash 1. “It is because this village is the biggest hub of cloud kitchens,” says Shamim, as he waits to pick up an order, a pizza, from a cloud kitchen located in a nondescript building in the auto market of the village. With restaurants in Delhi shutting dine-in facilities frequently due to pandemic restrictions in the past two years, cloud kitchens--- delivery-only outlets - have mushroomed across the Capital. The epicentre of this revolution is Zamrudpur, a south Delhi village, currently home to about 100 cloud kitchens, including Layla’s, Ah So Yum, Burgerama, Madam Curry, Kougan and Rutbah, among others that promise fine dining at home. Throughout the day, one can see food aggregators’ delivery partners zipping in and out of the village on motorcycles, cycles and electric bikes. Most cloud kitchens here have no signboard-- the only sign of their presence are delivery men receiving orders through a small opening in the doors of the buildings. Ashwani Basantani, who runs Cloud Kitchen Exchange, an online platform that helps buy, sell and rent cloud kitchens, says the village is a favourite with cloud kitchen enterprises because of low rentals, a south Delhi address, and its proximity to posh south Delhi colonies, which generate a bulk of the high-value orders. Ishaan Kapoor, who runs Madam Curry, a cloud kitchen, agrees. His kitchen, along with several others, is situated in the village’s dusty auto market, dominated by a motor mechanic and auto-parts shops. “It may look like an unlikely place for a kitchen hub, but this market is already one. The cloud kitchen model allows us to operate in any location; what matters is the quality of the kitchen infrastructure and food, ” says Kapoor, who ran a catering business before he started Madam Curry in 2020. The cloud kitchen, he says, has been a success, and he has since opened one more in Gurugram and is in the process of opening another one in Punjabi Bagh. “Setting up cloud kitchens allows you to move away from pricey retail locations and focus on just food,” he adds. A 200sqft space in Zamrudpur costs about ₹20,000 a month. Jahan Khurana, who owns 15 cloud kitchen brands such as Dana Pani, Ballu Bawarchi, Roji Roti and Shanghai Chillie’s, says the pandemic has led to the rebirth of the cloud kitchen concept in the country, with over 3,000 cloud kitchens opening in Delhi alone during the pandemic. “ The first cloud kitchens arrived on the scene a few years ago, but the model got a big boost during the pandemic. Now, new cloud kitchens are opening almost every day. Half the people opening them have no background in the food business,” says Khurana, who was among the first to open a cloud kitchen, a 1,400sqft facility, in Zamrudpur. He is rapidly expanding his business through the FOCO Model (Franchise Owned Company Operated). “Individuals in the US have invested in our business through this model. The cloud kitchen concept is here to stay,” he says. Many cloud kitchen enterprises in the country are raking in huge investments; a report by RedSeer Management Consulting predicts that cloud kitchens are set to be a $2 billion industry in India by 2024. In fact, among those opening cloud kitchens are top chefs who quit their jobs during the pandemic to start their own ventures. Anuj Wadhawan, who worked with a five-star hotel as an executive chef, started Ah So Yum in June 2020 . The kitchen in Zamrudpur makes about 50 deliveries per day on an average – of sushi, dimsums, bao, among other Pan Asian cuisine – to south Delhi localities. “I always wanted to start my own venture, but the disruption caused by the pandemic made me finally take the plunge,” says Wadhawan, who runs three cloud kitchens today in Gurugram, Zamrudpur in Delhi, and more recently, in Lucknow. He says that while he misses interacting with hotel guests, he enjoys the creative freedom. “In a hotel, we would change the menu once a year; here, I do so every couple of months,” says Wadhawan, whose kitchen is also located in the auto market. “It is a closed kitchen, so the location does not matter. I would be paying ten times more if I had space in the neighbouring GK and would have shut down by now. This place has given me access to sophisticated customers.” The ground floor of his facility in the village serves as the kitchen, the first floor as storage and the second floor as the office. He says that in the past few months the competition has intensified with top brick-and-mortar restaurants and even five-star hotels entering the cloud kitchen space.“But they won’t be able to beat us as they cannot match the economics of our model,” says Wadhawan,. Rajiv Goyal, a chef, who works as a consultant with many cloud kitchens in Delhi and Gurugram and runs India Food Tourism Organisation, which promotes food tourism in the country, says that several top chefs are not only opening their own kitchens, but many are also joining cloud kitchen ventures full-time. “They see a lot of potential; the cloud kitchen is a highly scalable model, and is raking in massive investments. Cloud kitchens are offering them better salaries than hotels, whose revenues have been hit due to the pandemic,” says Goyal. He says the cloud kitchen revolution was fuelled by the work-from-home culture during the pandemic, which brought in a shift from eating out to ordering in. “People have been working from home and many have had no time to cook and are not comfortable having a maid at home because of fear of infection . They regularly order food from these kitchens,” says Goyal. Besides, he adds, many home chefs, a lot of them women, who earlier took orders on phone and catered to their neighbourhood clients, are now operating cloud kitchens. They offer everything from diabetes meals to high-protein and no-carb meals. “Before the pandemic, I ordered meals from a few well-known brick-and-mortar restaurants, but now I end up ordering from cloud kitchens. Their food is as interesting as their packaging, but yes, there are concerns about the obscure locations of these kitchens and their hygiene standards. After all, a kitchen is not a warehouse,” says Adesh Gupta, a software engineer who lives in South Extension. Ishaan Kapoor says that online branding and packaging is important to the success of a cloud kitchen. “We are trying to create a gourmet fine-dining experience at home. Our brand name is inspired by Marie Curie. Because we are into experimental food, our food is served in glasses, injections and test tube-shaped packages,” says Kapoor. Most Zamrudpur kitchens have 10-20 staff members, including a chef and manager, working in shifts. Some kitchens are open until 4am. A manager at a well-known cloud kitchen in Zamrudpur, says working in a cloud kitchen is pretty tedious. “Earlier I was working in a Khan Market restaurant, but lost my job, so I joined a cloud kitchen here. Interacting with the guests was one of the most rewarding parts of the dine-in restaurant, now I just deal with delivery partners. I am not used to sitting in the kitchen for so long,” he says. But the villagers are not complaining. “I have no idea what they cook, and where the food goes, but they are offering good rent,” says Ramvir Singh, a resident. “Here they get a GK address at a Zamrudpur price.”
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Special drive ahead of Punjab elections: Ludhiana police nab 278 proclaimed offenders in two months||The Ludhiana police commissionerate has arrested at least 278 proclaimed offenders in the last two months, as part of a special drive initiated in view of the upcoming elections. As many as 2,982 proclaimed offenders are yet to be caught.In the drive started on November 8, 2021, all police stations, police posts, special wings and investigation wings were asked to track down the proclaimed offenders wanted by the Ludhiana police. Police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar had convened a meeting with all station house officers (SHOs) and ordered them to initiate the drive.Sub-inspector (SI) Balwinder Singh, in-charge of the proclaimed offender wing, said that out of 2,982 proclaimed offenders still on the run, 2,067 are those who skipped court hearings after availing bail, while 915 are those who were never arrested in the case. Some of the proclaimed offenders have been on the wanted list for the last four decades. “We are keeping tabs on the fugitives who are wanted in drug peddling and liquor smuggling cases as such accused could be involved in smuggling again. We also ensure that the proclaimed offender is not able to cast their votes,” said the SI.“Most fugitives keep changing their location to evade arrest. Some of them even change their name and appearance, but we will still hunt them down and put them behind bars,” he added. He added that after arresting the proclaimed offenders, they hand them over to the police stations concerned.
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: AAP to stop flight of money, talent from Punjab, says Mann||Chandigarh : Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab president and MP Bhagwant Mann on Sunday said that the party would stop the migration of money and talent from Punjab if it is voted to power in the upcoming polls. Mann said ample employment and business opportunities would be generated in the state. “We will give employment and salary according to the qualification and give new opportunities to the talented youth for their start-ups, so that they can create employment to other people along with them,” he said at a press conference in Mohali. The AAP leader said their plan is not only to provide people with employment but also to make them capable of creating job opportunities. “Young people used to do direct jobs or their own business earlier after getting their degrees from colleges and universities. But, today due to lack of employment young people are falling victims to depression and drugs, and money and talented people are moving abroad because of the incompetent governments,” he said. Criticising the Congress, he said that in the last elections, they promised to give employment in every household, but started giving jobs to the children and families of their MLAs, ministers, and leaders after the formation of their government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-aap-to-stop-flight-of-money-talent-from-punjab-says-mann-101642360171830.html
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Guru Ravidas Jayanti: BJP, SAD (Sanyukt), PLC seek postponement of polls||Chandigarh : The BJP, Capt Amarinder Singh-led Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) and Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) have appealed to the Election Commission to postpone the February 14 assembly election in Punjab in view of Guru Ravidas Jayanti, after the BSP and chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi made similar requests to the poll panel. The birth anniversary of Guru Ravidas falls on February 16. In a letter to the Chief Election Commissioner on Sunday seeking postponement of the election, Punjab BJP general secretary Subhash Sharma said, “The state has substantial population of followers of Guru Ravidas ji, including the Scheduled Caste (SC) community which is about 32% of the population of Punjab.” “On this pious occasion, millions of the devotees would visit Banaras in Uttar Pradesh to celebrate the gurparb. So it would not be possible for them to participate in the voting process. It is therefore requested to your goodself that the date of voting may be postponed so that these voters of Punjab could participate in the election process,” he wrote. Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) chief Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, in a letter to the poll panel, also sought that the date of voting be postponed. Earlier, chief minister Channi had urged the Election Commission to postpone the polling date by six days “for enabling around 20 lakh SC devotees to utilise their right to vote for the state legislative assembly.” A large number of SC devotees from the state are likely to visit Banaras in Uttar Pradesh from February 10 to 16. In such a situation, many people from this community would not be able to cast their votes for the state assembly, said Channi who belong to the SC community. Bahujan Samaj Party’s Punjab chief Jasvir Singh Garhi was the first to demand postponement of the polling. He requested the Election Commission to hold the polls on February 20, instead of February 14. Voting for Punjab’s 117 assembly seats is scheduled for February 14 and the counting of votes will take place on March 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guru-ravidas-jayanti-bjp-sad-sanyukt-plc-seek-postponement-of-polls-101642360051591.html
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Congress councillor’s car mows down two teens, injures one in accident||A speeding Maruti Suzuki Ertiga, allegedly belonging to Congress councillor from ward number 16, Umesh Sharma, mowed down two teenagers and left a third one injured near Jandiali of Focal Point on Saturday night. Police said it is not yet clear who was driving the vehicle at the time. The deceased have been identified as Sahil, 17, and Mohammad Hussain, 16, of Pritam Nagar.Their friend, Rajiv Kumar, 17, of Pritam Nagar, Bhamian Kalan, has been admitted to a hospital with multiple injuries. According to the police, Sahil was crushed under the vehicle and died on the spot, whereas Mohammad Hussain died on the way to hospital. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Jaswant Singh, who is investigating the case, said that Sahil, Hussain and Rajiv were friends, who studied in the same school and lived in the same locality. On Saturday evening, the trio had gone for a bike ride. While returning home, their motorcycle developed a snag and they decided to push it home.When they reached near Jandiali village, a speeding car hit them before crashing into a divider. Rajiv is said to have called the police and ambulance service before losing consciousness. The Ertiga driver, meanwhile, fled the spot, leaving the vehicle behind. Focal Point police have initiated proceedings to lodge an FIR in the case. Inspector Rajesh Kumar, Focal point station house officer, said police have recovered posters of different Congress workers and leaders from the car. He added that police are scanning closed-circuit television cameras to know who was driving the car.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-congress-councillor-s-car-mows-down-two-teens-injures-one-in-accident-101642359933265.html
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Denied ticket from Majitha, Cong Amritsar rural chief joins BJP||In a jolt to the ruling Congress, its Amritsar (rural) district president Bhagwant Pal Singh Sachar on Sunday joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the presence of its national general secretary Tarun Chugh, expressing disappointment over being denied the ticket from Majitha assembly segment.In Majitha, which is the bastion of senior Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader and former Minister Bikram Singh Majithia, Sachar had been working tirelessly and considered the front runner for the Congress ticket. His claim to the ticket got a fillip after the exit of Sukhjinder Raj Singh, aka Lali Majithia, who had contested the last two polls against Bikram unsuccessfully and recently joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). However, the party allotted the ticket to Lali’s brother Jagwinder Pal Singh, aka Jagga Majithia.In presence of other senior BJP leaders, including Rajindermohan Singh Chhina, Chugh welcomed Sachar to the party. “I had been noticing for the last many months that factionalism had taken center stage in the Congress in terms of distribution of tickets for assembly polls. Sidhu group, Channi group, Jakhar group… have emerged in the Congress. I was denied the ticket, thanks to this factionalism. This happened despite all surveys conducted by the party in the segment going in my favour,” said Sachar after joining the BJP.Sachar said that there is a common perception that the Congress gives the ticket to a weak, as per the consent of Bikram Singh Majithia to ensure the SAD candidate’s victory. “This happened here again, and strengthened the perception that this is a friendly match in Majitha. This forced me to say good bye to the Congress and join the BJP, in which I am seeing my political future. However, my joining is unconditional and I will accomplish any responsibility assigned to me,” he said.Other Congressmen from Amritsar who joined the BJP included Pardip Singh Bhullar, Rattan Singh Sohal, Paramjit Singh Randhawa and Tajinderpal Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-denied-ticket-from-majitha-congress-amritsar-rural-chief-joins-bjp-101642359931510.html
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Meet 12 first-timers in fray from Congress||From 28 to 59, age is no bar for 12 Congress candidates who will be taking their first poll plunge in the upcoming Punjab assembly elections. Their names featured on the first list of 86 candidates announced by the party on Saturday. While some have been doing the groundwork for years, others are carrying forward their family’s legacy and then there are some who are political novices with high aspirations.Jagpal Singh Abul Khurana, 52, Lambi It runs in the family: A second-generation politician, Jagpal is the general secretary of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee. He had been lobbying for the high-stakes Lambi seat that is a traditional bastion of Akalis. Jagpal’s father Gurnam Singh Abul Khurana had won from Lambi in 1992 when Akalis did not contest the state elections.Bhupinder Singh Sahoke, 55, Nihal Singh WalaTicket for SAD turncoat: Miffed at being denied his claim from his home turf, Bhupinder quit the SAD three months ago and joined the Congress. He has remained SAD’s SC wing president. His wife Amarjeet Kaur Sahoke, a former Moga Zila Parishad chairperson, had unsuccessfully contested the 2017 assembly polls from Jagraon as Akali candidate.Malvika Sood Sachar, 38, Moga Charity begins at home: Malvika is known for her philanthropic works in her home town Moga. But claim to fame is her elder brother actor Sonu Sood, with whom she runs a charity. She has no political background. Malvika is a qualified computer engineer and the Congress preferred her candidature over the party’s incumbent MLA Harjot Kamal.Sidhu Moosewala, 28, MansaTapping the young fanbase: A controversial Punjabi singer, Shubhdeep Singh, aka Sidhu Moosewala, is the youngest candidate fielded by the Congress. An electrical engineer, he holds the record of maximum fan following on virtual platforms among Punjabi performing artistes. The party aims to make electoral inroads among young voters through him.Ranveer Kaur Mian, 30, Budladha Lecturer takes poll plunge: A political novice, Ranveer is banking on the legacy of her husband’s grandfather Hakam Singh Mian, who remained Congress MP from Bathinda. She holds PhD in English and recently left her job at a private college to contest the elections. Her husband Sarabjeet Singh is the sarpanch of Mian village in Mansa. Rajinder Kaur, BalluanaSchoolteacher turns politician: A lecturer at a government rural school in Fazilka district, she is considered loyal to the politically influential Jakhar family. Even during the 2017 assembly polls, she had unsuccessfully lobbied for the Congress ticket from Balluana, but got lucky this time. She is apparently the first woman contestant from the segment.Sandeep Jakhar, 45, AboharHolding the fort for Jakhars: A former district president of Youth Congress, Sandeep is the fourth person from Jakhar clan to take the electoral plunge from their stronghold. An alumnus of Florida International University, he had been nurturing the segment after his uncle and former Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar lost it in the last elections. Jagwinder Pal Singh, 59, MajithaUp against turncoat brother: Jagwinder Pal Singh, alias Jagga Majithia, is the brother of Lali Majithia, who recently shifted to the AAP and was fielded as its candidate from Majitha. Even When Lali contested the last two assembly polls on Congress ticket, Jagga was seen as the main driving force running the campaign at grassroots.Mandeep Singh Rangar Nangal, 38, Sri HargobindpurSarpanch set for bigger battle: A low-profile local leader, he is currently serving as the sarpanch of Rangar Nangal village. He has studied up to senior secondary level, and is a civil construction contractor. A loyalist of cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, he has been preferred over sitting MLA Balwinder Singh Ladi.Mohit Mohindra, 32, Patiala RuralStepping into father’s shoes: The candidature of Mohit Mohindra came as no surprise, as he has been actively handling his father and cabinet minister Brahm Mohindra’s political affairs in the assembly segment. A law graduate, he is presently the vice-president of Punjab Youth Congress. A sports enthusiast, he represented Punjab cricket team at national level.Amarpreet Singh Lally, 39, Garhshankar Face of Youth Congress: A former Punjab Youth Congress president, he is presently the national general secretary of Indian Youth Congress. Belonging to a non-political family from Kot Fatuhi village in Garshankar, he is considered a close confidant of former Punjab Congress Sunil Jakhar. His father is a doctor while his mother served as a principal.Kamil Amar Singh, 34, RaikotAn MBA with years of groundwork: Holding an MBA degree from the University of Cambridge, UK, he has worked in MNCs and is the son of Fatehgarh Sahib MP Amar Singh. Politically active in Raikot since 2011, he has remained a Punjab Congress spokesperson and campaign in-charge in the 2012 and 2017 state elections and 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Contributed by Vishal Joshi, Surjit Singh, Navrajdeep Singh, Gagandeep Jassowal and Aneesha Sareen Kumar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-meet-12-first-timers-in-fray-from-congress-101642359876221.html
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Six Sikh devotees assaulted in Bihar’s Ara||ARA: At least six Sikh devotees were allegedly assaulted on the Ara-Sasaram state highway near Dhyani Tola under Charpokhri police station on Sunday while they were returning to Mohali in Punjab after visiting the takht Sri Harimandir Ji at Patna Sahib, police said.According to the Piro sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) Rahul Singh, there were 60 Sikh devotees in the truck. “When the truck reached near Dhyani Tola, a few people demanded ‘chanda’(offerings) for some ‘yajna’(prayer service) for construction of a temple. The truck driver protested and refused to give any ‘chanda’. Soon, a scuffle broke out between the truck driver and the people. In support of the truck driver, the Sikh devotees also got involved,” the SDPO said.In the scuffle that ensued, half-a-dozen Sikh devotees were injured, the SDPO added.He said that all the injured are being treated at Charpokhri public health care (PHC). “They are fine now. An FIR will be lodged against the people who were involved in the incident. The guilty will be arrested soon, the SDPO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/six-sikh-devotees-assaulted-in-patna-101642359874882.html
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: SAD war room highlights past development, fights negative campaigns||With social media emerging as a key campaign tool, especially amid ban on political rallies and large gatherings, the digital warriors of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) have adopted a two-pronged approach ahead of the Punjab assembly elections scheduled on February 14. On the one hand, the party’s IT wing that heads the election war room operations is busy highlighting various development works carried out during the previous Akali regimes, especially between 2007 and 2017, and on the other, it is keeping a close eye on Facebook and Twitter to counter all negative posts and comments that target the party. In fact, the IT wing is backed by a team of lawyers, who are quick to respond by reaching out to those spreading “negativity”. When persuasion doesn’t help, defamation suits are filed, says a party insider. The SAD had taken an early head start by hiring the poll strategy firm Mindshare. It is headed by Sunil Kanugolu, who had partnered with ace poll strategist Prashant Kishor in June last year to launch trending online campaigns #GalPunjabdi (Talk about Punjab) and #13pointagenda (to highlight SAD’s agenda for elections). In the entire social media campaign, party president Sukhbir Singh Badal remains at the centre stage and is projected as synonymous to development in the state. The agency conducted constituency-wise surveys about the issues and popularity of local leaders, and submitted a report much in advance, on the basis of which the party has fielded a number of candidates. “We did well with the two campaigns on all social media platforms. However, after the launch of farmers’ agitation, the campaign had to be stopped midway,” says SAD’s IT wing head Nashattar Singh Gill, who monitors social media campaigns on day-to-day basis. “Our campaign is purely positive, focusing on development projects such as road and bridges, memorials, thermal plants and water channels. We talk about welfare schemes run by the Akali Dal-led governments in the past, such as free power to the agriculture tubewells. However, we don’t take it lightly when anyone badmouths our party or its leaders on social media,” he says. According to Gill, the party president and his wife and Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal take a lot of interest in finalising the campaigns. The IT wing is supported by the party’s media advisers Harcharan Singh Bains and Jangveer Singh, who give expert inputs. Singh also looks after messages on Twitter. The head of the PTC broadcast looks after the content for web channels. Sukhbir has 4.13 lakh followers on Twitter and the SAD’s account is followed by 81,800 people. Cadre is the strength The party’s cadre strength is also helping in the social media campaigns. The SAD’s poll war room, which functions from a plush office in Chandigarh, is in touch with 23,000 WhatsApp groups at a click of a button. At least 30 war room managers are engaged in making and sharing posts and video clips of Sukhbir’s speeches and short videos of projects started during the Akali regime. “We consider YouTube, Facebook and WhatApp as our strength. Each WhatsApp group has 40-60 members, and we give them one or two themes to be rolled out among voters,” says Gill, adding that the party has the data of one crore phone numbers of identifiable people who are also circulated the messages simultaneously. Gill explains that entire Punjab has been divided into six zones, and these zones have been equally divided into assembly constituencies and further into election booths. To check “negativity”, the war room managers are in a constant touch with Facebook authorities, and immediately complain in case there is any derogatory post or comment made against the party’s interests. “We have even tracked down influencers who were talking against the party leaders and have warned them,” says a war room manager, not willing to be named. 
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Women kin pitch in with door-to-door campaign for candidates||Amid ban on political rallies and road shows, female family members of candidates from various political parties are pitching in with door-to-door campaigning to woo the voters, especially women, who comprise 47% of the state’s electorate. In general, the women are campaigning in urban areas, while the candidates and their supporters are busy in rural pockets of their respective assembly segments. Sukhjeev Kaur Romana, wife of Youth Akali Dal president Parambans Singh Romana, has been making efforts to garner support for her husband, who is the Shiromani Akali Dal candidate from Faridkot. “Since the time available in hand for the campaign was limited due to the ban on rallies, I carried out door-to-door meetings daily to do my bit for my husband. A woman holds the power to change the thoughts of her family, and we believe that she will help the party earn votes, not only hers but also of many family members,” says Sukhjeev. Vinu Badal, wife of finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal, has been reaching out to a cross-section of voters, listening to their woes and telling them about the work done by her husband in Bathinda Urban segment. Similarly, Amrita Warring, wife of transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, is busy in door-to-door campaigning in Gidderbaha, from where he has been fielded once again by the Congress. In the Kotkapura assembly segment, three female family members of Aam Aadmi Party legislator Kultar Singh Sandhwan are canvassing for him separately. “My wife, sister-in-law and niece are seeking votes among women, as they relatively feel comfortable with a team of female campaigners,” Sandhwan said. The Election Commission (EC) has extended the ban on physical rallies and road shows for the upcoming assembly elections across five states to January 22, but granted relaxation to parties to conduct indoor meetings with maximum 300 persons or 50% of the capacity of the hall. As per the EC data, there are 2.12 crore voters in 117 assembly segments of Punjab, of which 1 crore are female voters. 
17-01-2022||Delhi||Delhiwale: Meet the chairmen||They are sitting on the floor, not on chairs, even though they are professional chair makers. The three gents are weaving cane chairs this icy afternoon in a central Delhi neighbourhood. Commissioned by an adjacent household, they have been at work since morning.“We have been tasked with making six chairs,” says one of them.Occasional passersby throw curious glances. Maybe because it’s not common to see chairs being woven by hand. “True,” agrees the same man. “These days, people buy ready-made kursi.”The men are brothers. At 41, Janak Songh is the youngest (and quietest), and Nathi Lal (60) is the eldest. Adal Singh (56) is doing all the talking. Exuding a friendly, easy-going temperament, his smile is endearing. The chair he is working on is almost finished.“The bunai (weaving) has to be strong and maheen (delicate),” Adal Singh says, his eyes contracting behind his glasses as he concentrates on the “cane” of the slip seat.The brothers live in the same locality (Kalyanpuri), but in separate houses. They mostly work as a team and commute to the site of the day in their respective bicycles. Each one’s wife packs a lunch box for each. “But we eat together, sharing one another’s subzi.”The brothers inherited the career from their father, the late Jyoti Prasad, who arrived in Delhi some 60 years back. A farmer’s son in Uttar Pradesh, he grabbed the first job he found in the city — as a chair weaver in a furniture shop in Lajpat Nagar. His young sons joined him from the village some years later. “We learned (the art of) bunai from our father,” says Adal Singh.Today, the brothers have 10 children in all. The new generation will not carry forward the legacy. “Our children are studying, they want to do office jobs. They haven’t learned bunai.” Pausing momentarily, Adal Singh explains: “Office work is simpler. You leave home at a fixed time in the morning and come back at a fixed time in the evening… our line is full of hard work, and everyday we have to go to different places, wherever the work is.”The next day the men are sighted at work on the same spot. “We will finish all the chairs today,” says Adal Singh, as he poses for a portrait with his two brothers. The eldest — “bhaisaheb” — is made to sit on a completed chair out of reverence for his seniority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-meet-the-chairmen-101642359567920.html
17-01-2022||Lucknow||Sirathu MLA meets deputy CM Maurya||LUCKNOW: Sheetla Prasad Patel, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker from Sirathu assembly constituency met deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, who has replaced him as a candidate from the seat in Kaushambi district, on Sunday. The meeting took place at Maurya’s Kalidas Marg residence in the state capital. “Popular BJP lawmaker from Sirathu visited me to congratulate me on my birth-place becoming my karmabhoomi too,” Maurya tweeted after the meeting. The Sirathu MLA was among the 20 BJP lawmakers who were dropped by the party. However, the Sirathu MLA was all praise for the BJP and Maurya. “Keshavji was elected from the seat in 2012 and in 2017 UP elections he had introduced me from this seat. So, in a way, it’s like returning his seat back to him. He is a big leader and his being fielded by the party from the seat is a happy occasion for all of us,” the BJP MLA said. “The organisation has fielded both chief minister Yogi Adityanath and the deputy CM with a specific purpose and both will win their seats with a handsome margin,” the Sirathu MLA said. The assembly constituency is dominated by Dalits and OBCs. Sirathu goes to polls in the fifth phase on February 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sirathu-mla-meets-deputy-cm-maurya-101642359511415.html
17-01-2022||Lucknow||India leading in vaccination: Yogi||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said here on Sunday that India was leading in vaccination and Indian vaccine was the best against Covid infection. “Experts have accepted that the Indian vaccine is the best and effective for prevention of Covid,” Yogi said after inspecting the Covid facility at the King George’s Medical University. He said, “The third wave of the biggest pandemic of the century has come in the world and country. After experts foresaw a third wave in August last year, UP worked to tackle it and proved the third wave fear unfounded. Though cases are rising fast, the need for hospitalisation is little.” Sharing statistics, the CM said UP had administered over 22.87 crore doses of Covid vaccine since January 16, 2021. “Lucknow, particularly, has administered over 100% first dose of the target and over 72% have got second dose also. The city has a good vaccination drive.” “For the past about two years, we have done good Covid management under the leadership of the Prime Minister. The state’s management has been appreciated as a good model,” he said. “The new Covid variant Omicron is weak as compared to the second wave despite its fast spread. But it is less dangerous. This is why the state government has allowed daily activities apart from the night curfew. But we have to stay alert and safe, particularly children, elderly, and pregnant women,” he said. Of the over 1.03 lakh active cases, over 1.01 lakh were in home isolation. In Lucknow also, less than one per cent of the active cases were in hospital. Most of those in hospital were there due to some other ailment and got tested for Covid. This showed the virus was getting weak, said the CM. Earlier, Yogi inspected the Covid facility on the campus with vice chancellor Lt Gen (Dr) Bipin Puri, Dr D Himanshu, Prof SN Sankhwar and Dr Avinash Agrawal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/india-leading-in-vaccination-yogi-101642359152743.html
17-01-2022||Mumbai||Vistadome coaches gaining popularity on Mum-Goa, Mum-Pune routes||MUMBAI: With an occupancy rate of 100%, the vistadome coaches of the Central Railway (CR) have become popular among passengers travelling to Goa and Pune from Mumbai.The Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) to Madgaon Janshatabdi Express which has a vistadome coach has recorded 100% occupancy between October and December 2021. With 7,754 passengers, the CR has earned Rs1.40 crore from these coaches.The second vistadome coach that has been attached to the CSMT to Pune Deccan Queen has recorded 94.28% occupancy of passengers travelling between Pune and Mumbai. With 7,185 passengers between October and December last year, the zonal railway has earned Rs97.26 lakh from the vistadome coaches.The vistadome coaches have boosted tourism and revolutionised the concept of luxury travel on Indian Railways. The vistadome coaches on the CR have received an overwhelming response from passengers,” said Anil Kumar Jain, senior public relations officer, CRThe vistadome coaches have a glass roof, wide window panes and seats that rotate 360 degree to offer passengers a better sightseeing experience. The coaches also have 12 LCD television screens for entertainment, a mini-fridge, automatic sliding compartment doors, an oven, a juicer-grinder and toilets fitted with ceramic tiles.The vistadome coach was first introduced on the Mumbai-Goa route in 2018 on the Janshatabdi Express. A second coach was introduced on the Deccan Queen that runs between Mumbai and Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vistadome-coaches-gaining-popularity-on-mum-goa-mum-pune-routes-101642358732489.html
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Burglars take away ₹2 lakh from website development firm’s office on Ludhiana’s Mall road||Unidentified burglars on Saturday robbed the office of a website development firm at Mall road, fleeing with ₹2 lakh.The Division number 8 police lodged an FIR against the unidentified accused and initiated investigation.The complainant, Ritesh Nayyar of Malerkotla house, said upon reaching his firm’s office, which is located on the fourth floor of the Golden Plaza at Mall road, he found that the office had been broken into and ransacked. He added that ₹2 lakh had been stolen from the office.Assistant sub inspector Ranvir Singh, the investigating officer, said an FIR under sections 457 (house-breaking by night in order to commit offence) and 380 (theft in dwelling) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the unidentified accused. The police are going through the CCTV footage to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/burglars-take-away-2-lakh-from-website-development-firm-s-office-on-ludhiana-s-mall-road-101642358731242.html
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab assembly elections: 16,684 personnel assigned poll duty after first randomisation exercise||The district administration on Friday conducted the first randomisation to deploy manpower for the ensuing assembly elections in the presence of the additional deputy commissioner (General) Rahul Chaba, district revenue officer Pardeep Singh Bains, district immunisation officer Inderjit Singh and other officials at the District Administrative Complex.During the randomisation, deputy commissioner-cum-district election officer Varinder Kumar Sharma said employees from the central and state governments, banks and public sector undertakings will be assigned several duties for the polls. He said the services of the employees would be used for counting and polling as per requirement, adding that they will be assigned duties as supporting staff, micro-observers and booth level officers (BLOs). He said the randomisation was aimed at assigning duties to the staff in the days to come.The first randomisation was held for the training and deployment of 16,684 polling personnel at 2,979 booths over 14 assembly constituencies of the district. The district election officer said there were 26,50,344 voters in the district, of which 14,14,750 were male, 12,35,471 were female and 123 were third gender voters. He added that the district administration was duty-bound to ensure that every voter was able to exercise their franchise freely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-assembly-elections-16-684-personnel-assigned-poll-duty-after-first-randomistaion-exercise-101642358678755.html
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab state elections: Former senior V-P of Shiromani Akali Dal’s district unit jumps ship, joins Aam Aadmi Party||Continuing the trend of state and district level-leaders from various political parties are jumping ship in view of the upcoming assembly elections, former senior vice president of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) district unit Harmohan Singh on Sunday joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) along with his supporters.AAP leaders including Atam Nagar candidate Kulwant Sidhu, Master Hari Singh, Ruchi Bawa among others inducted Singh into the party fold at AAP’s district office in Gian Singh Rarewala market near Preet Palace. The leaders stated that the Harmonhan Singh’s entry into AAP will further give a boost to the party’s prospects in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-state-elections-former-senior-v-p-of-shiromani-akali-dal-s-district-unit-jumps-ship-joins-aam-aadmi-party-101642358675793.html
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man murders wife, sleeps next to her corpse||A 50-year-old man allegedly killed his wife and slept next to her corpse, in a labour quarter in Focal Point area on Saturday evening. The accused has been identified as Sooraj Bahadur Chhetri, who works as a watchman in a factory and lives on its campus. Focal Point station house officer (SHO), inspector Rajesh Kumar said the accused had got into a spat with his wife, Bishnu Chhetri, over a petty issue. In a fit of rage, he allegedly thrashed her following which she fell on the bed. The accused is then said to have strangled her while simultaneously punching her face. Bishnu lost consciousness after the assault, following which the accused went to sleep. A few hours later, he woke up and found that his wife had died. Around 9pm, he rang up his brother and narrated the whole incident to him. Later, he also informed the victim’s brother, Krishan Bahadur. The victim’s brother said the couple had got married around 23 years ago and they have a 21-year-old son, who also works as a watchman and lives in another locality. He added that on Saturday around 9pm, he received a call from Sooraj’s brother who told that Bishnu had died. He immediately rushed to their house and found Bishnu lying dead on the bed and Sooraj sitting next to the body. The victim’s brother said he saw injury marks on his sister’s face. When he asked Sooraj about it, he confessed that he had an argument with Bishnu and had thrashed her. SHO Kumar said the accused did not try to flee after the crime. Police have registered a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code against Sooraj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-murders-wife-sleeps-next-to-her-corpse-101642358674303.html
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC’s failure to ensure quality checks mar multi-crore road development projects launched ahead of the Punjab assembly polls||Ludhiana The multi-crore road construction projects taken up by the municipal corporation (MC) ahead of assembly elections have come to no good as the new roads have already begun wearing off merely weeks after construction.Several residents from different parts of the city including Udham Singh Nagar, Shastri Nagar, Kitchlu Nagar, Old GT road, Dugri among other areas have submitted complaints of substandard work over the period. Similar complaints were also received for the work done on Model Town-Jawaddi road and Pakhowal road, which were constructed by the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT). A Model Town extension resident Tajinderpal Singh said, “The material started wearing off at the newly constructed Model Town-Jawaddi road (Deep hospital road) a few days after it was constructed. The ruling parties only take up the development project ahead of elections and hundreds of crores is spent on construction of roads, installing interlocking tiles just to woo the voters.” “However, with no check on quality the amount gets wasted and no one is held responsible for the same and the public is again forced to have a bumpy ride,” he added.RTI activist Arvind Sharma had also complained against poor quality of construction work at Model town-Jawaddi road and Pakhowal road to the local bodies department.The rainfall witnessed in the first week of January further blew the lid off the tall claims made by authorities regarding the quality of work. Gravel can be seen spread on damaged roads, increasing the chances of road accidents as the two wheelers can skid on roads. Mayor Balkar Sandhu had earlier said road construction work estimating ₹250 crores had been taken up in the city. Notably, the MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal had at the time written to the local bodies department to appoint a third party for quality checks.An MC official, requesting anonymity, said the ruling party MLAs and leaders pressurised the civic body to take up development projects ahead of elections despite the cold weather conditions. The hot mix material could not be laid properly during the work carried out in the night and the heavy rainfall and waterlogging witnessed during the first week of January added to the damage of the roads, which would have otherwise lasted for 4-5 years, he further revealed. A shopkeeper at Dugri road, Sanjay, said the main Dugri road is being constructed after a gap of over six years but poor quality of the work was evident as a stretch of the road wore out even before the project was completed.“No one is paying heed to the problem. Public money is being wasted and no relief is being provided to the public,” he added.It is pertinent to note that the MC contactors have taken up repair work of the roads that had been constructed in the last 2-3 months.MC additional commissioner Aaditya Dachalwal, meanwhile, said the respective contractors have been directed to take up the repair work following the complaints from residents. He revealed that the payments were held until the repair work is completed, before adding that the MC is also working to impose penalties on contractors for the damaged roads.Material at ‘smart’ Malhar road wears offThe road constructed under the heavily advertised project to transform Malhar road into a smart road under smart city mission has also begun to wear off. Notably, the authorities had made several promises to ensure the quality of works under the smart city mission, but the project has missed multiple deadlines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-s-failure-to-ensure-quality-checks-mar-multi-crore-road-development-projects-launched-ahead-of-the-punjab-assembly-polls-101642358672988.html
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Neighbour assaults woman for feeding stray dogs, arrested||Police have arrested a resident of Seera village for allegedly assaulting his 20-year-old neighbour for feeding stray dogs in the locality.The accused has been identified Akashdeep Singh of Harikrishan Vihar of Seera village.The victim, in her police complaint, said that she is an animal lover and feeds stray dogs in the neighbourhood. Some of her neighbours have been objecting to it. On January 15, when she was feeding dogs outside her house, Akashdeep turned up and started abusing her, saying that the stray dogs defecate in front of his house.He then started thrashing her, following which she fell on the road. He allegedly even kicked her in the stomach and fled when she raised the alarm. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Harjit Singh, the investigating officer, said a case under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the accused. Soon after registering the FIR, police arrested him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-neighbour-assaults-woman-for-feeding-stray-dogs-arrested-101642358563339.html
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Son of panchayat member rapes woman on pretext of taking her Canada, booked||The Raikot police on Sunday booked son of a panchayat member for raping a married woman on the pretext of marrying and sending her abroad. An FIR has been lodged after the woman sent a written complaint to director general of police (DGP) VK Bhawra on January 7. According to the woman, as the accused has political influence the police were reluctant in lodging the FIR.The accused Harman Singh of Jand village, Raikot, claimed to woman that his two sisters are settled abroad and they would help her in settling down in Canada if she marries him.The woman said she had married two years ago. Her husband is a security guard. The accused raped her on the pretext of marriage. When she forced him to marry her the accused refused. On November 21, 2021, when her husband was on his duty, the accused barged in her house and raped her. The next day she went to her maternal home as she was under mental depression. On December 25, 2021, her husband brought her back home. She narrated the whole incident to him, who took him to the police for lodging an FIR.Sub-Inspector Kamaldeep Kaur, who is investigating the case, said that a case under Section 376 (rape) of Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused. A hunt is on for his arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-son-of-panchayat-member-rapes-woman-on-pretext-of-taking-her-canada-booked-101642358561681.html
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Husband booked for abetment after woman ends life||Allegedly harassed by her husband, his friend and a factory owner, a 20-year-old woman ended her life by jumping into the canal on Sunday. On the statement of the victim’s mother, the Doraha police have booked the accused for abetment to suicide.The woman had married the accused a year ago against her parents’ wishes.The complainant, who is resident of Paddi village of Dehlon, said her daughter worked at a factory in Bhagwanpura village of Dehlon, where she had met the accused, who had befriended and later married her. Alleging that her daughter was depressed, she told the police that her son-in-law, his friend Suman, and factory owner, Sonu, were defaming her daughter by saying she was having an extra-marital affair.The complainant said, “On January 3, my daughter jumped into the canal near Ajnod. Her body was fished out of the Sidhwan Canal on January 12, and was kept in the civil hospital for identification. On January 15, I identified the body and lodged an FIR.”ASI Satpal Singh, who is investigating the case, said that an FIR under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused. A hunt is on for their arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-husband-booked-for-abetment-after-woman-ends-life-101642358560503.html
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | 25-year-old arrested for rape bid on four-year-old||The Daba police arrested a 25-year-old man for rape bid on a four-year-old daughter of his tenant in New Sundar Nagar of Lohara on Sunday evening. Parents of the victim rescued her and informed the police.The accused, who is the son of a railway employee, lured the girl with chocolates, when she was playing on the street with other children and took her to his room. The victim’s grandmother, who had seen him taking the girl to the room, informed girl’s parents.Sub-inspector Davinder Singh, station house officer (SHO) at Daba police station, said after persistent knocks when the accused did not open the gate, the locals broke open the gate to see the accused attempting to rape her. They immediately informed the police. A case under Section 376 (rape), 511(punishment for committing offences), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code and Section 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (Pocso) has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-25-yr-old-arrested-for-rape-bid-on-fouryrold-101642358559284.html
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||28 challaned in 2 days for modifying silencers in Ludhiana||Cracking a whip against modified silencers of Royal Enfield Bullet motorcycles to make a gunshot like sound, the traffic police have issued 28 challans in the past two days. The police are also scanning motorcycles of people who were challaned in the past for the offense to check if they have again installed modified silencers.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP – traffic 2) Karnail Singh said apart from issuing challans to the violators, the police will also book the mechanics for fitting modified silencers on the motorcycles under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of Indian Penal Code. ACP added that the police had initiated the drive against modified silencers on January 15 in Zone 2 and Zone 4 of traffic police.The Punjab and Haryana high court had issued a notice of motion to Ludhiana police commissioner in a petition pertaining to plying of Royal Enfield Bullet motorcycles in the city without properly fitted silencers in April 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/28-challaned-in-2-days-for-modifying-silencers-in-ludhiana-101642358557688.html
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: AAP names three more candidates||Chandigarh : The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday announced the names of its three more candidates for the February 14 elections, fielding former minister Joginder Singh Mann from the Phagwara assembly constituency. The announcement of Mann’s candidature came a day after he was inducted into the party by AAP national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in Delhi. A former Congress minister and Punjab Agro Industries Corporation chairman, Mann had snapped his 50-year-old ties with the ruling party, accusing it of meeting out a step-motherly treatment to the Valmiki or Mazhabi Sikhs. The party has also named Ajitpal Singh Kohli from Patiala Urban and Gurpreet Singh Gogi from Ludhiana West. All three jumped ship from other parties recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-aap-names-three-more-candidates-101642358551174.html
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Vote for candidate of your choice: Radha Soami Beas to sect followers||AmritsarRadha Soami sect Beas, which has a sizeable number of followers in Punjab and some other parts of the country, has asked them to vote as they see fit in the assembly elections in five states.Polls are being held in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur in seven phases between February 10 and March 7. The counting of votes will take place on March 10.People familiar with the matter said a circular issued from the Beas headquarters headed by Gurinder Singh Dhillon to all Radha Soami Satsang centres across the nation says the sect has “respect for all political parties as all are equal for us.” “To cast vote is the personal right of each individual. So, here we all should exercise our voting right after the application of mind and keeping in view the wellbeing of the entire society,” said the circular.In the past too, the sect has refrained from asking its followers to exercise their vote in favour of a particular party.Meanwhile, Dhillon is learnt to be going abroad in a couple of days and is expected to return after a few weeks.Dera Radha Soami, also known as Dera Baba Jaimal Singh, is situated in Beas town -- nearly 45 kilometres from Amritsar city. It has a number of followers in Punjab, Haryana and many other states and is usually visited by political leaders before elections.Punjab goes to polls in a single phase of voting on February 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-vote-for-candidate-of-your-choice-radha-soami-beas-to-sect-followers-101642358431284.html
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: ECI allows mediapersons to cast vote through postal ballot||Chandigarh: The Election Commission of India (ECI) has allowed journalists to cast their votes through postal ballot facility, according to an official statement of the office of Punjab chief electoral officer on Sunday. The ECI has allowed mediapersons, authorised by the poll body, to exercise their franchise using postal ballot facility, said the statement. Raju said any absentee voter wishing to vote by postal ballot has to make an application to the returning officer in Form-12D, giving all requisite particulars and get the application verified by the nodal officer appointed by the organisation concerned. He said any voter opting for postal ballot facility would not be able to cast a vote at the polling station. Earlier, the commission had allowed voters aged 80 and above, people with disabilities and Covid-19 patients to cast their votes through postal ballots. Those involved in essential services, including personnel of the food civil supplies and the consumer affairs, the Food Corporation of India, the All India Radio, Doordarshan, post and telegraph, the railways, BSNL, power, health, fire services and civil aviation can also opt for the facility in case they are on duty, the statement sad. Meanwhile, postal voting centres (PVCs) will be open for up to three consecutive days in all the constituencies before the date fixed for state assembly polls. On each of the three days, the PVC will remain open from 9 am to 5pm, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-eci-allows-mediapersons-to-cast-vote-through-postal-ballot-101642358251315.html
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Revolt in Congress: CM’s brother decides to contest as independent from Bassi Pathana||MOHALI: Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s younger brother Dr Manohar Singh, who was eyeing a Congress ticket from Bassi Pathana (reserved) assembly seat, on Sunday said he will contest as an independent from the constituency, after the ruling party fielded its sitting legislator.In its first list of 86 candidates, the Congress on Saturday gave the ticket to party MLA Gurpreet Singh GP from Bassi Pathana.Dr Manohar Singh said: “I consulted with my supporters and they all decided that I should contest as an independent. The sitting MLA has not done any development works in the area. Despite the negative feedback about the sitting MLA, the Congress has given him the ticket.” On other hand, sitting MLA Gurpreet Singh GP said the party high command should take action against Manohar Singh as he is contesting against the official candidate. “As far as development works in the area are concerned, people of the constituency know about it and they have full faith in me. The majority of people from the segment support me due to development works initiated during my tenure,” he said. On December 7 last year, Dr Manohar Singh, who was posted as the senior medical officer (SMO) in the Kharar civil hospital, resigned from his service. Ever since his resignation, he was holding meetings with the people of the area. He had even set up an office in Bassi Pathana. Dr Manohar started political activities in Bassi Pathana during the pandemic last year when he was posted at the Nandpur Kalour primary health centre in the segment. Nandpur Kalour sarpanch Manjeet Singh said that Dr Manohar was transferred to Kharar after MLA Gurpreet feared his popularity in the area. A post-graduate in anaesthesia, Dr Manohar has done master’s in journalism from Kurukshetra University and is also a law graduate from Panjab University, Chandigarh. Channi too started his political career as independent Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi too started his political career by contesting and winning the assembly elections as an independent from Chamkaur Sahib in 2007. He joined the Congress in 2011.
17-01-2022||Chandigarh||Majithia booked for violating Covid guidelines in Amritsar||AMRITSAR: Former minister and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Bikram Singh Majithia has been booked for violating Covid-19 guidelines after he met several supporters at the Golden Gate in Amritsar. After getting anticipatory bail in a drug case, Majithia visited the city on Saturday and as he reached the Golden Gate, the main entrance of the city, hundreds of SAD workers gathered there to welcome him. A case under sections of the National Disaster Management Act, 2005, Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and Indian Penal Code has been registered against Majithia for violating Covid guidelines at the Sultanwind police station of Amritsar city, a police spokesperson said on Sunday.The flying squad team (FST) deployed by the district administration in the Amritsar East assembly segment noticed the violation and recorded a video. Police spokespersons said the SAD leader was seen receiving ‘siropas’ (robe of honour) and garlands amid gathering of hundreds of supporters. Majithia has not reacted to the FIR yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/majithia-booked-for-violating-covid-guidelines-in-amritsar-101642357891499.html
17-01-2022||Pune||Mumbai-Kolhapur flight service resumes||PUNE After a gap of three months, the Mumbai-Kolhapur air service resumed from Kolhapur airport on Monday. The official Twitter handle of Kolhapur airport tweeted: “FlyTruJet Mumbai-Kolhapur-Mumbai successfully resumed with 23 PAXs arrivals and 13 departures. Thank you to all the passengers and stakeholders for their cooperation”. “The service was closed for the last two-three months due to some issue from flight operators, otherwise our airport was ready to resume service. In the coming days we are also ready to start services to other destinations,” said Kamal Kumar Kataria, Kolhapur airport director. TruJet had the Mumbai-Kolhapur air service on September 2, 2019, with a 72-seater aircraft. “The Mumbai-Kolhapur-Mumbai air service always received a very good response and we are confident that the route will continue to receive good traffic,” added Kataria. In the first week of January, Kolhapur airport also received approval from the Bureau of civil aviation security (BCAS) to start a cargo service. Kolhapur airport ha sa 916-metre landing strip. Authorities are now focused on providing a night landing facility. “Cargo service will boost revenue for the airport. Cargo service always has a demand from industries as it will be useful for transport of grapes and other industrial goods from Kolhapur to other places,” said Kataria.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mumbaikolhapur-flight-service-resumes-101642441180672.html
17-01-2022||Other||Man arrested in Rajasthan for raping daughter||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan Police on Monday said that they have arrested a 16-year-old girl’s father in Udaipur for allegedly raping her repeatedly. The 37-year-old accused was being presented before a court a day after his arrest on Sunday. He has been booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and relevant Indian Penal Code sections, said Vijendra Singh, a local police officer.Police said that the matter came to light when the girl, a class 11 student, confided in her mother, who reported the matter to police on Sunday. The accused is an alcoholic and would fight with his wife regularly. Police said he would send his wife to his second house and allegedly rape the daughter. The father also threatened to kill the wife if the daughter reported the sexual abuse.Police said the man fled from his village but was caught when his wife lodged a complaint.
17-01-2022||Other||Dissent in Cong Jalandhar unit over ticket distribution||Jalandhar A day after the first list of Congress candidates was announced, dissent reared its head in the Jalandhar unit on Sunday. In an outburst, former state chief Mohinder Singh Kaypee said he was keen to contest from Adampur and Jalandhar (west) constituency, but had been denied his due. “I never expected the Congress party to deny me a ticket. Outsiders are now ruling the party and the real Congress man is just watching. The party wants us to leave, that is why it is pushing us again,” he claimed. On whether he was joining the BJP, he said his negotiations with other parties were underway. “My family has been contesting every Vidhan Sabha elections since 1967 and will certainly contest the coming one too,” he said. Kaypee had lost to Akali Dal’s Pawan Kumar Tinu in the 2017 assembly polls from Adampur constituency. In 2009, he had won the Lok Sabha polls from Jalandhar constituency 2009. Jalandhar mayor Jagdish Raja of the Congress also expressed his annoyance for not being given the ticket. Here, the party has retained his sitting MLA. Raja said, “Nine sitting councillors wanted me to contest elections. We will announce our plan soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dissent-in-cong-jalandhar-unit-over-ticket-distribution-101642364373121.html
17-01-2022||Lucknow||Lucknow: 3 Bangladeshis arrested for illegal stay, running firearms smuggling racket||Lucknow With the arrest of three Bangladesh nationals, Special Task Force (STF) of UP Police on Saturday claimed to have busted a criminal gang involved in carrying out robberies and loots as well as smuggling illegal firearms, said STF officials. In a press note, the STF officials stated that the three Bangladesh nationals illegally crossed over the India-Bangladesh border and were staying in India for past few years. The three were staying in Jhansi district on the border of Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh on fake identities. The officials said that the three arrested were identified as Alameen alias Mintu, Suleman, Zakir Khand alias Aslam. All of them were arrested from Gwalior road in Jhansi under Sipri Bazar police station limits on Saturday morning. Two illegal firearms, one Aadhaar card and a driving license procured on fake identities were recovered from them, the STF officials said. The officials stated that the trio had committed several robberies and loots in Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, and also smuggled firearms in the garb of running scarp business in Jhansi. “Mintu is the leader of the gang, who has been living in India for past 15 years. His parents also earlier stayed in India but returned to their native place Bagerhat Khulna, Bangladesh, around 5-6 years ago,” the officials added. They said that three separate cases of fraud under Passport Act and illegal firearms possession had been registered against them at Sipri Bazar police station while efforts were on to collect more details about their criminal background from Madhya Pradesh and Maharshtra police. According to the STF, the trio would be further taken in custody remand and interrogated about their involvement in crimes reported in different states across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-3-bangladeshis-arrested-for-illegal-stay-running-firearms-smuggling-racket-101642360478458.html
17-01-2022||World||Chinese President Xi Jinping rejects ‘cold war mentality’, pushes cooperation||Chinese President Xi Jinping said Monday that his country will send an additional 1 billion doses of Covid-19 vaccine to other countries, calling for global cooperation to tackle the pandemic and other challenges while urging other powers to discard a "Cold-War mentality” — a veiled swipe at the United States.Xi touted China's efforts to share vaccines, fight climate change and promote development in the opening speech of a virtual gathering hosted by the World Economic Forum. The online event is being held after the group put off its annual meeting in Davos, Switzerland, because of the coronavirus pandemic.Efforts to battle the global outbreak that has claimed over 5.5 million lives and upended the world economy and climate change were prominent themes Monday.In a panel session on the virus, Moderna's CEO said the vaccine maker was working on a single-shot booster for both Covid-19 and the flu, while U.S. infectious diseases expert Dr. Anthony Fauci lamented as “very disturbing” the reluctance of many Americans to follow basic measures like mask-wearing and getting vaccinated.Xi, who hasn’t left China since the coronavirus emerged in early 2020, said his country has exported more than 2 billion doses of its Covid-19 vaccines to over 120 countries and international institutions. He announced plans to provide an additional 1 billion, including a donation of 600 million doses to Africa and an extra 150 million to Southeast Asia.By comparison, managers of the U.N.-backed COVAX program to ship vaccines to developing countries announced over the weekend that it has now delivered 1 billion vaccine doses.Xi touched on standard themes from previous international addresses, including responding to trading partners' complaints by promising to open China's state-dominated economy wider to private and foreign competition.His comments come as tensions between the United States and China have simmered on topics like Taiwan, intellectual property, trade, human rights and the South China Sea.“We need to discard Cold War mentality and seek peaceful coexistence and win-win outcomes,” Xi said through a translator. “Protectionism and unilateralism can protect no one. ... Even worse are the practices of hegemony and bullying, which run counter to the tide of history" — terms Beijing has used to describe U.S. policy and actions.“A zero-sum approach that enlarges one’s own gain at the expense of others will not help,” he added. "The right way forward for humanity is peaceful development and win-win cooperation.”Xi said China “stands ready to work with” other governments on climate change but announced no new initiatives and offered no resources. He said it was up to developed countries to provide money and technology.Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi also took up the environment in his address, pledging his country's commitment to achieving net-zero emissions by 2070.India’s growth in the next 25 years will be “green and clean, and also sustainable and reliable,” he said, stressing its commitment to solar power.While Xi and Modi touted environmental efforts, UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres ratcheted up his concerns about the use of coal — both China and India are big users — in his call for “real climate action in developing countries.”“Emissions must fall, but they continue to rise," Guterres said in his address, appealing for debt relief for developing countries needing help weaning off coal.Guterres pointed to his call for “coalitions” to help foster a clean energy transition, highlighting US-Chinese efforts to provide China with “adequate technologies" to accelerate that shift."India doesn’t like the coalition, but India has accepted several bilateral forms of support, and I’ve been in close contact with the US, UK and several other countries to make sure that there's a strong project to support India,” he said.Guterres said the past two years had shown that the world needs to cooperate to halt climate change, achieve global economic recovery and beat the pandemic.During a session on Covid-19's future, Moderna CEO Stephane Bancel said he hoped the US-based company would have a combined vaccine booster ready to test in advanced research in the second quarter, saying a best-case scenario would be if the single shot covering both flu and Covid-19 would be ready for use next year.“I don’t think it would happen in every country, but we believe it’s possible to happen in some countries next year,” Bancel said.Moderna has been criticized for prioritizing distribution of its Covid-19 vaccines to rich countries; only a fraction of its supply has gone to poor countries via COVAX. He said the company aimed to make about 2 to 3 billion doses this year and hopes to have data from a new vaccine tweaked to address the omicron variant in March.The annual Davos gathering usually takes place in person in the Alpine snows of eastern Switzerland, drawing hundreds of business leaders, cultural elites, academics and government leaders. Leaders of countries like Germany, Colombia and Japan were set to address the gathering that runs through Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-president-xi-jinping-rejects-cold-war-mentality-pushes-cooperation-101642442759435.html
17-01-2022||World||China to send another 1bn Covid vaccines to Africa: Xi||China will supply another one billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines to African countries, President Xi Jinping announced at the all-virtual Davos forum on Monday, adding that 150 million vaccine doses will donated to the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) countries. Of the one billion vaccines that it will send to Africa, 600 million will be donated, Xi said. This is in addition to the more than one billion doses that China promised and supplied to Africa last year.“China is a country that delivers on its promises. China has already sent over two billion doses of vaccines to more than 120 countries and international organisations,” the Chinese President said at the World Economic Forum via video link on Monday, the third time the Chinese leader has addressed the event. “Still, China will provide another one billion doses to African countries, including 600 million doses as donation, and will also donate 150 million doses to Asean countries,” he said.Xi had announced in November that China will deliver one billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines to Africa, after already having supplied nearly 200 million doses to the country.Xi reiterated that cooperation is “the only right way” to defeat the pandemic, while holding each other back or shifting blame “would only cause needless delay in response” and “distract us from the overall objective”.“Holding each other back or shifting blame would only cause needless delay in response and distract us from the overall objective,” he said.“As changes of the times combine with the once-in-a-century pandemic, the world finds itself in a new period of turbulence and transformation,” Xi said.The Covid-19 pandemic first emerged in the central Chinese city of Wuhan in late December, 2019.China has been accused of withholding critical information related to the origin of the virus; Beijing has strongly countered that by saying more countries should be investigated to trace the origins.According to official data, by the end of last year, China had provided the international community with about 372 billion masks, more than 4.2 billion protective suits, 8.4 billion testing reagents, and more than 2 billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines to more than 120 countries and international organisations. China has provided the most vaccines worldwide, a government spokesperson said on Monday.Xi urged other powers to discard a “Cold-War mentality” at a time of rising geopolitical tensions — a veiled swipe at the United States.The Chinese leader touted his country’s efforts to share vaccines, fight climate change and promote development at home and abroad as he delivered the opening speech.“We need to discard the Cold War mentality and seek peaceful coexistence and win-win outcomes. Our world today is far from being tranquil,” said Xi. “Protectionism and unilateralism can protect no one. They ultimately hurt the interests of others as well as one’s own. Even worse are the practices of hegemony and bullying, which run counter to the tide of history.“A zero-sum approach that enlarges one’s own gain at the expense of others will not help,” he added. “The right way forward for humanity is peaceful development and win-win cooperation.”For the second year in a row, an online event is being held in place of the face-to-face gathering of political and corporate power players in Davos, Switzerland, because of health concerns linked to the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-to-send-another-1bn-covid-vaccines-to-africa-xi-101642428279456.html
17-01-2022||World||2 Indians, 1 Pakistani killed in blast from ‘drone attack’ in Abu Dhabi||A possible drone attack may have sparked an explosion that struck three oil tankers in Abu Dhabi and another fire at an extension of Abu Dhabi International Airport on Monday that killed three people and wounded six, police said.Abu Dhabi police identified the dead as two Indian nationals and one Pakistani. It did not identify the wounded, who police said suffered minor or moderate wounds.Police said an investigation was underway.#عاجل| #شرطة_أبوظبي: الحادث أسفر عن وفاة شخص من الجنسية الباكستانية و شخصين من الجنسية الهندية و إصابة 6 آخرين إصاباتهم بين البسيطة والمتوسطة pic.twitter.com/sbbVsphDoFWhile Abu Dhabi police did not immediately offer any suspects for the possible assault, Yemen’s Houthi rebels claimed responsibility for an attack targeting the United Arab Emirates, without elaborating. The Iranian-backed Houthis have claimed several attacks that Emirati officials later denied took place.The incident comes while Yemen’s yearslong war rages on and as an Emirati-flagged vessel found itself recently captured by the Houthis. That’s as Abu Dhabi largely has withdrawn its national forces from the conflict tearing apart the Arab world’s poorest nation while still supporting local militias there.Abu Dhabi police said preliminary investigations indicated the detection of small flying objects, possibly belonging to drones, that fell in the two areas and may have caused the explosion and fire. They said there was no significant damage from the incidents, without offering further details.Also Read | UAE says it suspects drones caused Abu Dhabi fires, Yemen's Houthis claim attackPolice said the “minor” airport fire took place at an extension of the international airport that is still under construction. For years, the airport home to Etihad Airways has been building its new Midfield Terminal, but it wasn't clear if that was where the fire took place.The other blast, according to the police, struck three petroleum transport tankers near a storage facility for the Abu Dhabi National Oil Co. in the Musaffah area. The neighborhood, 22 kilometers (13 miles) from the center of Abu Dhabi city, also has an oil pipeline network and 36 storage tanks, from which transport trucks carry fuel nationwide.Houthi military spokesman Yahia Sarei said on Monday that the group has launched an attack deep in the UAE. He did not provide further details, saying a statement would be released soon.The location of the ADNOC storage facility where the tankers caught fire is approximately 1,800 kilometers (1,100 miles) northeast of Saada, the Houthis’ stronghold in Yemen.The UAE has been at war in Yemen since early 2015 and was a key member of the Saudi-led coalition that launched attacks against the Iranian-backed Houthis after the group overran the capital of Yemen and ousted the internationally-backed government from power.Although the UAE has decreased the number of troops it has on the ground, it continues to be actively engaged in the war and supports key militias fighting the Houthis. It also cooperates closely with the United States in counter-terrorism operations in Yemen.The Houthis have come under pressure in recent weeks and are suffering heavy losses as Yemeni forces, allied and backed by the UAE, have pushed back the rebel group in key southern and central provinces of the country.Yemen’s government-aligned forces, aided by the UAE-backed Giants Brigades and with help from Saudi airstrikes, reclaimed the entire southern province of Shabwa from the Houthis earlier this month and made advances in nearby Marib province.The incident comes as South Korea’s President Moon Jae-in visits the UAE. During the president’s meeting with Emirati Prime Minister and Dubai ruler Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum on Sunday, the two countries reportedly reached a preliminary deal valued at some $3.5 billion to sell mid-range South Korean surface-to-air missiles to the UAE.The Houthis have claimed previous attacks on Abu Dhabi's airport, as well as the emirate's Barakah nuclear power plant - claims that Emirati officials have denied in the past.The Houthis have used bomb-laden drones to launch crude and imprecise attacks aimed at Saudi Arabia and the UAE over the course of the war. The group has also launched missiles at Saudi airports, oil facilities, and pipelines, as well as used booby-trapped boats for attacks in key shipping routes.Though there have been civilian deaths in Saudi Arabia from some of these attacks, the overwhelming number of civilian deaths have been in Yemen. The war has killed 130,000 people in Yemen - both civilians and fighters - and has exacerbated hunger and famine across the impoverished country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/2-indians-1-pakistani-killed-in-blast-from-drone-attack-in-abu-dhabi-101642418955776.html
17-01-2022||World||China’s population in ‘zero growth’ period, birth rate falls for 5th year||China’s population increased by less than half a million in 2021, recording a drop in births for the fifth consecutive year, latest national data showed on Monday with officials saying that the country’s population has entered a “zero growth” period.China recorded 10.62 million births in 2021, or only 7.5 births per 1,000 people, the national bureau of statistics (NBS) said. It marked the lowest growth rate since the founding of new China under the Communist Party of China (CPC) in 1949.In demographic terms, new births managed to outnumber deaths with the population growing by 480,000 to 1.4126 billion.The number of deaths recorded in 2021 was 10.14 million. New births in 2021 dropped 11.6% from 12.02 million in 2020; it had registered a sharp 18% plunge that year from 14.65 million in 2019.Ning Jizhe, head of the NBS, said multiple factors were responsible for China’s falling population.A primary reason is the continued decrease in the number of women of childbearing age, as 2021 saw about 5 million fewer women of childbearing age between 15 and 49 than in the previous year.“Other factors included delaying marriage and births due to the fertility concept of couples and the pandemic,” Ning was quoted as saying by state media.Ning said at the end of 2021, the working-age population aged 16-59 was 882 million, accounting for 62.5% of the total population; the population aged 60 and above was 267 million, accounting for 18.9% of the total population, and the population aged 65 and above was 200 million, accounting for the total population 14.2%.“The demographic challenge is well known but the speed of population ageing is clearly faster than expected,” Zhang Zhiwei, chief economist at Pinpoint Asset Management, was quoted as saying by the AFP.“It also indicates China’s potential growth is likely slowing faster than expected,” he said.Liang Jianzhang, an economics professor at Peking University, told the Global Times that it is necessary, effective and important to further encourage fertility and increase the population to improve China’s economy.China, the most populous country in the world, is burdened with an ageing citizenry despite scrapping the decades-old one-child policy in 2016.China’s population is growing at its slowest pace in decades with the country adding only 72 million people in the past decade, the once-in-a-decade Census data showed in May, 2021.In May, China allowed married couples to have up to three children, in a major shift from the limit of two children per couple following a worrying decline in births confirmed in new Census data.“The three-child policy and supporting measures will be conducive to improving China’s demographic structure and implementing the national strategy of actively responding to population ageing,” the Chinese government said about the decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-population-in-zero-growth-period-birth-rate-falls-for-5th-year-101642416398528.html
17-01-2022||World||UAE says it suspects drones caused Abu Dhabi fires, Yemen's Houthis claim attack||Yemen's Iran-aligned Houthi movement said on Monday it had carried out an attack on the United Arab Emirates after authorities in the Gulf state reported two fires in the capital Abu Dhabi that were possibly caused by drones.Abu Dhabi police said three fuel tanker trucks had exploded in the industrial Musaffah area near storage facilities of oil firm ADNOC and that a fire broke out at a construction site at Abu Dhabi International Airport."Initial investigations found parts of a small plane that could possibly be a drone at both sites that could have caused the explosion and the fire," the police said in a statement on state news agency WAM.There was no "significant damage" from the incidents and a full investigation has been launched, the statement added.The military spokesman of Yemen's Houthi movement, which is battling a military coalition led by Saudi Arabia and including the UAE, said the group launched a military operation "deep in the UAE" and would announce details in the coming hours.Pro-coalition forces backed by the UAE have recently joined fighting against the Houthis in Yemen's energy-producing regions of Shabwa and Marib.The UAE had largely scaled down its military presence in Yemen in 2019 but continues to hold sway through the Yemeni forces it armed and trained.The Houthis have repeatedly launched cross-border missile and drone attacks on Saudi Arabia and have in the past threatened to attack the UAE.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uae-says-it-suspects-drones-caused-abu-dhabi-fires-yemen-s-houthis-claim-attack-101642413957474.html
17-01-2022||World||Oxfam: 10 richest men in the world doubled wealth amid Covid pandemic||Increasing inequalities are "are tearing our world apart," according to the anti-poverty charity. Elon Musk, Jeff Bezos, Mark Zuckerberg and Bill Gates are among the world's richest.The world's 10 richest men doubled their fortunes during the Covid-19 pandemic as poverty and inequality soared, an Oxfam study revealed on Monday.The charity, which is focused on combating global poverty, said the 10 wealthiest men's fortunes skyrocketed collectively from $700 billion to $1.5 trillion (€1.314 trillion), at a rate of around $1.3 billion per day.While the fortunes of the world's billionaires have soared, the world's poorest are facing even more dire circumstances."Over 160 million people are projected to have been pushed into poverty," according to the paper "Inequality Kills," published ahead of the World Economic Forum's Davos meeting, which this year is being held online due to the ongoing pandemic.'Economic violence tearing world apart'Oxfam's paper stated that increasing economic, gender and racial inequalities, as well as the disparity that exists between countries "are tearing our world apart.""This is not by chance, but choice: 'economic violence' is perpetrated when structural policy choices are made for the richest and most powerful people. This causes direct harm to us all, and to the poorest people, women and girls, and racialized groups most," the paper's authors continued."It has never been so important to start righting the violent wrongs of this obscene inequality by clawing back elites' power and extreme wealth including through taxation -getting that money back into the real economy and to save lives," Oxfam International's executive director Gabriela Bucher said."The Covid-19 pandemic has revealed openly both the motive of greed, and the opportunity by political and economic means, by which extreme inequality has become an instrument of economic violence," Bucher added.Zuckerberg and Gates see wealth soarThe authors of the paper called for curbs on extreme wealth via progressive taxation, proven inequality-busting measures, as well as a power shift in the economy and society.Forbes listed the 10 richest men in the world as Tesla and SpaceX chief Elon Musk, Amazon's Jeff Bezos, Google founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin, Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg, former Microsoft CEOs Bill Gates and Steve Ballmer, former Oracle CEO Larry Ellison, US investor Warren Buffet and the head of the French luxury group LVMH, Bernard Arnault.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/oxfam-10-richest-men-in-the-world-doubled-wealth-amid-covid-pandemic-101642406534353.html
17-01-2022||World||Sonic boom, quake, tsunami waves: Why Tonga volcanic eruption was no small event||The eruption in Hunga Tonga Hunga Ha’apai volcano in southern Pacific Island of Tonga was no small event. It triggered tsunami waves around the Pacific and smothered Tonga in dust.Watch: “Get away from coast...”, volcanic eruption triggers panicThe eruption on Saturday was so powerful that it was recorded around the world and sent pressure shockwaves around the planet twice.As more and more details emerge about the natural incident, here’s a look at what a volcanic eruption is and the global impact of that happened in Tonga.What is a volcanic eruption?Before we talk about volcanic eruptions, it is important to understand what a volcano is. A volcano is an opening or rupture in the earth’s surface that allows magma - which comes out as hot liquid and semi-liquid rock - volcanic ash and gases to escape.The volcanic hotspots are places which are found where Earth’s tectonic plates come together.A volcanic eruption is when lava and gas are released from a volcano - sometimes explosively.Undersea volcanic eruptionThis type of eruption happens in a volcano which is located under the ocean surface. There are an estimated one million undersea volcanoes, and most of them are located near the tectonic plates.Apart from lava, these openings also spew out ash. These deposit on the ocean’s floor and lead to the formation of sea mounds - underwater mountains that are formed on the ocean floor but do not reach the water surface.How many active volcanoes are there on Earth?According to USGS, there are about 1,350 potentially active volcanoes worldwide. About 500 of those have erupted, according to data available with USGS. Many of those are located along the Pacific Rim in what is known as the “Ring of Fire”.Impact of volcanic eruption on Earth’s climateHuge volcanic eruptions can sometimes cause temporary global cooling as sulfur dioxide is pumped into the stratosphere. But in the case of the Tonga eruption, initial satellite measurements indicated the amount of sulfur dioxide released would only have a tiny effect of perhaps 0.01 Celsius (0.02 Fahrenheit) global average cooling, said Alan Robock, a professor at Rutgers University.What happened in Tonga?Satellite images showed the spectacular undersea eruption on Saturday evening, with a plume of ash, steam and gas rising like a giant mushroom above the South Pacific waters.A sonic boom was heard as far away as Alaska.Some climate experts said that the eruption altered atmospheric pressure that may have briefly helped clear out the fog in Seattle, in the United States.Tsunami waves of about 80 centimeters (2.7 feet) crashed into Tonga's shoreline, and New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern described damage to boats and shops on Tonga's shoreline.The waves crossed the Pacific, drowning two people in Peru and causing minor damage from New Zealand to Santa Cruz, California.The US Geological Survey estimated the eruption caused the equivalent of a magnitude 5.8 earthquake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sonic-boom-quake-tsunami-waves-why-tonga-volcanic-eruption-was-no-small-event-101642398968653.html
17-01-2022||World||Australia PM blames Omicron for testing woes as Covid cases hit downward trend||Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said on Monday the shortages of at-home antigen tests were "not unique" to the country as authorities deal with a runaway Omicron outbreak that has driven up hospitalisation rates and strains testing systems.Australia is facing a shortage of at-home rapid antigen test kits after asymptomatic close contacts were told to bypass government-funded testing hubs, where high volumes delayed results by several days, and take their own tests."The rapid antigen tests are in short supply all around the world. This is not something that is unique to Australia going through it," Morrison told radio station 2GB on Monday. "It's part of dealing with Omicron. Omicron has disrupted everything."The country's competition regulator, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC), on Monday flagged "significant concerns" about reports of price gouging https://www.reuters.com/world/asia-pacific/australia-regulator-flags-significant-concerns-price-hike-covid-19-antigen-tests-2022-01-16 of testing kits amid reports of stockpiling and called inflated prices "clearly outrageous".ACCC Chair Rod Sims said there were reports of kits costing even up to A$500 ($361) at online retailers, and A$70 per test at stores when they were available for around A$10 at pharmacies weeks ago.Morrison, under pressure in an election year for his handling of the Omicron outbreak and not procuring enough supplies of antigen tests, early this month had agreed to provide 10 free kits for low-income earners.Doctors and trade unions are demanding free tests for everyone, but Morrison has resisted those calls saying the government would not cover the cost, citing a heightened role for "personal responsibility".Australian Council of Trade Unions Secretary Sally McManus said dozens of unions will meet later on Monday to respond "to the failure of the Federal Government to keep us safe". A survey by the Australian Institute on Monday showed almost three-quarter of Australians believe they should get free antigen tests.In a bid to ease pressure on its testing hubs, Victoria from Monday began rolling out 3 million antigen tests to frontline workers and the vulnerable population, while many other states awaited millions of testing kits to be delivered.After successfully containing the virus earlier in the pandemic, Australia has reported nearly 1.3 million cases over the last two weeks, overwhelming hospitals and testing clinics.Daily infections on Monday dipped in New South Wales and Victoria, Australia's most populous states, amid expectations the Omicron wave had neared its peak https://www.reuters.com/world/asia-pacific/australia-nears-omicron-peak-daily-infections-hover-around-records-2022-01-15 in the country. But net new hospitalisations remain elevated, with more people admitted than at any other time in the pandemic.Nearly 74,000 cases were reported on Monday, the country's lowest tally in a week. National daily numbers had touched a record 150,000 last Thursday but have been steadily falling since then.So far, Australia has reported around 1.6 million infections and 2,699 deaths since the pandemic began.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-pm-blames-omicron-for-testing-woes-as-covid-cases-hit-downward-trend-101642398199507.html
17-01-2022||World||US President Biden, Japanese PM Kishida to meet virtually on Jan 21||Amid China's growing assertiveness in the Indo-Pacific region, US President Joe Biden will meet Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida virtually on Friday (January 21) to discuss issues pertaining to the Quad (an alliance of US, Australia, Japan and India)."President Joseph R Biden, Jr will meet virtually with Prime Minister Kishida Fumio of Japan on Friday, January 21 to further deepen ties between our governments, economies, and our people," read a statement by White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki.The two countries seek to further deepen their ties and the meeting will highlight the strength of the US-Japan Alliance, which is the cornerstone of peace, security, and stability in the Indo-Pacific and around the world."President Biden looks forward to working with Prime Minister Kishida to advance our shared vision for a free and open Indo-Pacific, and to expand our close cooperation on critical issues like combatting Covid-19, addressing the climate crisis, and partnering on new and emerging technologies, including through the Quad," added the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-president-biden-japanese-pm-kishida-to-meet-virtually-on-jan-21-101642393823728.html
17-01-2022||World||Gene that slashes Covid-19 severity by 20% identified, say scientists||The Omicron variant of coronavirus has infected a large number of people across the world. The numbers have been growing exponentially since the discovery of the new strain in November last year, with the United States and the United Kingdom being the worst hit.Also Read | India logs 258,089 new Covid-19 cases, positivity rate rises to 19.65%But the behaviour of Covid-19 has puzzled the researchers since the beginning of the pandemic. While it has affected some countries severely, with a high number of fatalities and widespread infection, others have largely been spared with the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, causing only mild infection. A group of European scientists may have discovered the reason behind it.The researchers from Sweden claimed to have discovered a gene that reduces the severity of Covid infections by 20 per cent, the Daily Mail reported.The study has also explained why Covid-19 hits some people harder than others.The researchers said that their discovery will help in creating vaccines that are effective against the coronavirus.The scientists claim that the presence of this particular gene varies according to ethnicity. In people with white European ancestry, the gene is present in one in three people. In people with African heritage, it is present in eight out of 10 individuals, said the study.The gene tells the body to make a protein that is effective at breaking down Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid, said scientists. It also determines the length of the protein OAS-1 and when it is longer, it is better at breaking down Sars-CoV-2, they added.The study has been published in Nature Genetics.Also Read | In Greece, citizens aged 60+ to face monthly fine for not taking Covid vaccineMeanwhile, leaders across the world are revisiting their strategies of fighting the pandemic, announcing stricter curbs in the wake of Omicron’s spread.Hong Kong has reimposed strict curbs, such as the closure of gyms and in-restaurant dining for dinner, to stop the spread of the omicron variant. New Zealand, where 93% of adults are fully vaccinated, has delayed a phased reopening of the border to keep omicron out while it rushes to administer booster shots and begin inoculating children.Japan’s government is deliberating placing stricter coronavirus measures, known as a “quasi” state of emergency, on Tokyo and surrounding prefectures within the week, broadcaster FNN reported, citing several unidentified government officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gene-that-slashes-covid-19-severity-by-20-identified-say-scientists-101642396600261.html
17-01-2022||World||In Greece, citizens aged 60+ to face monthly fine for not taking Covid vaccine||Greece from Monday intends to fine all people ages 60 and over who aren’t vaccinated against Covid-19 as a way to boost lagging inoculation levels and reduce pressure on health care.  Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has told seniors the simplest way to avoid the levy is to get vaccinated. “To the few of our fellow citizens over 60 who are still unvaccinated, I encourage them today: take the step,” he said on Saturday. “It’s not a matter of fine, yes the fine will be imposed, but that’s the least. Protect your life, the lives of those you love and understand that the vaccine is safe.” Greek authorities say the non-vaccinated remain at high risk for hospitalization from the coronavirus. Some nine in 10 Covid-related deaths in Greece have been among people 60 and above, while seven in 10 of those hospitalized from the virus are over 60. And of those, eight in 10 are unvaccinated.From Pandemic to Endemic: Can 2022 Succeed Where 2021 Failed?Before the compulsory shots were announced in November, some 520,000 seniors in Greece hadn’t been vaccinated, according to Health Ministry data. Since then, about 220,000 more have rolled up their sleeves. Of the remaining 300,000 individuals, some will be eligible to apply for exemptions for medical reasons. Holdouts may be fined 100 euros ($114) a month. The penalty will be imposed by Greek tax authorities directly to those who haven’t been inoculated, and the funds collected will be given to hospitals fighting the pandemic.At this point the government has exhausted all other means of persuasion, spokesman Ioannis Oikonomou said on Thursday.Like much of Europe, Greece has seen daily cases hit records this month due to the highly-contagious omicron variant. Covid-related deaths are running at levels similar to the peak of previous waves. Greece is about two-thirds fully vaccinated, below the EU average.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-greece-citizens-aged-60-to-face-monthly-fine-for-not-taking-covid-vaccine-101642395075909.html
17-01-2022||World||China grew by 8.1% in 2021, it has a $18 trillion economy||China’s GDP grew 8.1% in 2021 riding out a slump in the second half of the year when the economy was besieged by a crippling power shortage, real estate sector turmoil and a drop in consumption because of Covid-19-related restrictions. Fourth quarter GDP rose by 4% from a year ago, China’s National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) said on Monday. Though slower than growth in the third quarter, it was faster than the 3.6% increase forecast by a Reuters poll.Growth in the first, second, and third quarter were 18.3%, 7.9% and 4.9%, respectively. The fourth quarter growth was the weakest in one-and-half years.The country’s total GDP in 2021 reached 114.37 trillion yuan ($18 trillion), the NBS said.Chinese official media said the 8.1% growth was the fastest in nearly a decade and landed well above the government’s annual target of achieving a growth rate above 6%.In 2020, disrupted by the Covid-19 pandemic, which was first reported from the central city of Wuhan, the Chinese economy had grown by about 2.3%, the only major economy to have expanded that year.The per capita disposable income of citizens went up by 9.1% to 35,128 yuan ($5,535) last year in nominal terms. “Weak consumption data also clouded the outlook, with retail sales in December missing expectations with only a 1.7% increase from a year earlier, the slowest pace since August 2020. Analysts in the poll had expected them to grow 3.7% after rising 3.9% in November,” a Reuters report said on Monday.Industrial production saw sustained development, the NBS said, adding that high-tech manufacturing and equipment manufacturing experienced fast growth. “The total value added of industrial enterprises above the designated size increased by 9.6% over the previous year, an average two-year growth of 6.1%. In terms of sectors, the value added of mining was up by 5.3%, that of manufacturing up by 9.8% and that of production and supply of electricity, thermal power, gas and water up by 11.4%,” the NBS said.The value added of high-tech manufacturing and equipment manufacturing went up by 18.2% and 12.9% respectively.“Generally speaking, in 2021, China sustained the continuous and steady recovery of the national economy and maintained the leading position in economic growth and epidemic prevention and control in the world, with major indicators reaching the expected targets,” the NBS said in a statement released on Monday.It added a note of caution. “We must be aware that the external environment is more complicated and uncertain, and the domestic economy is under the triple pressure of demand contraction, supply shock and weakening expectations”.Experts told the tabloid, Global Times that in the near term, the spread of highly transmissible Omicron variant across China including in Beijing, Tianjin and the southern Guangdong province well as the Delta variant’s resurgence in multiple cites has cast a shadow on the spending during the Lunar New Year holidays and the economic outlook for the first quarter of 2022, though this impact is likely to fade away by the second quarter. According to a report issued by the Chinese Academy of Sciences, China’s GDP growth is projected to moderate at around 5.5% in 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-grew-by-8-1-in-2021-it-has-a-18-trillion-economy-101642394615483.html
17-01-2022||World||UK police arrest 2 teenagers in connection with Texas synagogue attack||The man who held four people hostage at a Texas synagogue was identified by US authorities as a British citizen Sunday while UK police later arrested two teens over an attack that President Joe Biden called an "act of terror."The captor, who died in the 10-hour siege in the small town of Colleyville on Saturday, was named by the FBI as 44-year-old Malik Faisal Akram.Hours later, Britain's counter terrorism police arrested two people and were questioning them in connection with the incident."Two teenagers were detained in South Manchester this evening. They remain in custody," the Greater Manchester Police said in a statement.The FBI's field office in Dallas had earlier said there was "no indication" that anyone else was involved in the attack on the Congregation Beth Israel synagogue.The four hostages -- including a respected local rabbi, Charlie Cytron-Walker -- were all freed unharmed Saturday night, prompting relief in the United States, where the Jewish community and Biden renewed calls to fight anti-Semitism."There is no question that this was a traumatic experience," Cytron-Walker said in a statement Sunday."We are resilient and we will recover," he added.A man identifying himself as Akram's brother Gulbar said in a Facebook post that the suspect had suffered from mental health problems."We would like to say that we as a family do not condone any of his actions and would like to sincerely apologize wholeheartedly to all the victims involved in the unfortunate incident," Gulbar said in the post to a Muslim community Facebook page in Blackburn, in northwest England -- where British police said Akram was from.Gulbar added that he had been in touch with law enforcement in Texas and that his family hoped to get Akram's body back to Britain for a funeral.Biden declined to speculate on the motive but appeared to confirm reports that the hostage-taker was seeking the release of convicted terrorist Aafia Siddiqui, a Pakistani neuroscientist known as "Lady Al-Qaeda.""This was an act of terror" committed by an assailant who apparently "insisted on the release of someone who's been in prison for over 10 years," Biden told reporters during a visit to a hunger relief organization in Philadelphia.Britain's foreign minister Liz Truss likewise Sunday condemned the hostage-taking as an "act of terrorism and anti-Semitism."Siddiqui, the first woman to be suspected by the United States of links to Al-Qaeda and a cause celebre in Pakistan and in South Asian jihadist circles, was detained in Afghanistan in 2008.Two years later she was sentenced by a New York court to 86 years in prison for the attempted murder of US officers in Afghanistan.She is currently being held at a prison in Fort Worth, Texas -- about 20 miles (32 kilometers) away from the synagogue which Akram attacked.Siddiqui's lawyer has said she "has absolutely no involvement" in the hostage situation and condemned it.Any links she may have to Akram remained unclear.FBI special agent Matthew DeSarno told reporters in Colleyville after the standoff that the investigation would "have global reach."He said the suspect's demands were "focused on one issue that was not specifically threatening to the Jewish community."Britain's ambassador to Washington confirmed that British authorities were "providing our full support to Texas and US law enforcement agencies."'Mind-blowing'Cytron-Walker in his statement credited his congregation's previous security training from the FBI and others with their survival from a harrowing ordeal."In the last hour of our hostage crisis, the gunman became increasingly belligerent and threatening," the rabbi said."Without the instruction we received, we would not have been prepared to act and flee when the situation presented itself."Other residents of Colleyville, about 25 miles northwest of Dallas, were left struggling to comprehend the incident."Colleyville... It's one of the safest towns in North Texas," said Austin Sewell, owner and founder of the North Texas Kings baseball club, whose field is across the street from the synagogue in a quiet residential neighborhood."It's mind-blowing, to be honest," he told AFP Sunday.At one point the standoff involved some 200 local, state and federal law enforcement officers massed around Colleyville.A Facebook livestream of the congregation's Shabbat service appeared to capture audio of a man talking loudly, but did not show the scene inside the building.One hostage was freed early in the standoff.Hours later, after what police said were extensive negotiations, an elite SWAT team burst into the synagogue and the remaining three hostages were freed.Journalists nearby said they heard a loud bang -- likely a flash-bang grenade used as a distraction -- and shots.The siege had sparked an outpouring of concern from Jewish organizations.Biden pledged to "stand against anti-Semitism and against the rise of extremism in this country."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-police-arrest-2-teenagers-in-connection-with-texas-synagogue-attack-101642385795113.html
17-01-2022||World||North Korea fires suspected ballistic missile, 4th test in January||North Korea fired on Monday what could be a ballistic missile, Japan's coast guard said, in what would be the fourth test this month as Pyongyang forges ahead with new military developments amid stalled stalks with the United States and South Korea.South Korea's military also reported that the North had fired an "unidentified projectile" toward the ocean off its east coast.Since New Year's Day, North Korea has conducted three other tests, an unusual frequency of weapons tests. Two of those launches involved single "hypersonic missiles" capable of high speeds and manoeuvring after launch, while the last, on Friday, involved a pair of short-range ballistic missiles (SRBMs) fired from train cars.It was not immediately known what kind of missile was involved in Monday's reported launch.The series of launches prompted US President Joe Biden's administration to impose its first sanctions against Pyongyang on Wednesday, and to call on the UN Security Council to blacklist several North Korean individuals and entities.North Korea has defended the missile tests as its sovereign right to self-defence and accused the United States of intentionally escalating the situation with new sanctions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-fires-suspected-ballistic-missile-4th-test-in-january-101642380502786.html
17-01-2022||World||Huge Tonga volcanic eruption caused 'significant damage'||A massive volcanic eruption in Tonga that triggered tsunami waves around the Pacific caused "significant damage" to the island nation's capital and smothered it in dust, but the full extent was unclear with communications still hampered Monday.The eruption on Saturday was so powerful it was recorded around the world and heard as far away as Alaska, triggering a tsunami that flooded Pacific coastlines from Japan to the United States.The capital Nuku'alofa suffered "significant" damage, New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said, adding there had been no reports of injury or death but a full assessment was not yet possible with communication lines down."The tsunami has had a significant impact on the foreshore on the northern side of Nuku'alofa with boats and large boulders washed ashore," Ardern said after contact with the New Zealand embassy in Tonga."Nuku'alofa is covered in a thick film of volcanic dust but otherwise conditions are calm and stable."Tonga was in need of water supplies, she said, as "the ash cloud has caused contamination."There has been no word on damage in the outer islands but New Zealand sent an air force reconnaissance aircraft early Monday "to assist in an initial impact assessment of the area and low-lying islands," the country's Defence Force said.Tonga has also accepted Canberra's offer to send a surveillance flight, Australia's foreign office said, adding it is also immediately prepared to supply "critical humanitarian supplies".The United States and the World Health Organization have pledged support, while the United Nations children's agency said it was preparing emergency supplies to fly in.A 1.2-metre (four-foot) wave swept ashore in the Tongan capital with residents reporting they had fled to higher ground, leaving behind flooded houses, some with structural damage, as small stones and ash fell from the sky."It was massive, the ground shook, our house was shaking. It came in waves. My younger brother thought bombs were exploding nearby," resident Mere Taufa told the Stuff news website Saturday.She said water filled their home minutes later and she watched the wall of a neighbouring house collapse."We just knew straight away it was a tsunami. Just water gushing into our home," Taufa said."You could just hear screams everywhere, people screaming for safety, for everyone to get to higher ground."Drownings in PeruTonga's King Tupou VI was reported to have been evacuated from the Royal Palace in Nuku'alofa and taken by police convoy to a villa well away from the coastline.Dramatic satellite images showed the long, rumbling eruption of the Hunga Tonga-Hunga Ha'apai volcano spew smoke and ash in the air, with a thunderous roar heard 10,000 kilometres (6,000 miles) away in Alaska.The eruption triggered tsunamis across the Pacific with waves of 1.74 metres measured in Chanaral, Chile, more than 10,000 kilometres away, and smaller waves seen along the Pacific coast from Alaska to Mexico.Two women drowned on a beach in northern Peru due to "anomalous waves" caused by the eruption, authorities said Sunday, and dozens of people required rescue from flooding in the south of the country.In California, the city of Santa Cruz was hit by flooding due to a tidal surge generated by the tsunami, while waves of around 1.2 metres hit along Japan's Pacific coast.'Just incredible'The US Geological Survey recorded Saturday's eruption as equivalent to a 5.8-magnitude earthquake at zero depth.The volcano's eruption lasted at least eight minutes and sent plumes of gas, ash and smoke several kilometres into the air.New Zealand scientist Marco Brenna described the impact as "relatively mild" but said another eruption with a much bigger impact could not be ruled out.The eruption was so powerful it was even heard in Alaska, the UAF Geophysical Institute tweeted, saying the fact it was audible was "fairly unique."It cited Alaska Volcano Observatory scientists David Fee as recalling "only a couple other volcanic eruptions doing something like this" -- namely, the 19th-century eruption of Indonesia's Krakatau, and Alaska's Novarupta, the most powerful volcanic eruption of the 20th century.The Fife weather station in Scotland tweeted it was "just incredible to think of the power that can send a shockwave around the world" after the eruptions produced a jump in its air pressure graph.Hunga-Tonga-Hunga-Ha'apai, which lies about 65 kilometres north of Nuku'alofa, has a history of volatility.In recent years it breached sea level during a 2009 eruption, while in 2015 it spewed so many large rocks and ash into the air that when they settled, a new island had formed two kilometres long by one kilometre wide and 100 metres high.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/huge-tonga-volcanic-eruption-caused-significant-damage-101642378456632.html
17-01-2022||World||Boris Johnson-led UK govt plans to scrap Covid-19 self-isolation law: Report||The Boris Johnson-led government is planning to scrap the law asking people to self-isolate after catching the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Telegraph reported. This is a part of the preparations of having to live with coronavirus in the future.The official guidance, however, will remain but the no legal punishment or fine will be imposed if the rules are ignored, The Telegraph’s report said. Prime Minister Johnson wants to permanently revoke the emergency provisions like self-isolation since Covid-19 cases have been falling in the country, the report further said.The announcement is expected as early as spring, The Telegraph further reported.Last week, UK health secretary Sajid Javid said that Covid-19 self-isolation in England will be cut to five days from seven if someone tests negative twice.Meanwhile, The Sunday Times said in a report that the UK is planning to do away with the requirement of mandatory Covid-19 tests post-arrival into the country for fully vaccinated travellers, including from India.The country’s transport secretary Grant Shapps is understood to be in favour of ending the testing regime for all those who have had both vaccine doses, in time for school holidays in the UK in February, the Times further said in its report in Sunday.The report further quoted an official aware of the developments to say that the rules could be relaxed by the “end of January”.Under current rules, travellers arriving in England are required to stay at their declared address on a legally binding passenger locator form until they log a negative lateral flow or PCR test result on a pre-booked system.A positive test requires a 10-day quarantine at the address, although this can be cut short with a negative lateral flow test on days six and seven. Those not fully vaccinated must isolate for the full 10 days on arrival, with tests required on days two and eight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boris-johnson-led-uk-govt-plans-to-scrap-covid-19-self-isolation-law-report-101642376945248.html
17-01-2022||World||Millions hunker down as storm hits eastern US||Millions of Americans hunkered down Sunday as a major winter storm hit the eastern United States with heavy snow and ice, knocking power out to an estimated 235,000 people and counting.The National Weather Service (NWS) said the storm was bringing a miserable combination of heavy snows, freezing rain and high winds, impacting the southeast and coastal mid-Atlantic before moving up to New England and southern Canada.Traffic has already been seriously disrupted, with thousands of flights canceled and a portion of busy interstate highway I-95 closed in North Carolina.Drivers were warned of hazardous road conditions and major travel headaches from Arkansas in the South all the way up to the northeastern state of Maine."Arctic air already in place across the central and eastern US will work in concert with this dynamic system to deliver a wide swath of more than a foot (30 centimeters) of heavy snow northward across the upper Ohio Valley through the lower Great Lakes," the NWS said.The storm spawned damaging tornadoes in Florida and flooding in parts of the coast, while in the Carolinas and up through the Appalachians, icy conditions and blustery winds raised concerns.In all, more than 80 million people fell under the winter weather alerts, US media reported.Some 2,900 flights within, into or out of the US were canceled by mid-afternoon Sunday, according to the FlightAware website, and a further 2,400 were delayed.About 235,000 customers had already lost power in the southeast, including more than 150,000 in the Carolinas, according to the website PowerOutage.US.Georgia Governor Brian Kemp had declared a state of emergency on Friday, and snowplows were at work before noon to clear the roads.Virginia and North Carolina have also declared states of emergency. The Weather Channel reported that more than a foot of snow had fallen in North Carolina.The NWS even reported some snow flurries in Pensacola, Florida, while usually mild Atlanta, Georgia also saw snow.The storm is expected to cause some coastal flooding, and the NWS warned that winds could near hurricane force on the Atlantic coast.The northeastern United States had already seen snow chaos in early January, when a storm blanketed the Northeast.After that storm, hundreds of motorists were stuck for more than 24 hours on a major highway linking to the capital Washington.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/millions-hunker-down-as-storm-hits-eastern-us-101642374602829.html
17-01-2022||World||‘We stand with US’: UK foreign minister condemns Texas hostage||Britain's foreign minister Liz Truss on Sunday condemned a hostage-taking at a synagogue in Texas as an "act or terrorism and anti-Semitism".And a man identifying himself as the hostage-taker's brother said in a post to Facebook that his brother had suffered from mental health problems.In a statement posted on Twitter, Foreign Secretary Truss wrote: "My thoughts are with the Jewish community and all those affected by the appalling act in Texas."We stand with US in defending the rights and freedoms of our citizens against those who spread hate."In Manchester, northwest England, Assistant Chief Constable Dominic Scally of the region's counter-terrorism team, confirmed the assailant's identity as Malik Faisal Akram.Akram was from Blackburn, also in the northwest, said Scally."Police forces in the region will continue to liaise with their local communities, including the Jewish community, and will put in place any necessary measures to provide reassurance to them," he added.'Mental health issues'On the Facebook page of Blackburn's Muslim community, a man identifying himself as Gulbar, the hostage-taker's brother, said he had been shot dead."We would like to say that we as a family do not condone any of his actions and would like to sincerely apologize wholeheartedly to all the victims involved in the unfortunate incident," he added.Gulbar wrote that during the incident, he had been liaising from England with law enforcement at the scene."Although my brother was suffering from mental health issues we were confident that he would not harm the hostages," he wrote.But he added: "There was nothing we could have said to him or done that would have convinced him to surrender."His family was devastated and their priority now was to get his brother's body back to Britain for his funeral.US authorities have launched an investigation with "global reach" into a 44-year-old Akram who was killed after holding four people hostage at the synagogue.Akram was reportedly calling for the release of a convicted terrorist known as "Lady Al-Qaeda".The four hostages -- including a respected local rabbi, Charlie Cytron-Walker -- were all released unharmed Saturday night. After the incident, the Jewish community and US President Joe Biden renewed calls to fight anti-Semitism.Police did not say whether the assault team killed the man or whether he killed himself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/we-stand-with-us-uk-foreign-minister-condemns-texas-hostage-101642374178740.html
17-01-2022||World||Texas standoff: Captor grew ‘belligerent' towards end, says Rabbi who was among hostages||A rabbi who was among four people held hostage at a Texas synagogue said Sunday that their captor grew “increasingly belligerent and threatening” toward the end of the 10-hour standoff, which ended with an FBI SWAT team rushing into the building and the captor's death.Authorities identified the hostage-taker as a 44-year-old British national, Malik Faisal Akram, who was killed Saturday night after the last hostages ran out of Congregation Beth Israel around 9 p.m. The FBI said there was no indication that anyone else was involved, but it had not provided a possible motive as of Sunday afternoon.Rabbi Charlie Cytron-Walker credited security training that his suburban Fort Worth congregation has received over the years for getting him and the other three hostages through the ordeal, which he described as traumatic.“In the last hour of our hostage crisis, the gunman became increasingly belligerent and threatening,” Cytron-Walker said in a statement. “Without the instruction we received, we would not have been prepared to act and flee when the situation presented itself."President Joe Biden called the episode an act of terror. Akram could be heard ranting on a Facebook livestream of the services and demanding the release of Aafia Siddiqui, a Pakistani neuroscientist suspected of having ties to al-Qaida who was convicted of trying to kill US Army officers in Afghanistan.Speaking to reporters in Philadelphia on Sunday, Biden said Akram allegedly purchased a weapon on the streets and might have been in the US for only a few weeks.Video from Dallas TV station WFAA showed people running out a door of the synagogue, and then a man holding a gun opening the same door just seconds later before he turned around and closed it. Moments later, several shots and then an explosion could be heard.“Rest assured, we are focused,” Biden said. “The attorney general is focused and making sure that we deal with these kinds of acts.”US Immigration and Customs Enforcement did not immediately respond to questions Sunday about Akram's immigration status and history. London’s Metropolitan Police said in a statement that its counter-terrorism police were liaising with US authorities about the incident.FBI Special Agent in Charge Matt DeSarno said the hostage-taker was specifically focused on an issue not directly connected to the Jewish community, and that there was no immediate indication that he was part of any broader plan.It wasn't clear why Akram chose the synagogue, though the prison where Saddiqui is serving her sentence is in Fort Worth. Michael Finfer, the president of the congregation, said in a statement “there was a one in a million chance that the gunman picked our congregation.”Authorities have declined to say who shot Akram, saying it was still under investigation.Law enforcement officials who were not authorized to discuss the ongoing investigation and who spoke to The Associated Press on the condition of anonymity earlier said the hostage-taker demanded Siddiqui's release and wanted to be allowed to speak to her.Authorities said police were first called to the synagogue around 11 a.m. and people were evacuated from the surrounding neighborhood soon afterward.Saturday's services were being livestreamed on the synagogue's Facebook page for a time. The Fort Worth Star-Telegram reported that an angry man could be heard ranting and talking about religion at times during the livestream, which didn't show what was happening inside the synagogue.Shortly before 2 p.m., the man said, “You got to do something. I don’t want to see this guy dead.” Moments later, the feed cut out. A spokesperson for Meta Platforms Inc., the corporate successor to Facebook Inc., later confirmed that Facebook had removed the video.Multiple people heard the hostage-taker refer to Siddiqui as his “sister” on the livestream. But John Floyd, board chair for the Houston chapter of the Council on American-Islamic Relations — the nation’s largest Muslim advocacy group — said Siddiqui’s brother, Mohammad Siddiqui, was not involved.“We want the assailant to know that his actions are wicked and directly undermine those of us who are seeking justice for Dr. Aafia,” said Floyd, who also is legal counsel for Mohammad Siddiqui.Texas resident Victoria Francis, who said she watched about an hour of the livestream, said she heard the man rant against America and claim he had a bomb. Biden said there were apparently no explosives, despite the threats.“He was just all over the map. He was pretty irritated and the more irritated he got, he’d make more threats, like ‘I’m the guy with the bomb. If you make a mistake, this is all on you.’ And he’d laugh at that,” Francis said. “He was clearly in extreme distress.”Colleyville, a community of about 26,000 people, is about 15 miles (23 kilometers) northeast of Fort Worth. By Sunday morning, the police perimeter around the synagogue had shrunk to half a block in either direction and FBI agents could be seen going in and out of the building. A sign saying “Love” — with the “o” replaced with a Star of David — was planted in a neighbor’s lawn.Reached outside his home Sunday, Cytron-Walker declined to speak at length about the episode. “It’s a little overwhelming as your can imagine. It was not fun yesterday," he told the AP.Andrew Marc Paley, a Dallas rabbi who was called to the scene to help families and hostages upon their release, said Cytron-Walker acted as a calm and comforting presence. The first hostage was released shortly after 5 p.m. That was around the time food was delivered to those inside the synagogue, but Paley said he did not know if it was part of the negotiations.“He appeared a little unfazed, actually, but I don't know if that was sort of shock or just the moment," Paley said of the first hostage after his release. “He was calm and grateful to law enforcement and Rabbi Charlie."Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett said on Twitter that “this event is a stark reminder that antisemitism is still alive and we must continue to fight it worldwide."The standoff led authorities to tighten security in other places, including New York City, where police said that they increased their presence “at key Jewish institutions” out of an abundance of caution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/texas-standoff-captor-grew-belligerent-towards-end-says-rabbi-who-was-among-hostages-101642370344375.html
17-01-2022||India||Spectre of child marriage, trafficking looms large in Sunderbans||In September 2021, two sisters, 15 and 19, received job offers. Ordinarily, they would not have wanted to work but the argument to stay home just didn’t exist. The pandemic was raging, and their educational institutions had been shut for over a year. Their father, the only earning member of the family, had lost his job as a daily wage labourer in Kolkata.There were mouths to feed, and no money. There were no options left.So it was arranged that the two sisters, and three other women from their village in the Sunderbans in West Bengal, would travel to Delhi to work as maids in the homes of the rich and the affluent. They left home on a bus and reached southeast Delhi’s Madanpur Khadar three days later, exhausted and disoriented.Things began to unravel quickly. They sensed they had unwittingly become part of a prostitution racket.“Almost everyday we were asked to line up and be introduced to strangers. Sensing something was wrong, one of the women in our team managed to flee and return to our village. She informed police and we were rescued on October 20, and returned to our village on October 23,” the 19-year-old said, understandably unwilling to share more information.Subsequent investigations led to the arrest of six people, including prime suspect Nur Alam Khan, and a couple from the village of the two girls. The girls were sold at ₹15,000 each to the prostitution ring, police officers told HT.These two girls were rescued, but others may not have been so lucky. Experts fear many such girls were lost to the effects of the pandemic and prolonged school closures, particularly in impoverished areas.In the second part of a series on the wider impact of school closures, HT traveled to the Sunderbans to discover the ramifications of the pandemic in an area where child labour, human trafficking and child marriages have long dominated the discourse. Any gains made over the past decade may have been wiped out by the pandemic, and two cyclones.“The Sunderbans and south Bengal have always been an area of concern when it comes to trafficking and child marriages,” said Rishi Kant of non-profit Shakti Vahini, a member of the team that rescued the two sisters. “With schools closed during the Covid-19 pandemic, people losing their jobs and the delta being hit by two back-to-back cyclones – Amphan in May 2020 and Yaas in May 2021 – the children, mostly girls, have become all the more vulnerable,”Vulnerability in the SunderbansLocated on the southern tip of West Bengal where the Ganga meets the Bay of Bengal, the Sunderbans delta comprises 102 islands, of which 54 have human habitations and the rest are forest hunting grounds of the Bengal tiger.Most of the 4.5 million people that call the Sunderbans home make a living from farming, fishing, collecting forest honey or catching crabs and prawns. With no prospects of regular employment, many are now leaving the islands looking for work, travelling to cities such as Kolkata, but also states as far away as Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat and Maharashtra.When the pandemic struck, even this tenuous system was broken. As the government invoked a harsh lockdown in March 2020, lakhs of migrants took to India’s roads, walking, climbing atop buses and trains, desperate for the solace of home, their places of work no longer able to sustain them.Around one lakh migrants returned to the Sunderbans in 2020, according to Bankim Chandra Hazra, Sunderban affairs minister of West Bengal.Mosiar Sardar, a class 12 student at a madrassa in Canning, was one among the many whose life changed in a matter of months. His father, Rezaul Sardar, used to work as a daily wage labourer in Kolkata’s Metiabruz. In June 2020, he returned home, only to return to work in December 2021. In that time, Sardar has gone from class 12 student to an auto-rickshaw driver.“My father was unemployed for more than a year. If I don’t work, my family will starve. I hope to appear for the board exams in 2022, but am unsure if I will be able to,” said Sardar.No time for learningHis family used up their savings and borrowed some more from a relative to buy the auto-rickshaw for ₹1.28 lakh in October 2020. It now earns them between ₹300 and ₹400 a day. Sardar works 12 hours a day, from six to six, ferrying passengers from Canning railway station to Godhkhali, the gateway to the Sunderbans. There is simply no time for school.Schools in West Bengal shut down in March 2020, and were reopened for classes IX to XII in February 2021. Classes continued for around two months before they were again closed in April 2021. Schools reopened in November 2021 after the second wave subsided, but have had to be shut down again from January 3 because of the third wave.Chiranjib Mondol, a teacher at the Shantigachi High School at Lahirpur on Satjelia Island, said classes for students of Class 9 to 12 started in the middle of November. “But some of our students have not attended since then. Only around 15-20 out of 44 boys in Class 9 are coming to school regularly,” Mondol said. “The attendance of girls is more than that of boys, with around 25-30 of 35 coming to school everyday. We managed to get in touch with a section of them. Some have gone to work in other states along with their parents, who are migrant labourers.”A survey in just two villages in 2021 by another teacher in Satjelia, who did not wish to be named, which was part of the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan to identify school drop outs, revealed that of 224 girls surveyed, at least seven were married during the pandemic, and at least four boys left for other states to work.“When then lockdown was there, restrictions were imposed and schools were closed, there was very little news filtering in on what was going on,” said Nihar Ranjan Raptan, founder secretary of Goranbose Gram Bikash Kendra, a NGO working in the delta. “Now, a grim picture is emerging.”Child marriages rise during pandemicThe school closures in the Sunderbans also brought to a grinding halt an inbuilt mechanism that kept a check on child marriages and truancy: the Kanyashree clubs. These clubs are essentially information networks developed by each school across the state, particularly in the Sunderbans, where the students act as eyes and ears of school authorities, keeping an eye out for child marriages.The clubs are a part of the Kanyashree programme, a state government scheme launched in 2013 by the Mamata Banerjee government. Under the scheme, a girl student gets around ₹1,000 per year and ₹25,000 once she turns 18, if she is unmarried and studying in school. She gets another ₹25,000 for her marriage if she is over 18 years under the Rupashree scheme.If she is unmarried and continues with postgraduate studies, she gets another ₹25,000 under the Kanyashree III scheme. Across the state, there are 7.4 million girls enrolled under the Kanyashree programme.“This huge (Kanyashree) network helps us keep a tab on students. From this network we found out that at least three students were not in the village,” said Rocky Das, a teacher Rangabelia High School. “We contacted their families and found out that they have gone to Andhra Pradesh and Andaman and Nicobar Islands to work.”If some schools like the Rangbelia High School, which has around 1,130 students in Gosaba, managed to keep the clubs alive, for most others, with students back home, the connection between them and the teachers was lost. In academic year 2020-21, when the pandemic was raging and reports of child marriages were doing the rounds, in just one school in Gosaba, 22 applications under the Kanyashree programme were rejected after the girl was found to be married. Between April and November 2021, there were 11 such rejections.“When we get to know (about the child marriage), police are informed. But the parents are so poor that they beg us not to lodge a complaint as it would ruin the lives of both the boy and the girl. They are let off with a warning and an undertaking,” said Sudeshna Roy, special consultant with the West Bengal Commission for the Protection of Child Rights.Despite some advances made in the past decade, the girl child is still considered by many as a burden, Roy said. “So, whenever there is a loss of income in the family, the girl is married off even though she is yet to attain legal age. Sometimes she is sent off to work and that how she often becomes a victim of trafficking” she said.A help desk introduced by the commission to receive calls on cases of child marriage in June 2020 received 169 calls from across the state, with a majority coming from south Bengal and the Sunderbans.Lost childhoodsAcross the country, experts in the field said school closures and the economic losses and a cycle of debt for the poor precipitated by the pandemic meant more child trafficking and marriages.“The Bachpan Bachao Andolan (save childhood campaign) after a survey in April 2020 warned that such incidents would rise once the lockdown was relaxed. Between March 2020 and November 2021, we have rescued at least 11,044 children,” said Dhananjay Tingal, executive director of the campaign. “Of these, around a thousand were rescued when they were in transit from one state to another.”Most of these cases were reported from states such as Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Delhi and Rajasthan. While the boys were mostly brought from Bihar, Odisha and Chattisgarh, the girls came from West Bengal, Jharkhand and Assam, said Tingal.These dangers were acknowledged, even predicted by the Union home ministry as well when in an advisory in July 2020, it asked all states to set up new anti-human trafficking units and upgrade infrastructure of existing ones to combat and prevent the menace.In December 2020, the National Human Rights Commission of India also asked all state governments to set up a 24/7 helpline for the reporting and tracking of these cases, asking for special surveillance in railway stations, bus depots, airports, and routes to remote villages.“Trafficking thrives on human vulnerability,” said Sunitha Krishnan of Prajwala, who has worked on these issues for decades and was awarded the Padma Shri in 2016. “The Covid-19 pandemic triggered the biggest ever migrant crisis in the country. The traffickers found this as one the best opportunities.”“I would say the rate of trafficking of women and girls shot up 100-fold during this time,” she said. “During the lockdown, when the entire world was going inwards, trafficking went outwards. Traffickers found newer ways to trap people. It was not just the traditionally poor people who fell in trap, but even the new poor who fell victims. The potential targets increased. Online methods were increasingly used to trap the weaker section by the well-oiled trafficking network.”Speaking to HT, Sashi Panja, state minister for women and child development and social welfare said, “Covid-19 hit us only in early 2020. But child marriage, trafficking and child labour has always been a challenge for us, which the government is fighting along with social workers. We need to watch out for the students mostly in the upper primary section. There is no denying that incidents have taken place. Chances of trafficking could be limited because people were not moving out during Covid but child labour may have gone up.”Roy said education and awareness were the only ways forward. “It is not just education of girls but also boys because whenever there is a marriage, a boy is also involved,” she said. “Sex education and lifestyle education is also very important.”Back at the Sunderbans, a worried Chiranjib Mondol can only think of one way where losses from the previous year can begin to be mitigated. “We need to open schools at the earliest,” he said. “Once the academic processes, studies, exams, annual programs such as sports, midday meals start, I am sure we can return to some form of normalcy.”(With inputs from Neeraj Chauhan)
17-01-2022||India||After ‘coup’, premises allotted to Kashmir Press Club taken back||Srinagar: The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Monday cancelled the allotment of building and land to the Kashmir Press Club, two days after the building was taken over by a small group of journalists, flanked by the police. The government said that it wanted to avoid a law and order situation after “rival groups levelled various allegations against each other”. The premises have been handed over back to the estates department.The government had faced criticism after the takeover of the KPC premises by a group of journalists led by M Salim Pandit and accompanied by armed policemen on Saturday. The Editors Guild of India termed the move a ‘coup’ while former chief minister’s Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti went on to tag it as a ‘state sponsored coup’.“…The rival groups have been levelling various allegations against each other also with regard to the use of the premises belonging to the estates department that was being used for the legitimate use of the members of the journalistic fraternity. In view of this aspect of the dispute and in view of the reports in social media and other sources indicating a potential law and order situation, including a threat of breach of peace and the safety of bonafide journalists, an intervention has become necessary,” the government said in a statement issued through the information department.Although the 2-year-term of 11-member executive and management body of the 300-member strong club, which was elected in 2019, had ended last year in July, fresh elections could not be conducted since the club itself had to be registered again. The re-registration certificate which was issued on December 29, was suspended again on January 13. Nine journalists’ bodies of Kashmir, including the elected Kashmir Press Club body, had termed the takeover as “illegal and arbitrary”. The head of the ‘disgruntled’ group, Salim Pandit, said that the term of the present press club had expired in July and the club was in a “mess”.The government statement said that KPC as a registered body has ceased to exist and its managing body too has come to a legal closure on July 14, 2021, the date on which its tenure came to an end.“In its failure to register itself under the central Societies of Registration Act, further compounded by its failure to hold elections to constitute a new managing body, some individuals of the erstwhile club have been committing illegalities on several counts, least of which are false portrayal of being owner-managers of an entity which is no longer in legal vogue,” it said.It said that in view of the “dissensions between various groups of journalists, it has been decided that the allotment of the premises at Polo View in view of the now deregistered Kashmir Press Club be cancelled and control of land and buildings situated at Polo View Srinagar which belongs to the Estates Department be reverted back to the said Department”.“The government is committed to a free and fair press…and also hopes that a duly registered bona fide society of all journalists shall be constituted as soon as possible and the same shall be able to approach the government for reallocation of the premises,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-coup-premises-allotted-to-kashmir-press-club-taken-back-101642442202372.html
17-01-2022||India||Abhishek Banerjee reaches Goa to finalise nominees for upcoming assembly polls||Trinamool Congress national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee reached Goa on Monday evening on a three-day trip to finalise the list of candidates the party wants to field in the upcoming Goa assembly elections. TMC leaders said the party may contest 32 of Goa’s 40 assembly seats against the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and leave the remaining eight for its ally, the Maharashtawadi Gomanthak Party. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has said that she wants to consolidate anti-BJP forces and contest polls in other states with a target to win. Abhishek Banerjee, who is seen as the driving force behind this expansion plan, announced on June 8 that TMC will set up units in other states with the aim to take the BJP head-on. TMC leaders also said that Uttar Pradesh-based Samajwadi Party (SP) wants Mamata Banerjee to campaign for it for the coming assembly polls in the state. SP national vice-president Kiranmay Nanda will meet Mamata Banerjee at her south Kolkata residence on Tuesday afternoon. “Our party chief Akhilesh Yadav wants Mamata Banerjee to campaign for us in UP. The BJP has stopped all campaigns by the opposition citing the Covid-19 pandemic. Despite that, people are attending Yadav’s meetings in large numbers. Mamata Banerjee does not want to contest any seat in UP. We will let her decide how she will campaign for the SP,” Nanda told HT on Monday evening. The Congress has already announced that it will have no alliance with TMC in Goa. Taking a dig at the TMC, Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said, “Mamata Banerjee’s only intention is to weaken the Congress by splitting anti-BJP votes. There are around 1100000 voters in Goa but the TMC is spending crores to capture votes.” BJP national vice-president Dilip Ghosh said Abhishek Banerjee is making a futile attempt. “This is a good time for tourists to visit Goa. Let him enjoy the weather and the ambience. Beyond that, he cannot do anything,” said Ghosh. Following the resounding victory over the BJP in the 2021 Bengal assembly polls, the TMC renewed its contract with the Indian Political Action Committee, or I-PAC, the company launched by election strategist Prashant Kishor. Kishor, who has left I-PAC, has been meeting regional leaders in different states since June last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/abhishek-banerjee-reaches-goa-to-finalise-nominees-for-upcoming-assembly-polls-101642442081183.html
17-01-2022||India||In revised guidelines, govt details use of Covid drugs and therapies with riders||The Union ministry of health and family welfare on Monday issued a revised clinical guidance for management of adult patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) wherein it said anti-inflammatory or immunomodulatory therapy, such as steroids, can have the risk of secondary infection like invasive mucormycosis, when used too early, at higher dose or for longer than required.It said there was no evidence of injectable steroids benefitting Covid patients not requiring oxygen supplementation or in continuation after discharge.The revised guidelines were issued by AIIMS, ICMR-Covid-19 National Task Force and Joint Monitoring Group (DGHS) under the Union health ministry.The guidelines continued to recommend emergency use authorisation (EUA) or off-label use of remdesivir in patients with “moderate to severe” disease and those with no renal or hepatic dysfunction within 10 days of the onset of any symptom. It warned against use of the drug for patients who are not on oxygen support or in home settings.COVID-19 National Task Force under Ministry of Health and Family Welfare releases revised clinical guidance for the management of adult COVID-19 patients pic.twitter.com/x4R6ZntVnzIt said injection methylprednisolone 0.5 to one mg/kg in two divided doses, or an equivalent dose of dexamethasone, can be given usually for a duration of five to 10 days in moderate cases. The same drug can be given for the same duration in severe cases in two divided doses of one to two mg/kg."Inhalational budesonide (given via metered dose inhaler/dry powder inhaler) at a dose of 800 mcg BD for five days can be given in mild cases if symptoms (fever and/or cough) are persistent beyond five days of disease onset,” the statement read.If cough persists for more than two-three weeks, one should opt for investigation for tuberculosis and other conditions, it added.According to the guidelines, EUA or off-label use of the tocilizumab drug may be considered for use in the presence of severe disease, preferably within 24 to 48 hours of onset of severe disease or intensive care unit (ICU) admission.Tocilizumab may be considered for patients with significantly raised inflammatory markers, and not improving despite use of steroids with there being no active bacterial, fungal or tubercular infection, they stated. Coronavirus patients have been classified into those affected by mild, moderate and severe disease, the guidelines stated.According to the guidance note, upper respiratory tract symptoms without shortness of breath or hypoxia have been categorised as mild disease and have been advised home isolation and care. Those suffering from mild Covid should seek medical attention if they have difficulty in breathing, high grade fever, or severe cough lasting for more than five days.Those having breathlessness with SpO2 fluctuating between 90-93 per cent, can get admitted to a ward, and they will be considered moderate cases. Such patients should be given oxygen support and awake proning should be encouraged in all patients requiring supplemental oxygen therapy, in sequential position changes every two hours, the guidelines stated.Respiratory rate over 30 per minute, breathlessness or SpO2 lower than 90 per cent on room air should be considered as severe disease and such patients have to be admitted to an ICU as they will need respiratory support.Such patients should be put on respiratory support. Non-invasive ventilation (NIV) -- helmet or face mask interface depending on availability -- may be considered in those with increasing oxygen requirements if work of breathing is low.High flow nasal cannula should be considered in patients with increasing oxygen requirements. Intubation should be prioritised in patients with high work of breathing if NIV is not tolerated and institutional protocol for ventilatory management should be used when required, the new guidelines said.Those aged above 60 years, or those having cardiovascular disease, hypertension and coronary artery disease diabetes mellitus and other immunocompromised states, such as HIV, active tuberculosis, chronic lung, kidney or liver disease, cerebrovascular disease or obesity are at high risk for severe disease and mortality, the guidelines stated.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-revised-guidelines-govt-details-use-of-covid-drugs-and-therapies-with-riders-101642440124583.html
17-01-2022||India||Global throwaway culture to investing in India: Highlights of PM Modi’s Davos address||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday delivered his address virtually at the World Economic Forum, Davos Agenda, and touched upon a range of topics during his speech.Modi opened his remarks by hailing the country’s vaccination drive against the Covid-19 pandemic and went on to speak about several topics such as economic reforms, climate change, digital infrastructure, digital payments and also called for investments in the country at the global forum.Here are some of his top quotes during the address:Also read | PM Modi talks of India's ‘bouquet of hope’ at World Economic Forum||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/global-throwaway-culture-to-investing-in-india-highlights-of-pm-modi-s-davos-address-101642437880418.html
17-01-2022||India||Tamil Nadu jabs all kids in 15-18 age group with first anti-Covid dose||All eligible beneficiaries in the 15 to 18 years age group have been immunised against Covid-19 with the first dose of the vaccine in Tamil Nadu, said health minister Ma Subramanian. The vaccination drive for the young adults began across the country on January 3.“100 per cent school students between 15 to 18 years in Tamil Nadu have been inoculated with the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine,” news agency ANI quoted state Subramanian as saying on Monday.As of 8.15pm, the state administered 18,66,382 doses of the vaccine to beneficiaries between 15 and 17 years of age, according to data from the Co-WIN dashboard. Also, a total of 9,00,11,768 doses have been administered so far, including 93,657 precautionary third doses.Also read | Tamil Nadu shuts schools for all classes till January 31 amid Covid-19 spreadOn Monday, 23,443 more people tested positive for the disease along with 20 fatalities, taking the total caseload to 29,63,366 and the death toll to 37,009, according to a bulletin from the state health department. The active caseload was recorded at 1,52,348.Of the new cases, Chennai added the most numbers with 8,591 new cases in the last 24 hours, followed by 2,236 cases in Chengalpattu and 2,042 cases in Coimbatore.Meanwhile, the state has reported 241 cases of the Omicron variant so far and 231 of them have been discharged while the 10 remaining cases have been cross-notified to other states such as Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Kerala, Delhi, Jharkhand and Puducherry. Chennai alone has reported 144 cases of the total Omicron cases in the state so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-health-minister-says-100-of-15-18-age-group-jabbed-with-covid-first-dose-101642437258938.html
17-01-2022||India||Assam logs highest-ever daily Covid-19 cases at 6,982; positivity rate crosses 10%||Assam on Monday recorded 6,982 new Covid-19 cases-- the highest single day surge since the pandemic began two years ago and the overall test positivity rate (TPR) reached the highest mark till date of 10.75%. Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma took to Twitter to inform about the surge. Among the districts, Kamrup (Metropolitan), which includes Guwahati, recorded the highest number of 1491 new cases while 11 people died due to the disease across the state. Like the rest of the country, Assam has witnessed a rise in Covid-19 cases since the beginning of this month with new infections doubling nearly every three days. The overall recovery rate, which was over 98% at the end of last month, came down to 95.18% on Monday. In view of the surge, the Assam government has decided to treat all new Covid-19 cases as that of the Omicron variant of the virus. Night curfew timings were increased from 10 pm to 6 am last week and from January 15, the government has banned entry of those not fully-vaccinated from public places, offices and means of transport. Addressing journalists on January 7, CM Sarma had speculated that between January 20 and January 30, Assam will have nearly as many cases during the peak of the second wave last year (around 6,500 cases in a day). On Monday, the figure touched nearly 7,000—three days earlier than anticipated. “We assess that this time the peak might be anywhere between 10,000 to 12,000 or maybe more. So as per our estimation, the number of infections will be much more than the first and second waves of Covid-19,” Sarma had said. 
17-01-2022||India||‘Pro-Planet People’: PM Modi talks climate in World Economic Forum address||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday virtually addressed the World Economic Forum (WEF) at its online Davos Agenda summit, where he introduced the idea of a “P3 (Pro-Planet People) movement” that underlines India's climate change commitments at the global forum.Also Read | PM Modi talks of India's ‘bouquet of hope’ at World Economic ForumRecalling the fact that he had introduced a similar idea – ‘Mission L.I.F.E – Lifestyle for Environment’ at the COP26 climate summit last year, Modi said the P3 movement will now help India achieve its sustainable environmental goals.In his WEF Davos Agenda address, the Prime Minister reiterated India's “clean, green, sustainable, and reliable” energy goals, which entails a net-zero carbon emission target by 2070.Talking about lifestyle changes that must be made to meet climate commitments, Modi said, “We have to accept that our lifestyle is also a big challenge for the climate.”Also Read | Average time for environmental clearance down to less than 90 days: Govt“Throwaway culture and consumerism have made the climate challenge more serious,” the Prime Minister said, adding, “It is important for Mission 'LIFE' to become a global mass movement.”On November 1 last year, Modi had announced at the Glasgow summit on climate change that India’s non-fossil energy capacity will reach 500GW by 2030, meeting 50 per cent of the country’s energy requirements by 2030.He had said that India will reduce its total projected carbon emissions by one billion tonnes between now and 2030, reduce the carbon intensity of India’s economy by 45 per cent by 2030 over 2005 levels, and achieve net-zero emissions by 2070.Modi, however, had also flagged that these ambitious actions would be impossible without adequate climate finance from developed nations.Besides India's climate change commitments, the Prime Minister on Monday also spoke about the successful nationwide vaccination campaign inoculating crores of Indians against the coronavirus and the country's unwavering trust in democracy and technology to empower the 21st century with the temperament and talent of his fellow countrymen – a phenomenon that he described as a “bouquet of hope” in these difficult times marked by the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/proplanet-people-pm-modi-talks-climate-in-world-economic-forum-address-101642432204196.html
17-01-2022||India||'Stop playing Twitter Twitter with PM': BJP-JDU's open duel involves Asoka and even RJD||A long post on Facebook by the Bihar unit head of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) issuing a warning to ally Janata Dal (United) over alleged controversial remarks against Emperor Asoka has led to a word of words in the ruling camp.Hours after Bihar BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal demanded the arrest of Daya Prakash Sinha, the Sahitya Akademi Award winning playwright, and asked the Nitish Kumar-led government to "stop playing Twitter Twitter with the Prime Minister”, a strongly worded rejoinder came from JD(U) parliamentary board chief Upendra Kushwaha who accused the former of trying to wash his hands off the matter by putting the ball in the state government's court.Last week, Jaiswal had lodged a complaint against Sinha, also a Padma Shri recipient, of denigrating the historical figure considered "the pride of Bihar" and spreading "incorrect information" that he was the national convenor of the BJP cultural cell.In a lengthy post, he demanded arrest of the dramatist who resides in Uttar Pradesh, in the light of the FIR and "trial before a fast track court"."Once Sinha is pronounced guilty, a delegation of the Bihar government may meet the President (Ram Nath Kovind) with the request that Padma Shri awarded to the convicted person be withdrawn," said Jaiswal.In a recent interview, Sinha expressed the view that Asoka was very much like Mughal Emperor Aurangzeb, as both rose to power after fratricide and projected an image of piety to appear respectable. Since then, Sinha who has won the literary award for a play based on Asoka is in the eye of a storm.Soon after, the JD(U), which draws its support base from Koeris and Kurmis, had mounted an offensive on the issue. The Maurya dynasty was founded by Chandragupta Maurya, Asoka's grandfather, who is an OBC icon.Jaiswal, however, ticked off the JDU’s national president Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan and Kushwaha, without mentioning either by name. "One of you has been a minister at the Centre and the other in the state... asking the Prime Minister to withdraw Padma Shri given by the President is nothing but bakwaas (nonsense)".Citing the example of wrestler Sushil Kumar who has not been stripped of a Padma Award despite being charged with murder, Jaiswal said no recipient of the civilian honour has been stripped of the same in "74 years" since Independence.Kushwaha took the bait and came out with an open letter addressed to Jaiswal, stating that his attempt to make withdrawal of Sinha's Padma Shri consequent upon his conviction was "laughable", given his mention of Sushil Kumar's example."For you, the matter may have ended with your eyewash of the complaint you have registered with the Bihar police. Our protests will continue till the honours bestowed upon Sinha are withdrawn. And we don't care who is supposed to do the needful, the President or the Prime Minister," Kushwaha said.In his post, Jaiswal also took exception to JD(U) leaders repeatedly tagging Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Twitter and warned them of a backlash from the BJP's troll army. "Stop playing Twitter Twitter with the Prime Minister. He is the pride and honoor of every BJP activist. If you don't stop doing this, 76 lakh party workers in the state will give a befitting reply," he said.Jaiswal further said the BJP was founded on the principle of cultural nationalism and it can brook no distortion of the glorious history of Indian kings. "It, however, is in favour of educating the young generation about the excesses committed by Bakhtiyar Khilji and Aurangzeb," said Jaiswal in an apparent dig at the JD(U)'s proclaimed commitment to secularism.He also pointed towards the resurgence of the RJD, founded and headed by Kumar’s arch-rival Lalu Prasad. "We do not want the chief minister’s residence to become a den of criminals like it was before 2005," said Jaiswal. Kumar became the chief minister of Bihar in 2005. Using a Ramayana metaphor, Jaiswal said, "The wolf is on the prowl wearing the guise of a golden deer. A generation has been born since 2005 and it is getting enticed, since it does not fathom Ravana's designs". The RJD, which is now being steered by Prasad's younger son and heir apparent Tejashwi Yadav, has the largest number of MLAs in the state.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stop-playing-twitter-twitter-with-pm-bjp-jdu-s-open-duel-over-asoka-row-101642434853854.html
17-01-2022||India||Bengal government relaxes Covid-19 curbs as positivity rate drops||The West Bengal government on Monday relaxed some of the restrictions imposed due to spiralling Covid-19 cases, as it allowed gyms to reopen and gave permission for jatra (theatre) and outdoor shooting. The move comes at a time when the positivity rate of Covid-19 cases in the state has dipped from 33.8% on January 9 to 26.4% on Monday. An order issued by the state government on Monday said that gyms could now reopen with 50% of the capacity every day till 9 pm, provided staff and users were either fully vaccinated or were RT-PCR negative. Jatra (theatres) have been allowed up to 9 pm with 50% capacity in an outdoor venue. In an indoor venue, a maximum of 200 people may be allowed. Outdoor shootings for films and televisions have also been permitted. “The daily count of Covid-19 cases had shot up to more than 24,000 on January 9, while on Monday it dipped to 9,385. The positivity rate, too, had dropped during the same period,” said a senior official of the state government. On Monday, Kolkata registered 1,879 fresh cases of the Covid-19 infection. According to statistics published by the Union health ministry, the weekly positivity rate of Kolkata, which had shot up to 57.9% between January 2 and January 8, has dropped to 53.5% between January 10 and January 16. “There is no place for complacency and we have to be very cautious at least till the first week of February. The positivity rate of Kolkata, even though it has come down, is still higher than most of the cities including Delhi and Mumbai,” said Sukumar Mukherjee, Mukherjee, is a member of the expert committee that was set up in 2020 to advise chief minister Mamata Banerjee on pandemic-related matters. While the death toll was 18 on January 9, it has jumped to 33 on Monday. On January 15 and January 16 at least 39 and 36 people had died. The recovery rate has also dropped from 94% to around 90% in the last one week. It was only on January 2 that the state government imposed restrictions closing down schools and colleges while allowing only 50% workforce in offices and putting a 50% cap on trains and metro. Direct flights from UK were stopped and flights from Delhi and Mumbai were allowed to land only three days a week. On Saturday, the West Bengal election commission had postponed the polls in four civic bodies by three weeks, even as the state government relaxed some of the restrictions. Marriage ceremonies were allowed to be held with 200 people or 50% of the seating capacity of the venue. Earlier the cap was 50 people. The state also allowed fairs and melas to be organised following Covid-19 protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-government-relaxes-covid-19-curbs-as-positivity-rate-drops-101642434640213.html
17-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: China to send 1 billion Covid-19 vaccine doses to Africa and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.China to send another 1bn Covid vaccines to Africa: XiChina will supply another one billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines to African countries, President Xi Jinping announced at the all-virtual Davos forum on Monday, adding that 150 million vaccine doses will donated to the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) countries. Read morePM Modi talks of India's ‘bouquet of hope’ at World Economic ForumPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday virtually addressed the World Economic Forum, Davos Agenda, wherein he spoke about the country's bouquet of hope. Read more As Covid-19 cases dip, Bengal eases virus restrictions: Details hereThe West Bengal government on Monday added a few more relaxations in its coronavirus disease (Covid-19) protocols in the wake of a fall in the daily case count. Read more'If given an opportunity...': ODI vice-captain Bumrah opens up on prospects of leading Team India in Tests after KohliAmid three popular choices for the position of Test captaincy in the Indian cricket team, pacer Jasprit Bumrah is slowly emerging as one of the likely candidates that the selectors might want to look at for the role after Virat Kohli had announced his decision to step down from the position last week. Read moreAkshay Kumar thanks Twinkle Khanna for ‘21 years of adventure’ with pic from anniversary date, fan calls them ‘cuties’Actor Akshay Kumar and his wife, actor-turned-author Twinkle Khanna are celebrating their 21st wedding anniversary. On the occasion, Akshay penned a heartfelt note for Twinkle on social media. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-china-to-send-1-billion-covid-19-vaccine-doses-to-africa-and-all-the-latest-news-101642434010692.html
17-01-2022||India||PM Modi talks of India's ‘bouquet of hope’ at World Economic Forum||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday virtually addressed the World Economic Forum, Davos Agenda, wherein he spoke about the country's bouquet of hope. Besides successfully vaccinating crores of Indians against the coronavirus, the Prime Minister spoke about India's unwavering trust on democracy and technology to empower the 21st century with the temperament and talent of Indians as part of this bouquet of hope. “India is celebrating its 75th year of Independence. At the same time, the country administered 156 crore vaccine doses to its population,” he said.He further spoke about how lifestyle changes were essential to fight the climate change crisis. “The current throwaway culture and consumerism have made climate challenge more serious.”Modi said keeping our goal of 'Global good' we have committed to net zero target by 2070. India's growth will be green, clean, sustainable and reliable, he added.Also read | Global throwaway culture to investing in India: Highlights of PM Modi’s Davos address“Though India constitutes 70 per cent of the global population that takes up power commission of only 5 per cent, our effort for sustainable development is 100 per cent.”Speaking about India's contribution towards the world during the pandemic, he said, “Our multi-lingual, cultural environment is not only our strength but the strength of the world.” "In this period of the coronavirus pandemic, India showcased its strength by providing free food to more than 80 crore of our citizens… Today, India is the third-largest pharma producer in the world. During this time, we have  seen how India has followed the vision of 'One Earth, One Health' is saving crores of lives by giving essential medicines, vaccines to many countries," he added. Today, India has the world's largest, safe and successful digital payments platform. In the last month alone, 4.4 billion transactions have taken place in India through Unified Payments Interface (UPI), he said.Stating that this is the best time to invest in India, Modi said the entrepreneurship spirit that Indians have, the ability to adopt new technology, can give new energy to each of our global partners.“In 2014, there were a few hundred registered startups in India. Today, their number has crossed 60,000 with more than 10,000 registered in the last six months. More than 50 lakh software developers are working in the country today.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-talks-of-india-s-bouquet-of-hope-at-world-economic-forum-101642431930023.html
17-01-2022||India||Stalin seeks PM Modi’s intervention over Tamil Nadu's exclusion from R-Day tableaux||Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin on Monday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking his “urgent intervention” over the exclusion of the state’s tableau from the Republic Day parade in Delhi this year.In his letter, Stalin said he was deeply disappointed over the fact that Tamil Nadu’s tableau showcasing renowned freedom fighters would not be included in the parade.“This is a matter of grave concern to the state of Tamil Nadu and its people and I request your urgent intervention to arrange to include the tableau of Tamil Nadu that will showcase the freedom fighters of Tamil Nadu in the Republic Day Parade 2022 in New Delhi,” he wrote.குடியரசு தின அணிவகுப்பில், தமிழ்நாட்டிலிருந்து நாட்டின் விடுதலைக்காகப் போராடிய வீரர்களின் உருவங்கள் அடங்கிய ஊர்தி இடம்பெறுவது மறுக்கப்பட்டிருப்பது குறித்து மாண்புமிகு முதலமைச்சர் @mkstalin அவர்கள் மாண்புமிகு பிரதமர் @narendramodi அவர்களுக்குக் கடிதம் எழுதியுள்ளார். pic.twitter.com/l33BpS3WXcHe said the theme “Tamil Nadu in the Freedom Struggle” was chosen in line with the Centre’s theme for this year, “India @75- Freedom Struggle, Ideas @ 75, Achievements @75, Actions @75, & Resolve @ 75”.He said state representatives had appeared thrice before the expert committee thrice and the latter had expressed satisfaction with the theme during the first meeting.The state’s tableau was planned to have Tamil freedom fighters during the British Raj in the front and those from the times of the East India Company at the back, according to the CM. He added VO Chidambaranar, Subramania Bharathi, Velu Nachiyar and Marudhupandiyar brothers, all who were from the state and fought against the British, were part of the tableau.Also read | Mamata writes to PM Modi over R-Day tableau rejection, says ‘profoundly shocked’“VO Chidambaranar, Maha Kavi Bharathiar, Veeramangai Velu Nachiyar, Maruthu brothers are few among the several freedom fighters from Tamil Nadu. Exclusion of the tableau of Tamil Nadu will deeply hurt the sentiments and patriotic feelings of the people of Tamil Nadu,” Stalin said.“I am given to understand that Tamil Nadu was not called for the fourth round of meeting and it was informed that the state of Tamil Nadu has been left out while shortlisting,” he added.Earlier, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and the Kerala state government have expressed their disappointments over the rejection of their respective states’ tableaux from the Republic Day Parade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-seeks-pm-s-intervention-over-tamil-nadu-s-exclusion-from-r-day-tableaux-101642424135238.html
17-01-2022||India||Abu Dhabi fire: Embassy in close touch with UAE officials over 2 Indian nationals' death||The Indian embassy in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) said it was in close touch with the authorities concerned regarding the death of two Indian nationals in an explosion at Mussafah near ADNOC’s storage tanks at the industrial city of Abu Dhabi.A Pakistani national was the third victim of the explosions and fires that followed a suspected drone attack by Yemen’s Houthi rebels on Abu Dhabi. Another six persons were injured in the explosions.“UAE authorities have informed that the explosion at Mussafah, near ADNOC’s storage tanks, has led to 3 casualties, which includes 2 Indian nationals. The Indian Embassy in UAE is in close touch with concerned UAE authorities for further details,” the embassy said in a statement.Earlier, the envoy to UAE Sunjay Sudhir said the identities of the two deceased Indians were being ascertained. “Two Indian nationals killed. Their identities being ascertained,” Sudhir was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.State-run Emirates News Agency WAM said preliminary investigations suggested that the cause of the fires were "small flying objects, possibly belonging to drones that fell in the two areas”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/abu-dhabi-fire-embassy-in-touch-with-uae-officials-over-2-indians-death-101642419459045.html
17-01-2022||India||Republic Day flypast to recall 1971 war glory||The military flypast at the upcoming Republic Day parade will feature flying formations to commemorate some glorious moments of India’s decisive victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war, including the historic Tangail airdrop and the Meghna operation, apart from showcasing the Indian Air Force’s combat capabilities, officials familiar with the matter said on Monday. As many as 75 different aircraft from the IAF, army and navy --- India is celebrating the 75th year of its Independence --- will take part in the January 26 flying display, including Rafales, Sukhoi-30s, Jaguars, C-130J special operations aircraft, Mi-35 gunships, MiG-29K maritime fighters and P-8I maritime surveillance aircraft, IAF officials said at a press preview of the flypast. “This will be the largest and grandest display,” an official said. The flying display is the highlight of India’s biggest ceremonial parade. The indigenous Tejas light combat aircraft and the Mirage 2000 jets are not taking part in the parade as single-engine aircraft are normally not permitted to fly over Rajpath though the LCA made its debut at the 2017 parade. The Tangail formation will feature a vintage Dakota aircraft along with two Dornier 228 aircraft, the officials said. The Tangail airdrop north of Dhaka --- the biggest airborne operation mounted by Indian paratroopers --- set the stage for surrender by the rival army. The aim of the operation was to capture the Poongli Bridge on Jamalpur-Tangail-Dhaka road and the ferry site on Louhajang river to intercept Pakistani army’s 93 Brigade that was retreating from the north to defend Dhaka. Around 750 men of the 2nd Battalion of the Parachute Regiment were involved in the successful mission. The paratroopers defeated a force that was three times numerically superior and shattered the will of the Pakistani army to defend Dhaka. The Meghna formation to commemorate a critical heli-borne operation during the 1971 war will involve a CH-47F Chinook helicopter and four Mi-171V choppers, the officials said. IAF helicopters played a critical role in moving troops across the Meghna river in erstwhile East Pakistan.Also, the IAF tableau at the parade will display of fighter planes attacking the Governor House in Dhaka and a model of the Gnat fighter that played an important part in the 1971 war. The 1971 war, which ended with the liberation of Bangladesh, gave India a new generation of heroes including Flying Officer Nirmal Jit Singh Sekhon. Then 26, he is the first and only person in IAF to be decorated with Param Vir Chakra, the country’s highest war-time military honour. He was posthumously awarded PVC. His moment of glory came on December 14, 1971, when the Srinagar airfield faced a furious attack by at least six Sabre aircraft of the Pakistan Air Force. In the midst of the strafing of the airfield by the enemy aircraft that presented grave danger to his own safety, Sekhon took off in his Gnat, heroically engaged a pair of Sabres, shot them down and forced the PAF package to retreat before his own aircraft was hit and exploded into a fireball. In December, India observed the Swarnim Vijay Parv at India Gate to mark the culmination of year-long celebrations organised across the country to commemorate the 50th anniversary of victory in the 1971 war. The 13-day war ended on December 16 with the Indian Army taking 93,000 Pakistanis as prisoners of war. The Republic Day flypast will end with 17 Jaguar fighters flying in a formation to commemorate the 75th year of the country’s Independence. 
17-01-2022||India||India's first mRNA vaccine may be effective against Omicron, human trials to begin soon||Amid the latest nationwide surge in the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), driven by the highly transmissible Omicron variant, India's first mRNA (messenger RNA) vaccine is set to begin its human trials soon.Officials familiar with the development told news agency ANI trials are expected to begin in February. Pune-based Gennova Biopharmaceuticals has submitted phase II data of the mRNA vaccine and also completed recruitment for the phase III data, they added.The officials said the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) is likely to review the data soon. The mRNA vaccine has also been developed for the Omicron variant, and it will soon be tested on humans for efficacy and immunogenicity.What is the name of this mRNA vaccine?In September last year, Gennova had issued a press statement, providing an update about the vaccine trials. The pharmaceuticals company had said the DCGI had approved in August that year the phase II and phase III study protocols for India's first mRNA-based Covid-19 vaccine, developed by Gennova Biopharmaceuticals Limited.The name of the vaccine is HGCO19, it said, adding that Gennova had submitted the interim clinical data of the phase I study to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), India's national regulatory authority.Early studies found vaccine ‘safe, tolerable’The Gennova press statement said the vaccine subject expert committee had reviewed the interim phase I data and found that HGCO19 was “safe, tolerable, and immunogenic” in the participants of the study.Where are the trials being held?The company said the study is being conducted in India at approximately 10-15 sites in phase II and 22-27 sites in phase III. “Gennova is using the DBT-ICMR clinical trial network sites for this study," it said.mRNA vaccines belong to the category of nucleic acid vaccines, which use genetic material from disease-causing viruses or pathogens to trigger an immune response against it within the body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-first-mrna-vaccine-may-be-effective-against-omicron-human-trials-to-begin-soon-101642417041675.html
17-01-2022||India||Texas hostage taker’s Pakistan connection||UK national Malik Faisal Akram from Blackburn, the hostage-taker at the synagogue in Texas on Saturday, hailed from the Jhelum district in Punjab, Pakistan, and his family had emigrated to the UK nearly 50 years ago. Akram, who died during the situation, had identified himself as Faisal Siddiqui, brother of Pakistan-born neuroscientist Aafia Siddiqui and had asked for her release from a federal prison in Texas, where she is serving an 86-year sentence for attempting to murder US soldiers in Afghanistan in 2010.According to official sources based in London, Akram was a member of the pan-Islamic Tablighi Jamaat and had travelled abroad for works related to the organisation. He was married to a Gujarati Muslim woman and has five sons and a daughter. However, he also struggled due to marital problems and reportedly had poor relations with his father. He also lost a brother to the Covid -19 pandemic recently.Also read | Texas hostage situation brings focus back on Al QaedaHis father is a known member of the Muslim community in London and the family also has political links through Malik Irfan, a Councillor linked to the Labor Party.Further, Akram also briefly served as the head of the Rondell street Islamic Centre in the London area, also known as Reza Masjid, where largely Muslims of Pakistani origin prayed. He also prayed at the Eldorado Masjid that was frequented by Gujarati Muslims in the region. He is a known participant in demonstrations supporting pro-Palestine agenda and Guantanamo Bay prisoner rallies and approved of Jihad.Meanwhile, two teenagers, believed to be Akram’s sons, were arrested from Blackburn, UK, on Sunday following a raid there.Aafia Siddiqui, also known as Lady Al Qaeda, was married to the nephew of Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, Pakistani national and the prime accused in the 9/11 attack. Several pan-Islamic jihadist groups have made attempts in the past to secure the release of Siddiqui, who has doctorate from Brandeis University.
17-01-2022||India||India may begin vaccination for 12-14 year age group from March: Top govt official||Vaccination of children in the age group of 12 to 14 against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) may begin in March once the inoculation of those in the 15-18 year category is completed and a policy decision in this regard may be taken accordingly.Dr NK Arora, chairman of the Covid-19 working group of NTAGI, said, of the estimated 7.4 crore (7,40,57,000) population in the 15-18 age group, over 3.45 crore have received their first dose of Covaxin so far with the second one due in 28 days.Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya shared on Twitter earlier in the day that over 3.5 crore children in the 15-18 age group have received their first dose since January 3 when the drive was expanded to include the young adults.Amazing enthusiasm among Young India for #COVID19 vaccination 💉Over 3.5 crore children between the 15-18 Age group have received 1st dose of COVID-19 vaccine, since 3rd January.Congratulations to all my young friends who have got vaccinated.#SabkoVaccineMuftVaccine pic.twitter.com/4sa8DzCIJ4Vaccination of children in the age group of 12 to 14 against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) may begin in March once the inoculation of those in the 15-18 year category is completed and a policy decision in this regard may be taken accordingly.Dr NK Arora, chairman of the Covid-19 working group of NTAGI, said, of the estimated 7.4 crore (7,40,57,000) population in the 15-18 age group, over 3.45 crore have received their first dose of Covaxin so far with the second one due in 28 days.Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya shared on Twitter earlier in the day that over 3.5 crore children in the 15-18 age group have received their first dose since January 3 when the drive was expanded to include the young adults.|#+|"Adolescents in this age group have been actively participating in the inoculation process, and going by this pace of vaccination, the rest of the beneficiaries in the 15-18 age group are likely to be covered with the first dose by January-end and subsequently their second dose is expected to be done by February-end," Dr Arora, the chairman of the Covid working group of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.The government is likely to take a policy decision for initiating the vaccination drive for the 12-14 age group in March, he added. According to him, there is an estimated 7.5 crore population in the 12-14 age group.The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 last year with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated in the first phase. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2, 2021.The next phase of COVID-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 last year for people over 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions.The country launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 years from April 1, 2021.The government then decided to expand its vaccination drive by allowing everyone above 18 to be vaccinated from May 1.The next phase of COVID-19 vaccination has commenced from January 3 this year for adolescents in the age group of 15-18 years.India began administering the “precaution dose” -- a third jab of the vaccine -- to healthcare, frontline workers, including personnel deployed for election duty and those aged 60 and above with comorbidities from January 10, amid the country witnessing a spike in coronavirus infections, driven mainly by the Omicron variant of the virus.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-may-begin-vaccination-for-12-14-year-age-group-in-march-top-govt-official-101642417959529.html
17-01-2022||India||Tripura students’ body withdraws strike after state govt assures it will step in||The Twipra Students Federation (TSF), an indigenous group from Tripura, has called off the 12-hour strike due to be held today, protesting against the alleged assault on two students by traffic personnel after the Tripura government assured it would look into the matter, TSF advisory board chairman Upendra Debbarma said . Two students, Angel Reang and Abhijit Debbarma were allegedly beaten up by a traffic policeman on January 13 after their two-wheeler broke down near the Circuit House in Agartala close to which Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb’s convoy was supposed to pass. Information and Cultural Affairs minister Sushanta Chowdhury held talks with the TSF leaders late on Sunday night assuring them that their demand of registration of a case against the traffic policeman and proper legal action against him would be looked into. “Registration of a complaint filed by the students who were assaulted, magisterial probe into the incident and treatment for the students are our demands. After our discussion with the ICA minister, our case was lodged late at night. We have also been assured that cases against the students will be withdrawn. After getting these assurances, we have called off our strike,” Upendra Debbarma told reporters adding that they would wait for 3-4 days to see whether their demands were met, failing which they would go ahead with their agitation. Soon after the incident, different students’ organizations including the National Students Union of India (NSUI), Left students’ bodies protested against the assault on students and demanded prompt action against the traffic police. Tripura Police have registered a case based on the complaint filed by the traffic police unit against the two students under Section 253 of Indian Penal Code. Later, they also began probing the incident under the supervision of deputy superintendent of police (Traffic) Koyal Debbarma. The traffic constable, accused of assaulting the students, has been removed from field duty till completion of the inquiry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-students-body-withdraws-strike-after-state-govt-assures-it-will-step-in-101642418138090.html
17-01-2022||India||Pakistan sending IEDs into India through land and sea drug route: Intel report||Delhi Police investigations into the recovery of RDX-packed improvised explosive device (IED) at Ghazipur last Friday has taken a sinister turn with intelligence reports indicating that the Pakistani establishment is using land and sea drug pipeline to push ready-made IEDs into India.It is learnt that the remotely controlled timer in the Ghazipur explosive was set to detonate one hour eight minutes after the IED was armed. While the exact number of bomb consignments smuggled into India is anybody’s guess but as many as 20 IEDs, 5-6 kilograms of IED, and 100 grenades have been recovered by Punjab police alone. It is understood that terrorists based in Pakistan have been told to assemble more IEDs or tiffin bombs for distribution beyond Punjab and into poll-bound states like UP and sensitive states like Maharashtra, Gujarat, and Delhi.According to security agencies, the cross-border drug smugglers dealing in Afghan heroin and opium have been tasked to push IEDs into India through drones and sea-going vessels. “The IED consignments, funded by drug money, are still coming into India with the objective of fanning a communal flare-up after a major incident,” said a senior official. 26/11 accused and Lashkar-e-Taiba Pakistan origin terrorist David Coleman Headley had disclosed to NIA how the Pakistani terror strikes were funded by drug money with drug smugglers often involved in the supply of arms and ammunition across the border into India.Fact is that had the Delhi Police PCR not responded with alacrity in the Ghazipur case, the blast would have killed several innocents and created an atmosphere of uncertainty in the capital city. The explosive was put inside a steel tiffin with cycle bearing and nails, which itself becomes the source of deadly shrapnel when exploded. The bomb is designed in such a way that RDX forms a core charge with ammonium nitrate and fuel oil acting as a secondary charge to soup up the explosion.In the past decade, tiffin bombs were the signature of Pak-sponsored Indian Mujahideen terrorist group with such IEDs used in 2005 Sarojini Nagar and Paharganj market blasts. The same devices were used by the group in blasts in Gorakhpur, Lucknow, Varanasi, Haldwani, Jaipur, Hyderabad, and Mumbai to deadly effect with hundred of innocents being killed in the rampage orchestrated by radicalized locals at the behest of their handlers across the border.
17-01-2022||India||Human traficking from Assam worsens during Covid-19 pandemic: Rights activists||GUWAHATI: In May 2020, at the peak of the countrywide lockdown and travel restrictions because of Covid-19, 15-year-old Meena Ray (name changed) was trafficked from her village in Kokrajhar district of Assam with the promise of marriage and sold to a brothel in West Bengal’s Siliguri town. Luckily, with help of child activists and the police, she was rescued a month later and was brought back. Investigations revealed that a 35-year-old man from Bongaigaon district of Assam, who was involved in poultry business, befriended Ray on a social media platform and trafficked her to Siliguri. Experts in Assam believe Ray’s was just one of the many cases of human trafficking that happened during the past two years after the Covid-19 pandemic started. While Assam has been a hub for human trafficking in the past, it is feared the scenario has worsened due to the new disease. According to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) figures, Assam recorded 308 cases of human trafficking in 2018 - the second highest figure in the country after Maharashtra (311). The number dropped to 201 in 2019 (third highest after Maharashtra (282) and Andhra Pradesh (245). In 2020, Assam recorded 124 cases - seventh highest after Maharashtra, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Jharkhand and Rajasthan. “Human trafficking, especially trafficking of children, continued during the nationwide lockdown in 2020. We recorded 144 cases of child trafficking during that year in just four districts of Kokrajhar, Chirang, Baksa and Udalguri, which form the Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR),” said Digambar Narzary, chairperson of Kokrajhar-based Nedan Foundation, an anti-trafficking NGO. “Last year, a total of 156 cases of child trafficking was recorded in the four districts of BTR region alone. The figure would be much bigger if data for the entire state is tabulated,” he added. Narzary says return of thousands of people who went outside the state for work during 2020 because of the pandemic and lockdown, closure of schools due to the pandemic and lack of enough seats in schools and colleges to accommodate students appearing in board exams, who were promoted en masse without conducting tests, could be some reasons for rise in trafficking. “In BTR, a total of around 50,000 students got promoted in Class 10 board exams while the total available seats in higher secondary schools and colleges were only around 26,000. This led to shortage of seats in colleges. Many students who were not able to secure seats started accompanying former migrants who started returning to their workplaces outside the state when lockdown measures eased,” he said. Last year 40 children (16 girls and 24 boys), who were trafficked from Baksa district of Assam in 2018-19, were rescued from Sikkim. The matter about the missing children came to light when the state government directed health and social welfare departments to report cases of children who were absent from their homes. “Trafficking is going to increase in coming months as peoples’ lives and livelihoods have got affected totally due to Covid-19. It is not possible for parents in many poor families to continue supporting their children’s education especially those who are in the senior classes as it’s expensive,” said Narzary. He added that while earlier people from outside the state used to come to Assam and lure children and women away with various inducements, now due to the lockdown and restrictions on movement, people from within the vulnerable communities act as sub-agents of traffickers from outside and play a big role in the operations. “It is not easy for people from outside the state to come to indulge in trafficking. So the modus operandi has changed. People from within communities are trafficking children, women and youths in the name of jobs as labourers outside. Those trafficked would only get to know what will happen to them only after they reach their destinations,” said Narzary. “While several trafficked victims end up as labourers or are sold into prostitution, Narzary said that another new trend in recent years is of girls trafficked outside the state to be sold as brides in states like Haryana and Rajasthan or to be used for surrogacy purposes,” he added. Narzary cited the example of an 18-year-old from Dhubri district who was sold to a man in Rajasthan in 2018. After she gave birth to a girl child, the man, who wanted a boy, sold her off to another person. When she gave birth to another girl child, the second man also left her. She was rescued in 2020 from Ajmer with two small girls. The victim is back in her home in Dhubri now. Another emerging trend is of luring victims through social media. Due to lockdown and classes conducted online, children have got access to mobile phones for their studies. “Now profile of students especially girls are now available because of online classes. Some students go to mobile repair shops to repair or recharge their phones and they come in contact with potential traffickers. Now traffickers have access to these girls and are able to become friendly through online chats and lure them with promise of marriage, jobs or a better life,” said Narzary. Child rights activist Miguel Das Queah pointed out that while Covid-19 and the lockdown and restrictions accompanying it have pushed millions to poverty and led to conditions which are fertile for human trafficking, the actual figures on how many are trafficked could be difficult to estimate. “Cases of trafficking are usually not identifiable when it is reported to the police as in most cases it is registered as a missing person report or case of abduction/kidnapping. It is only when victims are rescued, the trafficking aspect comes to light,” he said. According to the NCRB data, in 2020 a total of 177 persons (in 124 cases) were trafficked in the state and the same year 157 trafficked persons were rescued. Data shows that most of the victims were trafficked for domestic work (36), followed by forced labour (26) and forced marriage (18). In 2020, a total of 877 children went missing from the state while 685 who went missing in previous years, were yet to be traced. The same year, police rescued 1232 missing children. In 2020, a total of 3859 persons (including children) were reported missing from Assam. If 3437 missing persons from previous years are added to the list, the figure goes up to 7296. “According to the Supreme Court guidelines, the police have to register a FIR for a missing person’s report, but many times this doesn’t happen as police treat it as a case of elopement or something else. In the case of missing children, the first 48 hours are crucial. But due to police inaction, theirs is no rescue and till the time the victim is recovered there’s no clarity on whether it was a case of trafficking,” said Queah. He cited the example of a 13-year-old girl from Hajo in Kamrup (Rural) district who had to drop out of school due to the pandemic and was sent to her uncle’s place in Guwahati. Her uncle sent her to someone else’s home to serve as a domestic help. The girl, who was being physically and mentally abused, was rescued recently. But till that happened, there was no record of her getting trafficked. The present state administration under Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has given the slogan of ‘zero tolerance against child trafficking and child sexual abuse’ as one of his main agenda, but activists suggested framing of proper guidelines on what needs to be done and how trafficking can be prevented. “I urged the CM to prepare a clear-cut modus operandi to prevent trafficking. Rescuing a victim is just one aspect of the issue. One needs to have measures to prevent trafficking, ways to rescue, prosecution of those involved and rehabilitation,” said Narzary. Apart from strict directions to police to register FIRs in the cases of missing children and take prompt action to rescue them, Queah stressed that the social welfare department of the state should get more proactive to identify causes of trafficking and take steps to ensure children and others don’t get trafficked. 
17-01-2022||India||Delhi, Haryana govts engage in squabble over rising Covid-19 cases||Governments in Delhi and Haryana engaged in a war of words over surging cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), fueled by the fast-spreading Omicron variant.On Sunday, Haryana health minister Anil Vij said three districts in the state – Gurugram, Faridabad and Sonipat – have seen an increase in their infection rate due to the surge in Covid-19 cases in neighbouring Delhi.“The increase in Covid cases in Delhi have affected the National Capital Region, because of which the infection rate has increased in Gurugram, Faridabad and Sonepat,” Vij said.Vij said Haryana was "adversely affected" by Covid-19 due to its proximity to Delhi, adding that his government was tackling the situation by making all necessary arrangements regarding healthcare services. He further assured of providing complete treatment to patients coming from the national capital or elsewhere.A day later, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said Vij's comments were nothing but 'political talks’. “I can also tell how many Haryana people are testing positive in Delhi. Over 1,000 Covid-19 cases are being reported from outside Delhi every day,” Jain was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Meanwhile, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said a blame game over Covid-19 will not help eradicate the pandemic.Speaking to reporters after flagging off the first electric bus in Delhi, Kejriwal said, "I won't indulge in blame games. It's not going to eradicate the disease. Wherever there is coronavirus in the country it should be eradicated."This is not the first time that the Delhi and Haryana governments have indulged in a war of words over the Covid-19 crisis. In April 2021, the Delhi government accused the neighbouring Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government in Haryana of blocking oxygen supply during the second wave when the pandemic was wreaking havoc in the capital. The Haryana government had said the supply was interrupted due to technical reasons.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-haryana-govts-engage-in-squabble-over-rising-covid-19-cases-101642406996881.html
17-01-2022||India||LJP leader Rajendra Prasad Singh returns to BJP||BETTIAH: Amid growing differences among NDA constituents in Bihar over liquor prohibition, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday reinducted Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader and former BJP state vice president Rajendra Prasad Singh. Singh contested assembly elections from Dinara seat in Rohtas district as the LJP nominee and pushed Janata Dali-United (JD-U) leader and science and technology minister in Nitish Kumar cabinet Jai Kumar Singh to third place. He rejoined the BJP in the presence of party state president Sanjay Jaiswal at his residence here, dealing a blow to both the JD-U and the LJP. Rajendra Singh described his reinduction in the BJP as homecoming. “Call it my folly or anger, I chose to contest the election in the larger interest of people of my constituency. I am back in my original party as per the people’s aspirations along with my supporters,” said Singh, who lost to Rashtriya Janata Dal’s (RJD) Vijay Mandal by a margin of 8,228 votes in 2020 assembly election. Singh has worked for the RSS and sister organisations for close to four decades and served the BJP as the party’s mantri of Kanshi and Awadh in Uttar Pradesh (between 2004 and 2013), maha mantri of Jharkhand organisation (2013 and 2015) and BJP state vice president (2019-20). He deserted the party following denial of ticket in 2020 assembly elections. Welcoming him to the party fold, BJP state president Jaiswal described Rajendra Singh as the tallest leader of south Bihar. “He has served the party in various capacities in the past. Burying all the differences that arose in the past, he is joining us and we heartily welcome him,” Jaiswal told media persons. When contacted, Chirag Paswan’s Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) Bihar state president Raju Tiwari and former Govindganj (East Champaran) MLA sought to downplay the matter. “Rajendra Prasad became inactive in LJP after the assembly polls. It is now clear that he had joined us for his vested interest,” said Tiwari. Meanwhile, the differences between the BJP and the JD-U over liquor prohibition in the state widened. BJP state president Jaiswal put the JD-U in dock, accusing the Nalanda district administration of conniving with the liquor mafia. “My question to the JD-U if members of all 11 families of those who died in hooch tragedy in Nalanda be sent to jail... For giving consolation to such families is a crime in the eyes of the party,” Jaiswal, a doctor and three-time MP from West Champaran Lok Sabha seat, said on Sunday in a Facebook post, which created a ripple in political circles because BJP is the biggest ally in the four-party NDA coalition led by JD-U’s Nitish Kumar. Jaiswal’s poser came in reaction to JD(U) spokesman Abhishek Jha’s recent social media post in which he questioned the BJP state chief’s visit to the houses of hooch tragedy victims in the latter’s constituency. “If the prohibition is to be implemented, first of all, the Nalanda administration should arrest the senior officer who gave a false statement, because the administration’s job is to run the district and not to give the reason of death to the people who died of a strange disease due to spurious liquor. It clearly shows that the administration itself is involved with the liquor mafia and is working to hide their misdeeds,” the state BJP chief wrote in his post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ljpleader-rajendra-prasad-singh-returns-to-bjp-101642406916679.html
17-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi condoles Padma Shri Shanti Devi's death and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Padma Shri Shanti Devi dies at 88; PM Modi, Odisha CM extend condolencesPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday condoled the demise of social worker and Padma Shri awardee Shanti Devi, who passed away last night at her residence in Gunupur, in Rayagada district of Odisha. She was 88. Read more AIIMS Patna to go ahead with MBBS exams despite state-run colleges deferring itAIIMS Patna director has said that the institute will conduct MBBS examination as per schedule, following all Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. Read more Yezdi starts deliveries of all three motorcyclesYezdi Motorcycle on Sunday has commenced deliveries of its three newly launched models - Adventure, Scrambler and Roadster. The three retro-themed motorcycles come carrying the old-school Yezdi motorcycles' charm blended with modern elements. Read more&amp;nbsp;Tata Open Maharashtra 2022: Players to enter bio-bubble & event behind closed doors, confirms Tournament Director SutarTata Open Maharashtra, South Asia’s only ATP Tour-level tournament, is back in 2022 after a hiatus of two years due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The ATP 250 event, which will take place between January 30 and February 6 at the Balewadi Stadium in Pune, is still on schedule but is going to be a lot different from its previous editions, according to the tournament officials. Read moreKrushna Abhishek calls estranged uncle Govinda ‘bade miyan’ on The Kapil Sharma Show, says family feud will be solvedKrushna Abhishek talked about his estranged uncle Govinda on Sunday’s episode of The Kapil Sharma Show and said that he learnt everything from him. Read more Are you pregnant amid ongoing Omicron wave? Tips to followGetting jabbed for Covid-19 can reduce the severity of infection in pregnant women. Here are other tips that pregnant women should follow amid pandemic.Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-condoles-padma-shri-shanti-devi-s-death-and-all-the-latest-news-101642402047800.html
17-01-2022||India||Kumbhalgarh, Todgarh sanctuaries unsuitable for viable tiger populations: NTCA||JAIPUR: A National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) report has ruled out the possibility of declaring Rajasthan’s Kumbhalgarh and Todgarh-Raoli wildlife sanctuaries as a tiger reserve to decongest the Ranthambore Tiger Reserve saying their landscape is unsuitable to hold viable big cat population.In the report, retired Indian Forest Service officers RN Mehrotra and NK Vasu, NTCA Tiger Cell scientist Kausik Banerjee, and additional inspector general (NTCA) Hemant Kamdi pointed out the length of the proposed tiger reserve is about 200-220 km. It added its width varies between 3 to 15 km (average width 6.5 km), which would make it difficult to confine tigers and other wildlife within the boundary of the proposed reserve.“And, this may escalate the likelihood of human-wildlife conflict in the adjoining landscape,” said the report, a copy of which HT has seen.The report has recommended a critical tiger habitat by creating a core of at least 800-1,000 sq km (with a minimum width of 15-20 km) by including areas from both Kumbhalgarh and Todgarh-Raoli wildlife sanctuaries. It added the habitat should comprise inviolate areas without human pressure with ample prey base so that it can sustain at least 20 breeding females in the long term. The report called for urgent action for “incentivised voluntary” relocation of human settlements from within both the sanctuaries.“The entire landscape [including the proposed Tiger Reserve] is interspersed with an unmitigated network of national and state highways, district roads and, a medium gauge railway track. These might pose a serious threat to an establishing tiger population in the proposed tiger reserve,” the report said.On green corridors, the report said the proposed tiger reserve is an isolated patch of forest with no connectivity with Ranthambhore, which has the only tiger source population in the state. “So, the only way to populate the reserve would be through translocation and soft release,” the report said. Ranthambore had 79 tigers in July 2021 when the state forest department conducted the last estimation.Also Read | Tigress Collarwalli, mother to 29, dies at the age of 16 at Pench Tiger ReserveKumbhalgarh Wildlife Sanctuary (610.52 sq km) and Todgarh-Raoli Wildlife Sanctuary (495.27 sq km) are spread over Ajmer, Pali, Rajsamand, and Udaipur districts in the Aravalli Hills. Officials said Tigers lived in the forests of Kumbhalgarh and the adjoining regions such as Roopnagar, Dewair, Phulwari Ke Nal till the 1960s before they were wiped out due to hunting.The report said the major portion (approximately 60%) of the proposed tiger reserve and adjoining landscape have moderate to steep slopes making the effective area available for tigers much less than the total proposed area. It said the rugged terrain may play an important role as potential leopard refuge patches in presence of tigers in the landscape in the future.The report said the current prey abundance in both Todgarh-Raoli and Kumbhalgarh was low to support a viable tiger population and a decline has also been reported during the past two decades.Mehrotra said the proposed area is surely a good habitat for the tigers but the government should work on implementing their recommendations to convert the forest into a tiger reserve, which will not only be beneficial for the big cats but people in the longer run. He said the recommendations are doable.Mehrotra said the state government needs to consolidate and merge adjoining revenue land to increase forest area. “It is a good forest area but degraded with time and can be rejuvenated.”Chief wildlife warden Arindam Tomar said the report has been sent to the government for a decision.Member of Parliament (Rajsamand) Diya Kumari, who is an NTCA member, urged Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot and the environment minister Hemaram Choudhary to take action on the report so that the wildlife sanctuaries can be declared a tiger reserve.In July 2021, Ramgarh Vishdhari Sanctuary in Bundi was declared as the fourth Tiger Reserve in Rajasthan. Ranthambore Tiger Reserve (Sawai Madhopur), Alwar’s Sariska Tiger Reserve, and Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve in Kota are the other three tiger reserves in the state. 
17-01-2022||India||AIIMS Patna to go ahead with MBBS exam despite state-run colleges deferring it||PATNA: The All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Patna will conduct the practical examination of the second professional MBBS examination of the 2019 batch from Monday, said officials, even as medical examinations in state-run institutions have been postponed due to spike in Covid-19 cases.Eight examinees have not responded to a questionnaire sent by AIIMS on their health status, while 74 others are reported to be healthy. As many as 800 employees of the institute have so far tested positive for Covid-19 this year. The AIIMS sent a questionnaire to the examinees, seeking their response by Sunday evening if they were confirmed positive, had symptoms but were not positive in test or were either healthy or recovered from Covid-19. They will be segregated, on the basis of their response, before their four-day exam begins from Monday, said the official quoted above. “We will conduct our MBBS examination as per schedule, following all Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. We do not want to derail our academic session, which has been affected over the last two years. We are trying to get our students back into the mainstream [of academics],” said Dr Saurabh Varshney, executive director of AIIMS-Deoghar, who also holds charge of director, AIIMS Patna. “We will divide the examinees into two broad categories. One group will have the ones showing symptoms of Covid-19 and the other will comprise the healthy ones. We will conduct the examination in separate halls, dividing the examinees into smaller groups, with sufficient space between them. We will follow this arrangement at AIIMS Deoghar as well,” added Dr Varshney. Some departments like microbiology will conduct the exams in two sessions – morning and afternoon — in order to segregate the healthy and infected examinees,” said Dr Umesh Kumar Bhadani, dean (academics), AIIMS Patna. “The hall in which the examinees infected by Covid-19 will write their exams will be fumigated every day,” he added. “Our idea of not deferring the exams is also to condition our medicos so that they understand and accept the situation arising out of a pandemic and prepare themselves to serve the society as doctors in event of any medical adversity,” added Dr Bhadani. The theory examination of the 2019 batch of medicos at AIIMS was conducted between January 4 and 14. The practical examination in pathology, microbiology, pharmacology and forensic medicine and toxicology disciplines is schedule from January 17 to 20. The first professional MBBS examination was held last month and the result was declared early this month. The Aryabhatta Knowledge University (AKU), which decides the medical curriculum in state government-run medical colleges of Bihar, has, however, postponed till further notice all exams, including the 1st professional MBBS examination 2021 and the 1st professional Bachelor of Ayurveda Medicine and Surgery 2020 (II), scheduled to begin from January 19. Bihar reported 5,410 new infections on Sunday, taking the total count of active cases to 35,508. Patna reported the highest 1,575 cases, with a positivity rate of 17.40%, followed by Samastipur 349 (8.19% positivity), Muzaffarpur 333 (6.05% positivity), Purnia 248 (5.35% positivity) and Bhagalpur 189 (7.72% positivity) among others, according to the health bulletin released by the state health department on Sunday.
17-01-2022||India||Padma Shri Shanti Devi dies at 88; PM Modi, Odisha CM extend condolences||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday condoled the demise of social worker and Padma Shri awardee Shanti Devi, who passed away last night at her residence in Gunupur, in Rayagada district of Odisha. She was 88.Shanti Devi, also known as Lugdi Devi, received the prestigious Padma Shri award from President Ram Nath Kovind on November 9, 2021. She was known for her dedication towards the underprivileged community and restoring peace in the Maoist-affected areas in Odisha.“Shanti Devi Ji will be remembered as a voice of the poor and underprivileged. She worked selflessly to remove suffering and create a healthier as well as just society. Pained by her demise. My thoughts are with her family and countless admirers. Om Shanti,” tweeted PM Modi.Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik also extended his grief at her death.“Saddened to learn of the death of Padma Shri Award-winning social worker Shanti Devi. Her lifelong efforts to help the needy and tribal have always been inspiring. Her contribution to social work is invaluable. I extend my heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family and wish them well,” Patnaik tweeted in Odia.Born in Balasore district in 1934, Shanti Devi began social work at an early age and founded the Seva Samaj ashram at Gunupur in Odisha. She worked towards the education of tribal girls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/padma-shri-shanti-devi-dies-at-88-pm-modi-odisha-cm-extend-condolences-101642398472915.html
17-01-2022||India||Former Goa Congress MLA Reginaldo Lourenco quits Trinamool Congress||PANAJI: Former Congress MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco, who quit the party to join the All India Trinamool Congress (AITC), has now resigned from the AITC. In a handwritten resignation letter, Lourenco said he is resigning from the primary membership of the party with immediate effect, without citing any reasons. “AITC has received a letter from Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco resigning from primary membership of the party. We had welcomed him into the party as we have countless others. Now that he wishes to leave, we wish him well,” Mahua Moitra, Lok Sabha MP & AITC Goa in-charge said. Lourenco, who was considered a prize catch, by the Trinamool Congress is the second leader to align forces with the new entrant in Goa’s political scene before backing out. Prior to this Sanguem MLA Prasad Gaonkar threw his weight behind the Bengal-based party, before now joining the Congress. Lourenco, who was described as “unstable” by State Congress president Girish Chodankar, quit the Congress back in December saying that the Trinamool Congress was better placed to defeat the BJP and said he was joining the Trinamool to be on the ‘ruling side’ after the elections. However, it soon became clear that his move to the Trinamool Congress was not very well received by his supporters and getting re-elected on a AITC ticket suddenly seemed to be no longer guaranteed. Congress leader Michael Lobo, who also joined the party recently, called on Lourenco to rejoin the Congress. “To strengthen the @INCGoa and to boost our purpose of forming [a] Congress government in 2022, I request Reginaldo to join us back,” Lobo said. Lourenço quit the Congress after he was declared as the party’s candidate back in December. When he quit the party for the AITC the Congress said it was ‘stunned and betrayed’ by Lourenco’s move but vowed to put the ‘betrayal’ behind it and take the party forward. Upon quitting the Congress, Lourenco hit out at the Congress leadership terming them indecisive and slow to take decisions as reasons for his quitting the party. Lourenco was earlier too disappointed with the functioning of the Congress party but seemingly decided to keep differences aside after a call from Rahul Gandhi. He was made working president of the party after deciding to recommit himself to the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-goa-congress-mla-reginaldo-lourenco-quits-trinamool-congress-101642399595799.html
17-01-2022||India||West Bengal biodiversity board attempts to bring back traditional crop varieties||KOLKATA: Equipped with knowledge about the traditional practices and bio-resources in the form of People’s Biodiversity Registers, experts from the West Bengal Biodiversity Board (WBBB) are now trying to revive some of the traditional varieties of paddy, pulses, vegetables, fruits and medicinal plants. This, experts say, will not only help farmers to bring down dependency on chemical fertilisers and thereby increasing profit, but also help fight the vagaries of nature including flood, rising salinity and drought triggered by climate change and global warming. “Take paddy for example. Almost six to seven decades ago farmers in West Bengal used to grow at least 5000 varieties of desi or traditional paddy. But now we can find only around 460 varieties. We have probably lost the rest as no one grows them now. One can only find high yielding varieties,” said HS Debnath, chairman of the WBBB. Experts from the biodiversity board, however, stumbled upon dozens of these traditional varieties and the knowledge associated with them after People’s Biodiversity Registers were prepared by the biodiversity management committees comprising people at the village, block and district levels. West Bengal now has 3380 such registers which is a dossier containing comprehensive account of local bio-resources along with related traditional knowledge and practices of the area. “Now that we have the PBRs in hand, we are trying to revive whatever remains of the traditional varieties. It could be paddy, pulses, fruits, vegetables and even medicinal plants. We have already managed to identify around 100 paddy varieties. But first we are trying to register the varieties under the Protection of Plant Variety and Farmers Right Act so that the rights of the farmers are protected,” said Debnath. While around 14 have already been registered, another 74 are in the queue, officials said. Each variety is differentiated by identifying more than 50 morphological characteristics and around eight biochemical characteristics, so that they are distinctly separate from the nearest similar variant. “The list contains traditional varieties such as Dudheshwar, Kanakchur and Tulaipanji known for their aroma. Varieties like Bhadoi, Danbhutia and Bhashamanik can grow even in farmlands which are flooded and have four to five feet of standing water. Then there is Bhutmuri, Nyata, Jhulur which can withstand drought. In the Sunderban where salinity is a major problem variety such as Patnai, Nona Bakhra, Tangrasali would survive and give a good yield,” said Anirban Roy, a research officer of the board, who has been working on these registers for years. The board has also roped in an expert from the Calcutta University to develop low- cost models on how to increase plant yield using traditional methods and home-made manures. “Farmers are dependent heavily on chemical fertilisers and pesticides. But as their prices are rising, the profit margin of farmers is going down and many times they are incurring losses too. These chemicals also play havoc with the soil health as they kill the micro-organisms. I try to show the farmers how to increase soil fertility, boost plant growth and kill pests with easily available things such as cow dung, cow urine, banana stem, rotten fish, lime and ash among other items. This brings down their input cost which in turn help them to make profit,” said Krishnendu Acharya, professor of botany in Calcutta University. Now that the board has identified farmers who are still growing some of the traditional varieties of paddy, vegetables, fruits and pulses among others, efforts are on to come up with at least five ‘seed banks’ across the state. “Initially we thought of setting up a centralized seed bank in and around Kolkata. But then we came up with the idea of developing smaller seed banks in five agro-climatic regions of the state. Talks are being held,” said Debnath. But it is not just paddy. The PBR also speaks of dozens of varieties of vegetables and fruits that the common man hardly knows of. “At least eight varieties of potatoes can be found only in and around Balurghat in Uttar Dinajpur district. We found at least 20 varieties of runner beans in Birbhum. There are varieties which are completely white, while one has a red border on it. Then there are several varieties of chilly and brinjal of various, shapes, sizes and taste. Also, there are varieties of pulses and fruits which we used to hear in our childhood,” said Roy. The board is now trying to come up with marketing strategies so that the products grown by the farmers could be sold and they get the right incentive. “One way would be to brand the vegetables just as we do in the case of Basmati or other varieties of paddy. For example, the farmers would not just sell a brinjal. They would sell ‘Palui’ brinjal which is soft and has a particular taste. They would not just sell chilly but would brand them as Beldanga chilly which is thin and very hot,” said Debnath 
17-01-2022||India||India logs 258,089 new Covid-19 cases, positivity rate rises to 19.65%||A day after recording a massive spike, India's daily Covid-19 tally dropped slightly with 258,089 fresh cases in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative caseload to over 37.3 million, the Union health ministry data showed on Monday. The death toll, on the other hand, continued on an upward trajectory with as many as 385 people dying of the disease in a day.Of these, there were a total of 8,209 cases of the Omicron variant, which is now present in all 29 states and union territories.The highest number of cases of the new variant were recorded at 1,738 from Maharashtra, followed by 1,672 from West Bengal.The country's active cases now stands at 16,56,341, which is 4.43 per cent of the total infections. The daily positivity rate increased to 19.65 per cent, while the weekly positivity rate stood at 14.41 per cent. The daily positivity count showed nearly a 4 per cent rise from yesterday's 16.28 per cent.Meanwhile, 1,51,740 recoveries in the last 24 hours took the total recoveries to 3,52,37,461. India's recovery rate now stands at 94.27 per cent.A total of 703.7 million Covid tests have been conducted so far, including 13,13,444 tests in the last 24 hours. As many as 1.57 billion vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-258-089-new-covid-19-cases-positivity-rate-rises-to-1965-101642391161964.html
17-01-2022||India||Govt allows use of existing power connections to charge EVs||NEW DELHI: The government has revised the rules for the electric vehicle (EV) charging infrastructure and allowed their owners to charge their EVs using the existing electricity connections at homes or offices. It has also given the go ahead for the allotment of government land to private entities through bidding for setting up public charging stations (PCS).The Union power ministry issued the revised promulgated guidelines and standards on Friday and said the government plans to roll out PCS on a large scale in two phases. The first phase will cover megacities with a population of above 4 million as per the census 2011, expressways, and important highways connected to these mega cities. Big cities such as state capitals, Union Territory headquarters, and important highways connected with these cities will be covered in the second phase.“...owners may charge their EVs at their residence or offices using their existing electricity connections… The tariff applicable for domestic consumption shall be applicable for domestic charging,” the ministry said in a statement.As per data with the ministry of road transport and highways, India has 947,876 registered electric vehicles. But only 1,028 PCS have been installed throughout the country so far, according to the Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE).Also Read | Sidhu invites Elon Musk to Punjab, aims to make Ludhiana electric vehicle hubThe revised guidelines are important because, by 2030, India has set a target of 30% EV sales penetration for private cars, 70% for commercial vehicles, 40% for buses, and 80% for two- and three-wheelers. At present, only about 2-3 e-car variants cost below ₹15 lakh in the country. The cost of two-wheelers and three-wheelers have almost come at par with the existing petrol ones after factoring in the subsidies. Apart from the high cost of EVs, a major cause for the sluggish sale of EVs in the country, other than Delhi, has been the lack of charging infrastructure.The new rules mention the infrastructure requirement and prescribed standards for installing PCS. “Any individual/entity is free to set up public charging stations without the requirement of a license, provided that such stations meet the technical, safety as well as performance standards and protocols laid down under the guidelines as well as norms/ standards/ specifications laid down by power ministry, BEE and Central Electricity Authority (CEA) from time to time. An exhaustive list of compliance requirements for PCS has also been outlined. These include norms for ‘appropriate’ infrastructure for civil, electrical, and safety requirements.”The Centre has left it to the state governments to fix the ceiling of service charges to be levied by PCS. This has been allowed because some states have rolled out their EV policies under which they offer subsidies for purchasing an EV and for setting up charging stations.So far, 14 states have released their EV policies. They include Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Kerala, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, and Bihar. Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari has told Parliament that Uttar Pradesh and Delhi account for 44% of the EVs registered in India.To make charging stations financially viable, the government has also put in place a revenue-sharing model for the land used for public charging stations. “Land available with the government/public entities shall be provided for installation of PCS to a government/public entity on a revenue-sharing basis at a fixed rate of ₹ 1 / kWh (used for charging), which will be paid to the land-owning agency on a quarterly basis. Such revenue-sharing agreement may be initially entered by parties for a period of 10 years. This model may also be adopted by the public land-owning agency for providing the land to a private entity for installation of PCS on bidding basis with a floor price of ₹ 1/ kWh,” it said.The BEE is preparing action plans for the installation of public charging stations for nine major cities such as Mumbai, Delhi, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Ahmedabad, Chennai, Kolkata, Surat, and Pune. “As per the initial estimates, a total of 3263 chargers under a business-as-usual scenario, 23,524 chargers under the moderate scenario, and 46,397 under aggressive scenario are being targeted for installation of PCS in these cities by 2030,” a power ministry official said.
17-01-2022||India||UK Sikhs push back against anti-India forces, pass resolution thanking PM Modi||The Sikh community in the United Kingdom has started to push back against anti-India campaign, which is led by the Khalistanis. The latter have organised many protest marches in the UK in the past few months.But on Sunday, the leaders of the Sikh community gathered at Gurdwara Shri Guru Singh Sabha, located in Park Avenue, Southall, and passed a resolution thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government for doing so much for the Sikh community and helping to bridge the misunderstandings.Also Read | Khalistan separatists plan to show PM Modi as anti-PunjabThey also thanked that Prime Minister for announcing December 26 as ‘Veer Baal Diwas’ and declaring it a public holiday.In the congregation, the Sikh leaders and gurdwara committee office bearers challenged those who are pushing “factually incorrect” narrative about India and its current government, a statement from them said.The passing of the resolution us being seen as a bold step by the local community in the UK, which so far remained silent and chose not to confront a handful Khalistanis propagating anti-India narrative.On the occasion of the 365th birth anniversary of Guru Gobind Singh, PM Modi announced that December 26 will be celebrated as ‘Veer Baal Diwas’ from 2022. This will be a tribute to the bravery and martyrdom of Guru Gobind Singh’s sons, he said.He had earlier lauded the contributions made by the Sikh Gurus, which he said is not just limited to society and spirituality, but helped India at various junctures."Guru Tegh Bahadur's valour and his sacrifice against Aurangzeb teaches us how the country fights against terror and religious fanaticism. Similarly, the life of the tenth Guru, Guru Gobind Singh Sahib is also a living example of tenacity and sacrifice at every step," PM Modi had said while addressing the Gurpurab celebrations at Gurudwara Lakhpat Sahib in Gujarat in December last year.He also praised the contributions made by gurdwaras during the difficult corona time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-sikhs-push-back-against-anti-india-forces-pass-resolution-thanking-pm-modi-101642391169112.html
17-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Ex-U'khand minister Harak Rawat may join Cong today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Harak Singh Rawat may join Congress today. Know why he was expelled from the BJPHarak Singh Rawat, who was dismissed from Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government in Uttarakhand on Saturday, is likely to join the Congress party today, news agency ANI reported. Read moreCold to severe cold conditions likely in parts of northwest IndiaCold to severe cold conditions were likely to continue in parts of northwest India on Monday as the region recorded significantly low day but above normal minimum temperatures from Friday to Sunday. Read moreArvind Kejriwal to flag off Delhi's first DTC electric bus todayDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will on Monday flag off Delhi Transport Corporation’s (DTC’s) first electric bus. The ceremony will take place at DTC’s Indraprastha’s depot at 12 noon. Read moreNorth Korea fires suspected ballistic missile, 4th test in JanuaryNorth Korea fired on Monday what could be a ballistic missile, Japan's coast guard said, in what would be the fourth test this month as Pyongyang forges ahead with new military developments amid stalled stalks with the United States and South Korea. Read moreAmitabh Bachchan shares glimpses of quaint courtyard, personal music studio named Saptaswar. See picsAmitabh Bachchan has shared a glimpse of the quaint and royal courtyard at one of his residences, along with a short poem dedicated to the area. Read more'A sign some new player might come': Amidst Rahane-Pujara debate, Harbhajan identifies another area of concern for IndiaTeam India endured a tough Test series defeat against South Africa, losing the three-match contest 2-1. The team led by Virat Kohli, which was also the last time the 33-year-old led India in a series, kicked-off the tour on an emphatic note, securing a commanding win by 113 runs at Centurion. Read moreWatch| Heritage building, Secunderabad Club, one of India's oldest, destroyed in fire||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-ex-u-khand-minister-harak-rawat-may-join-cong-today-101642388970925.html
17-01-2022||India||Ahmedabad airport to remain shut for 9 hours daily till May 31. Here's why||A part of Ahmedabad's Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International Airport will be closed for nine hours every day from Monday onwards due to planned 'recarpeting work' on the runway. At least 52 flights arriving and departing from the airport will be rescheduled during the entire duration.As per the airport officials, the work will begin today and go on till May 31 this year. The resurfacing work will be carried out on all days, barring Sundays and public holidays, from 9am to 6pm.The work was supposed to begin from November 2021 but got delayed due to the festive season.Airport officials have taken steps to ensure that minimal revision of flight schedules takes place during this time so that passengers do not face inconvenience.“The work will include runway overlaying, runway strip grading and slope assessment, runway end safety area (RESA) grading and slope assessment, along with storm water drain construction and reinstallation of signages in the maneuvering area," read a statement issued by an airport spokesperson."Runway maintenance closures are mandatory procedures in line with international safety standards to ensure aircraft safety and increase runway life,” it added.Meanwhile, Gujarat registered 10,150 fresh coronavirus positive cases on Sunday, raising the state tally to 9,26,240, the health department stated. There were eight Covid-19 fatalities, one of the highest tolls in a single day in recent months. With this, the death toll climbed to 10,159 in Gujarat including two each in Ahmedabad, Rajkot and Bhavnagar and one death each was reported from Vadodara and Tapi districts, the state bulletin read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahmedabad-airport-to-remain-shut-for-9-hours-daily-till-may-31-here-s-why-101642385200611.html
17-01-2022||India||Cold to severe cold conditions likely in parts of northwest India||NEW DELHI: Cold to severe cold conditions were likely to continue in parts of northwest India on Monday as the region recorded significantly low day but above normal minimum temperatures from Friday to Sunday.M Mohapatra, director general, India Meteorological Department (IMD), said an intense western disturbance passed last week in the region. “After a western disturbance passes, cold northerly winds bring extremely cold air from the Himalayas to this region. These chilly winds bring down day temperatures. These conditions will continue till Monday at least.”R K Jenamani, senior scientist, National Weather Forecasting Centre, said low clouds and fog were leading to less sunshine and have brought down day temperatures.A cyclonic circulation is also lying over the Arabian Sea and Konkan coast in lower tropospheric levels while a relatively feeble western disturbance was affecting weather in Jammu and Kashmir. A fresh western disturbance was likely to affect the Western Himalayan region from Tuesday and another northwest India from January 21 and bring scattered rainfall.Scattered light to moderate rainfall is also likely in Telangana, coastal Andhra Pradesh, and Rayalaseema on Monday and in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, and Mahe during the next three days. Isolated light to moderate rainfall is likely in sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim and Andaman and Nicobar Islands from Tuesday to Thursday.Dense to very dense fog was likely in the night and morning hours in places such as Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Jammu, and Himachal Pradesh this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cold-to-severe-cold-conditions-likely-in-parts-of-northwest-india-101642388614872.html
17-01-2022||India||‘Ghazipur haul part of a 24-bomb Pak shipment’||Delhi Police’s investigations into the improvised explosive device (IED) recovered from the Ghazipur flower market on Friday have revealed that it was part of a 24-bomb consignment sent from across the border either through land or via a sea route by the Pakistani deep state to local terrorists. Other devices, recently recovered in Jammu and Kashmir, and Punjab are believed to be part of the same consignment and it is also believed that some devices may have been smuggled into Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh.Also Read| IED at Ghazipur market: Security checks choke traffic at Delhi bordersAccording to top Delhi Police investigators who asked not to be named, the Ghazipur device was a tiffin bomb with three kilograms of RDX as the core charge and ammonium nitrate as a secondary charge. The device was packed in a steel tiffin with nails and ball bearings and could be detonated remotely.HT learns that these IEDs were smuggled from across the border to existing sleeper modules in India as well as to some criminal gangs. A terror module busted by Delhi Police in September 2021 with arrests in Mumbai, Lucknow, Allahabad, and Delhi itself has been linked with this IED recovery. Delhi Police investigators believe that the IED consignment came to India around last Independence Day. While the Delhi Police and security agencies are trying to recover other IEDs from the consignment, HT learns that a number of these IEDs have also made their way into Gujarat through the sea route and in UP through the land route. “It appears that radicalized elements in India are being tasked from across the borders to plant devices at pre-fixed targets or use local criminal elements to do the job; a nationwide alert has been issued so that a terror strike is averted,” said a senior security official who asked not to be named.Also Read| IED found at Ghazipur market: Proper recce was done before planting bombIn the first decade of this millennium, Pakistani deep state initiated what later came to be known as the Karachi project where young men in India were radicalized by Pakistan trained religious fundamentalists to make and detonate ammonium nitrate bombs in India to show that the country was under threat from home grown terrorism and not cross-border terrorism. By 2010, more than 500 civilians in India had died on account of bomb attacks in Maharashtra, Delhi, Punjab, UP and Bihar.
17-01-2022||India||1st S-400 unit to be ready by April, 4 others by 2023||India has begun work on deploying the S-400 Triumf advanced surface-to-air missile defence system, with the first unit to be made operational in April, HT learns.While the Narendra Modi government remains tight-lipped about the entire project, officials with direct knowledge of the matter have told Hindustan Times that all five units will be deployed in depth areas to tackle the threat from China.All the five units of the S-400 system, which can take down a hostile aircraft or missile at a range between 40km and 400km, are expected to be operational by next year.Also Read| US trying to undermine S-400 deal, India showed it’s a sovereign country: LavrovThe S-400 system was purchased from Russia through a $5-billion deal signed in October 2018.The Indian Army and the Chinese PLA are locked in a stand-off across the 597km-long Ladakh LAC since May 2020, with Beijing reluctant to restore the April 2020 status quo ante in Gogra-Hot Springs and restore India’s unhindered patrolling rights in Depsang Bulge in Daulet Beg Oldi (DBO) sector and Charding Nullah Junction (CNJ) in Demchok sector. PLA has already deployed two S-400 systems across LAC in Ngari Gar Gunsa (opposite Demchok) and Nyingchi (across Arunachal Pradesh) with the remaining three deployed to tackle the threat from the Indo-Pacific.James O’ Brien, President Joe Biden’s nominee for the US State Department’s coordinator for sanctions policy, told the Senate Foreign Committee last Wednesday during his confirmation hearing that while the US has discouraged India from acquiring the S-400 systems from Russia, Washington’s decision on whether to sanction India under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (or CAATSA; a law that aims to penalise Russia, North Korea and Iran and countries dealing with them, by extension) or grant a waiver will be done only after weighing important geostrategic considerations in relations to China. He said that it was difficult to compare India with Turkey (which has been sanctioned by the US for buying the S-400 system from Russia) as the latter was a NATO ally that broke with legacy deals on defence procurement systems. In contrast, India is a partner of growing importance, and one with legacy defence relations with Russia.HT learns that India has made clear to its close ally US through top diplomatic and security channels that the acquisition of Russian S-400 system was in its national interest as it is faced with a belligerent PLA all along the 3,488km-long LAC.While India has offered technical solutions so that the S-400 system does not share details on US manufactured military aircraft and helicopters with Russia, it has also decided that all five systems would be deployed to protect India from the mounting military threat from Beijing.Also Read| S-400 purchase is based on threat perception, government tells ParliamentAlready, advance consignments of two S-400 systems have arrived in India from Moscow and work is on to assemble the systems and the radars by Indian teams trained in Russia.Analysts say that the fact that the systems will be deployed against China may well weigh in on the US decision; China, at this point, is the US’s primary concern.The S-400 system is one of a kind with a powerful radar at the heart of the offensive air defence system.It can track multiple targets at multiple ranges and neutralise them before the adversary’s fighter, bomber or missile, pose a threat, using anti-missiles with varying range.The S-400 system is so powerful that it is capable of tracking, engaging and addressing the threat of Chinese fighters the moment they take off from air bases near the Line of Actual Control.
17-01-2022||India||Legendary Kathak dancer Birju Maharaj dies at 83||Legendary Kathak dancer Birju Maharaj has passed away, news agency ANI reported on Monday, citing his relative. He was 83."He was under treatment for the past month. He had sudden breathlessness at around 12:15-12:30 am last night; we brought him to the hospital within 10 mins, but he passed away," his granddaughter Ragini Maharaj told ANI.Watch: ‘Irreparable loss’, says PM Modi on Birju Maharaj's demiseHis image in my mind will always be smiling, she added.Birju Maharaj was an exponent of the Kalka-Bindadin Gharana of Lucknow.He was born as Brij Mohan Nath Mishra on February 4, 1937 in a well-known Kathak dancing family. Besides father Achchan Maharaj and uncles Shambhu and Lachchu Maharaj, he was shaped by the influence of Bindadeen Maharaj.He began performing as a child alongside his father, and became a Guru (Maharaj) in his teens. Birju Maharaj also performed in the durbar of Rampur Nawab.By the time he was 28, Birju Maharaj's mastery of the dance form had won him the coveted Sangeet Natak Akademi Award.Known for his perfect rhythm and expressive abhinaya, or gesture language, Birju Maharaj developed his own unique style. He was known as a brilliant choreographer, and he helped popularise dance-dramas.Birju Maharaj was the recipient of numerous awards for his contributions to the performing arts, including one of the country’s highest civilian honours, the Padma Vibhushan in 1986.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/legendary-kathak-dancer-birju-maharaj-dies-at-83-101642382684212.html
17-01-2022||India||No person can be vaccinated without prior consent: Centre tells Supreme Court||The Centre has told the Supreme Court that COVID-19 inoculation guidelines issued by the Union health ministry do not envisage forcible vaccination without obtaining the consent of an individual.On the issue of exempting persons with disabilities from producing vaccination certificates, the Centre told the apex court that it has not issued any SOP that makes it mandatory to carry the vaccination certificate for any purpose.The Centre said this in its affidavit filed in response to a plea by NGO Evara Foundation seeking door-to-door, priority COVID-19 vaccination for persons with disabilities."It is submitted that the direction and guidelines released by Government of India and Ministry of Health and Family Welfare do not envisage any forcible vaccination without obtaining consent of the concerned individual."It is submitted that vaccination for COVID-19 is of larger public interest in view of the ongoing pandemic situation," the affidavit filed by the Union health ministry said.The ministry said that "it is duly advised, advertised and communicated through various print and social media platforms that all citizens should get vaccinated and systems and processes have been designed to facilitate the same.""However, no person can be forced to be vaccinated against their wishes," it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-person-can-be-vaccinated-without-prior-consent-centre-tells-supreme-court-101642378248170.html
17-01-2022||NA||Breaking highlights: Throwaway culture and consumerism have made climate challenge more serious, says PM Modi||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Haryana reports 9,204 new Covid-19 cases, active caseload at 54,814Haryana saw 9,204 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours and the death toll stood at 10,116, reports ANI. The active caseload stood at 54,814.UAE condemns ‘heinous Houthi attack’ after 3 killed in suspected drone strikeUAE condemned the “heinous Houthi attack” after three people were killed in  a suspected drone strike, reports AFP. No alliance in Goa yet, will contest Manipur polls with Congress: NCP's Nawab MalikNationalist Congress Party leader Nawab Malik said that his party couldn't form a pre-poll alliance with the Congress in Goa due to “some local leaders,” reports ANI. “Tomorrow, our general secretary and a minister will visit Goa to talk about the alliance. We will contest the Manipur polls in alliance with Congress,” he said.India emerged as the world's largest pharma producer: PM Modi in address at WEF Davos Agenda"During Covid, we witnessed how India walked the vision of 'One Earth, One Health' and provided medicines and vaccines to several countries, saving numerous lives.Today, India has become the pharmacy to the world - the third largest producer," PM Modi said in his address at the World Economic Forum, Davos. India gives entire world ‘a bouquet of hope’, says PM Modi in address to World Economic Forum"Today, India is facing another Covid wave and is moving forward financially with positive mood.In just 1 year, India has administered nearly 160 crore Covid vaccine doses. A democracy such as India has given the entire world a bouquet of hope," Modi said. Karnataka logs 27,156 new Covid-19 cases, 14 deaths Karnataka saw 27,156 new Covid-19 cases and 14 related deaths as the total caseload reached 3,247,243 and the death toll climbed to 38,445. The active caseload stood at 217,297.West Bengal eases Covid curbs, gyms allowed to operate at 50%West Bengal govt eases COVID-19 restrictions in the state.Gyms can operate with 50% capacity till 9pm, Jatra shall be allowed with 50% capacity till 9pm and outdoor shooting for films and TV programmes allowed in the state following COVID appropriate protocols pic.twitter.com/fQiFEyXB7FGyms have been allowed to operate at 50% upto 9pm and Jatras have been allowed also until 9pm with 50% capacity at outdoor venues and 50% capacity or 200 people, whichever is lower, in case of indoor venues. The state also allowed outdoor shootings for films and TV programmes following Covid protocols. Manipur sees 32 new Omicron Covid-19 casesManipur reported 32 new Omicron Covid-19 cases and the state's tally went up to 39, news agency ANI reported.Mumbai sees 5,956 new Covid-19 cases, 12 deaths #CoronavirusUpdates17th January, 6:00pm#NaToCorona pic.twitter.com/jbK3bLVDF1With 5,956 new Covid-19 cases and 12 deaths, Mumbai's total caseload reached 1,005,818 and the death toll climbed to 16,469. Uttar Pradesh logs 15,622 new Covid-19 cases, 9 deathsUttar Pradesh logged 15,622 new Covid-19 cases and nine more deaths, reports PTI. With 12,527 new cases, Delhi records 31.4% drop in daily Covid-19 tally; tests down to 44,762Delhi reported 12,527 new Covid-19 cases and 24 deaths as the city's total caseload reached 1,722,497 and the death toll climbed to 25,387.‘Will deeply hurt sentiments, patriotic feelings’: TN CM Stalin to Modi on rejection of Republic Day tableauகுடியரசு தின அணிவகுப்பில், தமிழ்நாட்டிலிருந்து நாட்டின் விடுதலைக்காகப் போராடிய வீரர்களின் உருவங்கள் அடங்கிய ஊர்தி இடம்பெறுவது மறுக்கப்பட்டிருப்பது குறித்து மாண்புமிகு முதலமைச்சர் @mkstalin அவர்கள் மாண்புமிகு பிரதமர் @narendramodi அவர்களுக்குக் கடிதம் எழுதியுள்ளார். pic.twitter.com/l33BpS3WXcTamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin wrote to PM Modi after the state's tableau was excluded from the Republic Day parade, seeking his intervention.  India may begin vaccinating 12-14-year-olds from March, says Covid-19 task force head Dr NK AroraIndia may begin inoculating children in 12-14 age group against COVID-19 in March as 15-18 population is likely to get fully vaccinated by then: Dr N K Arora, chairman of COVID-19 working group of NTAGIKarnataka CM chairs meet with state health minister, senior officials to review Covid-19 situationBengaluru: Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai, along with state Health Minister Dr. K Sudhakar, chaired a virtual meeting with senior officials of the State Govt, Health Dept and Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) experts regarding #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/HdKAeKOohuGoa shuts Raj Bhavan to public until Jan 23 due to Covid-19 surgeGoa Raj Bhavan has been closed for visitors for one week until January 23, due to rising Covid-19 cases in the state, reports ANI.‘No serious symptoms among Covid-19 cases in Indore, most under home isolation’: OfficialIndore chief medical health officer BS Setia said that no serious symptoms were found among Covid-19 cases in the city and majority of them were under home isolation, reports ANI. There were 1890 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday and the active caseload stood at 10,313. “153 patients are hospitalized, 12 cases with comorbidities needed ICU & 28 needed oxygen-beds,” he said. EC postpones Punjab assembly election, voting to take place on Feb 20Election Commission has decided to reschedule the Punjab assembly elections in the following manner:1. Date of Notification: 25th January 2022 (Tuesday)2. Last date of Nomination: 1st February 2022 (Tuesday)3. Date of Scrutiny: 2nd February 2022 (Wednesday)4. Date of Withdrawal: 4th February 2022 (Friday)5. Date of Poll: 20th February 2022 (Sunday).UP assembly polls: Akhilesh calls for ‘Ann Sankalp’, promises MSP, interest-free loans, loans and pensions for farmers"As we just took Ann Sankalp, prompted by farmers issues, we announced that on forming the government, MSP will be implemented on all crops and will clear all dues to cane farmers within 15 days...And for this if we need to constitute Farmers' Revolving Fund, then we will form it to ensure timely payments to farmers," Akhilesh Yadav said.“Also the SP government will make provision for interest-free loans, insurance, and pension for farmers,” he added, noting that these promises will be added in SP's manifesto along with the already promised free power to farmers for irrigation.ECI allows authorised media persons to cast votes through postal ballotsThe Election Commission of India has allowed journalists authorized by ECI to cast their votes through postal ballot facility, the commission said in a letter to Chief Electoral Office, Uttarakhand pic.twitter.com/oV029BdAtl‘BJP campaigning door-to-door for 5 days,’ says Chhattisgarh CM Bhagel, fumes over FIR for alleged poll violation“Why was the FIR only against me? How will election campaign happen like this? Why was there no FIR against BJP's election campaign in Amroha? EC's biasness is visible at the beginning itself… The election commission should give a demo on how to do election campaigning. We will do it exactly like that. BJP has been campaigning door-to-door for 5 days in Amroha, why are there no actions on that? I campaigned only y'day. EC should be fair,” Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Bhagel lashes out at Election Commission over alleged poll violation.AAP to announce name of Punjab CM candidate tomorrow at 12 noon, says Arvind KejriwalAam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convenor Arvind Kejriwal said that the name of Punjab CM candidate will be announced tomorrow at 12pm.100% Delhi population vaccinated with 1st dose, 80% with both shots: Satyendar JainDelhi to report around 14,000-15,000 cases today, much less than yesterday. Around 2.85 crore doses have been administered in Delhi; 100 per cent eligible population inoculated with 1st dose, 80 per cent with 2nd dose, and 1.28 lakh people received precautionary dose, says Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain.PM Modi condoles Padma Shri Shanti Devi's death, says ‘ will be remembered as voice for the poor’“Shanti Devi Ji will be remembered as a voice of the poor and underprivileged. She worked selflessly to remove suffering and create a healthier as well as just society. Pained by her demise. My thoughts are with her family and countless admirers. Om Shanti,” tweeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi.A social worker and Padma Shri awardee, Shanti Devi passed away on Sunday night at her residence in Gunupur, Rayagada district of Odisha.Will work for Congress, form govt in Uttarakhand: Expelled BJP minister Harak Singh Rawat"Congress Party will form government in Uttarakhand. I will work for Congress party," said the expelled Uttarakhand BJP Minister Harak Singh Rawat, speaking to news agency ANI.India's Covid-19 tally drops slightly with 258,089 cases, deaths up by 385India registered a slight drop in daily Covid-19 tally. A total of 258,089 fresh cases recorded today, while the death count rises marginally with 385 fatalities. Active cases stand at over 1.65 million.Massive fire at cloth factory in Bhiwandi, property worth crores gutted in blazeProperty worth crores gutted in a massive fire that broke out in a closed cloth factory last night in Kazi compound, Bhiwandi. Cause behind fire not yet clear; fire brigades reached the spot at earliest. No casualties reported yet, said Thane Municipal Corporation.UK police arrest 2 teenagers in South Manchester in connection with Texas synagogue attack, reports AFPUK police arrest two teenagers in South Manchester over Texas synagogue attack.Kathak maestro Pandit Birju Maharaj dies at 83, announces relativeLegendary Kathak dancer Pandit Birju Maharaj passed away, news agency ANI reported citing a relative. It is being said that he had a massive heart attack. He was 83.Two teenagers held in connection with Texas synagogue attackOfficers of UK's Counter Terrorism Policing have made two arrests in relation to the Texas synagogue attack. Two teenagers were detained in South Manchester on Sunday evening, the police said.BJP's final list of candidates for Goa polls to be announced on January 19Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, who arrived at the Goa airport early on Monday after meeting BJP leaders in the national capital said that the final list of candidates for the assembly elections will be announced on January 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-january-17-2022-101642377452339.html
17-01-2022||India||‘Fog hole’ brings sun out but cold persists||Parts of the national capital recorded ‘cold day’ conditions on Sunday, despite a ‘fog hole’ over the city allowing in some sunlight and pushing up the maximum temperature from the season’s lowest, recorded a day ago.While Safdarjung, Delhi’s base station, recorded a maximum temperature of 17.2 degrees Celsius (°C) on Sunday, three notches below normal, some parts of the city still recorded ‘cold day’ conditions, with the mercury increasing only marginally, to 12.8°C, at outer Delhi’s Narela.Though officially Delhi witnessed ‘cold day’ only on Friday and Saturday, parts of the Capital recorded such conditions for the fourth consecutive day on Sunday.Narela was Delhi’s coldest location on Sunday, followed by Jafarpur (13.5°C) and Mayur Vihar (14.3°C). The minimum temperature in the Capital rose to 8.1°C, a degree above normal, from 6.1°C a day ago.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), a ‘cold day’ is declared when the minimum temperature is less than or equal to 10°C and the maximum temperature is at least 4.5°C below the normal.The Capital recorded its lowest maximum temperature for two years on Saturday, when the daytime mercury dipped to 14.8°C at Safdarjung and 10.7°C at Narela.IMD senior scientist RK Jenamani said both the Safdarjung and Palam stations recorded shallow fog on Sunday. The IMD had issued an Orange alert for Sunday, forecasting both dense fog and cold day conditions.“This is the fourth consecutive day in Delhi now where cold day conditions have been seen. Some parts saw sunlight due to a clearance occurring in the low clouds due to winds,” said Jenamani.Navdeep Dahiya, an amateur weatherman who runs ‘Live Weather of India’, said satellite imagery showed dense fog and low clouds looming over the entire northern plains, but a fog hole led to some relief in parts of Delhi.“Fog holes are generally observed over urban cities and are linked to emissions. These are rarely seen in open settings such as fields,” he said.Jenamani said that cold day conditions were expected at isolated parts of Delhi on Monday as well.“The visibility was around 800 metres at Palam between 7.30am and 9.30am. It was around 600-700 metres at Safdarjung, but shallow fog was recorded at both locations. We can expect moderate fog on Monday, with similar low clouds to persist,” he added.The IMD classifies fog as ‘shallow’ when the visibility is between 500 and 1,000 metres, as ‘moderate’ when it is between 200 and 500 metres, and ‘dense’ when it is below 200 metres.IMD has forecast that the mercury will hover between 8°C and 16°C on Monday.Delhi’s air quality meanwhile remained in the ‘poor’ category, with an air quality index (AQI) of 264 recorded as per Central Pollution Control Board’s 4pm bulletin – a slight increase from Saturday’s reading of 258.According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar), a government forecasting body, Delhi’s air quality is likely to remain in the ‘poor’ category over the next two days, with further deterioration expected from January 19, as wind speed drops.“Prevailing foggy conditions and a gradual increase in wind speed is likely to keep air quality in the ‘poor’ category for the next two days. From (January) 19th onwards, wind speed is likely to decrease, leading to low ventilation of pollutants,” said the Safar forecast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fog-hole-brings-sun-out-but-cold-persists-101642372698151.html
17-01-2022||India||CBI arrests GAIL marketing director in bribery case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has arrested ES Ranganathan, director (marketing) of state-run gas corporation GAIL, in a bribery case of over ₹50 lakh for allegedly giving discounts to private companies buying petrochemical products marketed by the firm, the agency said on Sunday.The central agency has busted an alleged bribery racket involving Ranganathan, several middlemen and businessmen. It arrested five people in the case on Saturday.Ranganathan was the sixth person to be arrested in the case.During the searches conducted at eight locations in Delhi-NCR, including Ranganathan’s office at Bhikaji Kama Place in Delhi and his residence in Sector 62, Noida, the agency recovered ₹1.29 crore in cash, gold jewellery and other valuables (with an approximate value of ₹1.25 crore), CBI spokesperson RC Joshi said.On Saturday, the agency recovered ₹84 lakh in cash from other accused in the case. So far, ₹2.13 crore in cash has been recovered in the case.The agency said Ranganathan was collecting bribes from prospective beneficiaries of discounts to private companies that were buying petrochemical products marketed by the Gas Authority of India (GAIL).“Ranganathan was indulging into corrupt and illegal activities in criminal conspiracy with middlemen Pawan Gaur and Rajesh Kumar, who is also director of Rishab Polychem Pvt. Ltd based at Bahudargarh Road, Delhi. Kumar and Gaur allegedly acted as Ranganathan’s middlemen by obtaining bribe from the private companies buying petrochemical products marketed by the Gas Authority of India Ltd (GAIL),” said a CBI official, asking not to be named.Other than Ranganathan and middlemen Gaur and Kumar, the CBI also charged N Ramakrishnan Nair -- who allegedly collected bribes -- along with businessman Saurabh Gupta and his Panchkula-based company United Polymer Industries, and Aditya Bansal and his Karnal-based Bansal Agency.CBI said that Gaur asked Ranganathan to give illegal discount to the buyers on the petrochemical products being marketed by GAIL.The agency’s FIR in the case said that Kumar and Gaur met Ranganathan at his Noida residence on December 11 last year to discuss the proposal.Two days later, Gaur informed Kumar that the discount proposal was being considered.In order to arrange bribes, Kumar got in touch with other prospective beneficiaries of a discount, after the final decision was taken in GAIL on the issuance of the discount order. Gaur, Kumar and Ranganathan again met at a five-star hotel in Delhi on December 14 to discuss the matter, the agency said.In an exchange filing on Sunday, GAIL said the financial impact of Ranganathan’s arrest cannot be ascertained at the moment.It also said that as per media reports, Ranganathan has been arrested in the said case, but the company is not aware of any information other than those published or reported.“At this stage no estimated financial impact or estimated amount can be ascertained,” GAIL added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-arrests-gail-marketing-director-in-bribery-case-101642361261106.html
17-01-2022||India||Three children die soon after measles vaccine in Belagavi; probe ordered||Three children have allegedly died due to the side effects of the measles-rubella (MR) vaccine in the Belagavi district of Karnataka in last four days, said a district health official, privy to the matter, on Sunday.The deceased have been identified as 13-month-old Pavitra Hulagur and 14-month-old Umesh Kuragundi of Bochabal village and Chetan Pujari (16 months) of Mallapur village in Ramdurg taluk, said an official, adding another child is undergoing treatment at the hospital. The health department has ordered a detailed investigation of the incident.According to officials from the health department, as many as 17 children had been vaccinated at the Anganwadi school in Salahalli village of Ramdurg taluk by the local primary health center (PHC) on January 12. Four among them were given MR vaccine. Within one-and-a-half hour, all four children who had taken MR vaccine got sick, started vomiting and passing loose motion.“The children were immediately shifted to Ramdurg taluk hospital, however, one of them died on the way,” said district health officer Dr Shashikant Munyal.“The doctors here kept one child under their supervision whose condition was not that serious, while the other two were recommended to Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences (BIMS) hospital. However, both died on Saturday,” he said. “The doctors raised concerns about the reaction of MR vaccine but we have never seen such reactions before. A probe has been ordered into the matter and the investigation is underway,” he said.Two doses of MR vaccine are given to the children at the age of 9-12 months and 16 to 24 months respectively. Dr Munyal further said two children had taken the first dose of MR while the other two had come for the second dose. The health department has stopped giving MR vaccines after the incident and samples have been sent for laboratory testing.“We are awaiting the post-mortem report. Things will be clear after that,”said Karnataka’s minister for higher education Dr CN Ashwath Narayan.Meanwhile, the family members of deceased children are blaming the health officials for the incident and have accused them of being irresponsible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-children-die-soon-after-measles-vaccine-in-belagavi-probe-ordered-101642361131425.html
17-01-2022||India||Madhya Pradesh plans public safety law to give more power to police||Bhopal: The Madhya Pradesh government will introduce in the upcoming budget session of the state assembly a legislation that makes licences mandatory for any private establishment visited by 100 or more people every day to ensure that it is following prescribed safety norms, officials from the state’s home department said.According to the draft of the Public Safety Bill, the onus of safety of visitors will lie with the management of such commercial, industrial, religious, medical, and educational establishments. The bill also gives police right to enter such establishments at any time to inspect if safety norms are being adhered to .“The private establishment will have to take the licence of public safety from local municipal corporations and municipalities. The licence will be mandatory for the establishments visited by a large number of people daily. The licence will be given after ensuring that the all safety measures have been implemented,” said an official involved with preparing the draft.The bill lists out several safety measures that need to be followed.“In the measures, the establishment has to install hand-held metal detectors, door frame metal detectors, and high-resolution cameras. It has to keep the recording of closed-circuit television surveillance cameras for 30 days,” said a second official who asked not to be named.The bill also gives power to the police to access CCTV footage in case of a crime at such establishments.“MP Police can inspect the establishment at any time and can ask for recordings for the investigation of a case. Under this bill, the establishment can’t refuse to share the video footages,” said the first official.The bill will have a provision of fines for violation of safety norms, and also for failing to procure a licence. “In case of violation, the establishment will have to pay a fine. The penalty amount is being finalised,” the official added.When contacted, Rajesh Rajora, additional chief secretary, MP home department, said, “The state government’s priority is to strengthen the security of people and to make the public place safer. The draft of Public Security bill is ready and after approval of cabinet, it will be tabled in the budget session of the assembly.”The budget session of the state’s legislature will begin next month.Once enacted, Madhya Pradesh will become the second state in the country after Andhra Pradesh to have such a law, Rajora added.The Andhra Pradesh Public Safety (Measures) Enforcement Act came into force in August 2013 and has a provision of fine up to ₹10,000 for non-compliance of rules, including installing CCTV cameras and getting licences.Last year, Bhopal Police launched an app to get access recorded footage from CCTVs installed at private hospitals, petrol pumps, and malls. However, police are yet to evaluate the success of this app.Experts said the implementation of the new legislation will be key to get the desired outcome.“Under the Safe City project, CCTV cameras have been installed at many places but often they are found to be not working. MP has so many laws from fire safety to environment clearances but the implementation is very bad. With introduction of new law, the implementation and monitoring are also necessary,” said Praveen Bhagat, an expert of urban development programmes. Bhopal Sarafa Association president Naresh Agrawal said, “Instead of asking for certification or license from establishment, the state government should involve different business associations or market association. To give access of footfall and regular visitor of business like jewellery shops can create trouble for people.”There is also possibility that recorded data can be misused by some miscreants or cyber hacker, he added. 
17-01-2022||India||Karnataka’s Covid positivity rate surges to 20% in two weeks||With increasing infections, the positivity rate across the state continues to see an upward trend. “Karnataka’s positivity rate has come in the range of 20%, the highest since the onset of the pandemic,” said an official privy to the matter on Sunday.The rate of infection in Bengaluru has witnessed a marginal decline, indicating the possibility of the virus spreading to other districts.The state’s positivity rate has climbed from 0.69% (on January 1) to nearly 20% (as on January 15), according to the state’s Covid-19 war room data.“Chief minister (CM) Basavaraj Bommai has already spoken to all the heads of district administration and has given them complete freedom to take action, including implementation of additional restrictions based on the ground situation,” Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education Dr K Sudhakar said on Sunday.As per the official data, Bengaluru’s active caseload has come down from around 80% in the last week to around 73% on Saturday.In the last seven days (up to January 15), other districts of Karnataka have added a total of 50,641 new infections as against Bengaluru’s 1,17,488, data shows.During the same time period, the number of new infections increased from 1,187 on January 1 to 34,047 in the 24-hour period on January 15, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department on Sunday.Due to the night and weekend curfew in Karnataka, people are forced to commute from Bengaluru to their respective villages and towns, adding to the risk of transmitting the virus.The southern state has lost nearly 40,000 lives to the virus.Kolar, about 60 km from Bengaluru, has a positivity rate of around 24.6%, closely followed by Tumakuru which stands at 24.26%. A significant amount of people travel to Bengaluru from these two neighbouring districts on a daily basis, thereby increasing the risk of infection.As per the official information, other districts like Mysuru, Kalaburagi, Mandya, Hassan, Shivamogga, Chitradurga and Ballari have also shown higher positivity rate. At least 15 out of the 30 districts (Vijayanagara is calculated under Ballari) have reported higher than 10% positivity rate, data shows. Only four districts — Haveri, Yadgir, Koppal and Bagalkote — in the state have less than 4% positivity rate.The Basavaraj Bommai-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government has already placed the entire state under restrictions. Previously, the state government had come under fire from its own ministers and party men who expressed concern over loss of livelihoods due to night and weekend curfews.Meanwhile, the public has also expressed concerns on multiple social media platforms as well for cracking down on people trying to earn a living while giving political leaders a free-pass to violate and later get away without any charges.The possibility of another lockdown has also been doing the rounds on news channels even though the government has denied any such move on its part.“The government has made all preparations to deal with the third wave of infections,” said the health minister. Sudhakar said that over 10,000 doctors have been trained to deal with Covid patients under home isolation. “In the next few days, all final year medical students will join the effort. No matter how many people get infected, they will be given proper treatment to contain the third wave,” Sudhakar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-covid-positivity-rate-surges-to-20-in-two-weeks-101642360474912.html
17-01-2022||India||Andhra to build energy-efficient houses for weaker sections||The Andhra Pradesh government has proposed to provide energy-efficient power infrastructure to its mega project of weaker sections housing for 30.76 lakh beneficiaries with financial assistance from KfW, German government-owned bank, officials said on Sunday.The housing programme, named as Jagananna Colonies, was launched by chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on June 3 last year as part of his pre-election promise of “Navaratnalu-Pedalandirki Illu (nine promises-housing for all the poor). In the first phase, 1.56 million houses are being constructed at a cost of ₹28,034 crore in around 17,000 colonies.An official spokesman of the state energy conservation mission (APSEM) A Chandrasekhar Reddy said as many as 1.07 million houses have been grounded as on January 8 this year of which 6,901 houses were already completed and another 38,688 houses were completed up to roof level. Construction of another 9.6 lakh houses has been completed up to basement level, he said.The spokesman said the state government has proposed to provide energy efficient infrastructure in these housing colonies – right from electricity distribution infrastructure to provision of energy-efficient electric appliances to each house such as LED bulbs, tube lights and wiring.Reddy said KfW has come forward to extend financial and technical cooperation for this housing project. “The proposal came up for discussion at a virtual meeting held on Saturday, in which officials of the KfW, AP housing department and APSEM participated,” he said.KfW’s head of energy efficiency Dr. Martin Lux proposed to extend financial assistance of Euros 150 million for construction of energy efficient houses and Euro 2 million for technical assistance after successful appraisal of project. Besides, the bank would also extend additional financing support for electricity distribution infrastructure and strengthening the distribution network for supply of power to these Jagananna colonies.The housing department has proposed to supply four LED bulbs, two LED tube lights, two energy-efficient fans to each household that helps in saving energy bills, contribute to energy conservation and environmental protection. Besides, energy efficient street lights and energy efficiency pump sets for drinking water will be arranged in the 17000 Jagannna colonies.The spokesman said with implementation of energy efficiency measures, there is a possibility to reduce temperature by 2 to 4 degrees inside the houses depending on the weather conditions of particular area. The beneficiaries can adopt those energy efficient designs in their houses for which housing department engineers and staff will help them to implement the same, he said.“The housing department shall send detailed project reports (DPRs) related to electricity distribution infrastructure and related information pertaining to energy efficiency and housing data within a week to the KfW,” Reddy added.
17-01-2022||India||Video on ‘sex-for-job’ scandal: Belagavi woman alleges harassment; police blame delay in forensic report||A 25-year-old woman from Karnataka’s Belagavi district, about 505 km from Bengaluru, has been subject to mental torture by her husband and the society at large after a video clip, in which another woman who purportedly bears some resemblance to the former, went viral on social media nine months ago. The video relates to the ‘sex-for-job’ scandal which involves former minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Ramesh Jarkiholi. The scandal cost Jarkiholi his place in the cabinet. “I am not that lady in the video. I don’t have a black mark on my lap like that lady in the video; besides, the lady doesn’t have a tattoo on her forehead like me. Is this not enough to prove my innocence? Women police constables checked my body parts physically. They have noted down all the details. But my husband’s family isn’t ready to accept it. But I want justice”, the woman said, requesting anonymity. The possible mistaken identity continues to fuel harassment against this woman, forcing her to run from pillar-to-post in her attempt to get authorities to clear her name. The 25-year-old woman has even filed a complaint in March 2021 under IT Act, 2000 and sections 498A, 504, and 509 of IPC against nine people including her husband, brother-in-law, and some other family members and outsiders who circulated the video to different social media platforms. She also blames the police for not taking action against the accused so far. Dinesh Kalahalli, a social activist, had filed a complaint in March last year in Bengaluru’s Cubbon Park police station. An unverified video of what looks like the minister with an unnamed woman sharing physical intimacy had gone viral with TV news channels in Karnataka playing the incident on loop. An alleged phone call between the two, in which a person alleged to be the minister, making corruption allegations against Yediyurappa is also being used against the BJP-led government in the state. The Jarkiholi case has taken twists and turns, with the BJP legislator accusing several of his partymen and many from the Congress of trying to sabotage his political career. The actual woman in the video, or at least the one who is believed to be in the video, has made a physical appearance before the police and the courts, and presented her side of the case. But none of this has had any bearing on the life of the 25-year-old woman who remains an ‘accused’ for her own husband and village elders. The young woman has also approached the forensic laboratory science (FSL). Ghataprabha police have sent the video to FSL in Bengaluru around eight months ago and are still waiting for the report. But the delay in the FSL report is adding to her challenges. However, speaking to HT, superintendent of police Laxman Nimbaragi discarded the allegations of the complainant, saying the case is under investigation. “We have been waiting for the FSL report. We sent all the details to FSL immediately after the complaint was registered. Delay is happening in getting the FSL report but we will again request the concerned to send the report at the earliest. Hope we will get it within a few months,” the officer said. Nimbaragi also said police can’t arrest the accused named in the complaint immediately without a preliminary investigation, as per the wish of the complainant. According to advocate Gurunath Kori, delay of FSL report is the common problem faced by the victims. “There are cases where the report has been delayed for more than two years even in serious cases like rape. This is a problem in the system which needs to be addressed. As far as this case is concerned, the police department can request the FSL authorities to send the report without delay, since it’s a case of a woman’s social life,” Kori said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/video-on-sex-for-job-scandal-belagavi-woman-alleges-harassment-police-blame-delay-in-forensic-report-101642359871916.html
17-01-2022||India||Chennai women’s collective to combat poverty, pandemic||Chennai: Alamelu Bhaskar, in her 30s, a mother to two toddlers whose photocopying shop was shut due to lockdown restrictions when the pandemic began in March 2020, had at that time feared her family and their similarly poor neighbours would die of starvation over being infected by the virus. But, instead of giving up, Bhaskar used her time to drive a community initiative along with a dozen other women to crowdsource food, groceries and monetary assistance to distribute them to the most vulnerable, such as senior citizens, women-headed families, and people with disabilities and mental illness. Bhaskar is among a few working women in Chennai belonging to lower socio-economic groups, who were identified with leadership potential and picked by a city-based NGO (Information and Resource Centre for the Deprived Urban Communities--IRCDUC) five years ago to be trained to create more women leaders in low-income communities. When the pandemic hit, these women had been central to helping other women like themselves in the absence of safety nets. Bhaskar was elected to the coordinator’s post in her residents’ welfare association last year, achieving one of the visions of the initiative that women should occupy such positions. Now with the fast spreading Omicron variant, there is dismay and discontent again but the power of these groups lies in coming together to address their issues on their own.“This time I’ve closed my shop voluntarily to be safe because I have two children at home,” Bhaskar says. “But, there are also a lot more women who have risen up to the challenges now.”While Bhaskar predominantly volunteers, not too far away from her, Mercy Muthu, 44, has immersed herself into this community work full-time, taking home just a stipend from the NGO. This is paltry compared to the monthly ₹20,000 she earned when she was a team leader in a prominent call centre from the heart of Chennai city but here is why Mercy has been doing this work for the past two years. She had to let go off her job in 2017 when her family was among hundreds who were forced to move to the city’s peripheries by the government as part of relocating those living along water bodies for flood prevention. In January 2020, two months before the first case of Covid-19 entered Chennai, Mercy Muthu and four other women knocked on thousands of doors in their locality’s slum tenements to draw up a list of pensioners, widows, destitute women and people with disabilities. There was an issue of pensions and social assistance of ₹1000 from the government being cut because these individuals had been relocated due to the floods. Given that they no longer lived in the previous address, the pensions and assistance had stopped. They identified 300 such deprived benefactors. “Some of them sobbed uncontrollably to us because they are fully dependent on their pension,” recalled Mercy. Their new residence in Perumbakkam has jurisdiction that falls between Chennai and the adjoining district of Chengalpattu. The five women – all aged between 30 and 40 – met the Chengalpattu collector who in turn directed them to the revenue inspector in Tambaram who instructed them that they will have to open new accounts in Shollingnallur’s Indian Bank which is in the city. “No one knows about such rules, that’s where our work comes in,” says Mercy. Everyday they took a group of 10 to the bank to open their accounts. “And this ₹1000 was what rescued them when the pandemic hit.”Global crises like Ebola in 2014 and the 2008 recession have shown that disasters have a gendered impact, so when Covid-19 hit, it was just a question of how these inequities would manifest. More cases of domestic violence and sexual abuse came to light within this community too given the pandemic-induced lockdown. “By now we have become emboldened to go to police stations to file complaints and women are supportive to one another. There is a sense of respect and a little fear also when people use us,” says Mercy. Eight women marched into a police station last year to accompany the mother of a child who had been sexually assaulted by a neighbour during the first wave of the pandemic and the case is in the trial stage. “These women see each other and they get inspired. Basically, it’s all about synergy,” says Vanessa Peter, founder of IRCDUC who along with one of the trustees A D Nundhyny began training women like Mercy and Bhaskar who in turn are now training more women. Mercy has identified 50 women through her field work in the past two years to be a woman leader like her. “We speak to a lot of people. Some women will have all the details about other vulnerable persons and direct us to help them. It shows that they care. I can tell they have the potential to be a leader amongst us,” says Mercy. Their work is to meet the basics but it is crucial to ordinary everyday living – like fixing civic issues, ensuring that social security schemes reach the benefactors, setting up camps for Aadhar registration. Now with Omicron spreading fast, though there is no full lockdown except on Sundays, people have been asked to stay home. So Mercy and the group are re-assessing their situation where they bring help home. For instance, the DMK which formed the government in May has rolled out a scheme, “Makkalai thedi maruthuvam”, meaning health services at your doorstep, and these women are linking those with health issues with this scheme. “We informed the local health officers and they have even arranged for physiotherapy to be done inside people’s homes,” Mercy says. Mercy has grown enough for her work to be recognised for the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board renamed by the DMK as Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board. She now sits in community development meetings. “The aim is we women shouldn’t be dependent on anyone, not even the government. We should use government schemes but we have to get together to help ourselves.”Bhaskar was elected to a resident welfare association (RWA), Peter says, because she was visible doing the work. “The idea is to create spaces where women can be participative.” Last month, the state issued a government order to launch ‘Nam Kudiyiruppu, Nam Poruppu’ (Our Tenements, Our Responsibility) scheme to maintain these tenements constructed by the department of Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board. Peter says 50% of RWAs must be occupied by women in response to the order which also states that the maintenance and repair works will be carried out solely by resident welfare associations and some by the Board and some with 50:50 contribution of both. “But the state cannot completely abdicate its responsibility towards the poor. These aren’t middle class localities where RWAs can cover all maintenance. There is much left to be done within these communities before they take up such a huge responsibility.”
17-01-2022||India||Telangana extends holidays for educational institutions amid Covid spike||The Telangana government on Sunday announced extension of holidays for all educational institutions in the state till January 30 following a steady rise in Covid-19 cases in the past two weeks.The educational institutions are supposed to reopen on Monday after a week-long vacation for Sankranti festival. In fact, the vacations should have started on January 11, but the state government advanced them from January 8.“Now, with the third wave of Covid-19 is gradually peaking, the government has decided to extend the holidays for the educational institutions till January 30,” stated an order issued by chief secretary Somesh Kumar.By Saturday evening, Telangana reported 1,963 positive cases as active cases mounted to 22,017.All universities in Telangana announced closure of institutions till January 30. As a result, all the examinations scheduled to be held this month, including semester examinations in degree colleges, have been indefinitely postponed.Osmania University, however, announced that it would conduct on-line classes for the graduate and post-graduate students till the month-end. At the same time, Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University-Hyderabad also announced that all the colleges under its purview would conduct online classes from January 17.According to a circular issued by the university, classes for UG/PG courses-BTech/BPharm I and II years, MTech/MPharm I and II years, MBA/MCA I and II years, Pharm D I, II, III, IV, and V years, and Pharm D (PB) I and II years will be conducted online.Mid-exams for Pharm D/Pharm D (PB) II years scheduled from January 17 to 22 could be conducted during second spell of instructions as per the convenience of the colleges, it said.No extension of holidays in Andhra The Andhra Pradesh government declared that the schools will be reopened on Monday. “There is no extension of Sankranti holidays for educational institutions in the state,” state education minister Adimulapu Suresh said in a statement.He said the decision was taken after an extensive discussion in the education department. The government felt that closure of schools and colleges would affect the academic schedule. “All precautions would be taken to prevent the spread of the coronavirus,” he said.As on Sunday morning, Andhra Pradesh reported 4,570 Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours. The total number of active cases in the state is 26,770, a bulletin from the state government said.
17-01-2022||India||Rajya Sabha polls another focus point for Cong in 2022||Retaining its only government in northern India or returning to power in Uttarakhand and Goa or improving its tally in Uttar Pradesh — the Congress’s key stakes in the upcoming elections also include a possible gain in its Rajya Sabha tally this year.Among the 75 Upper House seats going to biennial polls during 2022, there are 7 seats from Punjab, 11 from Uttar Pradesh and one from Uttarakhand. These polls would be crucial for the party to improve its tally in Parliament. For, as things stand now, the party is set to lose at least four seats in the Upper House in other states, according to its own internal calculations.The Congress, which had 56 Rajya Sabha MPs in 2019, is now down to 34, but is still the largest Opposition party in the Rajya Sabha where, for a long time, the NDA government was in minority and suffered delays in clearing legislation. But for the past two years, the government has gradually gained control through numbers.In 2022, the Congress will lose two seats in Assam when its MPs Ranee Narah and Ripun Bora complete their terms in April 22. In Karnataka, of the four seats going to the polls, it can retain its lone MP. The Congress will not be able to hold the seat held by former UPA minister Oscar Fernandez, who passed away last year September.Similarly, in Himachal Pradesh, Anand Sharma, the party’s deputy leader in the Rajya Sabha, is unlikely to win in a straight contest for one seat in April this year. The BJP is in power in the state.Uttar Pradesh will see eleven seats falling vacant in 2022 followed by seven in Punjab and one in Uttarakhand. A good performance of the Congress in these states can help the principal opposition party gain a few seats to compensate for the losses from other areas.Of these eleven Rajya Sabha seats in UP, the Congress has just one outgoing MP, Kapil Sibal. The party, led by Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in the state, is trying to carve out a voter base among women.“In our current position in the UP assembly, we would not be able to even retain Sibal’s seat. We have a long way to go in UP,” said a senior Congress strategist requesting not to be named.The party’s best chance, therefore, lies in Punjab and Uttarakhand. Among the outgoing seven MPs in Punjab, the Congress has just two — Partap Singh Bajwa and Ambika Soni. “We are confident of retaining the state and an improved performance would help us bag additional seats in the state at the expense of BJP and Shiromani Akali Dal. Depending on the Punjab results, we can compensate the loss of four seats in other states from Punjab alone,” said the strategist.In Uttarakhand, the biennial election would be held in July, three months after the assembly election in the state. This too, would be a direct fight between the BJP and the Congress and whoever wins the assembly poll can hope to bag the Rajya Sabha seat as well.The Congress, otherwise, hopes to gain two seats in Rajasthan and one seat in Jharkhand, the strategist said.
17-01-2022||India||HT THIS DAY: January 18, 1954 -- India win by innings and 50 runs||MADRAS- The Commonwealth were beaten by an innings and 50 runs shortly after lunch today, the last day of the fourth Test here. India are now leading 2-1 in the present series. The last six tourists’ wickets fell today to the addition of 74 runs to their overnight score of 94 for 4. Ghulam Ahmed took four wickets and Gupte accounted for two batsmen. The tourists lost’ Watkins (44) and Loxton (9) before lunch. After resumption there was a collapse and their last four wickets fell for the addition of only 18 runs to the lunch total of 150 for 6. Barrick came to partner Watkins when play was resumed this morning. Gupte completed his unfinished over. Ghulam continued at the other end. With a push to cover for a single off Gupte, Barrick sent up the 100 of the inniggs. When Watkins pulled Gupte for a single 110 appeared, 16 runs having been added in 35 minutes’ play. At 112, Watkins was out, leg before to Ghulam Ahmed. He scored 44 in a stay of 171 minutes and hit Ave fours. Suryanarayana fielded for Umrigar who left for Bombay today for private reasons. At 126 the sixth wicket fell, when Loxton was bowled by Ghulam Ahmed for 9 runs. Skipper Barnett came in next. Barrick and Barnett carried on with occasional singles. A single by Barrick off Ghulam sent up the 130 of the innings. BOWLING CHANGE The score kept on moving steadily, if slowly and when Barnett turned Gupte to fine-leg for three, 142 appeared on the board. The first bowling change was made at that total, Kripal Singh coming in for Gupta to enable the slow spinner to change over to the other end. Barnett swept Gupts to square-leg for four to reach 10 in a total of 146. Stealing a single oft Gupte, Barrick soon took the total to 150 when lunch was taken. His score then was 24. Barnett was batting with 11. Ghulam Ahmed’s analysis up to lunch was 48 overs, 31 maidens, 36 runs and five wickets. The tourists lost their seventh wicket immediately after resumption without any addition to their pre-lunch total. In Gupte’s second over Barrick played defensively and gave an easy catch to Manjrekar at short square-leg. Nine runs later, Berry was also back in the pavilion, bowled by Ghulam Ahmed for nil. Meanwhile, Barnett had collected two fours off Ghulam Ahmed and Gupte, respectively. A run later, Barnett himself was bowled by Gupte for 20. Ghulam Ahmed rounded off the Commonwealth second innings for 168 by knocking Loader’s stumps for 7. Iverson remained unbeaten with 2. India thus won by an innings and 50 runs. The tourists second innings terminated 25 minutes after lunch I and lasted 353 minutes in all. Ghulam Ahmed returned the brilliant analysis of 51.1 overs, 32 maidens, 42 runs and 7 wickets. | Trophies were presented to Roy and Ghulam Ahmed for the best batting and bowling performances in this Test by Mr Sri Prakasa, Governor of Madras. SKIPPER HAPPY Ghulam Ahmed, skipper of the Indian Team, said he was very pleased with India’s victory. He added: “ I congratulate the members of my team for the co-operation they gave me both on and off the field. As this victory was badly needed, I am very happy that we have achieved the same at Madras.” Congratulating the Indian team on their splendid victory B. A. Barnett, captain of the Commonwealth team, said that he hoped to even up the series in the fifth and final Test at Lucknow. Barnett added Ghulam Ahmed bowled very well and paid a tribute to young Kenny of Bombay who, he said, playing his first Test, made a grand debut and forecast a bright future for him. Explaining the failure of his team Barnett said: “ We missed Loader and Iverson in our attack during India’s first innings. Meuleman’s century was a grand knock.” MUKHERJEA’S MESSAGE Mr J. C. Mukherjea, President of the Boaid of Control for Cricket in India, congratulating the Indian players on their grand victory, said: “ I am glad that the Indian team has won so handsomely. They were up against a very strong side and they have been able to show under the captaincy of Ghulam Ahmed that the team is composed of players who can hold their own against the best attack. The Commonwealth team has a number of well-known players. Madras is to be congratulated on achieving this distinction.” SCORE BOARD INDIA.-Ist Innings 440 for 9 decL COMMONWEALTH-1st Innings 222 COMMONWEALTH.-2nd Innings C. J. Barnett c Ramchand b Ghulam Ahmed 14 Marshall Lb.w. Gupte 36 Edrich b Ghulam Ahmed 2 Meuleman b Ghulam Ahmed 1 Watkins 1.b.w. Ghulam Ahmed 44 Barrick c Manjrekar b Gupte 24 Loxton b Ghulam Ahmed 9 Barnett b Gupte 20 Loader b Ghulam Ahmed 7 Berry b Ghulam Ahmed 0 Iverson (not out) 2 Extras 9 Total 168 FALL OF WICKETS: 1-16, 2-18, 3-26, 4-94, 5-112, 6-126, 7-150, 8-159, 9-161. BOWLING ANALYSIS OMRW Phadkar 9 5 9 0 Ramchand 3 2 3 0 Gupte 53 23 92 3 Ghulam Ahmed 51.1 32 42 7 Kripal Singh 7 3 13 0||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-january-18-1954-india-win-by-innings-and-50-runs-ghulam-ahmed-takes-7-wickets-101642358971929.html
17-01-2022||India||Lata Mangeshkar still under observation||Legendary singer Lata Mangeshkar continues to be under treatment in the ICU of a city hospital here, the doctor treating her said on Sunday.The 92-year-old singer tested positive for coronavirus with mild symptoms and was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of the Breach Candy Hospital in south Mumbai last week.Associate professor Dr Pratit Samdani from the Breach Candy Hospital told PTI, “She continues to be in the ICU and is under treatment”.Later in the day amid speculation that Mangeshkar’s condition was deteriorating, a spokesperson for the veteran singer denied media reports, calling them “false news”.“It is disturbing to see false news being circulated. Please note that Lata didi is stable. Continues to be in ICU under treatment of able doctors. Please pray for her quick return home,” Anusha Srinivsan Iyer, the spokesperson for Mangeshkar, said in a statement.Earlier in the day, Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope said the health condition of the melody queen was “improving”.“Lata Mangeshkar’s condition is improving. I spoke to the authorities of the Breach Candy Hospital who updated me about her health. I told them that the spokesperson of the hospital should provide updates on the singer’s condition as people are eager to know about her health,” Tope told reporters in Jalna.After discussing with her family members, the Breach Candy Hospital can update about the health of the veteran singer, Tope said.Mangeshkar’s niece Rachana Shah had on Thursday said the singer was doing well and requested the media to respect the privacy of the family.Regarded as one of Indian cinema’s greatest singers, Mangeshkar started her career at the age of 13 in 1942 and has over 30,000 songs to her credit in several Indian languages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lata-mangeshkar-still-under-observation-101642358912865.html
17-01-2022||India||Telangana CM invited to SP’s UP campaign||Hyderabad: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has been invited by the Samajwadi Party to join the polls campaign for Uttar Pradesh, a senior leader of the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samiti told HT here on Sunday. “We have received a request from Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav, asking KCR to campaign for his party in the Uttar Pradesh elections. The party is discussing the same and the chief minister will take a call,” senior Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) leader and state planning board vice-chairman B Vinod Kumar,said.The invitation fits among Rao’s attempts to form a non-Congress and non-Bharatiya Janata Party front at the national level before the next general elections, Kumar said. According to Kumar, the chief minister held a meeting with senior TRS leaders to discuss Yadav’s request on Sunday afternoon. “A decision on whether KCR should take part in the campaign directly or through virtual mode will be taken keeping in view the present Covid-19 pandemic situation,” a senior TRS functionary familiar with the development said.If the situation is conducive, Rao could participate in the UP campaign in the third and fourth phases of elections, the party leader said.On Thursday, TRS working president and Rao’s son K T Rama Rao, in an interaction with his social media followers on Twitter, indicated that his party might join the election campaign for SP in the run-up to the UP assembly elections.“We shall take a call soon after consultations within the party. The current trend in UP favours Samajwadi Party,” he had said in reply to a question by a follower.Off-late, TRS supremo Rao has been mounting a no-holds-barred attack on the BJP and the Narendra Modi government at the Centre.On December 14, Rao held talks with his Tamil Nadu counterpart and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) president M K Stalin to discuss the possibility of a floating third front, comprising regional parties and like-minded national parties, including the Left.He followed it up with a meeting with the national leaders of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and Communist Party of India on January 8. He hosted lunch for them and held discussions about the need to build up a third alternative to the Congress and the BJP at the national level by next elections.Senior CPI (M) leaders including national general secretary Sitaram Yechury, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, former Tripura chief minister Manik Sircar, CPI (M) politburo members Ramachandran Pillai and Balakrishna, besides CPI national general secretary D Raja, CPI parliamentary party leader and Kerala MP Binay Viswam and Kerala revenue minister Rajan and others held deliberations with KCR.According to a senior TRS leader, the chief minister brought to the notice of the Left party leaders that the Congress was not in a position to project itself as a strong opponent of the BJP and hence, there is a need for a third alternative political force in the country.On January 11, a delegation of the Rashtriya Janata Dal, led by Bihar leader of opposition Tejashwi Yadav, met Rao in Hyderabad. According to functionaries familiar with developments, Rao also spoke to RJD supremo Lalu Prasad about efforts to form the third front.Before 2019 general elections, too, the TRS chief made similar attempts on the formation of a “federal front” of regional parties. Apart from Stalin and Akhilesh Yadav, KCR had discussions with Janata Dal (S) president H D Deve Gowda, Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee and Jharkhand Mukti Morcha chief Hemanth Soren.The federal front proposal, however, did not take off, as Stalin, Soren and Pawar ruled out the possibility of a front without the Congress.
17-01-2022||India||Bihar: Toll in Nalanda hooch tragedy climbs to 13, SIT to probe case||The death toll in the Nalanda hooch tragedy on Sunday rose to 13, prompting the Bihar government to form a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the matter, officials said. While six people are undergoing treatment at various government and private hospitals, two of them appeared to have lost their eyesight. More than 30 people have been arrested so far, the officials said. According to Patna inspector general Rakesh Rathi, the station house officer (SHO) of Sohsarai police station, under whose jurisdiction the incident occured, has been suspended. Nalanda superintendent of police Ashok Mishra confirmed that 13 people have so far died in the incident which took place on Friday evening. All the deceased are residents of Chhoti Palari and Pahar Talli under Sohsarai police station, he said. “To probe the incident, an SIT led by Sadar deputy superintendent of police and comprising Sohsarai police station in-charge and circle inspector, has been constituted to search for those responsible for the tragedy,” Mishra said.“The postmortem reports of all the deceased are awaited to know the exact cause of the deaths,” he added. The bodies of eight of the deceased were handed over to family members after post mortem, police said. Nalanda district magistrate Shashank Subhankar said: “On the basis of the doctors’ report, it seems all the deaths were attributed to the consumption of spurious liquor. Thirty-four people, who are related to the tragedy, have been arrested so far.”This is the seventh incident of hooch tragedy in Bihar in the past six months, claiming lives of more than 40 people, even as the state has been under total prohibition since April 2016.
17-01-2022||India||MP’s famous ‘Collarwali’ tigress dies at 16||T15 or Collarwali, the legendary tigress of Madhya Pradesh’s Pench Tiger Reserve in Chhindwara district who earned the title of “super mom” after giving birth to 29 cubs, died after prolonged illness, officials said on Sunday.The tigress was 16. Also known as Mataram, she had given birth to 29 cubs in eight litters during 11 years - between 2008 and 2018 - the officials said, adding that 25 of the 29 cubs survived.“The tiger was ill due to old age. She was last spotted near Bhura Dev Nullah on January 14. She was spotted lying down. She was under the observation of veterinary doctors and was unable to walk. She passed away at 6.15 pm on Saturday,” Alok Mishra, field director, Pench Tiger Reserve, said. “The exact cause of the death will be known after a post mortem but prima facie it appears to be due to multi-organ failure caused by old-age,” he added. As a female cub, the tigress was radio-collared in March 2008. While the radio collar stopped functioning later, she was again radio-collared in January 2010. This is how she got her name Collarwali, Alok Kumar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), said. “The Collarwali was the most popular tigress among tourists. She was born to T 7, popularly known as Badimada and T 1, known as Charger in 2005. In 2008, a team of experts from Dehradun fitted a radio collar on her,” he said.In May 2008, Collarwali gave birth to three cubs but they could not survive. “In October 2010, she delivered five cubs at a time which increased her popularity among wildlife lovers,” Kumar said. “She lived in the wild for more than 16 years which is also a record. Her legacy is not limited to Pench as her female cub was shifted to Panna Tiger Reserve who gave birth to five cubs and contributed a lot in the success of the relocation project of tigers in Panna Tiger Reserve,” Aniruddha Majumder, a scientist at state forest research institute, Jabalpur, said. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan paid tribute to the tigress.“Tribute to the ‘Super Tigress Mom’ Collarwali of @PenchMP, the pride of Madhya Pradesh and mother to 29 cubs, who played an important role in achieving the Tiger State status for MP. The forests of Madhya Pradesh will always resonate with the roar of the cubs of the ‘Queen’ of Pench Tiger Reserve,” Chouhan said in a tweet. (With inputs from Bhojraj Raghuvanshi )
17-01-2022||India||Daytime temperatures plummet across northwest India, to persist till Monday: IMD||Bitter cold continued to affect several parts of northwest India on Sunday with most parts of Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, parts of Madhya Pradesh, east and northwest Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh recording cold day to severe cold day conditions, when day temperatures are significantly low.Cold day to severe cold day conditions in some/isolated pockets are likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, west Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan over the next two days and over East Uttar Pradesh during the next three days, the India meteorological department (IMD) said on Sunday.Most parts of northwest India recorded significantly low day temperatures (see box) but above normal night or minimum temperatures on Friday, Saturday and Sunday. “This is mainly happening because an intense western disturbance had passed last week from over northwest India. After a western disturbance passes, cold northerly winds bring extremely cold air from the Himalayas to this region. These chilly winds bring down day temperatures. These conditions will continue till Monday at least,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD.Dense to very dense fog also prevailed in some pockets over Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and East Uttar Pradesh and isolated pockets over Jammu, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Assam.On Sunday early morning, Bikaner recorded zero visibility; Churu, Ajmer and Sagar 25 m each; Udaipur 50 m; Lucknow 100m; Kota, Ratlam, Damoh, Nowgong and Dhubri 200 m each; in Delhi Palam and Safdarjung reported 1,000m and 500m.A cyclonic circulation is lying over east and central Arabian Sea and adjoining Konkan coast in lower tropospheric levels. A relatively feeble western disturbance is presently affecting the Jammy and Kashmir region. A fresh western disturbance is likely to affect the Western Himalayan region from Tuesday and another Western Disturbance is likely to affect northwest India from January 21. The western disturbance affecting on January 21 is expected to bring scattered rainfall to northwestern plains also.Scattered light to moderate rainfall is likely over Telangana, Coastal Andhra Pradesh and Rayalaseema on Sunday and Monday and over Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Mahe in the next three days. Isolated light to moderate rainfall is likely over sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim and Andaman & Nicobar Islands between Tuesday and Thursday. Scattered light to moderate rainfall is likely over Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura during January 19-20. Thereafter, under the influence of another western disturbance, scattered to fairly widespread rainfall/snowfall likely over Western Himalayan Region and isolated to scattered rainfall over adjoining plains of northwest India during January 21 to 23.Dense to very dense fog in isolated parts in night/morning hours is likely over Rajasthan and East Uttar Pradesh during the next two days and dense fog in isolated parts in night/morning hours over Jammu division and Himachal Pradesh on Sunday and Monday; over West Uttar Pradesh and north Madhya Pradesh during Monday and Tuesday.A cold wave is declared when minimum temperature (is less than 10°C over plains) is 4.5°C- 6.4°C below normal or the actual minimum temperature is less than 4°C. A severe cold wave is declared when minimum temperature is over 6.5°C below normal or the actual minimum temperature is less than 2°C. A cold day is declared when maximum temperature (is less than 10°C over plains) and is 4.5°C-6.4°C below normal and a severe cold day is declared when maximum temperature is 6.5°C below normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daytime-temperatures-plummet-across-northwest-india-to-persist-till-monday-imd-101642358613176.html
17-01-2022||India||Haridwar hate speech: Seer Narsinghanand booked for assaulting 3 reporters||A day after he was arrested for alleged hate speeches at a Haridwar event last month, seer Yati Narsinghanand was on Sunday booked for allegedly assaulting a group of journalists on Saturday, Uttarakhand Police said on Sunday. “The seer was booked on the basis of a complaint by a Delhi-based journalist, Vineet Khare, who alleged that he and two of his colleagues were assaulted by the seer and his followers during an interview. The journalist also alleged that he and his colleagues were threatened with dire consequences,” inspector Rakendra Kathait, station house officer of Haridwar Kotwali police station, said. “Following this, Narsinghanand was booked on charges of wrongful restraint, assaulting, criminal intimidation and intentional insults under sections 341,352, 506 and 504 of Indian Penal Code, respectively,” he added. The inspector also said that prior to Khare’s complaint, Narsinghanand had approached police, saying the journalist had “hurt his sentiments by calling him a ‘so-called see’ during the interview”. “However, we are yet to register a case and are verifying his claims,” Kathait said. The seer, meanwhile, was sent to 14-day judicial custody in connection with the hate speeches he made at a three-day-long Dharm Sansad in Haridwar on December 17-19.Narsinghanand is the sect chief of the influential Juna Akhada, and one of the five accused named in the FIR.Besides him, Jitendra Narayan Tyagi, former Uttar Pradesh Shia Waqf Board chairman who until last month went by the name Waseem Rizvi, has been arrested in connection with the case. On January 13, the Supreme Court had sought the state government’s response, within 10 days, on a public interest litigation demanding stringent action taken against those who were involved in the event. 
17-01-2022||India||Covid vaccination pace in India satisfactory, say experts||In the one year that India started its immunization drive against Covid-19, the rate of inoculation has been quite satisfactory as the country has administered 1.57 billionvaccine doses, experts said. “It is a great achievement that the number of vaccine doses that India has already administered is more than the population of several countries in the world,” said VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog. “It has been achieved within a year of having started the national Covid immunisation drive, and that too powered by two made in India vaccines.” India, the world’s largest vaccine maker, has crossed several milestones in its campaign to fully inoculate its population. For instance, on September 17 last year, close to 2.5 crore vaccine doses were administered across the country, highlighting the single-day vaccine administration capacity of states when there is adequate supply of vaccines.“It is commendable that Covid immunisation picked up speed from August,” said K Srinath Reddy, founder of the Public Health Foundation of India. “We now need to ensure that all eligible adults and children complete double-dose vaccination, and all those eligible to get the protective doses receive them by the end of February or early March,” The technological backbone of the Covid vaccine delivery system has been CoWIN, which was created by upgrading an earlier digital platform used for India’s universal immunization program based on an electronic vaccine intelligence network (eVIN).eVIN was an internet-based digital system to track routine immunization, vaccine stocks, and storage temperature in about 25,000 dedicated cold chain storage points in the country, as well as movement of vaccines.“CoWIN is one of the robust IT systems that is capable of large-scale implementation of the programme, and has been working successfully,” said RS Sharma, chief executive officer at the National Health Authority, an autonomous body that supervises the functioning of CoWIN.India’ focus will now be on covering the last mile, and also on providing vaccines to other countries in need, experts said.“Last mile of the target is always most difficult to achieve, especially when it comes to immunisation, as those that are left could be not coming forward due to vaccine hesitancy,” said Dileep Mavalankar, director, Indian Institute of Public Health, Gandhinagar. “The government will have to aggressively scale up the vaccination drive.” Under the vaccine maîtri initiative, the government has been providing Covid-19 vaccines to other countries and also supplying vaccine doses to the global COVAX programme under the aegis of the World Health Organization, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), and Gavi.“India has not only successfully undertaken one of the largest Covid vaccination drives in the world, but has also given Covid vaccines to over 100 countries already, and will continue to help those in need,” said Balram Bhargava, director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research, and secretary at the department of health research.
17-01-2022||India||Vaccination added strength to India’s Covid battle in last 1 year: Modi||India’s vaccination drive against Covid-19 has added great strength to the fight against the pandemic and has resulted in saving lives and protecting livelihoods, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday, as the programme completed one year.A total of a total of around 1.57 billion doses has been administered across the country to nearly 908 million people during this period, according to government data.Lauding the exceptional role of doctors, nurses and healthcare workers, Modi said: “I salute each and every individual who is associated with the vaccination drive.” “When we see glimpses of people being vaccinated in remote areas, or our healthcare workers taking the vaccines there, our hearts and minds are filled with pride,” he said. Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, in a tweet, said that India crossed the landmark milestone of administering 100 million vaccine doses on April 1 last year. “As a result of the country’s solidarity and Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji’s commitment during the Corona crisis that the country not only manufactured a vaccine but also inoculated a large part of the population in a very short time. This one year of vaccination campaign shows India’s resolve,” he said in another tweet. Union minister Amit Shah also lauded the leadership and determination of the Prime Minister and the continuous efforts of the people in the country. “Leadership and determination of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the continuous efforts of the people in India have proved that if the government and the people of a country unite to achieve a common goal, then the country can conquer every challenge and make the impossible possible,” he tweeted. Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said: “Earlier, about 30-40% people needed to be admitted when they got infected, but now, only 3-4% people need to be admitted, this has been possible only through vaccination... I’m proud that over 107.2 million Covid-19 doses were inoculated in the state till January 15, including the first, second, and precaution doses.” BJP chief J P Nadda said, “The world stood up and applauded us.” Over the past year, India has come together in this fight against Covid, he said, extending gratitude to health workers besides the masses for their efforts to make the drive a success. Hitting out at the government, Congress secretary Pranav Jha said: “We have been able to fully vaccinate only 64% of our population and the third wave has already hit us. The Centre rather than upping the testing has issued an advisory for reducing the testing. Our doctors, nurses and healthcare workers are badly hit. Hospitals are running with bare minimum strength. I don’t know if that should be a reason to celebrate or a reason to review the strategy!” (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccination-added-strength-to-india-s-covid-battle-in-last-1-year-modi-101642358374001.html
17-01-2022||India||Mumbai records under 10k Covid cases, positivity rate also declining||Daily cases of Covid-19 dropped below the 10,000 mark for the first time in nearly two weeks in Mumbai, with the city reporting 7,895 fresh infections on Sunday, as the numbers from the Omicron wave continued a steady decline over the past week.The positivity rate, the proportion of tests returning positive for Covid-19, meanwhile dropped to 13.7% from an average of around 20-22% over the past week.The number of tests conducted in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) area slightly declined to 57,534 on Sunday, compared with more than 60,000 tests done through most of last week. To be sure, a minor drop in testing is generally not uncommon over weekends.The rate of hospitalisation in the city remained low at 15%, as only 5,722 beds out of a total of 38,127 allocated for coronavirus patients were occupied. The percentage was same as on Saturday. Bed occupancy has been slowly declining in the city – it was 16.8% on Friday and 17.3% on Thursday. A total of 688 patients were admitted to hospitals on Sunday, while 92 more patients in the city needed oxygen support, according to BMC’s health bulletin.The 7,895 new cases reported on Monday took the city’s total case count to 999,209.On Sunday, the city reported 11 deaths due to the virus, taking the total toll to 16,457. The case fatality rate on Sunday was 0.13%, compared with the case fatality rate of 1.6%. There were 60,371 patients still fighting the disease.Experts noted that while there has been a clear drop in infections and positivity rate in the city over the past week, they warned that there may be other factors at play such as the role of home-testing kits that may be underplaying the real numbers of the country.“The trend of cases is lower now, there is no doubt about that. Hospitalisation is still the same,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the Maharashtra government’s Covid-19 task force. “This was the trend we noticed during the second wave, when hospitalisation reduced a few days after the number of cases dropped. This also indicates that people are not as fearful about the disease anymore, and may not be testing in the same numbers as before.”“It is too soon to tell if the peak has passed,” said Dr Harish Chafle, senior consultant, pulmonology and critical care at Global Hospitals. “The lower number of cases can also be attributed to too many people taking tests at home, and not reporting it to the civic body.” “We cannot say that the peak has passed, but our cases have reached a plateau,” said Dr Om Shrivastav, also a member of the state task force. “The next few days will give us a clearer understanding of the behaviour of the infection at present.”HT reported last Tuesday that Mumbai -- one of the earliest hot spot centres in the country’s Omicron wave -- has started showing early signs of decline in cases as well as positivity rate.On January 7, Mumbai reported 20,971 cases, the highest number reported in a single day since the beginning of the pandemic. The positivity rate on January 7 was 28.9%, as 72,442 covid-19 tests were conducted. Similarly, on January 8, Mumbai reported 20,318 covid-19 cases, with a positivity rate of 28.6%, as it conducted 71,019 tests. Since then, the daily Covid-19 cases have been fluctuating, with the city reporting 11,647 cases just three days later on January 11 with a positivity rate of 18%, 16,420 cases on January 12 with a positivity rate of 24.3%, and 13,702 cases on January 13 with a positivity rate of 21.7%. On Saturday, Mumbai reported 10,661 cases, with a positivity rate of 19.5%.Experts have urged Mumbaiites to continue to behave responsibly, wear face masks in public, and self-monitor symptoms that can lead to complications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-records-under-10k-covid-cases-positivity-rate-also-declining-101642358372870.html
17-01-2022||India||Amid another wave, Odisha’s Kandhamal district grapples with a learning gap||It is 11am on December 7, and there are lines of worry etched across headmaster RK Sahoo’s face. There are 40 students in front of him, sitting on wooden desks, all disturbingly quiet. Bholeshwar Bidyapith in Phiringia block of Kandhamal is ramshackle, the paint on the walls is peeling off, and there is barely any sunlight in the dark room. Even at the best of times, education in Kandhamal, one of Odisha’s most backward districts is difficult. He asks the question again, his voice echoing in the silence of the classroom. “What is a plus b whole square?” The heads in front of him remain bowed, almost in embarrassment. A board on the crumbling door outside the room says standard 10. The question is elementary, but there is no answer still. There rarely has been over the past few weeks.Like the rest of the country, and therefore Odisha, the Bholeswar Vidyapith in Ratang village shut down in March 2020, as India began dealing with its first Covid wave. For a year and a half, schools in Odisha remained closed as the pandemic went from strength to strength, ravaging health systems and the economy, and causing immeasurable hardship. In that year and a half, school students across India lost access to their schools, with online learning a last resort. As the second deadly Delta wave abated somewhat, India gingerly opened its classrooms state by state, and Odisha finally opened to physical instruction on July 26 for Class 10 and 12, and then August 16 for Class 9. Physical classes for Class 8 and 11 began on October 25 while for Class 6 and 7, they resumed from November 15. Bholeshwar Vidyapith opened its doors on July 26. And when it did, confronted perhaps the biggest challenge that the pandemic has bequeathed to the Indian education system. A deep learning loss. “I don’t know how they will write the papers for their summative assessment in January 2022 if they can’t remember basic algebra. I shudder to think how they will perform during offline exams,” said Sahoo.But this challenge isn’t just a limited question of performance in examinations. As Omicron looms, and more uncertainty confronts India’s schools (many have been shut in response) in a five-part series from across the country, HT looks at the vast ramifications of the pandemic on India’s schools and children: from learning loss to increasing susceptibility to child marriages and trafficking; the closure of low-cost public schools; the linkages between migration and education; even the vulnerability of children to recruitment by Maoist organizations.Learning loss10 kilometres away from Bholeswar Bidyapith, Subhashree Mishra, a teacher at Phiringia village’s “Upgraded high school” is in the midst of a similar, exasperating exercise. The Class 8 teacher has 42 students in front of her, and the response is a similar silence. The question is even more elementary. Speak out loud the numbers between 10 and 99. Of the 42, only two are able to complete the exercise. “There are many who have even forgotten how to sign their names by the time the schools reopened on October 25 for Class 8,” said Mishra.A study by Azim Premji Foundation, titled Loss of Learning During the Pandemic, conducted in February 2021 among 16,067 children across 1,137 public schools and covering 44 districts of Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand revealed that 92% of children on average have lost at least one specific language ability from the previous year across all classes. Similarly, 82% of children on average have lost at least one specific mathematical ability from the previous year across all classes.Anurag Behar, CEO, Azim Premji Foundation, believes that learning loss is clearly the biggest challenge that the country faces in the near future. “Roughly 210 to 220 million children have had virtually no education for practically two years. They have not learnt what they should have and they’ve forgotten much of what they knew at that point in time. This has never happened in the history of education. It’s incredible,” said Behar.A landmark study by Karthik Muralidharan and associates at Education Initiatives, made an assessment of the levels of student achievement in the Adarsh Schools of Rajasthan. “There is a general deficit of average attainment and grade-expected norms. More importantly, within each grade, there is a wide dispersion of student achievement, making it an extremely challenging task for teachers in government schools to handle such variation. The gap between actual and expected learning level only widens as children move to higher grades,” the study said.To map the extent of learning losses,the Union education ministry is currently conducting a National Achievement Survey among 3.8 million students in 123,000 schools in 733 districts across 36 states and Union territories for students of Classes 3, 5, 8 and 10 in which the abilities of the students in language, mathematics, science, social science, English and environmental studies will be tested.Limitations to the digital pushIn April 2020, Odisha’s school and mass education department started online classes for Class X students, providing learning materials to primary, upper primary and elementary students through WhatsApp. In May, the Scheduled Tribe & Scheduled Caste development department started an “Alternative Learning and Mentorship Programme” to teach students through mobile applications, YouTube channels or a doorstep visit by mentor teachers.The practice continued till January 8, 2021 when offline classes resumed for students from Class 10 and 12. But with the second wave spreading its tentacles through the country beginning April 2021, classes were suspended again.This has meant that schools across the state were effectively shut for anything between 13 to 19 months for students of Class 6 -12. Students from Class 1 to 5 have yet to see the insides of their classrooms for over 21 months. In the interim, the only option has been online education. But across various parts of Odisha, that term is fanciful.Odisha school and mass education department minister Samir Dash told the state assembly on December 8 that during the pandemic, at least 49,098 higher secondary students including 15,792 tribal and 11,045 Dalit students dropped out of school. “I have asked the District Education Officers to implement different schemes under the Samagra Sikshya Abhiyan to bring back the dropouts to educational institutions,” he said.In terms of mobile penetration, an October 2021 report from Telecom Regulatory Authority of India puts the national average at 88% with Delhi being the highest and Odisha at 79%.But the Odisha Economic Survey 2018-19 states that at least 20% of the 51,311 villages in the state did not have mobile phone connectivity while the penetration of the internet was 28.22% to the national average of 38.02%. When schools were closed due to lockdown last year, the digital divide grew ever more stark. After all, these numbers refer to households; it is rare for children in even lower middle-class households to have their own devices.Dash told the state assembly in the last session that only 28.87% of students studying in classes 1 to 10 had access to smartphones for online classes. In Kandhamal, just about 13.38% of students had access to smartphones while mobile connectivity was available in 30% of the 2587 villages of the district.In districts like Kandhamal, the digital divide is deep.The real world implicationsIn March 2020, 13-year-old year old Kamandha Kanhar was a class five student of the Phiringia government high school, run by the state SC/ST department. The year ending examinations were yet to be held, and suddenly, his hostel was shut. Without a test, Kanhar was promoted to class 6. In the next year and a half, he had absolutely no access to online education. A resident of Patilipidia village, his parents Bharat Kanhar and Jhagumati Kanhar, are illiterate, and subsistence labourers. He was the first in the family to go to school, his two sisters are younger than him.Nobody in the family has smartphones, and the village has no mobile connectivity. With nothing else to do, Kanhar began going to work with his parents, tilling farmlands someone else owned. “There was no one in the village who could teach us. Though a teacher sometimes visited our village during the pandemic, no one in the village was willing to study,” Kanhar said. On November 15, 2021, when the schools reopened, Kanhar travelled back to his hostel, 20 kilometres away from his village. He found he could not read two words in English. “I could before, there was a sense of practice. Now, I don’t understand anything,” he said.Smrutirekha Nayak, a teacher in Retang upper primary school of Kandhamal said that the biggest hurdle that faces them, is how to make children “re-learn”. “As they were absent from schools, they have difficulties in concentrating. To bring back the rhythm and recoup learning losses we have to work extra hard. But where is the time for it? Earlier children in upper primary classes could do addition using numbers in their notebooks. But now they have forgotten how to do that. Many have simply forgotten how to write in their notebooks. We are forced to start everything from scratch. It is frustrating at times,” she said.Anil Pradhan, a Right to Education activist in Odisha said, “While the long absence of students from schools has affected learning processes, students in districts such as Kandhamal, Koraput, Rayagada, Nabarangpur or Malkangiri with poor network connectivity have lost out the most. Many students have skipped an entire year’s learning and this is bound to show up in their academic performances.”Over the past year, there have been other despairing examples of just how difficult the pandemic has been. In August last year for instance, Andrea Jagaranga, a 13-year-old tribal student of Rayagada district died when the boulder he was sitting on to attend his online classes rolled downhill. Jagaranga had gone back to his village after physical classes were suspended due to Covid-19 and would climb atop a mountain a few furlongs away to find the best connectivity.The way forwardKandhamal’s district education officer Pramod Sarangi admits that learning loss is a major issue for students of Kandhamal considering its poor mobile connectivity. “As most children did not have much writing practice, we have asked the schools to focus on it and undertake learning recovery programmes. The teachers have been asked to teach important parts of the syllabus that the students missed out last year. But it is a difficult task.”Behar of Azim Premji Foundation says both the Centre and the states must act. “States should take all possible measures to recover lost learning. Most importantly, teachers should be given adequate time to help the students recover the lost learning. Let’s say a kid is in 7th grade now. He left school when he was in the 5th. You can’t start with 7th grade syllabus right away as the kid has also forgotten what he had learnt in Class 5 and 6. The states have to give teachers time, and the appropriate kind of material,” he said.The Central Square Foundation, a non-profit organization that works in the education sector has put forth 10 recommendations which include designing targeted interventions, especially for marginalized groups disproportionately impacted by the pandemic. The other recommendations are increasing effective, in-person instructional time by reducing the number of holidays, freeing up teachers’ time from administrative tasks, gently re-inducting children into social interactions and a focus on foundational literacy and numeracy skills.Back at the Phiringia Upgraded High School, headmaster Mahendra Das is almost tearful as he speaks. Most of his 300 students are back in school, but over the past two years, the school has fallen into greater depths of disrepair. Some classrooms are virtually unusable, and students have to huddle together in ones that are. Government mandated social distancing is impossible, and there is always fear of an outbreak. The greater fear is for the future of his students. In India’s education system, there is always an examination on the horizon. “The students are not at fault. They just are not ready. They can barely read, have jumped forward a class. Even for teachers like us, there is very little we can do,” Das said.(Reporting for the story was done in December)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-another-wave-odisha-s-kandhamal-district-grapples-with-a-learning-gap-101642358371621.html
17-01-2022||India||Centre launches stamp to mark 1 year of Covid vaccination||India released a commemorative postal stamp on Covid-19 vaccination on Sunday to mark the first anniversary of the country’s national immunization programme against the virus. The stamp shows a health worker inoculating a senior citizen with Covaxin.“This stamp signifies the remarkable work done by our front line health care workers and scientific community across the country in protecting the people against the Covid pandemic,” health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said while releasing the stamp. “This is a historic occasion for us. Within a span of one year, we have administered more than 156 crore doses. Our vaccination programme is a role model for the global community.”Covaxin is one of the two mainstays of India’s immunisation programme against Covid-19, along with Covishield. It was developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Ltd in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research.  “India has encountered various challenges along the journey, but it is the resolve and dedication of more than 135 crore people that we could overcome every challenge,” Mandaviya said, highlighting the remarkable efforts of all stakeholders in India’s collective fight against Covid-19.The health minister lauded the efforts of India’s indigenous research and development community and pointed to the streamlined production and distribution of vaccines. This was achieved amid an environment of criticism and disbelief, he said.“We are proud of our legacy and will continue to innovate in medical research,” Balram Bhargava, director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research, said during the launch of the commemorative stamp. “The development of indigenous vaccine Covaxin is a remarkable milestone in India’s scientific capability.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-launches-stamp-to-mark-1-year-of-covid-vaccination-101642358311764.html
17-01-2022||India||1 year on, 70% adults fully vaccinated: Govt||India’s national Covid-19 immunisation programme on Sunday completed its first year, with 70% of the country’s adult population having been administered two doses, and 93% covered with at least one shot of coronavirus vaccines.Marking the occasion, Prime Minister Narendra Modi lauded the “exceptional” role of health care workers for a year of hard work.In India, the first shot of a Covid-19 vaccine administered outside of a trial setting was on January 16, 2021. Since then, a total of around 1.565 billion doses has been administered across the country to nearly 908 million people, according to government data.“Today we mark #1YearOfVaccineDrive. I salute each and every individual who is associated with the vaccination drive. Our vaccination programme has added great strength to the fight against Covid-19. It has led to saving lives and thus protecting livelihoods,” the Prime Minister tweeted on Sunday. “At the same time, the role of our doctors, nurses and healthcare workers is exceptional. When we see glimpses of people being vaccinated in remote areas, or our health care workers taking the vaccines there, our hearts and minds are filled with pride,” he added.Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said that the manner in which the vaccination drive has commenced demonstrates the country’s willpower. “It is a result of joint effort of the entire country and PM Narendra Modi’s commitment that in times of the crisis, India not only developed and manufactured Covid vaccines, but also vaccinated a large chunk of its population within a year. The first year of the vaccination demonstrates India’s willpower,” he wrote in Hindi on Twitter.India’s vaccination drive officially kicked off in January last year, with the initial recipients being millions of health care and frontline workers who were directly dealing with Covid-19 patients. Later, the drive was opened up for the general public in a phased manner – from March 1 for people aged 60 and above; from April 1, for everyone above the age of 45 years; for all adults from May 1; and for teenagers between the ages of 15 and 18 starting January 3, 2022.Till Sunday evening, about 1.565 billion doses were administered across the country, as per government data, with 907.5 million of these shots being first doses, 655.8 being second doses, and another 4.3 million being precautionary, or booster, jabs.In total, 873.6 million adults (93% of the country’s population above 18) have received at least one shot of the vaccine, with 655.8 million (69.8% of adults) being fully vaccinated. About 218 million (23.2%) people have received only one dose so far. Furthermore, another 33.9 million shots have been administered among the roughly 74 million children in the country between the ages of 15 and 18 years, covering 45.7% of the age group.In the global context, India’s coverage of 65.2% of its entire population (not just adults) having been administered at least one shot places it ahead of the global average of 59.9%. However, India’s two-dose coverage of 46.9% of the population lags the global average of 50%, according to Our World In Data. While India’s coverage comfortably exceeds nations such as Pakistan (45% population given a shot), Russia and Bangladesh (51%), it lags several other nations such as Iran (71%), United States (75%), United Kingdom (76%) and Brazil (77%).The drive was put in motion on January 3, 2021, when national drugs regulator, Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), VG Somani, granted approval for restricted use in emergency situation to two vaccines: Covaxin and Covishield.While Bharat Biotech, in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), developed and manufactured Covaxin, the vaccine developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca is being locally manufactured by the Serum Institute of India under the brand name Covishield. Together, these two account for more than 99.7% of all shots administered in the country, with the latter alone accounting for 86.3% of the overall figure.Six more vaccines – Gamaleya’s Sputnik V, Moderna’s mRNA shot, Zydus Cadila’s ZyCoV-D, Johnson & Johnson’s Ad26.COV2.S, Novavax’s Covovax, and Biological E’s Corbevax – have also been granted emergency use authorisation. Among these, however, only Sputnik V has been rolled out in a limited manner in a handful of private hospitals across the country, while the remaining five are yet to be made a part of the vaccination drive.To be sure, the first year of the drive has not been without challenges.One of the largest issues has been the patchy rate of vaccination. At times, it has soared to averaging more than 10 million doses a day, and at other times, it has dropped to under 1.4 million shots a day. By the end of September, when India was averaging 10 million shots a day, it looked like the country was set to hit its target of fully vaccinating everyone by the end of 2021. But then, by early October, this pace dropped to under 3 million (government officials attributed the festive season for the drop).One of the reasons for this patchy pace (at least in the initial weeks) was supply. In the initial months of the drive being thrown open to all adults, several states complained to the Centre about the supplies of shots being handed to them.Both these issues, however, appear to have been ironed out now. Average vaccination pace has been promising in recent weeks (around 7.4 million/day), while supply issues have been sorted to a large extent (as on Sunday, states have with them a surplus of 141 million doses, as per government data).“The Union government is committed to accelerating the pace and expanding the scope of Covid-19 vaccination throughout the country... The vaccination drive has been ramped up through availability of more vaccines, advance visibility of vaccine availability to states and UTs for enabling better planning by them, and streamlining the vaccine supply chain,” the Union health ministry said.Experts say vaccination is key in reducing the risk of deaths due to Covid-19 considerably.“Vaccination is an important tool; as it has been established that vaccines significantly prevent the risk of getting severe form of the disease and death. Those who are yet to take the shot must take it as soon as possible,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, department of pulmonary medicine, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.
17-01-2022||India||Oil, budget and economic sentiment||There is some merit in the argument that inflation is a bigger dampener on economic sentiment in India than low growth rates. Traditionally, Union budgets have mattered for people at large because of two reasons: prices of goods and income tax rates. With the roll-out of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) in 2017, the Budget has lost its importance as a determinant of prices. The GST has subsumed central and state indirect taxes on most domestically produced goods and rates are decided in the GST Council. However, the budget still has a major influence on the price of an important commodity: fossil fuels such as petrol and diesel. What the forthcoming budget does regarding prices of petrol and diesel will have important implications for the economy. Here are four charts which explain this in detail.Petrol-diesel taxes were increased post-pandemicAs the world came to a standstill after the pandemic, consumption of petroleum products crashed. This led to a sharp fall in petroleum prices as well. Brent crude – the international benchmark for crude oil prices – fell to $9.12 per barrel on April 21, 2020, the lowest level in 21 years. The price of India’s Crude Oil Basket (COB) fell to $19.90 in the month of April 2020, the lowest level in 18 years. The government saw an opportunity in this development and significantly increased taxes on petrol and diesel. Because the base price was very low, retail prices did not increase despite the sharp rise in taxes. This is best seen in petroleum ministry statistics on price build-up of petrol and diesel.
17-01-2022||India||Avoid needless appeals on arbitration awards: Govt||The government has directed its arms, including state-run firms, not to unnecessarily appeal against every arbitration award without realistic probability of success in order to avoid project delays and cost overruns as often such appeals are lost and the government ends up paying more in terms of interest and penalty, two people aware of the development said.This is part of the government’s recent guidelines to implement projects expeditiously and efficiently because public expenditure is key to accelerating growth and creating jobs, they said, requesting anonymity. Like the previous year, the forthcoming budget on February 1 will bank on infrastructure projects to boost the pandemic-hit economy, said one of them working in the finance ministry.Budget 2021-22 enhanced capital expenditure by 34.5% at ₹5.54 lakh crore. The government is also expecting its ₹111 lakh crore National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP) to boost growth. The Covid-19 outbreak in March 2020, followed by a 68-day nationwide hard lockdown, saw India’s gross domestic product (GDP) shrank 24.4% in the first fiscal quarter ended June 2020, followed by a 7.4% contraction in the next quarter. It, however, saw a V-shaped recovery on the back of a ₹20.97 trillion stimulus package and policy reforms announced since March 2020. A positive 0.5% growth was reported in the third quarter, followed by a 1.6% expansion in the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2021. The latest official estimates project India’s GDP growth at 9.2% in 2021-22.A second person, working in a public sector company, said the latest guidelines issued earlier this month have removed several hurdles in project management right from conceptualisation of a project to land acquisition and award of a contract. Guidelines allow award of a contract even on the basis of a single bid, provided the process is objective, non-restrictive and price quotes reflect the market value.“These guidelines are general in nature and framed after about two years of deliberations with various departments and agencies, including CVC (Central Vigilance Commission) and CAG (Comptroller and Auditor General of India). It aims to execute public projects within the approved cost and time frame, without getting involved in unnecessary legal disputes,” the official mentioned in the first instance said.There are disputes and litigation with contractors while implementing projects. Instead of resorting to legal recourse, either in a court or an arbitration tribunal, both the parties should resolve disputes through discussion and mediation. Arbitration should be evoked only as the last recourse. And unless sure to win, a routine appeal against the arbitration award should be avoided, the official said.“It is perceived that at times appeals are resorted to postpone the issue and shift personal accountability. Such a casual approach has caused more harm to the exchequer because of huge compensation and interest costs in addition to tarnishing the image of the government,” the official added.India’s success rate in arbitration under bilateral investment treaty (BIT) is abysmal, said Prabhash Ranjan, professor and vice-dean at Jindal Global Law School, OP Jindal Global University, in an article on “India’s poor compliance with investment awards”, published in HT on January 13.“Since 2011, approximately 20 BIT arbitrations have been initiated against India... From the data publicly available, an award has been rendered in nine cases. India has prevailed in three of these cases while losing six,” he said, adding that most of the disputes arose because of India’s “capricious behaviour” symptomatic of bad governance.“The country’s global reputation, belief in rule of law and assets of India’s PSUs abroad are all too precious to be sacrificed at the altar of a few million dollars,” he said.The company executive quoted above said the latest guidelines have directed project implementing agencies to monitor the success rate of appealing against arbitration awards or a court order. “It suggests companies to set up a board-level committee to take informed decisions in such cases. It must consider legal merits, practical chances of success, cost of such appeals,” the executive said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/avoid-needless-appeals-on-arbitration-awards-govt-101642356811131.html
17-01-2022||India||Historic Secunderabad Club gutted in massive fire in Telangana||A massive fire broke out Secunderabad Club, one of the country’s oldest, in the early hours of Sunday, destroying the 144-year-old edifice completely.A fire department official said they received information about the blaze in the heritage building at about 3am. “We rushed 10 fire tenders to the building immediately. It took about three to four hours to bring the flames under control. The entire club has been gutted to ashes,” the official said.“The club was closed on Saturday on account of Sankranti festival. The fire accident might have started due to short circuit,” the official said.A stunning heritage building with a rich history going back to 1878. Unbelievable. pic.twitter.com/L38eqXscUrFire department officials said they had to struggle a lot to put out the fire due to the presence of “a lot of combustible material” in the premises. Several gas cylinders are believed to have exploded in the fire.Prominent heritage conservationist Anuradha Reddy and also a member of Secunderabad Club, said the club, established by the British in 1878, is one of the oldest clubs in India.“The club is very close to my residence. I thought there was some accident. This morning, I came to know about the incident,” Reddy, who is also convenor of Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH), said, adding that she heard loud noises earlier in the morning.The club’s century-old Main Club House was given heritage status by the Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority in 2017.The club has a 8,000 members including military officers, bureaucrats, diplomats, police officials, professionals, scientists and businessmen.
17-01-2022||India||Amid bickering in TMC, BJP punches holes in Abhishek Banerjee’s Covid-19 data||The special Covid-19 management drive started on January 8 in Trinamool Congress (TMC) national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee’s Lok Sabha constituency of Diamond Harbour in Bengal’s South 24 Parganas has triggered a political tussle with opposition parties accusing CM Mamata Banerjee, who is also in charge of the health department, of ignoring the state’s remaining 41 constituencies. “Diamond Harbour parliamentary constituency does it again. Despite its close proximity with Ganga Sagar and Kolkata, Diamond Harbour parliamentary constituency maintains positivity rate of below 3%,” a post on Abhishek Banerjee’s Facebook page said on Monday afternoon. The post appeared hours after the West Bengal health department said in its Covid-19 bulletin that Bengal had registered a positivity rate of 27.73 % on Sunday. On January 8, barely days before the Ganga Sagar fair started in South 24 Parganas; Banerjee held meetings with the district’s bureaucrats and doctors and said in public that he personally felt that all religious festivals and the coming civic body elections should be put on hold for two months in the interest of public safety. Banerjee also announced some measures, including extensive testing of samples and setting up of control rooms, health check-up camps and isolation facilities in his constituency. While a section of TMC leaders projected this as the “Diamond Harbour model” in Bengal’s battle against the pandemic, Abhishek Banerjee announced on January 12 that 53,202 samples were tested in his constituency on that day and only 1151 people tested positive, marking a positivity rate of 2.16%. “We will leave NO STONE UNTURNED in our quest to make Diamond Harbour PC #COVID-19 free. Your well-being will always be our top priority!” he tweeted. The West Bengal health department, on the other hand, said in its daily health bulletin that 71,792 samples were tested on January 12 in entire Bengal and the positivity rate was 30.86 %. On Saturday, when the West Bengal Election Commission postponed the polls in four civic body areas from January 22 to February 12, Banerjee welcomed the decision. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), meanwhile, has launched a scathing attack on the TMC. “If both, the West Bengal health department run by Mamata Banerjee and data put out by Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee for January 12 are correct, then Bengal tested 18,589 people across 41 Lok Sabha constituencies of which 21,004 tested positive! 113% positivity rate. Is Mamata downsizing Abhishek?” Amit Malviya, national head of the BJP information technology and social media cell tweeted on Sunday. Posting the official figures, Malviya, who is also co-in-charge of the party’s Bengal unit, wrote: “As per Abhishek Banerjee, he did 53,203 Covid-19 tests in a single day (January 12) in his Diamond Harbour constituency out of whom 1,151 turned out to be positive. But West Bengal Govt Health Bulletin says 71,792 tests done on that day across the state out of whom 22,155 were positive. So that means only 71,792-53,203 that is 18,589 tests done across remaining 41 constituencies out of whom 22,155-1151 that is 21,004 tests were found to be positive.” “21,004 positives out of 18,589 tests done. Unbelievable 113% test positivity rate across rest of West Bengal, if both the data furnished by Abhishek Banerjee and Govt of West Bengal health dept run by Mamata Banerjee are correct,” Malviya added. The BJP Bengal unit sharpened their attack against the ruling Trinamool Congress once again on Monday. “If the figures are to be believed then Abhishek Banerjee should be made the chief minister. Mamata Banerjee must step down for failing to protect people in the remaining 41 Lok Sabha constituencies,” said Bengal BJP president Sukanta Majumdar. Incidentally, the focus on Diamond Harbour has triggered an adverse reaction among some senior TMC leaders as well. Statements that Kalyan Banerjee, the Lok Sabha member from Srirampur in Hooghly district, has been making since Thursday indicate that he is unwilling to accept the focus on Diamond Harbour. “Why talk about Diamond Harbour? We know only Mamata Banerjee. She is our supreme leader,” Kalyan Banerjee said on Friday. On Monday, posters, demanding a new MP for Srirampur, appeared in parts of Hooghly district. Kalyan Banerjee refused to comment on the posters. Taking a swipe at the TMC, BJP national vice-president Dilip Ghosh said, “It seems Kalyan Banerjee has got to know that he will not be fielded in 2024. The epicentre of power in the TMC is shifting.” Madan Mitra, the TMC legislator from Kamarhati, also expressed his dissatisfaction. On Saturday, he said there was no way party leaders can meet or talk to Abhishek Banerjee. “He is never available at his office,” Mitra said in a social media post.TMC secretary general Partha Chatterjee stepped in on Saturday. “As head of the party’s disciplinary committee I am asking all leaders to refrain from making adverse remarks in public. If anyone has any grievance, he should raise it at internal meetings,” Chatterjee said. Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury called the rumblings “a circus”. “Kalyan Banerjee could not have made these remarks spontaneously. He must be having tacit support from Mamata Banerjee. We know that there are differences between the chief minister and her nephew on several issues,” Chowdhury said. TMC Rajya Sabha member Sukhendu Sekhar Roy refused to give any importance to the BJP’s campaign on the Covid-19 tests done in Diamond Harbour. “Let BJP leaders work on the mathematics they have learnt in their school of politics. It makes no difference to us,” said Roy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-bickering-in-tmc-bjp-punches-holes-in-abhishek-banerjee-s-covid-19-data-101642431459842.html
17-01-2022||India||HT This Day Jan 17, 1956: CENTRE TO ADMINISTER BOMBAY CITY||By Our Special CorrespondentNEW DELHI- THE Government of India announced tonight their decisions on most of the States Reorganization Commission proposals. While generally accepting the proposals, the Government have made a major departure from the Commission's recommendation regarding the Bombay region.In place of the two States, bilingual Bombay and Vidarbha, as proposed by the Commission, there will now be: Maharashtra State, including Vidarbha, Gujerat State, including Saurashtra and Cutch, and one Centrally-administered area comprising Bombay city and some surrounding villages.The announcement says the proposals for the reorganization of the Punjab and Andhra-Hyderabad regions are still under consideration.The Government have accepted in full the proposals to abolish the institution of Rajpramukhs and to end the constitutional disparity between different States.The Government have also accepted the Commission's recommendation regarding the formation of the new States of Kerala, Karnataka (to be named Mysore) and Madhya Pradesh.The Commission's recommendation in regard to the continuance of the States of Madras, Rajasthan, U.P., Bibar, West Bengal, Assam and Orissa has also been accepted.A Home Ministry communique running into 11 foolscap typed sheets, carrying the Government decisions was issued tonight.Simultaneously with the release of the communique, the Prime Minister in a nationwide broadcast tonight made a fervent appeal to his countrymen for "unity cooperation and hard work.” Mr Nehru asked the people to approach every problem in " a spirit of sweet reasonableness and cooperation."He added: " We all go forward together or not at all. Violence is the very negation of what we stand for and our progress."In his broadcast Mr Nehru made a special mention of the decision regarding the Bombay region and of the discussions held with the representatives of various viewpoints.He said, significantly: " In particular, we were anxious to meet the legitimate aspirations of the Maharashtrian people. Bombay city, as is well known, is geographically surrounded by Maharashtra and may be considered to be a part of it. Even in this city, the dominant and largest linguistic group consists of Manarashtrians. Whatever the fate of Bombay, the Maharashtrians are bound to play a dominant role there."About Punjab the Prime Minister said: " The only major issue that remains is that of Punjab. It is clear that the future of Pigljab depends on the goodwill and cooperation of the Sikhs and Hindus there. Whatever the decision, this is essential. I trust this will be forthcoming."He emphasized that it was necessary to have a number of safeguards which would protect the linguistic minorities as well as othersTEXT OF 'COMMUNIQUEThe following is the text of the communique.The Government of India have had under careful consideration the S.R.C. report since it swas submitted on September 30. 1955. They have naturally been anxious to ensure that the point of view of every party, section, or interest should be taken into consideration before any decisions are reached. With this end in view, the Government arranged for early publication of the report. It has now been before the country for more than three months and has been fully considered by all the political organizations and important sections of public opinion.A conference of Chief Ministers of States was convened in October, 1955, to consider the first reactions in the different States to the proposals made in the report. All the State Governments have now been consulted, and there has been a preliminary discussion of the report in the various State Assemblies in advance of the formal consultation under Article 3 of the Constitution. The report has also been debated in considerable detail in Parliament.After giving careful and anxious thought to the views which have been expressed on the subject, the Government of India have arrived at conclusions which are being embodied in the States Reorganization Bill. This Bill will be placed before Parliament after the legislatures of the States concerned have been consulted.SCHEME WELCOMEDThe report of the Commission is a weighty document based on a thorough and objective examination of a complicated problem. Public opinion in India has also by and large welcomed the scheme proposed by the Commission. The Government of India have, therefore, generally accepted the Commission's recommendations.The departures which have been made from the Commission's scheme are restricted to a few cases in which it has been found that the minimum measure of agreement necessary for the efficient working of administrative units would not be forthcoming on the basis of the Commission's recommendations. In regard to certain disputed border areas, some minor adjustments have been made, largely by agreement.The decisions which have been taken are briefly summarized in the paragraphs which follow.The Government of India have accepted the Commission's recommendation that the existing constitutional disparity between the different States of the Indian Union should disappear as a necessary consequence of reorganization. They have also accepted the further recommendation that the existing Part 'B' States should be equated to Part 'A' States by omitting Article 371 of the Constitution and abolishing the institution of the Rajpramukh, and that the existing Part ‘C' States should also disappear as a category of States. As recommended by the Commission, such of the existing Part C' States as cannot be merged in the adjoining States will be directly administered by the Central Government. The question of devising suitable arrangements for associating the representatives of the people of these areas with their administrations is under consideration.STATES OF THE INDIAN UNIONThe Government of India have accepted the Commission's recommendation regarding the formation of the new States of(a) Kerala,(b) Karnataka to be named as Mysore, and(c) Madhya Pradesh,and also the recommendations regarding the continuance of the States of(a) Madras,(b) Rajasthan,(c) Uttar Pradesh,(d) Bihar.(e) West Bengal,(f) Assam, and(g) Orissa,broadly on the basis proposed by the Commission. Some minor adjustments have, however, been made as regards the areas to be included in some of these States.The Government of India have carefully considered the Commission's recommendation regarding the formation of Bombay and Vidarbha States. The proposal appears to be fair and reasonable. But in view of the strong opposition from the Marathi-speaking areas to the creation of the proposed bilingual State and in view also of the special position of the City of Bombay and public opinion in this area generally, the Government of India have arrived at the conclusion that two States, namely, fi) a Gujarat State comprising the Gujarati-speaking areas with its capital within the State; and (ii) a Maharashtra State comprising the Marathi-speaking areas. including the areas of the proposed Vidarbha State, with its capital within the State; and one centrally administered area, namely, Bombay, comprising (1) Greater Bombay; and (ii) the areas of the villages of Kopari, Mulund, Nahur and Turmbhe in the Thana taluka and the Borivli taluka except the villages of Bheyandar, Dongri, Ghod Bunder, Kashi, Maroshi, Mire, Rai Murdhe and Uttan; should be constituted in Blace of the States of Bombay and Vidarbha as proposed by the Commission. The Government of India hope that it will be possible to make suitable arrangements on an agreed basis to meet the wishes of the people of Vidarbha.The question of devising a suitable form of administration for Bombay and associating the people of this area with its governance is under examination.The Government of India have also taken into account the wishes of the people in the existing Part C State of Tripura. They have come to the conclusion that Tripura may for the time being be continued as a centrally-administered area.The attention of the Government of India has been drawn to the need for the development of the Laccadive and Minicoy Islands, which now form part of Malabar district and the Amindive Islands which now form part of South Kanare district of Madras State. The Government of Madras has suggested that the development of these areas is likely to be accelerated, if they are transferred to and administered by the Centre, and this suggestion has been accepted.PUNJAB STATEThe Commission's recommendations about the formation of (i) a Punjab State comprising the territories of the existing States of Punjab, P.E.P.S.U. and Himachal Pradesh; and (ii) a residuary Hyderabad State or in the alternative a larger Andhra State are still under consideration.In regard to border adjustments, the Government of India have proceeded on the basis of the recommendations of the Commission. Some minor adjustments have, however, been made, largely by agreement. Some further adjustments may follow in the event of similar agreements being reached.In accordance with the decisions which have so far been taken, the States of the Indian Union will be as indicated in the Appendix.The Government of India attach great importance to the recommendations made by the Commission in respect of safeguards for linguistic minorities and certain suggestions in the report intended to correct parochial trends or to secure greater inter-State co-ordination. These recommendations have been accepted in principle. Final decisions in regard to some of them will, however, have to be taken in consultation with the State Governments.The Government of India feel that if the implications of the fact that the Constitution of India recognizes only one citizenship, a common citizenship of the entire. Indian people with equal rights and opportunities throughout the Union, are fully appreciated and accepted, undue importance wiU not be attached to the question of territorial redistribution between the States of the Union.ZONAL COUNCILSAs a further step in the direction of inter-State co-ordination, the Government of India propose, simultaneously with the creation of the new States, to establish zonal councils, which may deal with matters of common concern to the States in different zones, including economic planning and questions arising out of reorganization. The zonal councils will be deliberative and advisory bodies; their creation will not, therefore, in any way detract from the content of the legislative and executive authority of the States. If properly worked, however, these bodies should serve to promote inter-State concord and arrest the growth of acute State consciousness.It is proposed to group the States and areas in the following zones for the purpose of establishing zonal councils:(1) NORTHERIT ZONE: Comprising the existing States of Punjab, P.E.P.S.U., Himachal Pradesh, Delhi and Rajasthan with such territorial adjustments as may be made;(2) CENTRAL ZONE: Comprising U.P. and the proposed Madhya Pradesh States;(3) EASTERN ZONE: Comprising the proposed States of Bihar, Orissa, West Bengal, Assam (including N.-E.F.A.), Manipur and Tripura:(4) WESTERN ZONE: Comprising the proposed States of Maharashtra and Gujarat and the centrally-administered area of Bombay; and(5) SOUTHERN ZONE: Comprising the States of Andhra and Madras together with the proposed States of Mysore and Kerala and the residuary State of Hyderabad as proposed by the Commission.The Government of India also contemplate the appointment of common Governors and the establishment of common High Courts and common Public Service Commissions in certain regions.The task of finalizing a co-ordinated scheme of reorganization of the territories of the States of India has been an extremely complex and delicate one. It has involved reconciliation of the national interest with regional interests and the balancing of one important factor bearing on reorganization against other such factors. Each claim has also had to be considered in relation to other competing claims. It is obviously impossible for any Commission or authority entrusted with a task of such dimensions to satisfy all interests. The impossibility of achieving universal acceptance of decisions of this nature can well be realized. when it is borne in mind that in a number of cases, serious controversy rages on the merits of the proposed readjustment of territories one side contending that the transfer is utterly unjustified and the others seriously questioning the adequacy of the transfer:GOVT. APPEALThe Government of India have endeavoured to seek the largest measure of agreement regarding the changes which have been proposed, in the hope that as a result of the proposed changes, an environment may be created in which the nation will be able to devote itself to the more immediate and urgent problems which face it, including in particular economic reconstruction and development.The Government of India would conclude with an appeal to all sections of public opinion in the country to approach the problem of reorganization from the national rather than from sectional or parochial points of view. The readjustment of State territories on a rational basis is undoubtedly of some importance. But what is of even greater moment is to ensure that in the process of these adjustments, larger ends like national unity and economic progress of the country are not impaired.The aim and motive behind re- organization is the formation of units which may lead to greater administrative convenience facilitating the implementation of national development plans and promoting the well-being of the people of the country as a whole. The Government of India sincerely hope that the decisions which have been taken will be viewed in this perspective and that it will be possible to implement them within the contemplated time-schedule in an atmosphere of tolerance and goodwillAPPENDIXMADRAS: As proposed by the Commission, with the modification that the portion of the westernmost pakuthy of Shencottah taluk lying to the west of the ghats will be excluded from the areas proposed for transfer to Madras.KERALA: As proposed by the Commission, with the modification that the portion of the westernmost pakuthy of Shencottah taluk lying to the west of the ghats will be retained in Kerala and the Amindive, Laccadive and Minicoy islands will be Centrally-administered.KARNATAKA TO BE NAMED MYSORE: As proposed by the Commission, with the modification that Alampur and Gadwal tehsils of Raichur district and Tandur and Kodangal tehsils of Gulbarga district will be excluded from it and Humnabad, Bidar, Bhalki, and Santpur (Aurad> tehsils of Bidar district will be included in it. The Commission's recommendations regarding the transfer to Andhra f rom Mysore of certain portions of Bellary district is being discussed with the State Governments concerned arid a decision regarding these areas will follow.MAHARASHTRA: This State will include the following areas:(i)the districts of Thana (subject to certain minor adjustments mdicated in paragraph 9 of the Press communique), Nasik, Ahmecyagar, West Khandesh, East Khandesh, Poona, Sholapur, Kolnapur, North Satara, South Satara, Ratnagiri, Kolaba and Dangs of the present State of Bombay;(ii) Chandgad taluk of Belgaum district of present State of Bombay.(iii) districts of Akola, Amravati. Yeotmal. Buldana, Nagpur. Wardha, Chanda and Ahandara of the present State of Madhya Pradesh; and(iv) the districts of Aurangabad. Bhir, Osmanabad, Nanded, Parbhani and tehsils of Nilanga, Udgir and Ahmedpur of Bidar district of the present State of Hyderabad.GUJARAT: This new State wU1 be constituted so as to include the following areas: (i) districts of Amreli, Ahmedabad, Baroda, Kaira, Surat, Panch Mahals, Broach, Mehsana, Sabarkantha and district of Banaskantha (except for Abu Road taluk) of the present State of Bombay; (ii) Saurashtra; and (iii) Kutch.MADHYA PRADESH: As proposed by the Commission.RAJASTHAN: As proposed by the Commission.UTTAR PRADESH: As at present constituted.BIHAR: As proposed by the Commission, with the modification that the Chandil thana and the Patamda Dolice station of the Barabhum thana of the Purulia sub-district of Manbhum district will be retained in Bihar.WEST BENGAL: As proposed by the Commission, with the modification that the Chandil thana and the Patamda police station of the Barabhum thana of the Purulia sub-district of Manbhum district will be excluded from the areas proposed for transfer from Bihar to West BengaLASSAM: As proposed by the Commission, with the modification that the present Part C State of Tripure will not be included in its territories.ORISSA: As proposed by the Commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-jan-17-centre-to-administer-bombay-city-101642362219829.html
17-01-2022||Today's||The Political Eye | Why did Mayawati lose the political plot?||15 years ago, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) pulled off one of the most audacious experiments in contemporary Indian politics – opening up the possibility of India having its first Dalit prime minister (PM). Two years later, it lost the political plot and hasn’t recovered since – with India’s foremost, pioneering Dalit political formation now facing questions about its very political survival.
17-01-2022||Today's||Revival of nuclear concert diplomacy||The global agenda is teeming with unaddressed critical issues. The coronavirus pandemic is refusing to abate. The climate crisis remains a dominant concern. Supply chain disruptions are impacting trade flows. Cyber threats are accentuating insecurity. Great power rivalry is entering uncharted territory. Into this mix comes the New Year statement on “Preventing Nuclear War and Avoiding Arms Races” from the leaders of the so-called P5, the permanent members (China, France, Russia, the United Kingdom and the United States) of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC).
17-01-2022||Today's||Skilling, reskilling, and upskilling to prepare for the future of work||Just as the economy emerges from the second wave of Covid-19, it faces the dangers of the new variant — Omicron. In addition to strained infrastructure and workforces, one of the major economic disruptions caused by the pandemic is long-term job losses.
17-01-2022||Today's||Ecological Issues Must Become Election Issues||Sadhguru: Soil is the habitat upon which zillions of lives thrive. This thirty-six to thirty-nine inches of soil is the basis of eighty-seven percent of life on this planet. Everything grows because of that thriving life. Once there is no richness in soil, then we have forsaken the planet in many ways.The United Nations agencies, with enough scientific data, are saying that the planet has agricultural soil only for another eighty to hundred crops. That means we would run out of soil in forty-five to sixty years. If that happens, there will be a serious food crisis on the planet – it is inevitable.When food crisis comes, whoever has the biggest guns will take the food. And the chaos and the suffering that we will create for populations around the world is unimaginable. Don't think only the poor will die; they will kill the rich and the rich will also die. This is not to paint a dark picture but soil extinction is being predicted by top scientists in the world. The desertification of our soil is happening at such a rapid pace because every time you grow something, the organic content is being taken by the crops, but nothing is being put back into the soil. In a tropical forest, the organic content in the soil, from plant litter and animal waste, would be somewhere around seventy percent or more. In agricultural soils, the minimum organic content should be three to six percent. But right now, in nearly forty percent of the world's agricultural lands, the organic content is below 0.5%.So, what are we going to do? There are only two ways to put back organic content into the soil – green litter from vegetation, and animal waste. Bringing back animals into the farm is out of question because people have gotten used to the comfort of the machine. So, the best option we have is to bring back vegetation. What sort of vegetation, how much percentage, in which country – these things can be worked out at the local level. But as a global policy, a minimum three percent organic content in the agricultural soil should be made a must.The solutions are not rocket science; it is just a question of application. Are we willing to do it in time, so that we minimize the suffering for every creature on this planet? That is the question. If we start now, in fifteen to twenty-five years, there will be a significant turnaround. But let's say we wait for another twenty-five to fifty years, and then try to turn it around, they say it may take up to 200 years to turn around. And that period is going to be disastrous for human beings as a species. That's why there is an urgency about what we need to do.As a part of this, we are unfolding a movement called Conscious Planet to Save Soil. We are always thinking that the industry or the government should do it. But we are forgetting that we are democratic nations. There are 5.2 billion people living in countries with the ability to vote and elect their nation’s leadership. We are looking at how to get at least three billion people on board so that ecological issues become the issues that elect governments.Right now, political parties give economic sops to please people. But ecology and environment have not been a part of that narrative, simply because large percentages of electorates have not made it clear that this is what they want.Right now, it looks like ecology is the playground of the rich and elite. This must change. Individual human beings should become conscious about the danger that we are facing.Ecological issues must become election issues and political parties must give significance to ecological issues in their manifestos. Governments must be elected for their concern for ecological issues. Only when ecology becomes an election issue, will it become government policy, and only then will there be large budgets allocated so that solutions manifest.Soil is not our property, it is our legacy. To give it to the next generation at least in the condition that previous generations have given it to us is a fundamental responsibility that we have as a generation of people. All of you should stand up for the Save Soil movement. This is not about me, this is not about you. This is a generational responsibility that we must fulfill. Let us make it happen!Ranked amongst the fifty most influential people in India, Sadhguru is a yogi, mystic, visionary and bestselling author. Sadhguru has been conferred the ‘Padma Vibhushan’, India’s highest annual civilian award, by the Government of India in 2017, for exceptional and distinguished service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/ecological-issues-must-become-election-issues-101642413851800.html
17-01-2022||Today's||Hutong Cat | Sri Lanka is China's ‘pearl’ in the Indian Ocean region||Back in 2009, when Chinese money, technology, and foresight were building the Magam Ruhunupura Mahinda Rajapaksa Port in Hambantota in southern Sri Lanka, the prefab homes for the Chinese workers toiling inside the construction site were arranged to spell “China” in fairly big fonts.
17-01-2022||Today's||Climate and Us | Know the extent of natural forests to secure them||Last week, the environment ministry released the India State of Forest Report 2021 and the India Meteorological Department on its 147th Foundation Day on Friday released a Climate Hazards and Vulnerability Atlas. Data released by these two reports give a picture of the looming ecological concerns.
