18-01-2022||Pune||PMC to begin precautionary dose vaccination in old age homes Feb-mid||Pune: As the number of new Covid cases rise, the demand for vaccines among the immuno-compromised and senior citizens has also gone up. With such beneficiaries finding it difficult to access vaccination centres, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has started the vaccine-on-wheels initiative for the third dose or precautionary dose among those who are eligible for it. With the mandatory nine months gap period between doses in place, the civic body has asked for requests among the bedridden patients for the third dose. It will also start vaccination among those living in old age homes who had been vaccinated through this initiative earlier last year. Ravindra Bhinwade, additional municipal commissioner said, “We had vaccinated about 3,000 beneficiaries with both first and second dose in 52 old age homes. We have the list of all the old age homes and the beneficiaries who were vaccinated and will now get the third jab if they are eligible. We had completed the second dose during last May and so we will start the vaccination for the third dose in the old age homes from mid-February. We have also started vaccination for bedridden senior citizens and have been getting many requests from such beneficiaries and are inoculating them as part of our daily drive.” As of January 15, the civic body has vaccinated 3,062 senior citizens in 52 old age homes. The third dose vaccination for these senior citizens will begin from February as two old age homes will get the jab next month, five in March, three in April and rest in May as per the eligibility criteria. About 1,187 people have got the vaccine, first and second dose who were bedridden and can take the third dose by sending a request and details to the civic body via mail on bedriddenvaccination.pune@gmail.com. Bhinwade said that since the third wave has begun, requests have been pouring in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-begin-precautionary-dose-vaccination-in-old-age-homes-febmid-101642530412781.html
18-01-2022||Pune||Pune district reports over 11k new Covid cases, six deaths||Pune: On Tuesday, Pune district reported 11,579 new Covid cases and six deaths. This took the progressive count to 1.27 million of which 1.18 million have recovered, 20,244 deaths and 63,169 are active cases. Pune also saw over 52,000 doses of vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 2,219 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 388,481 and the death toll stood at 7,058 as three more deaths were reported. Pune city reported 6,398 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 587,115 and the death toll stood at 9,305 as two more deaths were reported. PCMC reported 2,962 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 296,911 and the toll stood at 3,531 as one more death was reported in the district on the day. Pune district also saw 52,657 vaccinations on the day as per the Co-WIN dashboard on Tuesday and in total 16.21 million doses have been registered in the district. Of which 9.25 million are first doses, 6.90 million are second doses and 58,653 are precautionary doses. A total of 697 sites saw vaccination of which 539 were government centres and 158 were private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-over-11k-new-covid-cases-six-deaths-101642530052954.html
18-01-2022||Lucknow||SP MLA Nahid Hasan’s bail plea rejected||MEERUT The fast track court in Shamli rejected the bail plea of sitting Samajwadi Party MLA from Kairana Nahid Hasan on Tuesday. Nahid was booked under Gangster Act in Kairana Kotwali in February last year along with 30 others, including his mother and former MP Tabassum Begum. Inspector of Kairana Kotwali Anil Sabbharwal confirmed that the fast track court in Shamli had rejected Nahid Hasan’s bail plea on Tuesday. SP has fielded Nahid Hasan again in the contest against Mriganka Singh of BJP and Nahid filed his nomination on the very first day the Election Commission issued notification. Police arrested him the next day on January 16 . He was presented in court and sent in 14-day judicial custody. His arrest raised speculation that the SP would replace him and news started doing the rounds that his sister Ikra could be fielded in his place. But SP district president in Shamli Ashok Choudhary claimed there was no change in candidature of Nahid Hasan yet and explained that a person could be tagged gangster or criminal only after court verdict against him. Choudhary said that the BJP had many candidates with crime history, including minister Suresh Rana and MLA Sangeet Som who were accused in Muzaffarnafar riots case. Besides, Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni also had a tainted image. The BJP is once again using Kairana constituency as its ‘ lab of experiment of Hindutva’ by raising the issue of ‘ palayan’ (exodus). BJP’s MP from Kairana Hukum Singh had raised the issue of “Hindu exodus” from Kairaba and neighbouring Kandhla town and issued a list of over 300 families who reportedly moved out of the town because of atrocities of some Muslim gangs, including the gang of Mukeem Kala who killed two traders in broad day light. Later, a fact-finding committee formed by the then SP government said that people had no problem with each other and they wanted effective action against a few criminal gangs who were involved in ‘ extortion’. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath visited Kairana two months ago and fanned the issue of ‘ palayan’ again by meeting members of those families who made an exodus and later returned in the town. He also indicated giving financial aid to the families which were victim of exodus. The BJP also accused Nahid Hasan of masterminding the exodus and criticized SP for giving ticket to him. The BJP fielded Hukum Singh’s daughter Mriganka Singh in 2017 election against Nahid Hasan but the latter defeated her by a margin of 21,162 votes. The BJP has again fielded Mriganka to take on Nahid Hasan and it would be interesting to see the contest between them in changed atmosphere when Nahid is cooling his heels in jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sp-mla-nahid-hasan-s-bail-plea-rejected-101642529992466.html
18-01-2022||Pune||Covid ex-gratia relief: Pune district records 19,888 deaths, receives 26,000 plus applications||Pune: More than 26,000 applications have been received from Pune district on the portal launched by the authorities where the kin of Covid-19 deceased patients can apply for an ex-gratia of ₹50,000. However, as per the data of public health department, 19,888 Covid deaths have been registered in Pune district. Of the total applications received, 8,500 have been approved and the district administration has claimed that the ex-gratia amount of ₹50,000 has been disbursed to the related accounts. The verification process of other applications is on. According to officials, there are multiple factors behind more applications than recorded Covid deaths in the district. “The data related to the number of Covid deaths is with the public health department. But one of the reasons is the multiple number of applications on the name of the same deceased person. In some cases, the same application has been filed from various jurisdiction limits. Once it is submitted, it is added to the application list. For the disbursement of the financial assistance, Covid deaths verified through the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) are considered. In Pune district, there are 19,200 deaths due to Covid which have been verified through ICMR. Verification of these applications is a rigorous process,” said Vitthal Banote, district disaster management officer. “As per the jurisdiction limits, the applications first go to the authorities concerned in the limits of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and rural areas. Post verification, it is forwarded to the office of civil surgeon and later to the district disaster management authority. However, some applications cannot be immediately approved because of lack of information or other doubts. Such cases get the opportunity to present their side in scheduled hearings before the grievance redressal committee (GRC),” said Banote. In Pune district, the approval of around 7,000 applications have been put on hold and the applicants will have to undergo a hearing before the grievance redressal committee. In the compliance of Supreme Court’s order, the state administration has asked every district administration to constitute GRC which can be approached by the next of kin of the deceased Covid patients if any problem is encountered in the ex-gratia assistance. “These hearings will begin next week. They could not be processed because of technical issues. For example, if a Covid patient dies at home after discharge from the hospital, then ICMR number is not generated. So, such cases have to be verified. In some cases, there is the issue of identification of next of kin. Once proper documents are presented, then the process of approval is carried forward,” said Banote. Financial relief to kin of Covid victims Officials cite multiple number of applications on the name of the same deceased as one of the reasons for many submitted forms Applications received for ex-gratia assistance from Pune district: 26,000 Approved applications: 8,500 Applications to undergo hearing before GRC: 7,000 Covid deaths recorded in district: 19,888 Covid deaths recorded in PMC: 9,303 Covid deaths recorded in PCMC: 3,530 Covid deaths recorded in rural parts: 7,055 Source: Public health department||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-ex-gratia-relief-pune-district-records-19-888-deaths-receives-26-000-plus-applications-101642529692724.html
18-01-2022||Pune||Pune chemists log details of Covid home test customers||Pune: Medical stores in the city have started to keep a record of those buying Covid self-test kits. Chemists say that many showing symptoms of viral fever are purchasing the kit. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) joint commissioner (Pune division), SB Patil, said, “Post our notification, it is the duty of medical stores to keep a record and submit the data to any department that seeks it. We are not conducting any drives to keep a track of it.” On January 12, the state public health department directed civic bodies about using self-testing kits and on the following day FDA Pune division issued a notification asking retail as well as wholesale chemists and pharmacists in Pune to keep a record of customers who buy the home test kits. FDA has told medical shop owners to record information such as name, phone number, address of the customer who buys a kit and also the particulars of the kit. “Many people are buying Covid self-testing kits, I am getting 25-30 customers daily who ask for these kits. Even if there is mild flu, people are asking for it. As per the FDA order we are keeping track of it and making sure that private information does not come in public domain,” said Vilas Shah, Surbhi medico, Sadashiv Peth. Sheetal Malusure, whose daughter is having fever, said, “I had given her medicines for two days, but when her fever did not come down, I purchased Covid self-test kit.” “The notification to druggists, chemists and even officials state that customers should be explained about the self-kits and steps to be taken if someone turns Covid positive,” Patil said. In Bibwewadi, at few medical stores, self-test kits are in demand while others prefer clinic instead of purchasing the home kit. “At our store, majority of people are coming with doctor’s prescription,” said Saurabh Nigde, medical store owner in Bibwewadi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-chemists-log-details-of-covid-home-test-customers-101642529393659.html
18-01-2022||Lucknow||SP’s door-to-door registration campaign for 300 units of free electricity from today||LUCKNOW: In a sequel to his promise of free power to consumers if the party came to power in the 2022 UP polls, Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav said on Tuesday that the party would launch a door-to-door campaign from Wednesday to register domestic consumers for up to 300 units of free electricity in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh. He said through this campaign, the party would be taking its free power promise to the people.To recall, on January 1 Akhilesh had announced that if the SP formed government in 2022, then it would give 300 units of free electricity to domestic users and free power for irrigation to farmers. “The decision is a very important for the people of UP. Many people faced problems of bills, inflated bills and harassment over bills. The SP is going to launch a door-to-door registration campaign for the scheme. So those who currently have domestic power connection and want to avail the 300 units’ free scheme, should fill in the exact name as mentioned in their power bills or ration cards”, he said at the press conference at the party’s state headquarters in Lucknow. Akhilesh announced the registration campaign’s name as ‘Naam likhao abhiyaan: teen sau unit muft paao; naam likhao, chhoot na jao (Registration campaign: Get 300 units free; register, don’t be left out)” When asked about the relevance of the registration at the level of the party when it was not in power, Akhilesh said: “The relevance is that we have to take our promise to the people. In a democracy, in an election, we are taking to the people what we want to convey to them. How will our candidates take their issues to the public? We want to go with this issue door-to-door when campaigns and big rallies are a no-no due to the restrictions and rules by the Election Commission. We are waiting to seek permission for the Vijay Rath whenever the restrictions end. Even if it means riding alone on the rath, I will do it.” The SP chief said that 300 units of free power to domestic consumers and free power for irrigation to farmers would be the “number one promise” in the manifesto that would soon be formally released. Party cadres would get the forms filled in a door-to-door campaign tomorrow onwards, he said and added that soon online registration process too would be launched. Speaking on the SP’s manifesto for the upcoming elections, Akhilesh said it had taken into consideration the suggestions of the general public and various sections such as doctors, traders and farmers. Among other poll promises, the Samajwadi Party has announced ₹25 lakh to the families of farmers who died in the farm agitation, minimum support price on all crops, interest-free loans, insurance and pension to farmers, ₹5 lakh to kin of cyclists who die in road accidents and ₹5 lakh to kin of those who die in bull attacks. When asked about the manifesto release date, Akhilesh said: “We will release our election manifesto after the BJP releases its manifesto. Let the BJP tell the people how and when they doubled the farmers’ income as they had promised in their 2017 manifesto.” Elections to the 403-seat Uttar Pradesh assembly are scheduled to be held in seven phases starting February 10. Polling in Uttar Pradesh will be held on February 10, 14, 20, 23, 27, March 3 and March 7. The counting of votes will take place on March 10. 
18-01-2022||Lucknow||UP polls: ASP to go alone, Azad announces first list||After failing to stitch an alliance with the Samajwadi Party (SP), Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad on Tuesday announced that the Azad Samaj Party (ASP), the political outfit of his organisation, will fight the Uttar Pradesh assembly election alone. Addressing a press conference at the party office in Lucknow, Chandrashekhar released the first list of ASP’s 33 candidates. He said talks were also going on with the Congress for a pre-poll alliance in the UP. Earlier, during the alliance talks with SP chief Akhilesh Yadav, the Bhim Army had requested to field its candidates on 25 seats but the SP offered merely two seats, he said. The ASP will field candidates against the Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP), the SP and the Bhaujan Samaj Party but it will not field candidates against Rashtriya Lok Dal leader Jayant Chaudhary, Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party chief Om Prakash Rajbhar, former minister Swami Prasad Maurya and Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (Lohia) leader Shivpal Singh Yadav in the assembly election, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-polls-asp-to-go-alone-azad-announces-first-list-101642529034073.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC recommends FIR against illegal felling of trees in Dugri||A day after receiving a complaint against illegal felling of four trees outside a house in Dugri Phase-2, the Municipal Corporation (MC) on Tuesday recommended an FIR against the unidentified accused to be filed at the Dugri police station. RTI activist Arvind Sharma had earlier submitted a complaint with the civic body against illegal felling, demanding strict action against the culprits.MC junior engineer (Horticulture wing), Kirpal Singh said the department has recommended an FIR and the police will investigate the matter further. He, however, pointed out that it seemed like the trees had been chopped by the house owner. Notably, the civic body has in the past recommended multiple FIRs in similiar cases, but the FIR has seldom been lodged. Speaking on the same, the junior engineer said the civic body only had the power tp recommend an FIR and that the power to take the final call lies with the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-recommends-fir-against-illegal-felling-of-trees-in-dugri-101642528912483.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 26-year-long hunt for murder convict who jumped parole ends with arrest||Police on Monday arrested a man who had been on the run for 26 years after evading his four-week parole back in 1996.The accused, identified as Surjit Singh, 54, of New Shakti Nagar of Basti Jodhewal, had been living in Amritsar but was in the city on business. The accused was released in 1996 of parole for four weeks, but he did not report to the jail again.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Kulbir Raj, investigating officer, said the police arrested the accused from Phullanwal village following a tip-off. The accused told police that he wanted to avoid his arrest after availing parole and had lived in different cities before settling in Amritsar.The ASI said that the accused had been serving life sentence after being convicted by the court in 1990 for murdering his wife merely one-and-a-half months into their marriage. He added that the accused had availed parole for four weeks on May 28, 1996, but never reported back to the jail. The police had been trying to trace him for the past 26 years.A case under sections 8(2) and 9 of the Punjab Good Conduct Prisoners Act has been registered against the accused at the Sadar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana26yearlong-hunt-for-murder-convict-who-jumped-parole-ends-with-arrest-101642528852390.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana reports three Covid-related deaths||Breaking the trend of logging over 1,000 new Covid cases a day, the district recorded 914 new infections on Tuesday.Three Covid-related deaths were also reported, pushing the district’s death count to 2,147. The victims included an 80-year-old woman of Mundian Kalan, who was undergoing treatment at AKAI Hospital, a 64-year-old man of the Housing Board Ferozepur road, who was undergoing treatment at Deepak Hospital and a 78-year-old man of Machhiwara Khas.The district’s active cases tally stands at 7,584, of which 7,433 are home isolating while 138 are undergoing treatment at private hospitals and 13 at government facilities.A total of 16 patients, including 11 city residents and five from other districts are currently on ventilators. The health department officials said the district presently had 17 active micro containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-reports-three-covid-related-deaths-101642528796014.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man befriends 16-year-old girl on social media platform, robs her of phone, earrings||A man was booked for robbing a 16-year-old girl, whom he had befriended online, of her earrings and mobile phone near the Jalandhar bypass chowk on Tuesday.The accused, Ranjit of Hargobind Nagar, had come in contact with the victim through a social networking site. The victim said the accused asked her to meet him near his house, where he ambushed her along with two other acquaintances. The accused allegedly took her to the railway overbridge near Jassian, where they snatched her mobile phone and earrings.The accused then dropped her near Jalandhar Bypass Chowk and fled.Assistant sub-inspector Harmesh Lal, investigating officer, said a case under sections 363 (kidnapping) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code had been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-befriends-16-year-old-girl-on-social-media-platform-robs-her-of-phone-earrings-101642528792460.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: Randomisation of EVMs held in Ludhiana||In view of upcoming Vidhan Sabha elections, the first round of randomisation of electronic voting machines (EVMs) was held in the presence of district election officer-cum-deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and representatives of several political parties, at Bachat Bhawan, on Tuesday. DC Varinder said polling booths have been set up in all the assembly constituencies of the district, where EVMs as well as voter verifiable paper audit trail (VVPAT) machines would be installed. He said EVMs and VVPAT machines equal to the number of polling booths were randomised, besides additional 20 percent CU, 20 percent BU, 20 percent VVPAT have been kept on reserve in case any machine malfunctions.He said after Tuesday’s randomisation, the EVMs and VVPATs would be shifted by assistant returning officers (AROs) to the strong rooms in their respective constituencies. A presentation on EVM and VVPAT machines was also given to the representatives of political parties.Prominent among those present on the occasion included assistant deputy commissioner (general) Rahul Chaba, election tehsildar Anju Bala, besides several others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-elections-randomisation-of-evms-held-in-ludhiana-101642528732441.html
18-01-2022||Lucknow||Used to fight with Rahul a lot in childhood: Priyanka||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday said her brother Rahul Gandhi and she were good friends though as children they had lots of fights in which her brother used to win. Priyanka was replying to a question on whether she had lots of fights with Rahul Gandhi as a child and who used to win in their childhood fights.“Guess! Rahul used to win in such fights. I was 12-year-old when my grandmother (the late Indira Gandhi) was assassinated. We used to stay together. Following her (Indira Gandhi’s) assassination, we were not able to go to school. We completed all out studies and took examinations at home. So, my interaction with other children was stopped. We both used to be alone as my father used to travel a lot and our mother accompanied him. We were good friends and fought a lot too. But when any outsider came, we used to team up,” said Priyanka while replying to a question from Himanshi Goel on her Facebook live session.Priyanka said she used to help her children in their home work too. “My daughter called up this morning to check her assignment. I was one of the aunts who used to help her children and their friends in home work. At times, I had to remain awake up till 4am to take care of children’s home work after returning from election campaigns,” she said in reply to a question of one Yogita Tomar.Priyanka said her party has come out with the idea of online competitions following cancellation of marathon runs in view of fight against Covid-19. “We have same prizes for online competitions to be held on a large scale,” she said.Priyanka used the occasion to target Prime Minister Narendra Modi and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath alike. She said the Congress candidate cine actress Archana Gautam fielded from Hastinapur (SC) seat was being targeted for no reason. Priyanka said the Congress candidate was being asked such questions that would never be put to Prime Minister Narendra Modi or any other men. She targeted chief minister Yogi Adityanath and the BJP leadership on the issue of women empowerment when she was asked about Yogi’s observations that the women energy needed to be channelised. She said it reflected the BJP’s ideology towards empowerment of women. Priyanka also used the occasion to urge women to support her party’s candidates in 2022 assembly polls. Asked why did the Congress field mother of Unnao rape victim and one Asha worker as other parties may consider such candidates weak, Priyanka said her party decided to filed them to give them power to fight these battles.“It is possible that other parties take them to be weak. But how much these women have struggled. Atrocities have been perpetrated upon them. Our party felt they should be given an opportunity to get political power. We should give them an opportunity to stand up and take up their fight politically. This is why we have given them a ticket. We are with them. Our party is supporting them,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/used-to-fight-with-rahul-a-lot-in-childhood-priyanka-101642528492217.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC senior official accused of installing submersible pump at his house||A senior MC official has been accused of illegally installing a submersible pump in his house, which is also being constructed moving against the building bylaws, in Sector 32 on Chandigarh road.Seeking action against the official and the alleged illegal building, Council of Engineers has submitted a complaint regarding the matter with the principal secretary, department of housing and urban development; deputy commissioner, Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) and MC officials.Council of Engineers has also demanded that authorities should stop the process to install the pump and make sure that a rainwater harvesting unit is installed in the house as per the norms.President of the engineers’ body Kapil Arora said, “It is surprising to see MC senior officials flouting norms, who themselves are responsible to enforce norms in the city. Installation of submersible pumps is against the norms and orders issued by National Green Tribunal (NGT). Further the building is also being constructed moving against the bylaws. The authorities should stop installation of pump and take required action against the illegal building, otherwise we will be forced to move the court.”“As it is mandatory to install a rain water harvesting system in every building with area above 120 sq yards, the authorities should make sure that the system is installed in the building which is being constructed in 250 sq yards of area,” said Arora.Despite attempts made to reach MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, he was not available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-senior-official-accused-of-installing-submersible-pump-at-his-house-101642528312443.html
18-01-2022||Lucknow||SSC gives option to aspirants for online form corrections||After getting representations from many candidates regarding the need of carrying out corrections in their applications after final submissions, the Staff Selection Commission (SSC) has made a major change in its policy and extended this facility to aspirants. Till now no change was allowed once the candidate finally submitted their application form for any of the recruitment exams conducted by it. After the closing date for receipt of online applications, however, now the SSC will provide five days to enable candidates to correct or modify online application parameters wherein candidates will be allowed to re-submit applications after making requisite corrections and changes in the one-time registration/ online application data as per their requirement, said SSC officials.“A candidate will be allowed to correct and re-submit their modified or corrected application two times during the ‘Window for Application Form Correction’ i.e. if he or she has made mistake in updated application also, they will be allowed to resubmit one more modified and corrected application after making requisite corrections/ modifications”, said regional director of central region of SSC Rahul Sachan. However, after that no more corrections in the application form will be allowed under any circumstances, he added. The official further said only those candidates will be allowed to make corrections whose completed online applications along with payment of requisite fee have been received by the commission within the specified period. Latest modified application will be treated as the valid one and the previous application(s) submitted by such candidates will be ignored.The commission will levy a uniform correction charges of ₹200 for making correction and re-submitting modified/ corrected application for the first time and ₹500 for making correction and re-submitting modified/ corrected application for the second time. The correction charges will be applicable to all candidates irrespective of their gender or categories, he clarified.The correction charges can be paid only by online mode through BHIM UPI, Net Banking or by using Visa, Mastercard, Maestro, RuPay Credit or Debit cards. The correction charges once paid shall not be refunded under any circumstances nor will it be adjusted against any other examination or selection.Before submission of the corrected application, candidates must check that they have filled correct details in each field of the form. After expiry of ‘Window for Application Form Correction’, no change, correction or modification will be allowed under any circumstances. Requests received in this regard in any form like Post, Fax, Email, by hand, etc shall not be entertained by the commission and will be summarily rejected, officials made plain.“This policy is being introduced from combined graduate level examination (CGLE)-2021 application which is being applied presently with last date of application January 23, 2022. Correction window for this examination will be open from January 28 to February 1 (11.30 pm),” said Sachan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ssc-gives-option-to-aspirants-for-online-form-corrections-101642528132530.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Roadways contractual employees to stage protest on Jan 20||Lambasting the Congress government ahead of assembly elections over alleged corruption in the transport department and for making hollow but tall claims of regularising employees, the Punbus employees announced to stage protest outside DC office across the state on January 20.Addressing a press conference at the bus stand on Tuesday, the employees said the transport department has failed to fulfill the long pending demands of the employees and now the salaries of the employees are being deducted for the period of strike announced by employees in the past.The employees further said they will also hold a march in the constituency of transport minister Amarinder Singh Raja Warring after January 24, to apprise the public of the wrong policies of government.State vice-president of the union Shamsher Singh said, “Congress is making tall claims that a fleet of 842 new buses have been purchased for the transport department. Atleast 10,000 buses are required in the department and the 842 buses have also been purchased by mortgaging bus stands.”New joinings are being done on contractual basis in exchange of hefty bribes, said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-roadways-contractual-employees-to-stage-protest-on-jan-20-101642528012383.html
18-01-2022||Mumbai||Woman strangles friend to death to steal gold ornaments, arrested||DOMBIVALI: A woman, 40, was arrested on Tuesday for murdering another woman, 58, to steal her gold ornaments at Tilak Nagar in Dombivali. The accused was known to the victim and managed to enter the house and strangle the victim to death at night. The Tilak Nagar police conducted an overnight investigation and arrested Seema Khopde from Patharli in Dombivali on Tuesday.The victim, Vijaya Baviskar, 58, was a divorcee and stayed alone in Dombivali. She was found strangled to death Monday morning by her house help. As there was no forced entry, the police suspected that the murderer was someone known to the victim. Unit 3 of the Kalyan crime branch and the Dombivali Tilak Nagar police together formed five teams and started the investigation on Monday night itself. “We conducted a combing operation in the slums within the jurisdiction of Tilak Nagar police station. Following technical evidence and information from sources, we came to know that Khopde was friends with the deceased and had gone to her place during the time of the incident. We arrested her and booked her under section 302 of IPC,” said Ajay Aphale, senior police inspector, Tilak Nagar Police Station.The victim, Vijaya Baviskar, was Khopde’s friend and hence, Baviskar allowed Khopde to stay overnight with her on Sunday. “Khopde took advantage of the situation and strangled Baviskar to death. She stole, the gold ornaments worn by Baviskar including earrings, chain and bangles. Upon arrest, Khopde admitted to having committed the murder and stolen the gold ornaments,” added a police officer from Tilak Nagar police station.Further investigation is underway whether there were any aides to the murder or involvement of others or any other motive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/woman-strangles-friend-to-death-to-steal-gold-ornaments-arrested-101642527651714.html
18-01-2022||Mumbai||City reports over 6K cases, TPR remains constant||Mumbai Mumbai’s positivity rate remained the same on Tuesday as the city reported 6,149 fresh infections in the last 24 hours taking the total case tally to 1,011,314 and seven deaths, taking the toll to 16,476.With 47,700 tests conducted in the last 24 hours, the Test Positivity Rate (TPR) on Tuesday stood at 12.89 per cent, while earlier on Monday the TPR was around 12.51 per cent. Earlier last week, the TPR was around 13 per cent on Sunday (January 16), and 19 per cent on Saturday (January 15).Besides these, the bed occupancy also showed a marginal dip on Tuesday. As per the BMC data, 13.8 per cent (5,265) of the total beds (38,116) are occupied in Mumbai.Experts on Tuesday said that the downward trend in Mumbai has started, however, they also maintained that they need to wait for two more weeks to make a concrete remark on the trend.“At present, our primary objective should be tracking down symptomatic patients and keeping a watch on those on ventilator and ICU treatment. The Delta variant is still there which is causing most of the serious symptoms,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the state Covid-19 task force.“Even though cases have started to decline, there are still close to 5,000 to 6,000 cases now. The numbers are definitely better than how it was during the start of this month, but we shouldn’t become complacent and wait for a few more weeks before making any solid comment,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, member of the national and Maharashtra Covid task force.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner and in charge of public health in the BMC, said that out of the total cases that were reported on Tuesday, around 3,500 positive cases were the patients who got tested with self-test kits.“In the past 24 hours, around 1.25 lakh people had bought and used their self-test kits, out of which 3,500 cases have turned out to be positive. The data of these patients have been shared with the local ward war room which is monitoring their health condition,” said Kakani.He also maintained that the case figures of Wednesday will be important to conclude if the downward trend is consistent.“Usually on Wednesdays, we record more number of cases because of backlog clearance,” Kakani said.Out of the total number of cases that were reported on Tuesday, 84 per cent of them were asymptomatic and at present, there are 44,084 active cases in Mumbai while the recovery rate of the city stands at 94 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/city-reports-over-6k-cases-tpr-remains-constant-101642526933770.html
18-01-2022||Mumbai||Use of national symbols in PM-CARES Fund in conformity with law: PMO to Bombay HC||Mumbai: The use of the national flag and national emblem in the PM CARES Fund is in conformity with the usage allowed by the Emblems and Names (Prevention of Improper Use) Act, 1950 and Rules madeunder the enactment, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) has said in an affidavit filed in Bombay high court. The affidavit is filed in response to a public interest litigation challenging the use of the prime minister’s photo, national flag and the national emblem in the PM CARES Fund.The affidavit stated that the flag is used to the extent permitted to any citizen of the country with some exceptions and there is no violation of the national signs and hence the challenge raised in the PIL cannot be maintained and the reliefs sought in it should not be granted.According to the PIL filed by Vikrant Chavan, president, Thane District Congress and councilor of Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), the Trust called PM’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM-CARES) Fund is a non-government organisation and as amounts collected by it does not go to the Consolidated Fund of India, hence sought directions for removal of the name ‘Prime Minister’, the ‘National Flag’ and the ‘Emblem’ from the name of the Trust and its web portal. The PIL stated that as the Trust was a private entity the use of the name and picture of the prime minister, flag and emblem violate the laws and rules governing the said symbols.Advocate Sagar Joshi for the petitioner had informed HC that as per the Trust Deed, which was executed on March 27, 2020, the PM was the chairman and all the trustees, including union ministers, were appointed in their personal capacity but the trust did not discharge any sovereign functions. The bench was informed that the trust has collected over ₹3,000 crore for relief work using the name and photograph of the prime minister, national flag and emblem thus flouting the relevant laws and rules governing such national signs and symbols.The bench had then directed additional solicitor general Anil Singh for the Union government to file an affidavit in reply to the petition.On Tuesday, the division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Makarand Karnik which was hearing the PIL was told that Pradeep Kumar Srivastava, under-secretary, PMO had filed the affidavit. The affidavit denied the claims of the petitioner and challenged the correctness of the contentions.“PM-CARES fund and Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF) are both chaired by the Prime Minister. As the name, photograph of the Prime Minister and National Emblem are being used for the PMNRF, they are also being used for the PM CARES Fund. Flag Code of India, 2002, which brings together all laws, conventions, practices and instructions regarding display of National Flag provided that there cannot restriction on display of National Flag by members of general public, private organizations, educational institutions etc, except to extend provided in the Emblems and Names Act, 1950,” states the affidavit.The affidavit adds that the prime minister is chairperson (ex-officio) of the PM CARES Fund and various ministers are ex-officio trustees of the fund and all of them are in pro bono capacity. The composition of the Board of Trustees consisting of holders of public office ex officio is merely for administrative convenience and for smooth succession of trusteeship.Srivastava has concluded the affidavit stating that the petitioner approached HC without exhausting the administrative remedies available under the concerned laws and rules and hence the petition deserves to be dismissed.After perusing the affidavit, the bench granted 15-day time for the petitioner to file a rejoinder and posted further hearing after three weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/use-of-national-symbols-in-pm-cares-fund-in-conformity-with-law-pmo-to-bombay-hc-101642526932458.html
18-01-2022||Mumbai||Gavit sister case files: How a 25-year-old legal battle unfolded||Mumbai: More than two decades after they were convicted for kidnapping 13 young children, and killing five of them, and seven years after Pranab Mukherjee, the then President of India, rejected their mercy petitions, Renuka Shinde (48) and Seema Gavit (43) will not be hanged. The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday commuted their death sentence to life imprisonment — they will remain lodged at Pune’s Yerwada jail for the rest of their natural lives — on account of the state’s delay in seeking a decision on their mercy petitions after the Supreme Court rejected their appeal in 2006. The mercy pleas were presented in 2014.The kidnappings and murders took place between 1990 and 1996. Anjanabai Gavit lived in a room on rent in Gondhale Nagar, Pune with two daughters, Renuka (aka Rinku aka Ratan) and Seema (aka Devki). The trio moved around in western Maharashtra, including Mumbai Metropolitan Region attending jatras (processions), festivals and other celebrations and visiting landmark temples, where they made a living out of stealing valuables including ornaments of women at these crowded places.Renuka’s husband, Kiran Shinde, who worked as tailor in Pune, reportedly also assisted his wife and in-laws in these thefts. In 1990, Renuka visited a temple with her baby boy. She tried to snatch the purse of a woman but was caught. She was, however, let off, after she raised a hue and cry that she was falsely implicated and she was merely the mother of a small toddler. It was then that the four decided to conduct these thefts with small children in tow, to help them escape easily.According to the police, between 1990 and 1996, the family kidnapped 13 small children below five years of age. According to the police, the women killed nine of these 13 children, disposing of the bodies of at least five in different places in Kolhapur district. They were arrested by the Kolhapur police in October 1996. On June 28, 2001, an additional sessions judge at Kolhapur convicted the two sisters for kidnapping 13 minor children and killing at least six of them — four girls and two boys —sentencing them to death. Five years later, the Bombay HC upheld the sentence but, convicted them for the murder of five children. On August 31, 2006, the Supreme Court upheld the HC’s ruling.Using toddlers as coverTheir first victim was the son of a beggar in Kolhapur and was picked up by Renuka in July 1990. They brought him to Pune and named him Santosh. In April 1991, they took him to Kolhapur, where Seema was caught while trying to steal purse of a devotee at the Mahalaxmi temple. To divert attention away from Seema, Anjanabai dropped Santosh, barely a year old at the time, who sustained injuries. In the melee that ensued, Seema managed to escape, the 2006 SC judgement narrated.The three then went to Kolhapur bus stand where they flicked some purses, but Santosh was crying continuously because of his injuries. Worried that they would get caught, Anjanabai pressed his mouth and dashed his head on an iron bar. Santosh died on the spot, the order further explained. Apart from Santosh, the four also kidnapped children between one and five years, including Anjali, Bunty, Swati, Guddu, Meena, Rajan, Shradha, Gauri, Swapnil and Pankaj — they were convicted for their wrongfully confinement — and murdered at least five of them including Santosh, Shradha, Gauri, Swapnil and Pankaj.In October 1996, Anjanabai, Seema and Renuka were arrested over an unrelated matter — they were accused of kidnapping Anjanabai’s ex-husband’s daughter from another marriage — and during a search of their house, Kolhapur police found several clothes of small children. This opened an investigation which led to the revelation of their heinous crimes. Suhas Nadgauda, one of the investigating officers in the case recalled how a team of policemen from different districts worked hard to establish the chain of events in the court. Nadgauda who is currently assistant commissioner of police at the Anti-Corruption Bureau posted in Kolhapur as a sub-inspector at the time. “The case was first detected in Nashik when the local police arrested Anjanabai. Later, the Crime Investigation Department constituted a team of officers from various places to probe multiple crimes committed by Anjanabai and her two daughters. These cases were later clubbed together and the trial was held at the sessions court in Kolhapur where I was posted,” said Nadgauda. The prosecution’s case was strengthened after Kiran Shinde, Renuka’s husband, turned approver. “Kiran first submitted an application in the Nashik court seeking permission to turn approver. He explained the chain of events, and the roles played by Anjanabai, Renuka and Seema,” Nadgauda said. Kiran also told the police of where the trio had disposed of the children’s bodies. According to advocate Manik Mulik, who represented Renuka and Seema at lower court between 2000 and 2002, some of the parents of the victims would attend the proceedings and deposed before the judge. “Later, they stopped coming and all of us lost their touch,” Mulik said. During the trial, the prosecution examined 156 witnesses. Anjanabai died in 1997 before the trial began. Kiran Shinde was pardoned by the court.The case of the mercy pleasAfter the SC ruling, Seema and Renuka filed a mercy petition on October 10, 2008 and October 17, 2009, respectively. After the President rejected their mercy pleas in 2014, they approached the Bombay HC seeking commutation of their death sentence on the ground that the state had taken an inordinate time causing an unexplained delay in seeking their mercy plea. Their petition stated that on August 28, 2013, the Governor of Maharashtra had rejected their mercy plea and thereafter the file was forwarded to the Central Government – to be submitted to the President of India, who decided on the pleas on July 7, 2014 — within 10 months of receiving it. Shinde and Gavit contended that the President took more than five years to reject their mercy petitions when such a plea should have been disposed of within three months.Through that time, they contended that they lived under the constant fear of death which had caused mental torture, emotional and physical agony to them. On its part, the Maharashtra home department maintained that there was no unreasonable delay on part of the state in forwarding their mercy pleas to the Governor and the President of India. “Whatever delay has been caused, has occurred for complying with the procedure required to be followed at each level,” the state’s affidavit contended. An affidavit filed by the Central government, however, indicated that in April 2012, it sought information from the Maharashtra government on the mercy petitions filed by Renuka and Seema. The Union’s affidavit added a reply from the Maharashtra government dated May 2013, stated that the file pertaining to the sisters’ mercy pleas was destroyed in a fire that broke out in the Mantralaya on March 9, 2013 and work on recreating the file was ongoing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/gavit-sister-case-files-how-a-25-year-old-legal-battle-unfolded-101642525732195.html
18-01-2022||Pune||Jaystambh in-charge soldier’s descendent writes book on Bhima Koregaon battle||PUNE A descendant of a soldier who was in 1824 appointed as in-charge of the Jaystambh has penned a book on the battle of Bhima Koregaon .The British, on December 13, 1824, appointed soldier Kandojibin Gajoji Jamadar (Malvadkar), who was injured in the battle, as the in-charge of the Jaystambh. Now, his seventh-generation descendent advocate Rohan Jamadar has written a book in Marathi titled ‘1 January 1818 Koregaon Bhima Ladhaiche Vastav (Facts of the battle of Koregaon Bhima)’. The book was launched on January 18.The 92-page book written in Marathi has five chapters supported by a detailed bibliography drawn from different historical sources quoted by the author. “The monument of Koregaon Bhima is a national military monument and does not belong to any particular community. My whole attempt has been to bring the correct history of the battle before the people . My intention is not to hurt feelings of any community but is an honest attempt to bring bonafide historical facts to light,” claimed Jamadar.Jamadar further said “ The book is aimed at presenting facts of the battle and stopping falsification of its history and removing several misconceptions from the minds of the people. It is based on historic records gathered from the state archives department where all the necessary proofs have been submitted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/jaystambh-in-charge-soldier-s-descendent-writes-book-on-bhima-koregaon-battle-101642525554950.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||BJP defaming Punjabiyat: Cong on ED raids against Channi’s relative||New Delhi: The Congress on Tuesday accused the BJP and its government at the Centre of defaming Punjab and Punjabiyat by raiding a relative of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi in an old case, and said the people of the state will give a befitting reply to the saffron party in the upcoming assembly polls.Congress’s chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the BJP government is insulting a Dalit who was made the chief minister of Punjab and the Dalits and backward classes would not forgive the party for this.e also accused the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) of working in cahoots with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as its convenor Arvind Kejriwal was the first to attack Channi over the raids conducted by the Enforcement Directorate (ED).Surjewala alleged that the ED has turned into the “election department” of the BJP.“Today we saw the limit of vindictiveness. To seek revenge on a Dalit chief minister, the ED has been unleashed in Punjab, with which the chief minister and his family have nothing to do. The BJP is taking revenge on a Dalit chief minister.“The ED is not the enforcement directorate but the BJP’s election department,” he told reporters.Surjewala also alleged that the AAP and the BJP are working together, adding that when the prime minister’s convoy was stalled in Punjab, it was the Arvind Kejriwal-led party that jumped in his defence.“Today, it was Kejriwal who gave the first statement on the raids. In Punjab, Uttrakhand and Goa, the AAP and the BJP are working together. One does a wrong act and the other supports it.“Today, when the ED is raiding on baseless charges, Kejriwal launches the first assault. But the people of Punjab know the meaning of collaboration between Modi and the AAP. Modi has assaulted the dignity of the poor and the Scheduled Castes. They are unable to digest a Dalit as a chief minister. But three crore Punjabis will decide the future,” he said.Surjewala also alleged that Modi and Kejriwal are conspiring to malign Punjab. “Is it not true that the BJP labelled the people of Punjab as Naxals and anti-India? The BJP is constantly conspiring to defame Punjab and Punjabiyat. When the prime minister’s convoy was stalled, BJP leaders called Punjabis Khalistanis. Did anyone stop him?” he asked.All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge for Punjab Harish Chaudhary said according to all the surveys, Channi is the most popular leader in Punjab.He said Punjabis were maligned during the farmers’ agitation, but Punjabiyat stood strong.“The BJP is forgetting that this is not Amarinder Singh, this is Channi. The attempt to muzzle Channi is a mistake. He will keep standing tall. The BJP is anxious with the good governance of Channi,” Chaudhary said.Asked if Channi is so popular, would he be named as the chief ministerial candidate of the Congress for the February 14 Punjab Assembly polls, he said, “That is not the question. The question is whether ED raids can muzzle Channi or Punjabis. Who will be the chief minister is secondary.” Chaudhary said the ED raids are aimed at putting pressure on the Congress, but the leaders of the party will not be deterred by this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-defaming-punjabiyat-cong-on-ed-raids-against-channi-s-relative-101642525492221.html
18-01-2022||Pune||New GR on night schools, committee to form comprehensive plan||PUNE In a Government Resolution (GR) issued on January 17, a state committee has been formed by the state education department to look into the benefits for teaching and non-teaching staff of night schools. However, the committee, does not have night school representatives to voice their struggle. Teaching and non-teaching staff at these schools have been voicing their concerns related to medical reimbursement and other issues.According to the GR, the 10-member committee will be headed by the school education minister. “Deputy chairman of the committee will be minister for state school education and member of legislative council (MLC) Vikram Kale, MLC Kapil Patil, MLC Vilas Potnis, MLC JD Asgaonkar will also be a part of committee. In addition to this, the 10-member committee will include the additional chief secretary school and sports department, joint secretary education department, state education commissioner and deputy secretary,” stated the GR.The GR further underlines that the committee will be involved in rethinking about the GR published on May 17,2017 and to chalk out a complete and comprehensive plan regarding night schools.The GR also directed the committee to table their findings and decision in eight weeks.Speaking about the GR, Principal Avinash Takawale, former principal of Poona Night School and now president nationalist teacher cell Maharashtra state said that the move by the government is welcome. “The 2017 GR has a clause stating that teachers cannot work full time and part time. Teachers who are working for night schools should get all benefits. As per the GR, the teaching and non-teaching staff should get the benefits of a regular teacher. However, the implementation of that GR was not done. And this decision to constitute the committee is a good move,” said Takawale.However, if there is no representative from the night school staff on the committee. “If there were representatives of the night school on the committee, we could highlight the struggle of teaching and non-teaching staff. No service protection has been given to teaching and non-teaching staff at present. For instance, service protection includes medical reimbursement, rent allowance and other allowances,” said Takawale.The GR dated January 17 clearly outlines that the committee is formed as there are discrepancies in implementation of May 17, 2017 GR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/new-gr-on-night-schools-committee-to-form-comprehensive-plan-101642525372627.html
18-01-2022||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh reports 12 deaths, 14,803 fresh Covid cases||Uttar Pradesh reported 12 deaths and 14,803 fresh Covid cases on Tuesday. Among the 12 dead in the state, one is from the state capital, confirmed a senior official of the health department. A 54-year-old resident of Gosainganj lost his life due to Covid on Tuesday, the official said.As many as 2173 new cases of Covid were reported from the state capital on Tuesday, while 3007 patients recovered. Presently, there are 16,823 active corona cases in the city.Deputy CMO Lucknow Dr Milind Wardhan said, “In all 2653 people have lost their lives due to Covid in Lucknow so far. But most of the patients don’t require admission, and the rate of recovery is also very good. Only patients with comorbidity are being admitted to the hospital.”“We appeal to people to follow Covid protocols, wear masks and follow social distancing,” he added.Chinhat reported 399 cases, while 379 cases were reported from Aliganj. In Alambagh, 361 people tested positive for Covid, followed by 254 people from Silver Jubilee Hospital. Around 233 cases were reported from Indira Nagar, and 180 people were found positive in the Sarojini Nagar area.As many as 76 people were reported positive at the Command Hospital. Meanwhile, some of the employees of the CMO office have also tested positive.The 12 fatalities have pushed the state’s death toll to 22,984, while the tally of active infections reached 1,01,114.Lucknow reported a maximum (2,173) cases, followed by 1,262 from Gautam Budh Nagar, 909, each from Meerut and Varanasi, among other districts. Apart from Lucknow, one death each was reported from Meerut, Moradabad, Mathura, Hardoi, Ghazipur, Deoria, Ambedkar Nagar, Jalaun and Kaushambi, the official statement said. As many as 20,191 more patients have recuperated from the viral infection, taking the total number of recoveries to 17,40,268, it said. In the past 24-hours, 2,08,308 Covid tests were done in the state adding the total number of tests has now gone up to 9,67,42,842, the official statement added. (With inputs from Agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-reports-12-deaths-14-803-fresh-covid-cases-101642525194520.html
18-01-2022||Pune||PMC to purchase two multi-purpose fire tenders||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation on Tuesday approved to purchase multi-purpose fire tenders at the cost of ₹3.10 crore. Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane said, “Fire brigade department had made the demand to procure two multi-purpose fire tenders. As per the demand from fire brigade, PMC conducted the tender process and has given its approval to procure two fire tenders at the cost of ₹1.55 crore for each fire tender.”PMC additional municipal commissioner Kunal Khemnar said, “This cost includes taxes, RTO fees and all the equipments fitted on the vehicle.”The PMC standing committee has also given its approval to construct an electric charging station at Pune railway station. This will be constructed on PMPML land and only buses from PMPML’s fleet will be allowed to charge here.The PMC standing committee approved ₹4.65 crore for the electric charging station and carry out the electrical-related works at Pune station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-purchase-two-multi-purpose-fire-tenders-101642525073262.html
18-01-2022||Dehradun||Three earthquakes hit Uttarakhand’s Bageshwar, Pithoragarh and Chamoli in 3 days||Seismic tremors measuring 2.5 on the Richter Scale were felt in Uttarakhand’s Bageshwar district on Tuesday, according to data from the National Center for Seismology. The earthquake occurred at 12.05 am in Bageshwar about 5 km beneath the surface of the earth. This is the third earthquake in the state in the last three days. On Monday evening, at around 7.19 pm, Pithoragarh was hit by an earthquake, measuring 2.8 on the Richter Scale. On Sunday, tremors measuring 3.8 on the Richter Scale were felt in Chamoli district. This is not the first earthquake in Bageshwar area in recent times. In January last year, an earthquake measuring 3.3 on the Richter Scale hit Bageshwar. In February 2020, Bageshwar was hit by an earthquake measuring 4.7. At least two people, including a woman and a girl were injured after the earthquake hit the district at around 6.30 am, causing panic among residents who soon came out of their houses, added officials. The National Center for Seismology (NCS) is the nodal agency of the Centre under the earth sciences ministry for monitoring earthquake activity in the country on a 24X7 basis. Dr Kalachand Sain, Director, Wadia Institute of Himalayan Studies said these small tremors that are being reported in the state for the last three days are due to release of accumulated stress in the Himalayan region in the area. “We are looking into the data related to these tremors to check what exactly is happening in the area,” he said. Earthquakes continue to shake up the Himalayas. In August 2021, tremors measuring 3.8 on the Richter Scale were felt in Dehradun district. On December 1, 2020, an earthquake hit Haridwar after a gap of 40 years. The earthquake measuring 3.9 was reported from the Haridwar region at 9:41 am. Experts pointed out that the source of the earthquake was due to stress release in the Himalayan Frontal Fault which is located in this area. On December 8, 2019 Joshimath area was hit by an earthquake measuring 3.2 on the Richter Scale. On November 12, 2019 an earthquake measuring 4.5 was felt in Pithoragarh district. In September 2019, an earthquake measuring 3.6 on the Richter Scale was reported from Chamoli district. In February 2017, a magnitude 5.1 earthquake had struck at a depth of 16 km near Rudraprayag. The Himalayas are the youngest mountain chain (around 50 million years old) in the world, and one which is still rising (around 5 mm per year) due to the Indian plate folding under the Tibetan plate. Uttarakhand being a Himalayan state reports high seismic activity, with most areas falling under Seismic Zones IV and V.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/three-earthquakes-hit-uttarakhand-s-bageshwar-pithoragarh-and-chamoli-in-3-days-101642525072119.html
18-01-2022||Pune||PMC allots ₹2.94 crore more funds to urban poor health scheme||PUNE As the ₹45 crore budgetary provision for the urban poor health scheme has been utilised, the Pune Municipal Corporation’s standing committee on Tuesday, approved ₹2.94 crore more funds for the scheme.The scheme is executed for people whose annual income is below ₹ 1 lakh. Under this scheme, citizens can take treatment in private hospitals and PMC pays 50 per cent of the total bill amount.PMC had allotted ₹45 crore for the financial year 2021-22 which got utilised fully till December 2021.Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane said, “As the administration demanded additional funds to pay the private hospital bills for the next three months of this financial year, we approved the additional funds.”Meanwhile, the standing committee took the decision to cut the 10 per cent budget from Prime Minister Awas Yojana and divert those funds for Covid relief works.Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar put forth the proposal to run the PMC-owned hospital at Kausarbaug in Kondwa area on Public Private Partnership basis (PPP) which also was approved in the standing committee meeting on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-allots-2-94-crore-more-funds-to-urban-poor-health-scheme-101642524652329.html
18-01-2022||Lucknow||UP Polls: Transgender Radhika Kinnar to contest from Agra Cantt||To raise the voice of the common man and transgender, Radhika Kinnar alias Aakash Soni filed nomination papers on Monday from the reserved constituency of Agra Cantt. Radhika Kinnar, 26, resides in a locality in the constituency and claims to be better aware of the issues faced by the locals. “I have to prove that transgender can be active in politics and take care of issues faced by denizens. I aim to work for making education affordable and strengthen the network of government schools, which are in reach of a common man,” said Radhika, who will be contesting as an independent. “With pandemic badly affecting the poor and middle class, I will advocate relaxation in house tax, water tax, GST and income tax for those finding tough to meet ends meet. If there is provision for arresting of a woman by women police, then why not have transgender police for transgender accused,” she said. “Better opportunity for education and job should be provided to transgender as this section has remained neglected and were given identity only in 2014 when it was recognised as a gender. We need a separate reservation for our community,” Radhika said. “Transgender had been doctors and lawyers but are very few. We deserve respect, something which we desperately need and abusing us with terms related to our community, should be made punishable offence on lines similar provision in SC/ST Act,” she demanded. Agra Cantt is a reserved seat and minister in the state cabinet Dr GS Dharmesh is sitting MLA. He is again in the fray for the upcoming Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-polls-transgender-radhika-kinnar-to-contest-from-agra-cantt-101642524172051.html
18-01-2022||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports nearly 40K Covid-19 cases, officials say situation stabilising||Mumbai Maharashtra continues to report a high number of Covid-19 cases. On Tuesday, the state logged 39,207 fresh cases and 53 deaths. The positivity rate dropped to 20.05 percent with 1,95,542 samples tested.However, state surveillance officer, Dr Pradeep Awate, said that the situation was stabilising by the day. “We are now seeing the numbers settling at 40,000 cases and it does not look like there will be any surge as such in the coming days,” said Dr Awate.“Districts like Mumbai and Palghar, which initially reported a surge, are now recording a decline in the number of cases. In other districts of the state, the numbers may still be high, but that is because the surge started late and still they will stabilise over the coming days,” Dr Awate added.Dr Ishwar Gilada, secretary-general, Organised Medicine Academic Guild, too said that the overall situation has improved. “Various districts like Pune and Nagpur are now witnessing the peak and in a few days we will be seeing the decline in cases,” said Dr Gilada.“The situation is similar to that of South Africa, where the cases came down significantly after a huge surge, unlike European countries,” he added. Notably, Pune recorded 8,617 new Covid-19 cases, while Nagpur logged 2,322 fresh infections in the last 24 hours.Maharashtra did not record a single case of omicron variant case on Tuesday. A total of 1,860 people have tested positive for omicron variant of Covid-19 to date. Of this, 1,001 have been discharged following negative RT-PCR test.Meanwhile, Mumbai recorded 6,149 fresh cases with seven deaths pushing the total tally to 10,11,314. The total number of deaths in Mumbai has now reached 16,476.The state has 2,67,659 active cases with Pune leading the tally with 63,169, followed by Thane (60,440) and Mumbai (44,044).The death toll has mounted to 1,41,885 with Pune again leading with 19,894 deaths, followed by Mumbai with 16,476 and Thane with 11,631.
18-01-2022||Lucknow||Lucknow PGI issues new guidelines for patients||The administration of Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences issued fresh guidelines for patients seeking an appointment with doctors in OPD. Chief medical superintendent Prof Gaurav Agarwal said, “To facilitate the patients visiting OPD, who have been given an appointment for a consultation, and IPD for admission, some new arrangements have been made. The patients will have to produce a valid RTPCR/TrueNat negative report at the entry points. The report should be from within last five days and from any ICMR accredited Lab.” The MSWs/data entry operators at the counters of each OPD/investigation desk and residents/faculty members in the ward area shall verify the RTPCR/TrueNat report of the patients/relative using the QR code scanners in their mobile phones. Prof Agarwal said,” Patients and their attendants with forged RTPCR/TrueNat report shall be notified to security in charge, and a police complaint will be lodged against such persons.” Patients, who are required to visit the hospital more than once a week like for dialysis, cancer chemotherapy, radiotherapy, haemophilia or other haematological conditions needing frequent transfusions and for antenatal care, will be allowed entry in hospital premises with a valid negative RTPCR/TrueNat report done within last seven working days from an ICMR accredited Lab. They will also need a valid prescription from an SGPGI doctor to visit within seven days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-pgi-issues-new-guidelines-for-patients-101642523758108.html
18-01-2022||Lucknow||Taking family’s political legacy forward||PRAYAGRAJ While most of the political parties are yet to open their cards on fielding candidates from the 12 Assembly seats of Prayagraj, the district that also has two Lok Sabha seats is witnessing new generations of political families carrying forward their legacy amid the war of words on dynastic politics. “The second generation leaders of some political families have already established themselves over the years and there are also many families whose third generation has either already entered politics or are almost ready to do so,” said Prof MP Dube, political analyst and former vice-chancellor of UP Rajarshi Tandon Open University (UPRTOU). Be it the brother-sister duo of Vijay Bahuguna Joshi and Rita Joshi (sitting MP from Allahabad Parliamentary seat), both taking forward the legacy of their father and former UP CM HN Bahuguna or Sidharth Nath Singh, grandson of former PM Lal Bahadur Shastri to Satish Jaiswal, son of socialist leader Saligram Jaiswal — all are the second-generation leaders, said Prof Dube. Joining the league are leaders of the younger generation like Harshvardhan Bajpai, Ujjwal Raman Singh, Deepak Patel, Shailendra Kumar and his younger brother Satyaveer Munna, both sons of Dharamveer, veteran Congress leader, he added. Harshvardhan is the sitting MLA from Allahabad North Assembly seat. The third generation of the family of former Union minister and governor Rajendra Kumari Bajpai, he had defeated five-time MLA from Congress Anugrah Narain Singh in 2017 to emerge victorious. His father, Ashok Bajpai too, was MLA from the same seat in 1980, said political observers. Likewise, Ujjwal Raman Singh, son of former UP minister and Rajya Sabha MP Kunwar Rewati Raman Singh, became an MLA and a minister in the state government in 2007. He became MLA for the second time in 2017 on Samajwadi Party (SP) ticket. Similarly, Deepak Patel, son of former zila panchayat president and BJP MP from Phulpur, Kesari Devi Patel, became an MLA from Karchana in 2012. Neelam Karwaria of the BJP is wife of former MLA Udaybhan Karwaria. She became MLA for the first time in 2017 from Meja seat. Former MP from Phulpur Kapil Muni and former MLC Surajbhan Karwaria too are from the same family. The political legacy of former MLA of SP Mahesh Narayan Singh is being carried forward by his son Prashant Singh, after he won the Handia Assembly seat in the by-elections of 2013. Pooja Pal of the BSP, wife of Raju Pal, a former MLA from Allahabad West, also became MLA from the same seat, twice, first in 2007 and then in 2012. Former MLA Jawahar Yadav’s wife Vijma Yadav has also moved ahead with his political legacy getting elected from erstwhile Jhunsi seat and later from Pratappur seat of Prayagraj. Former MP Shailendra Kumar, the eldest son of Dharamveer, who was a Union minister and very close to the Gandhi family, is also carrying forward the political legacy of his father. He was also an MP twice. At the same time, Dharmaveer’s younger son Satyaveer Munna became an MLA in 2012 from the Soraon Assembly seat of Prayagraj. However, there were some prominent politicians from Prayagraj, family members of whom did not carry the legacy forward. One such name is MP from Chail seat Ram Nihor Rakesh. The family of former Prime Minister VP Singh, who is said to have changed the course of Indian politics, has also distanced from politics: Neither his son Ajay Singh entered active politics nor anyone else from the family. The families of Jang Bahadur Patel, who became a minister after defeating BSP founder Kanshi Ram from Phulpur and Rang Bahadur Patel, former MLA from Soraon seat, are also away from politics. The son of former Union minister Salim Sherwani has also kept distance from politics. 
18-01-2022||Pune||Now, two underpasses on ‘deadly’ Katraj-Navale bridge to minimise accidents||PUNE As the ‘deadly stretch’ between the new Katraj tunnel and Navale Bridge road continues to worry commuters now some positive news is forthcoming in terms of infrastructural changes on the bypass. The year 2021 saw a series of accidents on this 1.5 km stretch, after which the Pune traffic police department and National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) did a joint survey and suggested various changes.The authorities have now decided to construct underpasses at two locations and widen the service road towards Vadgaon,On Monday, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) held a meeting in this regard. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol, municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar, officials from NHAI and officials of the Pune traffic police department were present for the meeting.“It has been decided that short- and long-term provisions will be done to increase safety at this spot. The officers from PMC and NHAI have also met meet union minister for road transport Nitin Gadkari for the same,” said Mohol.“Under long term solutions, two underpasses have been proposed, one from Bhumkar chowk to Navale Bridge and the other underpass at Vishwas Hotel chowk. It has also been decided that the service roads between Vishwas Hotel chowk to Pasalkar chowk will be widened,” added Mohol.A detailed plan has also been prepared to give access to Sinhgad road from the highway, said Mohol.NHAI’s chief project officer Ramchandra Rao said, “The NHAI has put up various sign boards on the road to alert commuters. They are also putting rumble stripes to bring down the speed of the vehicles coming from the tunnel. Along with that, solar blinkers are also been installed.”According to officials, the PMC has also decided to put in place speed guns at two spots after the new Katraj tunnel, The speed guns would be permanently fixed to monitor the speed of the vehicles continuously.In the meeting, the NHAI also raised the issue of encroachments on service roads and garbage being thrown along the highway. Municipal commissioner and the mayor have assured that action against will be taken against all encroachments on service road and citizens throwing garbage will be held accountable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/now-two-underpasses-on-deadly-katraj-navale-bridge-to-minimise-accidents-101642523755471.html
18-01-2022||Pune||Lack of awareness, social media overuse reasons for rise in cybercrime, say experts||PUNE With increasing use of internet, there has been rise in cybercrimes, with city cybercrime cell receiving 19,023 total complaints in 2021 compared to 14,950 in 2020, and 7,795 in 2019. Cyber experts have attributed lack of awareness, overuse or addiction to social media and increased use of online mode by many looking to earn money during Covid-19 pandemic as some of the reasons for the rise in cybercrimes. Among social media-related cybercrime, the cases from Facebook and Instagram are the highest. Cybercrimes majorly are of two types, namely corporate crime and individual crime. “Corporate firms majorly suffer from the threats related to company’s database. They are attacked through hacking or by sending huge traffic to the system,” said Rizwan Shaikh, cybercrime expert, who has previously assisted Pune police in probing cyber offences. “Individuals become the victim of cyberstalking, payment frauds and blackmailing in the times of social media,” Shaikh added. Cybercriminals are becoming smarter and utilise the trending opportunity to blackmail people. “Recently, majority of the people have fallen prey to the fake calls regarding booster dose of the vaccine. Citizens end up losing money by providing the OTP sent by the hackers,” said Shaikh. “There is an increase in internet-related crimes. Such crimes include debit and credit card related frauds, online payment frauds, and much more,” said Sunil Srivastava, director of Cyber Crime Helpline LLP. Complaint against cybercrime helps to get back the losses. “Majority of the cybercrime includes children, women, senior citizens or people with lesser awareness regarding the digital platform. Most of the complaints filed during Covid-19 were of digital payment frauds,” said Advocate Vaishali Bhagwat. “Cases related to digital sexual harassment increased. Social media has proven to be an advantageous tool to commit identity theft which involved editing of a picture from social media account,” Bhagwat added. Reporting a crime has eased and the identity is not revealed without consent. Such crimes can be reported directly on cybercrime.gov.in. The government website will then direct your complaint to the concerned department near your area. This reduces the burden of visiting a police station or bank (for a financial crime). Non-disclosure of the name has encouraged a larger number of people to file complaints, especially complaints related to sexual harassment. “The percentage of people filling complaints has risen because of the simplified procedure and non-disclosure of identity,” said advocate Bhagwat. To avoid such crimes, awareness among people is highly needed. Keep at least 12-14 character alphanumeric passwords to avoid hacking. Keep a minimum number of apps on your smartphone to avoid bugs, according to experts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/lack-of-awareness-social-media-overuse-reasons-for-rise-in-cybercrime-say-experts-101642523512673.html
18-01-2022||Patna||Patna University gives nod to ₹525.77 crore deficit budget||The Patna University (PU) senate, at a meeting under the chairmanship of vice-chancellor (VC) Girish Kumar Choudhary held on Tuesday, passed a deficit budget of ₹525.77 crore for the fiscal 2022-23.The budgetary provision entails a proposed expenditure of ₹561.54 crore against an income of ₹35.7 crore from all sources.During the meeting, the senate members unanimously agreed for the implementation of choice based credit system (CBCS) in undergraduate (UG) courses from the academic session 2022-23.Choudhary said, “We would send the proposal to implement CBCS in UG courses to the chancellor for his assent. PU is the first varsity in the state to introduce CBCS at UG level. The new system would encourage multi-disciplinary courses which is a part of New Education Policy 2020.”Choudhary also clarified the varsity has yet not announced fee hike for B.Ed course.“Like other government colleges, we are considering to increase B.Ed fees to ₹25,000 for two years, which is as low as ₹1,800 per year at present. As the college is facing huge financial crunch, we are planning a considerable hike in fees so that the training college will be able to meet administrative expenses. However, the decision is yet to finalised,” he said, dismissing rumours of hiking fees to ₹1.50 lakh which recently created unrest among students. Talking about the work progress in the current session, he said, “Covid-19 outbreak has adversely affected proposed work in various fields including infrastructure development, recruitment of guest faculties and PhD course work. Our academic session is also running late by six months. We hope to bring the derailed work on track in the next academic session.”In an effort to improve NAAC grade, Choudhary emphasised on cultivating conducive research environment among students and teachers.“We have already allotted a sum of ₹2 crore for encouraging research work which would eventually help the varsity to fetch better grade in the next NAAC assessment. We are ready to extend all possible help to research scholars for creating a favourable environment for research work”, he added.Choudhary also said that the varsity is looking forward to strengthen placement facility and alumni association.In the meeting, the V-C answered queries of several senate members and noted their suggestions for formulating future action plan.Manish Kumar, president of Patna University Students’ Union (2019-20), pointed out that hostels near Rani Ghat are in dire need of repair and renovation.“Rani Ghat hotels are in dilapidated condition from many years. We demand immediate renovation of the hostel. Besides, special bus service should be provided to girls for transportation. Students showing interest in research work should also get financial assistance”, he pointed.The senate meeting was held virtually owing to Covid-19 restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-university-gives-nod-to-rs-525-77-crore-deficit-budget-101642523455146.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 6,641 fresh Covid cases, 26 deaths||Chandigarh :Punjab on Tuesday reported 6,641 fresh Covid cases taking the infection count to 6,16,153, according to a medical bulletin. With 26 Covid-related fatalities, the death toll reached 16,817 in the state.The positivity rate of the state was 21.51% on Tuesday against 20.89% on Monday with Mohali topping the list with 47.24% positivity rate with 1,196 fresh cases, the bulletin said. Ludhiana registered 914 cases, Jalandhar 613, Amritsar 612, Bathinda 578, Patiala 578, Hoshiarpur, 508, Ferozepur 215. Patiala registered seven deaths, the highest in the state. With 5,912 persons recovering from the virus, the number of cured persons has reached 6,16,153, in the state, the bulletin said. A total of 330011 doses of vaccine were administered on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-6-641-fresh-covid-cases-26-deaths-101642523453608.html
18-01-2022||Lucknow||Lucknow district administration to launch awareness drive to boost poll percentage||The Lucknow district administration will soon launch a motivational drive in the selective areas that are infamous for poor voters’ turnout. Officials in the district administration said the areas largely being covered in this drive are Gomti Nagar and others having apartment culture. The aim is to boost the poll percentage, which, so far, has been witnessed between 55% and 57% in previous UP assembly polls.“In previous UP assembly polls, it has been observed that the poll percentage remained between 55 and 57%. Hence this time, we are targeting the problematic areas, and that largely includes the areas having apartments and multi-storeyed buildings where the polling percentage generally remains low,” said Abhishek Prakash, district magistrate.Under the move, the DM held a meeting with the active resident welfare associations operating in the city. “We have told them to coordinate with the people of their respective apartments or society and make sure that all eligible voters cast their vote on the polling day that is February 23,” the DM said.Addressing the RWAs via Google meet, DM Abhishek Prakash said that in this assembly polls it should be ensured that the polling percentage crosses 70% mark.He also said for the voters, who are over 80 years of age, specially-abled or Covid infected, there is an arrangement of postal ballots, hence the RWAs should ensure that the voters, belonging to all the three categories cast their votes. Besides, he also directed RWAs to create awareness among the locals to make them aware of their voting rights and urge people to come out in good numbers to vote.The DM said this time, voting would take place at around 4018 polling booths at 1526 polling centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-district-administration-to-launch-awareness-drive-to-boost-poll-percentage-101642523331764.html
18-01-2022||Patna||CM among 40 new Omicron cases in Bihar||Omicron has emerged as the predominant strain of coronavirus in Bihar after all 40 Covid-19 samples, including that of Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, tested positive for the “variant of concern” during the second round of genome sequencing test at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) on Tuesday, when the state reported 4,551 new Covid-19 cases, down from 5,410 on Sunday, taking the total count of active cases to 33,883, officials said. The total number of Omicron cases in the state had now gone up to 67 after the strain was detected in 27 (85%) of the 32 Covid-19 samples tested on January 9. Four samples (12%) were then found to have the Delta variant while one was of an insignificant variant, which remained unknown, IGIMS director Dr NR Biswas had then said. Patna accounted for 55% (22) of the 40 cases of Omicron on Tuesday. Muzaffarpur reported five, followed by Gaya three; Jamui, Khagaria and Munger two each. Samastipur, Saran, Sitamarhi and Bhagalpur had one each, said officials aware of the development. Omicron was detected in the samples of a Patna high court judge, an additional chief secretary rank officer, director of an autonomous medical college hospital as well as its principal, among others, said a second official. The samples were collected between January 1 and 11, the last being of the chief minister after his office tweeted on January 10 that Kumar had tested positive for Covid-19. Prior to testing positive, Kumar had graced the national conference of the Indian Medical Association, attended by nearly 5,000 guests here on December 28. He also undertook tours as part of his Samaj Sudhar Abhiyan and attended to his weekly janata durbars to hear public grievances, which were subsequently put on hold. “Omicron has emerged as the predominant strain of Covid-19 in Bihar. There is definitely a declining trend in the number of new Covid-19 cases, but it is too early to conclude anything at this stage. We are keeping a close watch on the situation. Vaccination and following Covid-appropriate behaviour are the key to slowing down the spread of the virus,” Pratyaya Amrit, Bihar’s additional chief secretary (health), said at a press conference later in the evening. The state had logged over 6,300 daily new infections between January 11 and 15. Cases in Patna had also come down from 2,275 on January 12 to 1,218 on Tuesday. “The state’s test positivity rate has also declined from 3.67 on January 14 to 2.94% on Tuesday,” said Amrit. He said the R (reproductive) factor, which was the number of people being infected by a Covid-19 positive patient, had also come down from 4 to less than 2 in the country. “Testing is being done as per government of India guidelines. The test positivity rate is always a better indicator than the number of tests being done,” Amrit said, in response to a query on the decrease in the number of tests to around 1.55 lakh a day.
18-01-2022||Patna||Bihar reels under cold wave conditions, Gaya shivers at 5.1°C||PATNA: Bihar continued to reel under intense cold conditions with the mercury dropping below 10°C at several places, said officials of Patna Meteorological Centre on Tuesday. “Altogether six cities including Patna, Gaya, Darbhanga, East Champaran, Saran, and Muzaffarpur witnessed cold wave conditions,” said MeT officials. As per the daily bulletin issued, the maximum temperature in the state hovered around 18°C while the average minimum temperature plunged to 8°C. Gaya remained the coldest in the state recording the lowest minimum temperature of 5.1°C. Patna recorded a minimum temperature of 8.4°C, Aurangabad 5.8°C, Siwan and Chhapra 6.4 °C, Nawada 7.5°C and Buxar 7.6°C. According to weathermen, residents are unlikely to get any respite as cold wave conditions is likely to prevail till January 20 with rain and thunderstorm activities in store. Explaining the current weather, weatherman Rajesh Kumar said, “Northerly and the north-westerly wind is dominating over the state up to 0.9 km above mean sea level. As a result, the state is likely to experience a fall in night temperature by 2°C to 3°C during the next three days. Cold wave conditions and dense fog formation is very likely to prevail at many places in the state till January 20.” “Owing to the formation of favourable meteorological condition, parts of the state is also likely to experience light to moderate rain on January 22. Rain activities may further bring the mercury down in the state”, he added. According to India Meteorological Department, a cold day in plains is declared when the minimum temperature falls under 10°C or there is a departure of 4.5°C to 6.4°C in maximum temperature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-reels-under-cold-wave-conditions-gaya-shivers-at-51c-101642523155754.html
18-01-2022||Patna||Bihar considers relaxation in liquor law||Faced with all-round fire from all sides in the wake of multiple hooch tragedies and harsh comments from the Supreme Court due to mounting legal cases and huge pendency, the Bihar government is now contemplating to relax some of the stringent provisions of its liquor prohibition law in force since April 2016 and provide relief for first-time offenders, said a senior official of the prohibition and excise department. This intends to insert new sub-sections in the Bihar Prohibition and Excise (Amendment) Act, 2016, to scale down the penal provisions and impose financial penalty. The amendments may be brought through an ordinance or the proposed Bihar Prohibition and Excise (Amendment) Bill, 2022, during the next session of the state legislature. Additional chief secretary (home) Chaitanya Prasad said consultations are under way on the proposal initiated by the excise department to amend some provisions and provide relief to first-time offenders caught drinking by imposing a fine. Failure to pay penalty shall invite simple imprisonment of one month, but repeat offences may invite additional penalty or imprisonment or both. According to the proposed amendments under discussion, all offences related to prohibition law shall be disposed of through summary trial by an executive magistrate not below the rank of deputy collector. Investigations will be conducted by an excise officer or a police officer not below the rank of assistant sub-inspector. The proposed amendments also have a provision for release of vehicles/ animals used for carrying intoxicants or liquor by the collector upon payment of fixed penalty, failing which the collector shall proceed with confiscation proceedings. In July last year, the Patna High Court had directed that all proceedings related to confiscation of property under the Bihar Prohibition and Excise Act, 2016, must positively be initiated/concluded within a period of 90 days from the date of appearance of the parties concerned and the appeal/revision, if any, be also decided within a period of 30 days from the date of initiation, failing which the “things” (vehicle/property/ etc.) shall be deemed to have been released.The new amendments propose that any person arrested under this Act shall be produced before the nearest judicial magistrate or executive magistrate within 24 hours either in person or through the medium of electronic video linkage. For seeking custody also, production of seizures will not be necessary and electronic evidence will suffice. As per the proposed amendments, all offences shall be tried by special court(s). The state government may, if necessary, appoint in every district more special court in consultation with the chief justice of the High Court and appoint retired judges to preside over these courts.“In cases where offences are punishable with death or imprisonment for a term not less than l0 years, the report has to be filed within 90 days from the date of the registration of the case. In all other cases, the report needs to be filed within 60 days from the date of the registration of the case,” say the amendments. As per official statistics, nearly 25 per cent of the total pendency of cases in lower courts and 20% in the High Court is prohibition related cases. In 2019, alarmed by the growing pendency, the Patna High Court had asked the state government to present a plan for how it plans to dispose these cases. Though special courts were mandated in the new law for trial of liquor related cases, they could not be set up. Later, the state cabinet cleared a proposal for setting up 74 special courts, but virtual hearing for the last two years further added to pendency and lack of production of witnesses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-considers-relaxation-in-liquor-law-101642523154270.html
18-01-2022||Patna||Another newly elected mukhiya gunned down in Gopalganj||PATNA Newly elected mukhiya (panchayat head) of Dhatiwana panchayat in Goplaganj district was shot dead by two unidentified men at his rented accommodation in Gopalganj town on Tuesday, police said.According to police, the incident occurred around 6.35 am, when two motorcycle-borne men shot the mukhiya, identified as Sukhal Musahar, before stabbing him. He was rushed to the Sadar hospital where doctors declared him brought dead.Gopalganj superintendent of police (SP) Anand Kumar said the family of the deceased has named four persons —Ajay Singh, Ujjawal Singh, Kamakhya Singh, and Kameshwar Singh — as suspects. “A special investigation team (SIT) under the supervision of deputy SP (Sadar) has been constituted to crack the case,” the SP said. He added that police are waiting for a written statement from the family members of the deceased and raids are being conducted to arrest the culprits.Asked about the motive behind the killing, the SP said it is difficult to say anything as of now as police are investigating the matter. He, however, didn’t rule out the involvement of hired killers. Meanwhile, an agitated mob blocked the Thave-Gopalganj road and disrupted vehicular traffic demanding immediate arrest of the killers. “We have deputed special force in the village and the situation is under control now”, the SP said.So far, six newly elected mukhiya’s have lost their lives after winning an election in the last two months in Bihar.BOXPast incidents:November 15: Newly elected mukhiya of Babu-Bandh panchayat Sanjay Singh was gunned down near Pritampur village under Charpokhri police station in Bhojpur by unidentified men.December 3: A newly elected mukhiya of Darkha panchayat in Jamui, Jaiprakash Mahto, was gunned down by unidentified armed assailants, following which a mob went on a rampage destroying public and private properties.December 9: Newly elected mukhiya of Azimganj panchayat, Parmanand Tuddu (30), was allegedly beheaded by Maoists at Mathura village under Ladaiyatand police station of Munger district.December 12: Newly elected mukhiya of Pandarak east, Priya Ranjan alias Gorelal Yadav and ASI Rajesh Kumar were gunned down in Barh police station area of rural Patna.December 14: Newly elected mukhiya of the Faridpur panchayat, Neeraj Mahto was shot dead at his office in the outskirt of the state capital.
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Former army chief Gen JJ Singh joins BJP||Chandigarh : Former army chief Gen JJ Singh on Tuesday joined the BJP in Chandigarh in the presence of the party leadership, including Union minister and BJP’s election in-charge for Punjab Gajendra Singh Shekhawat.Singh, who was first Sikh to be appointed as the Army chief, had contested the 2017 assembly polls on the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) ticket from Patiala but lost security deposit against former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. The ex-army chief had stood poor third in these polls. He later left the SAD and was even announced as SAD (Sanyukt) candidate from the Khadoor Sahib constituency during 2019 Lok Sabha polls. However, the party decided to withdraw his candidature later. Meanwhile, brother of SAD leader and former minister Sharanjeet Dhillon and director Milkfed Punjab, Ajmair Singh, National Student Union of India (NSUI) leader Karan Lehal, former DGP, CRPF, SS Sandhu also joined the BJP. Later, addressing the media, Shekhawat said the BJP’s first list of candidates for Punjab polls is likely to be come out after parliamentary board meeting scheduled on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-former-army-chief-gen-jj-singh-joins-bjp-101642522731466.html
18-01-2022||Lucknow||Two kids killed by leopards near Katarniaghat Wildlife Sanctuary||Two children were killed by leopards in separate cases in villages near Katarniaghat Wildlife Sanctuary (KWS) on Monday night, a forest department official said.The half-eaten bodies of the kids were recovered on Tuesday after a massive search operation by locals along with forest team and police.Divisional forest officer (DFO) KWS Akash Deep Badhawan said one Ramtej (9) was attacked and dragged by a leopard from village Rikkha Pakadiya Deewan under Motipur police station area around 6 pm on Monday. A joint team of police and forest department combed the adjoining forest and spotted the half-eaten body in the bushes in Ghusri beat of Motipur forest range on Tuesday. In second attack, four-year-old Aditya of Jhala village under Matera police station area, who had come to his maternal uncle’s house in Maiglapurwa village, was attacked by a leopard around 7.45 pm on Monday. The DFO said only the head of the boy could be recovered on Tuesday from a spot about 2 km from where the leopard had attacked.Akash Deep said forest employees and police team have been deployed in thearea to prevent any further untoward situation. Besides, locals have been cautioned not to venture out during night as well as try moving in groups during any emergency in the evening.World Wildlife Fund (WWF) executive officer Dabeer Hasan said compensation of ₹10,000 has been provided to both the families and further assistance would be provided by the forest department after findings of the post mortem report.The forest department has also started preparations to install cages to trap the leopards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/two-kids-killed-by-leopards-near-katarniaghat-wildlife-sanctuary-101642522673152.html
18-01-2022||Pune||Pimpri-Chinchwad arrest gang of dacoits, 14 pistols, 8 live rounds seized||PUNE The Pimpri-Chinchwad crime branch officials seized 14 pistols and eight live cartridges from a gang of dacoits who were arrested two weeks ago in Pune. The cost of the seized weapons is estimated to be ₹4,90,500.The arrested men have been identified as Akash Anil Misal, 21, a resident of Indrayaninagar in Bhosari; Rupesh Suresh Patil, 30, a resident of Chopda taluka of Jalgaoin; and Hritik Dilip Tapkir, 26, a resident of Sutarwadi in Pashan. The three were arrested late on January 3 and were in possession of two pistols and two live cartridges and a two-wheeler. Two of their accomplice fled from the spot on another two-wheeler, said officials.Patil was identified as the kingpin of the operation who builds gangs with different members and smuggles weapons. Patil as well as Misal have a criminal record. During investigation, he led the police to Ajit alias Vicky Ramlal Gupta, 28, a resident of Bhosari who bought weapons from Patil, according to police.“After detaining, upon searching them, a moped worth ₹1,51,500, two pistols and two live cartridges, three mobile phones, chilli powder and nylon rope were found. Upon interrogation, we found that they had a plan to commit dacoity at Krushnai petrol pump, Alankapuram road, Vadmukhwadi in Charholi, Pune,” read a statement from Kakasaheb Dole, deputy commissioner of police (crime) of Pimpri-Chinchwad.Patil was earlier found with another set of people in a case in which the Pimpri-Chinchwad police had seized 24 weapons and 16 live cartridges. However, he was released on bail. He has five cases including two each at Dehu road and Chinchwad police stations and one at Bhosari police station registered against him between 2011 and 2016. Misal has a case of voluntarily causing hurt registered against him at Bhosari police station in 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pimprichinchwad-arrest-gang-of-dacoits-14-pistols-8-live-rounds-seized-101642522671834.html
18-01-2022||Mumbai||Study pitches for 5,000 artificial bird nests to mitigate impact of bullet train||Mumbai A study funded by the National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL), which is executing the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train project, has suggested the installation of 5,000 artificial bird nests along the 508.17 km alignment of the proposed railway line to mitigate the potential impact on avian biodiversity. The allocated budget for the nests is ₹8,48,458.The study titled ‘Report on Mitigation Measures on Birds’ Nests Along the Proposed Alignment of Mumbai- Ahmedabad High Speed Rail Project’ was conducted in 2019 and submitted to the forest department last month as part of the process to obtain Stage-II forest clearance (FC). It found that the area of alignment houses as many as 55,446 bird nests, of which a large majority (44,897) were baya weaver nests. Of these, 10 percent of baya weaver nests are “active” because males of the species build multiple nests in a single area, but use only a fraction of them.  The researchers noted, “Under this (bullet train) development, there will be an impact on biodiversity due to alteration/loss of habitat due to tree cutting and other activities. The study involves understanding the qualitative and quantitative impact on the avifauna nest and proposing mitigation measures for the same.”Through primary data collection, researchers with Terra Nero (a Thane-based environmental consultancy were able to identify a total of 26 different bird species in the study area, while the presence of another 62 species was confirmed through secondary data collection (i.e., from academic publications in scientific journals and a range of environmental impact assessment reports). “Out of the total avifaunal species observed, no species is found to be globally threatened as per the International Union for the Conservation of Nature,” the study noted.Researchers also noted significant evidence that birds were breeding in the area. They observed specimens carrying food and nesting material, performing “distraction displays” to divert possible predators away from their nests (which may harbour young ones) and indulging in persistent alarm calls and agitated behaviour, which also indicates the presence of offspring nearby. Researchers noted the presence of nests across six different types of habitats, including forest land, rivers, scrubland, paddy fields, ponds and also human settlements.HT reached out to Anjum Pervez, officer on special duty, NHSRCL, for a comment but did not receive a response on Tuesday. Dipti Sharma, a Quality Council of India certified ecologist and founder of Terra Nero, said, “Based on our assessment of the project’s impacted area and the budgetary allocation, we arrived at a figure of 5,000 artificial nests which should be installed to minimise the project’s impact on birds, particularly through loss of habitat. It is very hard to predict how many of these nests will  be used. They are typically more successful in urban settings, with species such as sparrows. For baya weavers, nest building is an important part of their behaviour so they may not take to artificial nests at all.”Terra Nero’s study recommends, “An optimal density of about 5,000 artificial nests is suggested to be placed in the study area as an effort towards rehabilitation of the disturbed birds. The artificial nests should be a mixture of a box type as well as platform and cup type nests made of materials usually used by birds. The placement of these artificial nests may be in a mixture of natural and modified habitats. It must be ensured that after placing the artificial nests, the overall carrying capacity of those habitats is not exceeded.” Veteran birder and former director of the Bombay Natural History Society, Dr Asad Rahmani, said, “I cannot comment on this report as I have not seen it, but the use of artificial nests is not very effective at mitigating the impact of any project. Fortunately, birds are not as affected as terrestrial mammals by liner intrusions. Nevertheless, the project proponent should ensure that habitat restoration is carried out around the project area so that the birds do not move away due to loss of trees.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/study-pitches-for-5-000-artificial-bird-nests-to-mitigate-impact-of-bullet-train-101642522375566.html
18-01-2022||Pune||41-year-old arrested for grievously injuring sibling in Pune||PUNE A 41-year-old man has been arrested for attempted culpable homicide of his younger sister for asking him to return their mother’s bank card in Pimple Saudagar area of Pimpri-Chinchwad on Sunday night. The incident happened around 11:30 am in the house where the family lives.The arrested man has been identified as Rajiv Ravikar Harkare, 41, a resident of Pimple Saudagar. The woman, identified as Vinaya, 33, has sustained injuries on her thighs and head and is undergoing treatment at a local hospital, according to the police.“The injured woman and the accused are siblings. He is unemployed and uses his parents’ money. Their mother was asking for her card back and the accused man’s sister spoke in support of their mother and he attacked her,” said police sub-inspector S Gosavi of Sangvi police station who is investigating the case.A complaint in the matter was lodged by their 69-year-old father. A case under Sections 308, 326, 504 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 4(25) of Arms Act and Section 37(1)with135 of Maharashtra Police Act was registered at Sangvi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/41yearold-arrested-for-grievously-injuring-sibling-in-pune-101642522311735.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Bhagwant is AAP’s Mann of the moment||Chandigarh: The announcement of two-time Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann’s name by Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal as the party’s chief ministerial face in Punjab on Tuesday has not come as a surprise. Mann, 48, who is also the AAP’s Punjab president, is easily the party’s most recognisable face in the state, where polls are scheduled on February 20. His selection following a phone-based survey in which 93.3% of the 21.59 lakh respondents favoured him is on the expected lines. Mann, who has faced several controversies, is a proven crowd-puller for his party for which he has been leading the campaign since its electoral debut in the state. His folksy style topped by quick wit and biting sarcasm, particularly “kikli” (satirical speeches) targeting politicians and issues, have been a huge hit in the rural areas of Punjab, particularly the Malwa region, which sends 69 of the 117 lawmakers to the assembly, on which the party is counting a lot. Mann’s tryst with politics Mann, a college drop-out, is a standup comedian-turned-politician. He took the political plunge in 2011 by joining the People’s Party of Punjab (PPP), a party set up by Manpreet Singh Badal (now in the Congress) after he parted ways with the Akalis. He took on former chief minister Rajinder Kaur Bhattal of the Congress in Lehra assembly constituency in the 2012 elections, but came third. When Manpreet allied with the Congress, Mann did not follow him, opting for the AAP instead, and he has not looked back since. In 2014, Mann won the Sangrur seat by more than 2.11 lakh votes, which was the highest margin in the state. When the newbie outfit contested its first assembly election in 2017, he crisscrossed the state to campaign for the party candidates, besides taking on SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal in the latter’s stronghold of Jalalabad. He lost and came second ahead of Congress’ Ravneet Singh Bittu, now MP from Ludhiana. But the AAP won 20 seats to become the principal opposition party in Punjab. In the 2019 national polls, when all other AAP candidates in the state lost their security deposits, Mann again retained the Sangrur seat by over 1.11 lakh votes. Mann is the lone AAP MP in the Lok Sabha, but has been grabbing attention regularly with his quick wit and sharp digs at the rival BJP and Congress. He has also worked assiduously to help Punjabi youth and women stranded abroad return home. Brush with controversies The humorist was in the new for all wrong reasons a few years ago after his embarrassing videos showing him in an inebriated state. In January 2019, he took a public pledge, with his mother Harpal Kaur by his side, to quit alcohol to avoid any embarrassment to the party. “I have taken a solemn vow to say no to booze for good in my mother’s presence,” he told a gathering at a rally also attended by Kejriwal. Mann’s rivals have often portrayed him as unfit for public office because of his past drinking problem. A campaign with hashtag #Pegwant is being run on social media to target him, despite his statements that he has given up alcohol. After being named the CM face, he told a news channel that people of Punjab have put their stamp of approval on him and his rivals have nothing else to say against him. “They cannot accuse me of corruption or send ED (Enforcement Directorate) after me. I have a clean image. I still live in a rented house. They have been saying this about me for 11 years,” he said. Mann was once also accused of compromising parliamentary security by live-streaming the security arrangements at the Parliament House on social media and several parties had demanded action against him. Serious bid for top job Born in Satoj village of Sangrur district, Mann, who came out with his first satire in 1992 and then became a household name with his popular albums and TV shows like “Kulfi Garam Garam”, “Mithiya Mircha” and “Jugnu Mast Mast”, is making a serious bid for the top post. Though his political rivals often criticize him for being “facile” on governance and policy detail, he has started laying out his vision and roadmap for the state lately. Gone is the relaxed demeanour and jokes, and the burden of responsibility and growing expectations is writ large on his face these days. A tireless campaigner with ability to tilt the scales, Mann is undoubtedly AAP’s man of the moment.
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Bhagwant Mann as CM face: AAP played ‘sad joke’ on Punjabis, says BJP||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national general secretary Tarun Chugh on Tuesday called the announcement of Bhagwant Mann as the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)’s chief ministerial face “a sad joke” played on the people of Punjab.Also read: Meet the Mann of the moment“The state needs a mature, sagacious leader to give it a road map of peace and prosperity,” said Chugh in a statement. Targeting Mann for his alleged drinking problem, the BJP leader said the AAP’s decision could have serious ramifications as Mann has been caught drunk on camera time and again.Under fire for his alleged drinking problem, Mann in January 2019 took a public pledge to quit alcohol to avoid any embarrassment to the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bhagwant-mann-as-cm-face-aap-played-sad-joke-on-punjabis-says-bjp-101642522071321.html
18-01-2022||Mumbai||Pay ₹1,212 toll for one-way trip on Mumbai-Nagpur e-way||Mumbai: The Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) that is constructing India’s longest access-controlled expressway between Mumbai and Nagpur has proposed a toll of ₹1,212 as one-way for light motor vehicles like cars and jeep. The distance between Mumbai and Nagpur is 701 km. Interestingly, the toll will be charged on the basis of the km one wants to travel. For instance, if someone is travelling between Mumbai and Nashik or Aurangabad, vehicles will be charged ₹1.73 per km.The MSRDC is planning to open Nagpur-Aurangabad stretch of the expressway by March or April this year and the entire stretch by end of the year. Chandrakant Pulkundwar, joint managing director shared, “We have proposed the toll rates after consultation and approval from the state government, however, the proposed toll rates will be officially notified by a gazette few days before opening of the expressway. The toll rates that we have proposed will be for 701 km, and the proposed rates are on the basis of per km.”Further, according to the toll rates list, the second category is light commercial vehicle, light goods vehicle or mini bus for which the one-way toll between Mumbai and Nagpur will be ₹2.79 per km, which tallies down to ₹1,955. The third category is bus or truck (two axle) for which ₹5.85 per km will be charged, summing up to ₹4,100.The remaining three categories are heavy vehicles that includes three axle commercial vehicles for which ₹6.38 per km or ₹4,472, followed by ₹9.18 per km or ₹6,435 will be charged for mobilising of heavy construction machinery. The last category is of oversized vehicles or multi axles (seven or more axles), the toll per km is ₹11.17 which essentially means ₹7,830 between Mumbai and Nagpur.The entire stretch between Mumbai and Nagpur will have 26 toll booths and the MSRDC has recently floated bids for appointing agency for toll collection agency on the expressway.As per the average daily traffic study, the daily vehicle usage has been divided into more than 20 sections and the highest volume of traffic is anticipated is between Mumbai and Nashik. As per the study, daily around 150,000 vehicles are expected to ply between Mumbai and Nashik using the Mumbai Nagpur Expressway by the end of 2025. The MSRDC has further also listed 23 categories of vehicles who are listed as VIP vehicles and they will be eligible for being exempted from paying toll using the Mumbai Nagpur Expressway also known as Hindu Hridaysamrat Balasaheb Thackerat Maharashtra Samruddhi Mahamarg.According to MSRDC, it is aiming to make the entire expressway between Mumbai and Nagpur operational by December 2022. However, it is also aiming to make the Nagpur to Aurangabad stretch operational by March or April and further by December the expressway will be made operational in phases. However, due to COVID lockdown there are chances there being a three months delay in making the entire expressway operational.Officials said at least 70% of the civil construction work is completed on the Expressway, and in the first phase it will be made operational in phases possibly from the Nagpur end. On the Mumbai end, the Expressway will start from Shahpur district. According to MSRDC officials, the civil work will shortly be completed for Expressway but the supporting infrastructure like petrol pumps, food plaza, toilets etc are all being set up simultaneously.Meanwhile, around 30% of daily passenger traffic travelling via flight and train may shift their travel mode to the road, once the 701-km-long Mumbai-Nagpur Expressway is ready for public use by 2022, revealed a report prepared by the MSRDC in 2018.The report added that currently, more than 26,000 passengers travel between Mumbai and Nagpur daily via flight and train of which nearly 8,000 passengers may shift to the road. 87 more buses and 1,166 more cars are expected to run on the road due to the construction of the expressway, revealed the detailed project report (DPR) prepared for the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pay-1-212-toll-for-one-way-trip-on-mumbai-nagpur-eway-101642521351153.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Bhagwant Mann is a compromised CM candidate: Sukhbir||Chandigarh :Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday said the AAP had fallen back on “compromised candidate” as no one was ready to lead the party in Punjab.He called the move as a “stage-managed non-event”. “AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal never wanted to make Mann the face of the party in Punjab. He has been saying so at Mann’s face because the party was looking for a capable candidate. It is also a fact that the AAP sounded off a number of prospective candidates but they refused” said Sukhbir adding that the responsibility has been given to Mann after a make belief survey. Sukhbir said Mann as AAP’s CM candidate reflected the complete bankruptcy, adding, “a desperate public relation exercise is underway to wash away Mann’s omissions and commissions and project him as a leader who can take on the mantle of a CM even though his wayward and irresponsible conduct is known to everyone”. He asked Kejriwal to tell Punjabis whom they should repose their trust now. “AAP has led a public campaign urging Punjabis to repose trust in Kejriwal. Now Mann has been chosen to lead the party, it needs to explain why Punjabis should trust a leader who Kejriwal refused to endorse,” asked Sukhbir. Sukhbir said, Punjabis need strong, decisive leadership who has a proven track record of conducting swift development, ensuring law and order and peace and communal harmony in this border State. Bhagwant Mann does not fit this bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bhagwant-mann-is-a-compromised-cm-candidate-sukhbir-101642521111198.html
18-01-2022||Lucknow||Lakhimpur violence: HC reserves order on bail plea of minister’s son||LUCKNOW The Allahabad high court on Tuesday reserved its order on the bail plea of Union minister Ajay Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, in which eight people, including four farmers, were killed.Ashish Mishra is the prime accused in the October 3 violence case.The Lucknow bench of the court reserved its order on Mishra’s plea after concluding the hearing through video-conferencing. The counsel appearing on behalf of Mishra told the court that his client was innocent and there was no evidence against him that he incited the driver of a vehicle to crush the farmers.Opposing the plea, additional advocate general VK Shahi said at the time of the incident, Mishra was in the car that crushed the farmers under its wheels.After hearing the pleas, the bench of Justice Rajeev Singh reserved its order.The Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the state government was probing the case and had arrested 13 people involved in the incident. The incident took place on October 3 last year in Lakhimpur Kheri where a speeding four-wheeler had mowed down four farmers and a local journalist. The local court in Lakhimpur Kheri had rejected bail applications of all the accused in the case. Now, seven accused have filed a bail application in the court of district judge, Lakhimpur Kheri, Mukesh Mishra. It will come up for hearing on January 20. The district judge asked the prosecution to present case diary of the incident, chargesheet and criminal history of all the accused in court. Input from PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-violence-hc-reserves-order-on-bail-plea-of-minister-s-son-101642519791879.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Eyeing Baba Bakala ticket, Youth Congress leader revolts against party nominee||Raising a banner of revolt ahead of the Punjab assembly elections, Youth Congress leader Satinder Singh Chhajjalwaddi on Tuesday gave the party a 24-hour ultimatum to withdraw the candidature of sitting MLA Santokh Singh Bhalaipur from Baba Bakala seat in Amritsar district.Miffed over being denied the ticket, Satinder Singh, who is the son of former three-time MLA Ranjit Singh Chhajjalwaddi, organised a meeting with his supporters at his residence in Chhajjalwaddi village. Besides various sarpanches and local party office-bearers from the segment, former MLA from erstwhile Beas segment Vir Pawan Kumar also attended the meeting to back his claim to the ticket.Also read: Punjab minister Tript Bajwa questions ‘one family, one ticket’ formulaSpeaking over phone, Satinder Singh said: “All party workers and voters have been disheartened by the allotment of the ticket to the sitting MLA, who they wanted to get rid of. The high command was made aware of his record; yet, he has been fielded again. Party workers are angry with this decision and want this ticket to be withdrawn from him within 24 hours. Otherwise, they will be forced to chalk out the next course of action.”Responding to the ultimatum and corruption allegations against him, Bhalaipur said: “The high command didn’t express trust in me overnight. It was done after a series of surveys in the segment. As far as allegations levelled against me are concerned, everyone can visit this segment and ask the people if I have indulged in any wrongdoing ever. These are false allegations.” Satinder Singh had organised a massive rally in the segment to stake his claim on December 11. He was backed by Khadoor Sahib MP Jasbir Singh Dimpa, and even Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu addressed the gathering in his favour, but their support failed to get him the party ticket.
18-01-2022||Mumbai||Gutkha, tobacco worth ₹43L seized in Navi, 7 arrested||The Navi Mumbai crime branch has seized contraband of flavoured tobacco and gutkha worth ₹43 lakh and arrested seven persons in the case. The seizure followed a tip off received by senior police inspector (crime), Shatrughan Mali, on January 15 that a large quantity of gutkha had been stocked in the Mahape MIDC area. Following this, the crime branch unit 3 started patrolling the area and laid a trap.According to Navi Mumbai police commissioner, Bipin Kumar Singh, “The crime branch team found four tempos near Tata Motors area of MIDC, of which one was checked. The personnel found Gutkha in it. Thus, the other three were checked and they also had gutkha. On interrogation, the tempo drivers revealed that they had got the contraband from a nearby godown. We checked the godown and found gutkha there as well.”The police informed the FDA officials and ₹42,72,000 worth of Maharashtra state government-banned flavoured tobacco and pan masala was seized. He added, “We also seized the four tempos worth ₹18 lakh used in the crime, taking the total seizure to ₹60.72 lakh and seven people have also been arrested.” Explaining the modus operandi, Singh said, “The accused smuggled the contraband from other states after purchasing them at cheaper rates. They stock them in the rented godown in Mahape MIDC area. From here, they are taken in smaller vehicles like tempos to Navi Mumbai, Mumbai and Thane areas for retailers to sell at higher prices.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/gutkha-tobacco-worth-43l-seized-in-navi-7-arrested-101642518590799.html
18-01-2022||Mumbai||Maharashtra Congress chief leaves party red-faced, again||Mumbai When he was appointed as the Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) President last year, Nanabhau Falgunrao aka Nana Patole’s redeeming feature was his aggression.The Congress was at a low ebb in the state, where it was born in 1885 and strode the political stage like a colossus till the 1980s. Patole was expected to revive the party with his aggression and credentials as a leader of the other backward class (OBC) Kunbi (peasant) caste, which has a strong presence in Vidarbha.Ironically, a year on, the Congress is finding itself at the receiving end of Patole’s mercurial temperament.From claiming that he was under police surveillance, ruffling allies Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Shiv Sena by stating that the Congress would fight elections on its own, and complaining of irregularities in the allocation of a coal washing tender, which was seen as an attack on party colleague and energy minister Nitin Raut, Patole’s utterances have left the Congress red-faced.The crowning glory came when Patole was captured on camera saying at Lakhni in Bhandara: “I can beat Modi, I can abuse him.” However, Patole claimed he was referring to a local goon who was the Prime Minister’s namesake. “I am aware of the dignity of the post of the prime minister and I have not said anything against Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” he said.Upset Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers took to the streets in protest, while union minister Narayan Rane, who was arrested last year for threatening to slap Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, called for similar action against Patole as this is an issue with “national security” ramifications. Union Nitin Gadkari too demanded Patole’s arrest for making such a statement against the Prime Minister.Former chief minister and leader of the Opposition, Devendra Fadnavis attacked the Congress and asked if it was a political party in a democratic setup or organisation spreading terror. “Where is the Congress Party heading? Once known for participation in the freedom struggle, now stooping down so low just for sake of power. Is Congress a political party in a democratic setup or organisation spreading terror?”Fadnavis remarked and added that Patole had grown only physically but not mentally. Maharashtra BJP president Chandrakant Patil dared Patole to produce the criminal he was referring to and said they would complain to Governor B.S. Koshyari and approach the court. Former minister and BJP general secretary Chandrashekhar Bawankule lodged a complaint against Patole at Koradi police station in Nagpur and staged a dharna on Tuesday morning to seek his arrest. Bavankule was later detained by the police.Former BJP minister Dr Anil Bonde outdid Patole’s intemperate language by likening him to a dog and threatening that his palm would be chopped off. Security was beefed up at Patole’s Nagpur residence in view of the protests.“This is an almost childish controversy,” admitted a senior Congress leader. “Aggression can be a double-edged sword when we are one of the parties in the ruling coalition. This is time to rebuild the party organisation ground-up,” he said. The Congress leader said personal attacks on Modi could boomerang. Patole’s rather unconvincing clarification had deepened the embarrassment, he added.“At present, we are in an ideological confrontation with the BJP, which is challenging the cohesive idea of India… In such times, we much build the party organisation and a strong team, rather than stoke controversy through such statements,” said another Congress leader. He pointed to how the NCP, which controls crucial departments like home, finance and rural development in the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA), was spreading its social base at the cost of the Congress.Patole’s own ambitions—the four-term legislator from Bhandara district and former Lok Sabha MP is said to be eager to become a minister—are churning the pot further, the leader admitted.H.K. Patil, All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary and in-charge for Maharashtra, could not be contacted. However, state Congress spokesperson Atul Londhe reiterated that Patole’s comments were not aimed at the Prime Minister but at a local criminal. He added that this criminal, Umesh alias Modi, who is a history sheeter from a village called Gondi, has been summoned by the Bhandara police.Political analyst Hemant Desai said Patole’s statement had come in the backdrop of the alleged breach of Modi’s security in Punjab and added that his clarification did not seem to hold any water. “The Congress seems to be caught in a controversy of its own making… (Patole must ensure that) he does not become the Mani Shankar Aiyar of Maharashtra,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-congress-chief-leaves-party-red-faced-again-101642518290720.html
18-01-2022||Lucknow||Tell people about the power of every vote: PM to BJP workers||VARANASI Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday urged BJP workers in his parliamentary constituency Varanasi to tell people about the importance of voting and emphasised that “every vote is important.”He also inquired about the condition of farmers in the district and in adjoining areas. He asked them to expand the reach of the government’s welfare schemes to farmers and said they should make farmers aware of the use of chemical-free fertilisers. Modi was holding an audio interaction with BJP workers of his constituency through the Namo App and reaffirmed the BJP’s commitment towards development. Expansion of Kashi Vishwanath temple in the form of KV Corridor, women empowerment, infrastructure and healthcare development were among the topics that came up for discussion during the interaction.This was his first political interaction involving party workers since the Election Commission (EC) announced the schedule for the Assembly polls to five states, including UP. In the wake of rising Covid cases, the EC, in its order, had forbidden political parties to hold road shows, rallies, padyatras till January 22.The PM spoke to a BJP worker each of eight assembly constituencies, including Varanasi South, Varanasi North, Varanasi Cantt, Shivpur, Ajgara, Pindara, Sevapuri and Rohania in the district. He began the interaction by speaking to Ashutosh Sharma, BJP booth level president of Bageshwari Mandal in Varanasi North Assembly constituency. He asked, “How cold is it in Varanasi.” In response, Sharma said: “We were expecting good weather after Makar Sankranti. But this year, it’s colder in Varanasi.” “It will be cold there (for sometime). Now, weather keeps changing. Tell me, how is the heat of election in Varanasi,” asked Modi. Sharma informed that people were happy with the “double engine government” and mentioned various development works like construction of ring roads, convention centre etc in Kashi. The PM said he worked for improving Kashi’s connectivity, focused on preserving its ‘virasat’ (heritage) and ensured ‘vikas’ (development). He appealed to the people of Kashi to park their vehicles properly in order to avoid the problem of traffic jam. He said, “The election is a test for political parties, but it is also a sort of training camp in which large number of workers can be trained. We should always remember the mantra of expansion of the organisation (BJP) and development of party workers.” “This is the time of election. We have to tell people about the power of each and every vote. Me and Yogiji are able to do so many things as the people of UP gave blessings of their votes to us,” said Modi. Modi interacted with Shravan Rawat, booth president of Pt Deendayal Mandal of Varanasi South constituency, and asked him if he, (Rawat) along with his family, visited the Kashi Vishwanath corridor and what changed he felt now. Rawat told the PM: “The KV corridor is grand and divine. A large number of devotees are visiting the Kashi Vishwanath Temple daily, due to which business of flower sellers and other tea vendors is thriving.” Modi thanked Rawat for describing the change in an articulate manner and asked him and other workers not to miss any chance to work for the people. The PM also urged BJP workers to take visitors to Kabir Chaura and Sant Ravidas Temple for ‘darshan’ as the government undertook many developmental works at both the places. Seema Kumari, BJP booth president of Mahamana Mandal in Cantt Assembly constituency, informed the PM that women were happy as they got houses under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. “All these works were done because women gave us the opportunity to serve them by taking a right decision,” Modi told Seema. The Prime Minister also asked her to connect more with women self help groups and digital payment facility. While interacting with BJP booth president Manoj Patel of Rohania Assembly constituency, Modi asked: “What is the condition of farmers in Varanasi and its adjoining areas? Patel informed that the farmers were happy as the government promoted farming of vegetables and fruits. Modi also spoke to BJP worker Narayan Prajapati of Sevapuri area and urged him to work as a team. Prajapati informed the PM that health services had improved in Varanasi due to the construction of new hospitals. When the PM inquired about electricity supply in the district, BJP worker from Pindara, Akhilesh Dubey, said rural pockets were getting uninterrupted power supply. Modi also appealed to BJP worker Shriratan of Ajgara Assembly constituency to motivate people to take the Covid vaccination shot. Modi asked party workers run a micro donation drive through the Namo App and make efforts for micro donations of ₹5 and ₹10 by people. “This drive would not be for fund raising, but will be a powerful medium to connect with more people. It should be completed by the end of January,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/tell-people-about-the-power-of-every-vote-pm-to-bjp-workers-101642518232663.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||One family, one ticket: Punjab minister Tript Bajwa questions Congress formula||Amid widespread revolt in the Congress over ticket allotment for the Punjab assembly elections, cabinet minister and Fatehgarh Churian MLA Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa on Tuesday questioned the party high command’s “one family, one ticket” formula.Already announced as the party candidate from Fatehgarh Churian, Bajwa organised a show of strength at his residence in Qadian to stake his family’s claim to the ticket from Batala, a largely urban segment in Gurdaspur district from where the Congress is yet to field a candidate. “Congress rank and file want me or my son to contest elections from Batala. I would like to request the high command to have a rethink, considering their sentiments. We want the Congress to form the government in Punjab again, for which the high command should take the decision according to the ground reality,” said Bajwa, while interacting with the media on the occasion.Also read: Eyeing Baba Bakala ticket, Youth Cong leader revoltsQuestioning the Congress formula, the cabinet minister said: “Not allotting two tickets to a family is not the verdict of the Supreme Court. This is the thinking of the high command. Forming government in Punjab is necessary, not applying such formulas.”Giving examples of MPs Chaudhari Santokh Singh and Dr Amar Singh, Bajwa said that their sons have been given the tickets for assembly polls. “Even this implies giving two tickets to a family. In fact, Santokh Singh’s family has been given three tickets, as his brother has also been fielded from Kartarpur. Then why are we being given such treatment?” he said.On his present candidature, Bajwa said there was no question of leaving Fatehgarh Churian. “If the party gives us tickets on both seats, we will win both. This is demand of the segment, and I have conveyed it to the party high command,” he said, while remaining silent on his supporters’ suggestion to field him or his son as an Independent from Batala.The cabinet minister has been eying the Batala seat for long. He has ensured execution of several development projects in the assembly segment and has been taking part in its local politics. He got his loyalists appointed on key posts, including mayor, Improvement Trust chairman and market committee chairman, and even in the bureaucracy. Amid his active participation and presence in Batala, its former three-time MLA Ashwani Sekhri, who is a strong contender for the party ticket, has been upped the ante. Recently, even Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu backed Sekhri’s claim.Sri Hargobindpur: Partap Bajwa asks high command to review decision Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa, who is the Congress candidate from Qadian segment, has expressed his disagreement with the party’s decision of giving the Sri Hargobindpur ticket to Mandeep Singh Rangar Nangal.Currently serving as the sarpanch of Rangar Nangal village, Mandeep Singh is seen close to Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and was preferred over sitting Sri Hargobindpur MLA Balwinder Singh Ladi. After conducting a meeting with his supporters at Ghuman in this segment in Gurdaspur district, Partap Singh Bajwa asked the Congress high command to review the ticket allotment. Former state legislator Ashwani Sekhri also accompanied him. Sources said they are supporting Ladi. 
18-01-2022||Lucknow||Scramble for party tickets in UP: Many want to script ‘son rise’, others pitch for relatives||LUCKNOW From veiled threats to outright rebellion, from a woman politician eyeing her ‘son’s rise’ signaling that she won’t contest elections anymore to a couple staking claim from the same assembly seat, politicians in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh are doing everything it takes to force their parties to allot tickets to their relatives. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), whose leaders have been pitching for their relatives, has now decided against fielding relatives of the same family (barring those already elected representatives), a stance that is said to have angered its OBC minister Swami Prasad Maurya who quit the party, triggering a spate of resignations. BJP leaders have been openly stating that Maurya, who won the 2017 UP polls on BJP ticket from Padrauna and whose daughter Sanghmitra is a BJP MP from Badaun, was angry over denial of ticket to his son. Maurya has denied the charge, though. The ruling party is said to be less accommodating in terms of individual family requests, but the opposition is a bit more liberal to the prospect. BJP MP Rita Bahuguna Joshi is eyeing a ticket for her son Mayank, who has been politically active since 2009. “I am ready to quit if that is what it takes to get ticket for my son,” she said in Delhi, where she is currently camping. The list within the BJP of those leaders seeking a ‘son-rise’ is growing – from union minister Kaushal Kishore, MP from Mohanlalganj to another BJP MP Jagdambika Pal. But, the most interesting family pitch has come from a couple with husband, BJP vice-president Daya Shankar Singh making a bid from the same seat from where his wife Swati, a minister too, is a lawmaker. “I am a BJP man and there is no confusion with us. If I will get a ticket, Swati will sit out and if Swati gets it, I will have to sit out,” said Daya Shankar. But it isn’t the BJP alone. There is a long list of opposition leaders from the Samajwadi Party to the Congress pushing to accommodate family members. While the SP has declared former minister Azam Khan, currently in jail, to be the party’s candidate again from his traditional Rampur seat, his son Abdullah, just out on bail, would be the party candidate from Swar Assembly segment of Rampur from where he had won before being disqualified for using fake age record. There is suspense on the Unchchar seat in Rae Bareli, which is currently represented by SP’s Manoj Pandey but reportedly eyed by Swami Prasad Maurya for his son Utkrisht. Pandey who won the seat in 2012 and 2017 is a strong claimant. “It would be interesting to see how far the SP accommodates Maurya’s demand,” a BJP leader said. Harendra Malik, a Rajya Sabha MP and Pankaj Malik, father-son duo who resigned from the Congress to join the Samajwadi Party, are also said to be making a pitch for assembly seat for Pankaj and a Lok Sabha ticket later for Harendra. Ambedkarnagar MP and BSP leader Ritesh Pandey’s father Rakesh Pandey recently left BSP and joined SP. However eyeing tickets, Rakesh’s brother Pawan Pandey and his son Prateek have since left BJP and joined BSP. Former MP Ramakant Yadav, who recently left the BJP and joined SP, is reportedly eyeing tickets for his two sons. BJP lawmaker from Bilhaur, Bhagwati Sagar, who was among the party rebels to join the SP is now seeking tickets for his son from his seat while he reportedly is interested in contesting from Mauranipur Assembly segment in Bundelkhand. There are reports that the SP might field Krishna Patel, leader of Apna Dal (Sonelal) from Pratapgarh, but suspense prevails over whether Krishna Patel’s daughter Pallavi Patel too would get to contest. “The maximum push is for BJP and SP, the two most sought-after parties this election,” said Irshad Ilmi, a political observer, who said while the BJP has cleared that it won’t give tickets to more than one family member, there is confusion on the stand of other parties. “A big reason for the SP being the most favoured destination could also be that the party leadership hasn’t cleared the air on more than one family member seeking tickets. May be winnability is,” said Ilmi. 
18-01-2022||Mumbai||Unidentified persons booked for mangroves destruction, illegal shrimp farming in Kharghar||Taking cognisance of the Hindustan Times report published on January 15, the Revenue officials registered a case under the Environment Protection Act against unidentified persons for the destruction of mangroves and illegal shrimp (prawns) farming ponds in the creek area in Kharghar.The FIR filed by Revenue Circle Officer, Pandurang Kachre at the Kharghar police station, mentions that after HT report, a team of revenue and forest officials conducted an on-the-spot check of the site confirming the destruction of mangroves. A cursory check of Google images indicated that the mangroves might have been destroyed during 2005-09. But the prawns’ culture ponds have been freshly noticed, the FIR said, and registered a case under Section 15 of the Maharashtra Environment Protection Act, 1986. The section stipulates a five-year jail term for the violators, if convicted.HT, in its report titled “CM Thackeray asks forest secretary to look into complaint against mangrove destruction” had drawn attention to the destruction of mangroves in Kharghar. NatConnect Foundation and Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan have, earlier, complained to the Chief Minister against the destruction of mangroves and the illegal prawn culture ponds, and the CMO asked the Forest Department to investigate. Simultaneously, Raigad District Collector, Dr Mahendra Kalyankar, asked the SDO (sub-divisional officer) to look into the issue. Appreciating the prompt action as a good start, NatConnect Foundation director, BN Kumar, said, “The police should take the case to its logical conclusion and trace the culprits. The vehicles used for levelling the ground could provide vital clues. The investigation must also get into the details of the mangrove destruction and the officials concerned.”Nandakumar Pawar, head of Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan, pointed out that the creek and the mangrove fall under CRZ-1 and that no one has any business to fiddle with the free flow of tidal water. The organised, planned prawn and crab culture ponds cutting into mangroves is an act of certain vested interests and not ordinary fishing community people, he said, and called going to the root cause of this menace.Mangroves not only serve as a breeding ground for a variety of fish and crabs, but are also useful as carbon sinks, rainwater forests and host a whole lot of birds, insects and animals. Recently, golden jackals were noticed in Kharghar.Kharghar activist, Naresh Chandra Singh, said the chopping of mangroves definitely is a major threat to the housing colonies. “The destruction at Sectors 17 and 25 is a recent and ongoing occurrence. The National Wetland Inventory Assessment (NWIA) clearly shows that the miscreants have drained out water from these areas and converted them into fish ponds, recently.”Sandipan Shinde, senior police inspector of Kharghar police station, said, “We have registered the case against unnamed persons. We have begun investigations in the matter and will take further action accordingly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/unidentified-persons-booked-for-mangroves-destruction-illegal-shrimp-farming-in-kharghar-101642517451058.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Drugs case: HC extends Majithia’s interim anticipatory bail, asks him to cooperate in investigation||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday extended interim protection from arrest to Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader and former Punjab minister Bikram Singh Majithia till January 24 in a drugs case and directed him to cooperate with the police in investigation. The court of justice Lisa Gill, while posting his anticipatory bail for final disposal on January 24, also made it clear that protection order would “automatically” stand vacated if arguments are not addressed on the adjourned date. The court was reacting to adjournment request from Majithia. Appearing for Majithia, Arshdeep Singh Cheema had sought deferring of hearing submitting that senior advocate RS Cheema, one of the senior counsels of Majithia, has contracted Covid. Hence, an adjournment be granted. P Chidambaram, appearing for the state government, though did not oppose the adjournment request, submitted that Majithia having joined investigation, has not extended “full cooperation” during questioning. The court said it was not inclined to adjourn the matter but as both the petitioner side and the government counsels have agreed for the same, the hearing in the matter was being adjourned to January 24 for final arguments. “The interim order will continue till the next date of hearing. It is made clear that in case arguments are not addressed on the next date of hearing, interim bail afforded to the petitioner shall automatically stand vacated,” the bench ordered, directing Majithia to continue to join investigation as and when required and extend full cooperation to the probe agency. Acting on the anticipatory bail plea of Majithia, the HC on January 10 had asked him to join the probe on January 12 and also directed the police not to arrest him. After remaining underground for nearly 20 days, Majithia surfaced a day after the high court gave him interim protection. He appeared before the special investigation team (SIT) in Mohali on three occasions after that. A case was registered against Majithia under Sections 25 (punishment for allowing premises), 27 (A) (whoever is financing any activities pertaining to narcotic drugs) and 29 (party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act on December 20. On December 24, a Mohali court dismissed his anticipatory bail plea. In the high court, Majithia has roped in Supreme Court lawyer Mukul Rohtagi and senior advocate RS Cheema. Former Union minister P Chidambaram is leading the team of lawyers for Punjab Police. In his plea, Majithia termed the FIR an “election stunt” and alleged that the Charanjit Singh Channi-led Congress government had changed three Punjab Police chiefs in three months to get this FIR registered. The plea also accused Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu of indulging in “unwarranted propaganda” and deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa of demonstrating “intense hatred” towards Majithia. Punjab Police, in its response, had said that the government machinery was used for the benefit of drug cartels during the Akali regime in the state. Majithia was a key minister in the Akali government and it was during the SAD’s term that the cartel was unearthed, the police submitted. The SIT also said incriminating material had come on record against Majithia. While giving interim protection to Majithia, the high court on January 10 had directed that he will not leave the country and provide his mobile number to the SIT. He was also asked to share with the SIT his live location through WhatsApp. The court also directed him to appear before the SIT as and when required. These conditions, he will have to abide by till next date of hearing as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/drugs-case-hc-extends-majithia-s-interim-anticipatory-bail-asks-him-to-cooperate-in-investigation-101642517210662.html
18-01-2022||Mumbai||Mumbai sees slight rise in Covid tally with 6,149 new cases, active count past 44 lakh||Mumbai on Tuesday recorded 6,149 new infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), pushing the active caseload to 44,084 and the cumulative tally to 10,11,967. The day’s case count is slightly higher than Monday’s figures when 5,956 infections were registered. The figures were shared by the health department of the Brihanmumbai Municipal CorporationThe Maharashtra capital saw seven more related deaths during the day that took the cumulative fatalities to 16,476.With 12,810 patients being declared cured of the viral disease, the total number of recoveries now stood at 9,48,744 at a rate of 94 per cent.The statewide tally touched 72,82,128 with 39,207 new Covid-19 cases being registered in the last 24 hours along with 53 deaths.Maharashtra reported no new cases of Omicron variant on Tuesday. The total tally stood at 1,860 of whom 1,001 have been discharged following a negative RT-PCR test, the government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-slight-rise-in-covid-tally-with-6-149-cases-active-count-past-44l-101642514802816.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||CM face: Bhagwant Mann’s home seat Sangrur welcomes AAP decision||People in Sangrur, the home constituency of Bhagwant Mann that is represented by him in the Lok Sabha since 2014, have welcomed the Aam Aadmi Party’s decision to field the humorist-turned-politician as its chief ministerial candidate for the Punjab assembly elections scheduled next month.Mann, 48, who has won two consecutive parliamentary elections from Sangrur and is the lone Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader in the present Lok Sabha, belongs to Satoj village in Sunam tehsil of Sangrur. According to AAP national convener and Delhi chief minister (CM) Arvind Kejriwal, 93% respondents in the party’s survey for its Punjab CM face showed confidence in Mann, who is also the state AAP chief. Also read: Meet the Mann of the moment“We are very happy, as all our phone calls (survey responses) were in favour of Bai’s (brother’s) name. He was already the AAP’s face, and the people of the state will vote in his name,” said Lakhbir Singh, a resident of Satoj village, where the announcement was streamed live on a big screen. “All residents are celebrating the moment. Punjabis will vote for Mann,” said Jasvir Singh, another local.Nirmal Singh, a resident of Nagra village in Sangrur, said the AAP and Bhagwant Mann are synonymous in Punjab. “It is like giving ‘Ik mauka Bhagwant Mann nu’ instead of ‘Ik mauka Kejriwal nu’,” he said, referring to the AAP campaign seeking “one chance to Kejriwal” in the Punjab elections.‘In AAP, no campaigner like Bhagwant Mann’Historian Sumail Singh Sidhu, who was the AAP election campaign committee convener in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, said the party has no campaigner like Mann and it wanted to cash in on his popularity.“The AAP can’t afford to antagonise Mann in polls. Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal and Bhagwant Mann have their own followers. However, the Punjab unit is bigger and more influential as compared to the Delhi unit. The party tried to find a face to counter Mann, but he was selected after rejecting all other faces. Mann is still following the party’s national policy, and will have to face challenges in future when time comes to choose between it and Punjab’s stance,” said Sidhu.Aman Arora, state legislator from Sunam and senior AAP leader, said Punjab’s people will back Mann and the party. “Though some names were discussed, it was a very good decision at the appropriate time. Mann aggressively raised Punjab’s issues in the Parliament, because of which the party high command, workers and people showed confidence in him,” said Arora. 
18-01-2022||Mumbai||NHSRCL acquires 46% of land required in Maha for bullet train project||Mumbai The National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL) has so far acquired 202.65 hectares or 46.71 percent of nearly 433.82 hectares of land required in Maharashtra for the construction of the Mumbai-Ahmedabad high-speed train corridor project. Of the 202.65 hectares, no land has been acquired in the Mumbai suburban area yet. NHSRCL, an undertaking Ministry of Railways, is responsible for the construction of high-speed train corridor projects in India, also called bullet trains. NHSRCL said that 105.84 hectares of land has been acquired in Palghar of the 288.86 required, 96.81 hectares of land in Thane of the 140.32 required and no land of the 4.82 hectares of land required in Mumbai’s Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC). Of the 508.17 km Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train project, 155.76 km is in Maharashtra, 384.04 km in Gujarat and 4.3 km in Dadra and Nagar Haveli.The estimated cost of the project is ₹1,10,000 crore of which ₹88,000 crore will be funded by the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA).The NHSRCL had earlier deferred the bid submission for construction of the station at BKC till April 2022 due to the delay in land acquisition. The delay is being attributed to the shifting of a petrol pump on another land allocated by Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA). “The process of land acquisition is ongoing in Maharashtra and we are in constant discussion with the state government officials. We are hoping to acquire more land in the coming months,” said a senior NHSRCL official. The on-ground construction work has already started in Gujarat and the first phase between Surat and Bilimora is expected to be opened by 2026.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nhsrcl-acquires-46-of-land-required-in-maha-for-bullet-train-project-101642514211547.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: EC transfers two DCs, eight SSPs||Chandigarh : The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Tuesday transferred two deputy commissioners-cum-district election officers (DEOs) and eight senior superintendents of police (SSPs) in Punjab. The transfers were ordered keeping in view the provisions of the model code of conduct imposed for the upcoming state assembly polls on February 20. Giving details, Punjab chief electoral officer (CEO) S Karuna Raju said that the ECI has appointed Girish Dayalan as DC-cum-DEO, Ferozepur, and Vineet Kumar will be the new DC-cum-DEO, Bathinda. The EC has posted Harjeet Singh as SSP, Mohali, , Dhruman H Nimbale as SSP, Hoshiarpur, Patil Ketan Baliram as SSP, Ludhiana Rural, Deepak Hilori as SSP, Amritsar Rural, Gulneet Singh Khurana as SSP, Tarn Taran, Amneet Kondal as SSP, Bathinda, Sandeep Kumar Malik as SSP, Muktsar and Sartaj Singh Chahal as SSP, Fatehgarh Sahib, said Raju.7 IGPs shifted The EC also posted seven inspector generals of police (IGPs), including Gurinder Singh Dhillon, Jaskaran Singh and Mukhwinder Singh Chinna to the state police headquarters. While, Arun Pal Singh has been posted as IGP, Jalandhar Range, Shive Kumar Verma has been transferred as IGP, Bathinda Range, Rakesh Agrawal as IGP, Patiala Range, and Pardeep Kumar Yadav as IGP, Faridkot Range. Surjit Singh has been posted as DIG, Vigilance Bureau, and Kuljit Singh as AIG, Bureau of Investigation, Punjab. The EC posted Jugraj Singh as assistant commandant, 75th Battalion, PAP, Jalandhar. Raju said 19 DSP-rank officials were also transferred.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-ec-transfers-two-dcs-eight-ssps-101642513670015.html
18-01-2022||Mumbai||Cops pose as pavement dwellers to nab murder accused||Mumbai A murder accused was arrested by the police after scanning more than 100 CCTV cameras and disguising themselves as footpath dwellers.The police said that the murder took place police on January 4 when they received information that a man was lying injured on the footpath on Lakshman Jadhav Marg at Dongri. A team was rushed to the spot and took the injured to JJ Hospital, where doctors declared him dead.Upon showing his photo to the shop owners and other footpath dwellers, the police identified the deceased as Avindar Virendra Singh, a daily wager and an alcoholic. The post mortem report confirmed that the deceased died due to a head injury. Subsequently, police officers scanned recordings of nearly 100 CCTV cameras around JJ Hospital, Dongri and VP Road. In one of the footage, Singh was seen talking to a man in red pants. The police tracked the man and learnt that Singh was discussing his fight with a man named Ramya alias Anand Nagnath (38) over alcohol a few days ago .The police on Saturday booked Ramya for murder under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code.“We learnt that Ramya was not seen in the area after his fight with Singh. We kept a watch on the footpath by disguising ourselves as footpath dwellers to nab Ramya,” said Shabana Shaikh, senior police inspector of Dongri police station.On Monday the police spotted Ramya at Bohri Mohalla near JJ Marg. He purportedly confessed to the murder saying that the two had fought over alcohol and he hit Singh with a stone and fled the scene.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cops-pose-as-pavement-dwellers-to-nab-murder-accused-101642513611331.html
18-01-2022||Mumbai||BMC christens penguin chick, tiger cub as Oscar and Veera at Byculla Zoo||Mumbai: The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday christened a Humboldt penguin chick and a tiger cub born in Veermata Jijabai Bhonsale Udyan, popularly known as Byculla Zoo. Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar named the penguin chick Oscar, while the cub was christened as Veera. The announcement was made by the Mumbai mayor at the Byculla zoo on Tuesday, along with a cake cutting ceremony.The cub was born on November 14 to a pair of Bengal tigers - Shakti, who is the male, and Karishma, who is the female. The Humboldt penguin chick born to penguins Molt and Flipper on August 18 has been named Oscar.Pednekar said, “The cub Veera is now two months old. The mother Karishma and her cub are both healthy and active, and she is very attentive towards her cub. The cub will be closely monitored by veterinarians from the zoo until she is six months old. Apart from zoo vets, no one else is allowed near her. The vets will complete her vaccination and deworming doses.”The pair of Bengal tigers Shakti and Karishma were brought to the Byculla Zoo from Aurangabad’s Siddharth Garden Zoo on February 12, 2020. They have been housed in the tiger enclosure at the Byculla Zoo, especially designed keeping in mind the natural habitat of tigers, including a waterfall, dense plantation, and a viewing glass.Another penguin chick born on May 1 2021, was named Oreo by the zoo authorities in September 2021. This chick was born to another pair of Humboldt penguins Donal who is the male, and Daisy, who is the female.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-christens-penguin-chick-tiger-cub-as-oscar-and-veera-at-byculla-zoo-101642513489853.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Kairon inducts 2020 hooch tragedy key accused into SAD, courts controversy||TARN TARAN: Senior Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader and former minister Adesh Partap Singh Kairon courted a controversy after he inducted one of the prime accused of the hooch tragedy, which claimed the lives of more than 100 people in Punjab in 2020, into the party fold during his election campaign. Gurpal Singh, alias Pala, of Dhotian village, who is out on bail, was arrested by the Tarn Taran police for running a network of illicit liquor across Punjab. Gurpal’s brother Rashpal Singh, alias Shalu, is still absconding. Around 140 people died while more than a dozen people lost their eyesight after consuming spurious liquor in August and September 2020. More than 80 victims were from Tarn Taran district while the others were from Amritsar and Gurdaspur districts.Kairon along with his supporters visited Gurpal’s residence on Sunday and honoured him for joining the party. Kairon, who is son-in-law of SAD patriarch Parkash Singh Badal, also addressed a function, which was organised by Gurpal and other SAD leaders, at Dhotian village on Tuesday. “Kairon inducted me and my family into the party on Sunday, but today’s function was organised by former sarpanch Jashandeep Singh and former chairman Paramjit Singh,” said Gurpal, while talking to HT over phone.Tarn Taran police had claimed that Gurpal and his brother Rashpal were the kingpins of the illicit liquor smuggling racket. The police had also frozen the property of Gurpal and Rashpal worth ₹2 crore under the NDPS Act. Dhotian village sarpanch Ranjit Singh said: “Inducting a person who is accused in the hooch tragedy into a political party ahead of the state elections is shameful. Such accused should not be given political patronage.”He said: “Police had attached the property of both the accused in the village soon after the incident. But they and their family members are still using the properties, including big houses, due to a support by some politicians.”Police post Naushehra Pannuan’s in-charge assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Davinder Singh said: “They might be using the property which was not attached by the police. We are keeping regular watch on their activities.”Repeated efforts to contact Kairon proved futile. Kairon’s political advisor Gurmukh Singh Ghulla said he was unaware about the development. “I will check about Gurpal’s background,” he added. The SAD had demanded strict action and a thorough probe against Congress leaders soon after the tragedy.An Aakli leader, who didn’t wish to be named, said during the 2017 state elections, Gurpal and his brother Rashpal were inducted into the Congress by Patti MLA Harminder Singh Gill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-kairon-inducts-2020-hooch-tragedy-key-accused-into-sad-courts-controversy-101642513069785.html
18-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi's daily Covid cases fall to 11,684; positivity rate dips further to 22.5%||Daily Covid-19 cases in Delhi fell for a fifth straight day on Tuesday, with as many as 11,684 samples returning positive test result, as against 12,527 a day ago, taking the city's cumulative infection tally to 1,734,181, a health department bulletin showed. Daily fatalities, however, witnessed a rise, as 38 people succumbed due to the viral illness, up from 24 on Monday, pushing the overall toll to 25,425, as per the bulletin.Also Read | Centre pulls up states/UTs on drop in Covid testing, cites positivity trendFrom January 14 to 17, the national capital logged 24,383; 20,718; 18,286; 12,527 fresh infections respectively. Meanwhile, the daily toll on each day was recorded at 34, 30, 28 and 24.The latest bulletin also showed that Delhi's new cases were from 52,002 samples tested in the last 24 hours, a rise of 7240 samples from the previous bulletin. This meant that the city's positivity rate stood at 22.47 per cent, down from 28 per cent a day ago. The total number of tests conducted since the beginning of the pandemic rose to 34,156,827. Also Read | Covid-19 forces massive cut in R-Day parade spectator countThe data further showed that 17,516 patients were discharged after recovering, taking the total number of recoveries to 1,630,644. The Capital's active case count stood at 78,112, a fall from 83,982 on Monday. Also, on the vaccination front, health officials inoculated 151,314 more beneficiaries, among whom 86,860 received their first dose, while 45,582 received their second.As many as 28,709,662 doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been administered thus far, including 16,590,563 first doses, 11,971,842 second doses and 147,257 ‘precautionary’ or booster shots.A host of curbs, including night curfew and weekend curfew, are currently in place in Delhi to curb the spread of the virus. After staying low for several months, daily infections began spiking in the final days of December last year, primarily due to the Omicron variant, prompting authorities to clamp restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-daily-covid-cases-fall-to-11-684-positivity-rate-dips-further-to-225-101642512123333.html
18-01-2022||Mumbai||Param Bir Singh skips ACB summons due to Covid||Mumbai Former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh on Tuesday skipped the summons issued to him by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) in connection with the complaint filed by police inspector Anup Dange.Singh’s advocate RB Mokashi said, “He has sought three weeks’ time from the agency due to the pandemic.”A senior IPS officer attached to the ACB confirmed the development and said, “Singh was summoned to appear before the agency on January 10, but he had cited pendency of his case before the Supreme Court and sought time. We accordingly postponed the date and fresh summons were sent to Singh, asking him to attend our office on January 18.”Agency has been conducting an inquiry against Singh after Dange submitted a complaint to the chief minister and the home department on February 2, 2021, alleging that Singh had sought money for not initiating departmental action against him.According to Dange’s complaint, in November 2019 while he was posted at the Gamdevi police station, he and a team had visited a pub on Bhulabhai Desai Road during night patrol. The officer asked the pub staff to close down the establishment, as, under the prevailing rules, it was not permitted to operate beyond the deadline of 1:30 pm.Policemen on patrolling duty also asked customers to leave, but one customer entered into a heated argument with the policemen and attacked them. A case was registered against seven people. Dange claimed that Singh -- who was the director-general, ACB at the time, prevented him from taking action against the bar owner, which Dange did not heed. Soon after Singh took charge as the Mumbai PC in February 2020, a departmental enquiry was initiated against Dange.Dange’s complaint further stated that in 2020, Singh asked Dange to pay ₹50 lakh to avoid action taken against him. “We have recorded Dange’s statement twice and the inquiry is going on as per the legal procedure. Param Bir Singh has been summoned to record his statement. We are following the legal process,” said an ACB officer.In December 2021, Dange had written a letter to home minister Dilip Wale Patil demanding that the case be transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), complaining that ACB had not taken any in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/param-bir-singh-skips-acb-summons-due-to-covid-101642510429536.html
18-01-2022||Mumbai||Court rejects Anil Deshmukh’s default bail plea||vinay.dalvi@htlive.comMumbai A special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court on Tuesday rejected the bail plea of former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh.Additional sessions judge R N Rokade rejected the bail plea of the 71-year-old Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader arrested in a money laundering case on November 2.Deshmukh had moved for default bail through advocate Vikram Chaudhri and Aniket Nikam, contending that, excluding the date of first remand, a period of 60 days had elapsed, but the special court had not taken cognisance of the ED’s supplementary chargesheet against him and therefore, he was entitled to default bail. His counsels had argued that mere filing of the prosecution complaint cannot be construed as the conclusion of an investigation, as notwithstanding the same the court has ample powers in terms of Section 156(3) CrPC directing a further investigation, instead of taking cognizance.That, till now i.e. till the presentation of this application, no satisfaction was recorded by this court regarding completion of the investigation on perusal of any prosecution complaint presented before it. Unlike sub-section (1) which requires the satisfaction of the Investigating officer, in sub-section (2) of Section 167 CrPC, satisfaction is required to be recorded by the court. That, till now, no cognizance is taken by the court, which is prerequisite for the purpose of granting remand under Section 309(2) CrPC, they had argued.They claimed that a combined reading of Section 156(3), 167(2), 190 and 309(2) of CrPC clearly showed that at the pre-cognizance stage, there was a statutory embargo in granting remand beyond 60 days under Section 167(2), if the accused was willing to furnish bail bonds on expiry of 60 days of his arrest. Thus, if by that time i.e. 60 days, cognizance is not taken, his remand can not be continued, they asserted. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) had opposed the bail plea. Arguing for the agency, additional solicitor general, Anil Singh and advocate Shreeram Shirsath had submitted that default bail cannot be considered once the chargesheet or the supplementary chargesheet is filed within a period of 60 days from the date of the arrest.“It is submitted that the concept of statutory bail/default bail cannot be considered once the chargesheet and supplementary chargesheet have been filed. The supplementary prosecution complaint against Deshmukh and 11 others has been filed on December 29, 2021, within a period of 60 days from the date of his arrest. The registry has even given a central filing number to the said complaint,” the agency said in its reply opposing the bail plea.The Court while rejecting the bail plea said the ED had filed a chargesheet in time and section 167 of CrPC does not speak of taking cognisance of the chargesheet.The agency claimed that its investigation began after former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh had alleged that Deshmukh had directed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze to collect ₹100 crore every month from bars in Mumbai. Singh approached the Bombay high court (HC) and filed a petition in the matter. Based on HC’s order, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) initially conducted a preliminary enquiry and on April 21 registered an offence under provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act, after which ED started its investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/court-rejects-anil-deshmukh-s-default-bail-plea-101642508326356.html
18-01-2022||Mumbai||Ex-minister Anil Deshmukh asked Mumbai court for default bail. Judge says no||MUMBAI: A Mumbai court on Tuesday turned down former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh’s request for default bail, ruling that the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a charge sheet against him.The 71-year-old Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader, arrested on November 2 in a money laundering case, had moved a bail application before Additional Sessions Judge R N Rokade, the designated judge to try offences under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).Lawyers Vikram Chaudhri and Aniket Nikam, appearing for Deshmukh, argued that the former minister was entitled to default bail since the court hadn’t taken cognisance of two charge sheets filed against him by ED. Deshmukh’s lawyers argued that mere filing of the prosecution complaint /charge-sheet cannot be construed as a conclusion of the investigation since the court has ample powers to direct further investigation.Till now, no satisfaction was recorded by this court regarding the completion of the investigation on perusal of any prosecution complaint presented before it, they said, arguing that the court taking cognisance of the charge sheet is a prerequisite for granting Anil Deshmukh’s further remand.They claimed a combined reading of the provisions showed that at the pre-cognizance stage, there was a statutory embargo in granting remand beyond 60 days if the accused was willing to furnish bail bonds on expiry of 60 days of his arrest. “Thus, if by that time i.e. 60 days, cognizance is not taken, his remand can not be continued”, Deshmukh’s legal team said.ED contested this interpretation of the law. Arguing for the agency, additional solicitor general, Anil Singh and lawyer Shreeram Shirsath submitted that default bail cannot be considered once the charge sheet or the supplementary charge sheet has been filed within 60 days of the arrest.“It is submitted that the concept of statutory bail/default bail cannot be considered once the charge sheet and supplementary charge sheet has been filed. The supplementary prosecution complaint against Deshmukh and 11 others has been filed on December 29, 2021 within a period of 60 days from the date of his arrest. The registry has even given a central filing number to the said complaint,” the agency said in its reply opposing the bail plea.The court, while rejecting the bail plea, said ED filed the charge sheet in time and the section cited by Deshmukh does not speak of taking cognisance of charge sheet.The agency claimed that its investigation began after former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh alleged that Deshmukh directed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze to collect ₹100 crore every month from bars in Mumbai. Singh approached the Bombay high court (HC) and filed a petition in the matter. Based on the high court’s order, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) initially conducted a preliminary enquiry and on April 21, registered a case under provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act, after which ED started its investigation.ED also alleged that on Deshmukh’s instructions, Vaze called a meeting of bar owners from Mumbai and demanded a monthly amount of ₹3 lakh from each of them.In its charge sheet, the agency alleged that Vaze collected ₹4.70 crore from bar owners between December 2020 and February 2021, at Deshmukh’s behest. According to the agency, Vaze handed over the money to Kundan Shinde, personal secretary of Deshmukh who has been also arrested and subsequently, a part of the amount was routed to the charitable trust run by Deshmukh in Nagpur through various shell companies in the form of donations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/exminister-anil-deshmukh-asked-mumbai-court-for-default-bail-judge-says-no-101642508085598.html
18-01-2022||Bangalore||K'taka warns medical practitioners against spreading misinformation on Covid-19||The Karnataka government on Tuesday issued a warning to medical practitioners spreading misinformation on the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.In a statement, the government said such misinformation shared on media and social media platforms lead to confusion among the public on the prevailing crisis and encourage them to deviate from the well laid-out guidelines issued by the health and revenue authorities.“It has come to the notice of the government that few medical practitioners, while communicating to the public on various media platforms, are giving incomplete, inaccurate and unsubstantiated information about Covid-19,” the statement read.“Any misinformation/non-factual data on Covid-19 shared on any media/social platform would be deemed as an offence and necessary action would be initiated as per Section 54 of Disaster Management Act, 2005 and Section 4(k) of Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020,” the statement added.It urged medical practitioners to exercise caution while communicating with the public on the Covid-19 crisis and asked them to refer to the official guidelines and orders thoroughly before sharing any information on media and social media platforms.The latest guideline comes after some doctors, who appeared on news channels, allegedly made statements about the pandemic that contradicted facts and could create panic among people, health officials told news agency PTI.The daily Covid-19 tally in Karnataka saw a reduction on Monday with 27,156 infections, pushing the caseload to 32,47,243. Fourteen patients died on Monday and 7,827 recuperated from the viral disease. With this, the total number of fatalities and recoveries surged to 38,445 and 29,91,472, respectively. The active cases are over 2,17,000.On Sunday, Karnataka recorded 34,047 cases, 13 deaths and 5,902 recoveries. Amid the rising cases, the Covid-19 positivity rate surged to 20 per cent in two weeks, the highest since the beginning of the pandemic in 2020, an official told Hindustan Times on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ktaka-warns-medical-practitioners-against-spreading-misinformation-on-covid19-101642500478817.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: Meet the Mann of the moment||The announcement of two-time Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann’s name by Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal as the party’s chief ministerial face in Punjab did not come as a surprise to anyone. Also read: Bhagwant Mann is AAP da CM for PunjabMann, who is also the AAP’s state president, is easily its most popular leader. His selection as the CM face by people in the phone line survey of this kind – 93.3% of the 21-lakh plus respondents favoured him – undertaken by the party was on the expected lines. The 48-year-old political leader, who has come a long way with Tuesday’s announcement despite several controversies, is a proven crowdpuller for his party for which he has been leading the campaign from its first electoral outing in the state. His folksy style topped by biting sarcasm and side-splitting jokes, particularly ‘kikli’ (satirical speech) in which he targets politicians and issues, have been a huge hit in the rural areas of Punjab, particularly the Malwa region having 69 of the 117 seats and on which the AAP counts the most. Mann’s tryst with politics A college dropout, the humorist-turned-politician first flirted with politics in 2011 by joining the People’s Party of Punjab (PPP) which was set up by Manpreet Singh Badal (now in the Congress) after parting ways with the Shiromani Akali Dal. He took on former chief minister Rajinder Kaur Bhattal in Lehra assembly constituency in the 2012 elections, but trailed in the third position. When Badal decided to forge an alliance with the Congress, Mann did not follow him, opting for the AAP instead, and he has not looked back since. In 2014, Mann won the Sangrur seat by more than 2.11 lakh votes, the highest margin in the state. When the newbie outfit contested its first assembly election in 2017, he crisscrossed the state to campaign for the party candidates, besides taking on SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal in the latter’s stronghold of Jalalabad. While he lost to Sukhbir and came second ahead of Congress’ Ravneet Singh Bittu (now MP from Ludhiana), his party won 20 seats to become the principal opposition party. In 2019, when all other party candidates in the state forfeited their security deposits, he again scored a spectacular win in his Sangrur parliamentary constituency by over 1 lakh votes, and is today the only AAP MP in the Lok Sabha. Brush with controversies The AAP CM-face’s journey has not been without controversies, particularly his alleged drinking problem, as embarrassing videos kept surfacing from time to time showing him in an inebriated state. In January 2019, he took a public pledge, with his mother Harpal Kaur by his side, to quit drinking alcohol to avoid any embarrassment to the party. “I have taken a solemn vow to say ‘no’ to booze for good in my mother’s presence,” he told the gathering at a public meeting also attended by Kejriwal. The rivals have often portrayed him as unfit for this reason, and are already targeting him. The Congress social media team and party volunteers have been running a campaign, #Pegwant, on social media against him, despite his assertions that he has given up alcohol and turned sober. Mann was once also accused of compromising parliamentary security by live-streaming the security arrangements at the Parliament House on social media and several parties had demanded action against him. 
18-01-2022||Mumbai||HC commutes death sentence of sister-duo convicted of murdering five children in the 1990s||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday commuted the death sentence of sisters Renuka Shinde and Seema Gavit to life imprisonment after the state delayed in having their mercy petition reviewed for seven years and 10 months. The sisters were convicted for kidnapping 13 children between 1990 and 1996 in and around Kolhapur district to use them as a cover to snatch chains and purses. They were also tried for murdering nine children, but were eventually convicted for murdering five. Their mother, Anjanbai, who was also taken into custody, died in 1997 before the trial began. The sisters were sentenced to death by a Kolhapur trial court in 2001, and the ruling was upheld by the HC in 2004. Subsequently, their appeal was rejected by the Supreme Court in 2006 and their mercy petition was rejected by the president in 2014. Advocate Aniket Vagal, who represented the duo in the HC, informed the division bench of justices Nitin Jamdar and Sarang Kotwal — which heard the sisters’ 2014 petition — that the two sisters had approached the HC against the inordinate delay on the part of the state to get the mercy petition decided by the president after the apex court had rejected their appeal. The sisters claimed that the delay of nearly eight years between the SC’s ruling on their death sentence and the state filing their mercy petition before the president was unfair, cruel, excessive, unexplained and arbitrary and the delay had caused immense mental torture and emotional and physical agony to the petitioners. As per procedure, once the SC confirms a death sentence, the convict may file a mercy petition before the president, seeking pardon. It is the state government’s responsibility to get a mercy petition heard and decided by the president. The HC in its order on Tuesday observed, “Having considered the facts and circumstances in which the delay of seven years, 10 months and 15 days in the disposal of the mercy petitions has occurred, we find that it is entirely attributable to the officers of the respondent — governments, more particularly that of the state government.” After their mercy petition was rejected, the sisters moved the Bombay HC on the day set for their execution, seeking commutation of their death sentence to life imprisonment on the grounds that the delay by the state government was dehumanising. Vagal also argued before the bench — the same one before which their 2014 petition came up — that the delay was flagrant violation of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution and hence the death sentence should be commuted to life imprisonment. Their mother had died awaiting hearing of the current petition and the sisters, who had already spent 25 years behind bars, should be released. The bench concluded hearing of this petition on December 22 and reserved its order, which was pronounced on Tuesday. While pronouncing the order, justice Jamdar rapped the state administration for the delay in getting the mercy petition heard and decided after the apex court had rejected the appeal against the death sentence. “The state machinery showed laxity and indifference and has failed in its duty as a representative of the criminal justice system and also failed the innocent victims of serious crimes.” The bench said that while it acceded to the prayer for commutation of sentence, it could not accept the request of releasing them forthwith as the crimes committed by petitioners were heinous and beyond words to condemn. “The Supreme Court dismissed their appeal. They were a menace to society. We have no doubt that the competent authority will consider the gravity of offence and the observations are considered,” said the bench and set aside the death sentence and commuted it to life imprisonment till the end of the natural life of the convicts. “It’s end of the mental agony of the petitioners who have been living under the fear of death since 2006. The petitioners can at least now lead their life, though in prison, without the thought that they can be executed anytime. Petitioners will definitely lead peaceful lives and will rehabilitate themselves,” Vagal said. The life sentence is till the end of their natural lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/death-sentence-for-sisters-convicted-of-murdering-9-children-in-1990s-commuted-101642498185297.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Channi slams ED raids on nephew, reminds agency of Bengal episode||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi said on Tuesday that the Enforcement Directorate's (ED's) raids against his nephew are a way of putting pressure before the assembly elections in the state.Speaking to reporters, Channi said, "Raids are being conducted at the premises of my nephew. They are targeting me and are trying to put pressure on me in view of upcoming Assembly polls. This is not good for democracy. We're ready to fight this."Channi added that the same thing happened during the assembly elections in West Bengal last year when the ED raided premises of Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee's relatives. Taking a dig at the Centre, the Punjab CM said, “They remember these raids right when elections are about to happen.”Citing media reports, Channi pointed out that the central agency was also troubling his ministers and every leader of the Congress party.Also Read| Illegal sand mining: ED raids Punjab CM’s nephew among six contractorsOn Tuesday morning, the Enforcement Directorate raided at least 10-12 locations in poll-bound Punjab as part of a money-laundering probe against the 'sand mafia' and companies linked to alleged illegal sand mining in the state.The Enforcement Directorate's action was initiated after taking cognisance of a 2018 FIR of the Punjab Police against some companies and individuals alleged to be involved in illegal sand mining.As a part of the raids, the ED is also covering the premises linked to Bhupinder Singh alias Honey, in Mohali. Honey is the nephew of chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi.Also Read| Channi as CM face for Punjab polls? Major hint by Congress in videos tweetedOpposition parties had earlier linked Channi with the dealings of Honey but the Punjab CM has denied this allegation.On the other hand, the Congress party has slammed the ED's raids by saying that the central agency, along with the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Income Tax Department, has become a tool of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Union government during elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-channi-slams-ed-raids-on-nephew-reminds-agency-of-bengal-episode-101642492266352.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab drugs case: HC extends interim protection from arrest to Majithia till Jan 24||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday extended interim protection from arrest to Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader and former Punjab minister Bikram Singh Majithia till January 24 in the drugs case registered against him by Punjab Police in Mohali on December 20. Also read: Punjab election: AAP announces Bhagwant Mann as its chief ministerial candidateThe order was passed during resumed hearing of his anticipatory bail plea by the bench of justice Lisa Gill, one of his counsel, Arshdeep Singh Cheema, said. On January 10, the high court had asked Majithia to join the probe on January 12 and also directed the police not to arrest him. After remaining underground for nearly 20 days, Majithia surfaced a day after the high court gave him interim protection. He appeared before the special investigation team (SIT) in Mohali. Majithia was booked under Sections 25 (punishment for allowing premises), 27 (A) (whoever is financing any activities pertaining to narcotic drugs) and 29 (party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act on December 20. On December 24, a Mohali court dismissed his anticipatory bail plea. In the high court, Majithia roped in Supreme Court lawyer Mukul Rohtagi and senior advocate RS Cheema. Former Union minister P Chidambaram is leading the team of lawyers for Punjab Police. In his plea, Majithia termed the FIR an “election stunt” and alleged that the Charanjit Singh Channi-led Congress government had changed three Punjab Police chiefs in three months to get this FIR registered. The plea also accused Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu of indulging in “unwarranted propaganda” and deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa of demonstrating “intense hatred” towards Majithia. Punjab Police, in its response, had said that the government machinery was used for the benefit of drug cartels during the Akali regime in the state. Majithia was a key minister in the Akali government and it was during the Shiromani Akali Dal’s term that the cartel was unearthed, the police submitted, seeking his custody. The SIT also said incriminating material had come on record against Majithia. While giving interim protection to Majithia, the high court on January 10 directed that he will not leave the country and provide his mobile number to the SIT. He was also been asked to share with the SIT his live location through WhatsApp. The court directed him to appear before the SIT as and when required. 
18-01-2022||Lucknow||Many Bihar-based political parties set to enter UP electoral battle||Many Bihar-based political parties have entered the electoral battle of Uttar Pradesh by fielding their candidates from various assembly constituencies. The Janata Dal (United), the Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) and the Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) that are alliance partner of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in Bihar have decided to go solo in 2022 UP assembly polls after the talks of pre-poll alliance with the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) failed. Janata Dal (U) national general secretary and UP in-charge KC Tyagi will release the first list of party candidates in a programme organised in the party state unit office in Lucknow on Tuesday (January 18). Senior JD (U) leader and Union steel minister RCP Singh has held several rounds of talks with Union home minister Amit Shah, BJP national president JP Nadda and BJP UP in-charge and Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan over the pre-poll alliance in UP but there was no response from the BJP leadership.With four days left in the filing of nomination papers for the first phase of assembly election to be held on February 10, the JD (U) had decided to contest the assembly election on its own, said a JD (U) leader. The Lok Janshakti Party-Ram Vilas (LJPRV), led by MP from Jamui Lok Sabha seat in Bihar Chirag Paswan, has decided to field candidates on 100 assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh. LJPRV state unit president Mani Shankar Pandey said the party had sent the list of 60 candidates to the central unit. The central leadership was likely to finalise the candidates on Tuesday, he added. “The LJPRV has launched a digital campaign in various assembly constituencies to mobilise the party cadre,” he added. Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) leader and minister in Bihar government Santosh Suman Manjhi had met UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath and other BJP leaders in Lucknow in August last. The party has decided to contest assembly election in UP in alliance with the BJP. HAM (S) enjoys influence over Manjhi, Machua and Kewat communities settled in eastern UP. After no positive response from the BJP, the HAM (S) had decided to contest the UP assembly election on its own strength, said an HAM (S) leader.Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) led by Bihar animal husbandry minister Mukesh Sahani has announced to field candidates on 165 assembly seats. Majority of these seats are located in eastern UP dominated by Nishad community. The VIP made its presence in UP by organising programmes in various districts to mark the death anniversary of bandit-turned-politician Phoolan Devi on July 25 last year. Sahani addressed meetings in Lucknow, Varanasi and other districts to mobilise the party cadre in December. The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) had already announced its support to the Samajwadi Party in the UP assembly election. The RJD had also supported the SP in the 2019 Lok Sabha election. “Leader of Opposition in the Bihar assembly and RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav will campaign in support of the SP in the upcoming assembly election,” said a RJD leader who did not wish to be named.
18-01-2022||Other||Suspected Maoist killed in Chhattisgarh||RAIPUR: A suspected Maoist was killed in an ongoing exchange of fire with security personnel in Chhattisgarh’s Sukma district on Tuesday. Police said they have recovered one body from the gunbattle scene even as the firing was going on.District reserve guard and special task forces of Sukma, Dantewada, and Bastar were involved in the operation, which began at 7 am on Tuesday near Marjum Hills.“We have recovered one body of a Maoist till now and more are apparently injured in the firing. The encounter is still going on and more details are awaited,” Sukma’s superintendent of police Sunil Sharma said.People aware of the matter said reinforcements have been sent to the scene as police said they have trapped a group of Maoists.“We believe the encounter will continue for the next few hours. We have cordoned off a group of Maoist cadres on a specific input,” said a second police officer, who did not want to be named.
18-01-2022||Patna||500 doctors test positive for Covid in Patna||PATNA: Around 500 doctors at Patna’s four hospitals have tested positive for coronavirus this month even as the state reported 3,526 infections on Monday compared to 5,410 a day earlier. The count of active cases was 33,122 in the state on Monday.Patna’s All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), Medical College Hospital (PMCH), and the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (PMCH), which collectively have 5,000 beds, have been affected.The AIIMS and the IGIMS have restricted the number of patients at outdoor patient departments to 50 per department. The IGIMS has curtailed elective surgeries, while the AIIMS has reduced them by more than half.The PMCH, where around 125 doctors have so far tested positive for Covid-19, has been forced to curtail the beds in the intensive care unit (ICU) of the medicine department by half.“We have reduced the ICU beds from 20 to 10 after 30 of the 40-odd resident doctors in the medicine department recently tested positive for Covid-19. We may review the situation if it improves next week,” said IS Thakur, the hospital’s medical superintendent.The PMCH has sought the services of MBBS interns in its psychiatry and preventive and social medicine departments and deputed them to the medicine department to manage its ICU and emergency. Generally, such services are looked after by post-graduate students.At AIIMS, where around 170 doctors had tested positive, the functioning of operation theatres has been reduced by half to six a day against 33 earlier.Saurabh Varshney, executive director of AIIMS-Deoghar, who also holds charge of AIIMS-Patna, said the situation was “manageable”, as most doctors and paramedics, who tested positive, have resumed duty after being cured.IGIMS and AIIMS have encouraged tele consultation.
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Bhagwant Mann is AAP da CM for Punjab||It’s official, Punjab Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) president and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann will be the AAP’s chief ministerial candidate in the February 20 assembly elections. Also read: Channi as CM face for Punjab polls? Major hint by Congress in videos tweetedAAP national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal made the much-awaited announcement at a party function in Mohali on Tuesday afternoon. “Wherever I went, everyone asked me dulha kaun hoga (who is the groom?). We decided to ask 3 crore people of Punjab,” said Kejriwal, hours after the AAP received around 22 lakh responses under its campaign to elect its CM face. “93.3% of the responses favoured Mann,” Kejriwal declared as the Punjab AAP chief looked on smiling from the stage, where he was seated along with Punjab leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema, party Punjab affairs in-charge Jarnail Singh and AAP co-incharge Raghav Chadha. Interestingly, the Delhi CM said that 3% of the respondents even named state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu as the CM face of AAP!Kejriwal had on January 13 asked the people of Punjab to suggest names of their preferred chief ministerial candidates and launched a mobile number for the purpose. He said though he wanted Mann’s name to be declared as the CM candidate, the MP insisted that people should make the decision. Kejriwal had clarified that he was not in the race. LED screens were installed for Kejriwal’s live press conference at Mann’s native Satoj village in Sangrur district, where celebrations broke out soon after Kejriwal announced his name as the CM candidate. 
18-01-2022||Kolkata||‘Immeasurable loss to world of literary creativity and comics’: Bengal CM condoles death of cartoonist Narayan Debnath||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday condoled the demise of noted cartoonist Narayan Debnath by saying that his passing away is an immeasurable loss to the world of literary creativity and comics.Taking to Twitter, Banerjee said, “Extremely sad that the noted litterateur, illustrator, cartoonist, and creator of some immortal characters for children's world, Narayan Debnath is no more. He had created Bantul the Great, Handa- Bhonda, Nonte- Fonte, figures that have been etched in our hearts for decades,”She added that the West Bengal government in 2013 was proud to bestow upon him the state's highest award Banga Bibhusan.“My deepest condolences to his family, friends, readers and countless fans and followers,” the chief minister further tweeted.Apart from Banerjee, the leader of opposition in the West Bengal assembly Suvendu Adhikari also condoled Debnath's death. “His legacy will always be cherished by children and grown-ups alike. Condolences to family and countless admirers,” Adhikari tweeted.We were proud to bestow upon him Bengal’s highest award Banga Bibhusan in 2013. His passing away is certainly an immeasurable loss to the world of literary creativity and comics. My deepest condolences to his family, friends, readers and countless fans and followers.Narayan Debnath passed away at 10.15 am at the age of 98 at a private hospital in Kolkata on Tuesday. He was hospitalised on December 24 last year with kidney and lung problems, his son Tapas Debnath said.He holds the record of the longest-running comic by an individual artist for Handa Bhonda.Debnath was awarded the Padma Shri, India's fourth-highest civilian award last year. On January 14, West Bengal cooperative minister Aroop Roy met Debnath and handed over the award while he was undergoing treatment at the Kolkata hospital. According to Roy, the cartoonist opened his eyes and smiled during the meetingNarayan Debnath was also the recipient of the Sahitya Academy Award.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee-condoles-death-of-cartoonist-narayan-debnath-101642487425544.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Illegal sand mining: ED raids Punjab CM’s nephew among six contractors||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday conducted raids on 10 locations in Punjab, including the premises of chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s nephew Bhupinder Singh in Mohali besides Ludhiana and Pathankot districts, in an illegal sand mining case. Also read: Ripudaman Singh Malik thanks PM Modi for taking positive steps for SikhsThe ED has been probing the case under the Prevention to Money Laundering Act (PMLA) after the state mining department lodged a complaint at Rahon police station in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar in 2018. ED officials said that Kudrat Deep Singh, one of the main accused, had formed new companies with two directors, Sandeep Singh and Bhupinder Singh. The ED has been probing money-laundering charges against six contractors as it suspects the proceeds from the illegal sand mining has been further transferred. Besides Kudrat Deep Singh, the ED probe has found the involvement of the other contractors. The ED team, comprising six officials and four policemen, raided the posh Homeland Heights apartment of Channi’s nephew in Mohali early on Tuesday. According to the FIR, there are 26 accused of whom most are truck drivers. The case was registered on the complaint of the Punjab mining department that found sand quarries being run without approval during its raids in 2018. The mining department impounded 30 vehicles and other machinery being used for the illegal mining. In 2018, the case was registered under Sections 21(1) and 4(1) of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957,and Sections 420 (punishment for cheating), 471 (whoever fraudulently or dishonestly uses as genuine), and 465 (punishment for forgery) at Rahon. Pressure tactics in run-up to elections: ChanniReacting to the ED raid at his nephew Bhupinder Singh’s house, Channi said: “The same thing happened during the West Bengal elections. It is to put pressure on me in view of the upcoming assembly polls.”“They are targeting me. This is not good for democracy. We are ready to fight this. The same thing happened during the WB elections,” Channi said, adding that “the entire issue is to settle scores with us for what happened a few days ago in Punjab”. He was referring to the faceoff between Punjab and the Centre over the breach of security during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s January 5 visit to Ferozepur.Raids a poll gimmick, says Congress leader Alka LambaSoon after the raids, Congress leader Alka Lamba, who is the party’s media coordinator for the Punjab elections, tweeted, “CBI, ED & IT raids have become a tool of the BJP govt during the elections.”Terming the raids a poll gimmick, she claimed that the BJP and the B-teams of the BJP were stunned with increasing popularity of Punjab chief minister Channi due to his works. “The people of Punjab will themselves respond to this in the coming days,” Lamba added.
18-01-2022||Kolkata||Cartoonist Narayan Debnath passes away||KOLKATA: Cartoonist Narayan Debnath died at a private hospital in Kolkata on Tuesday morning. He was 98. Debnath was awarded India’s fourth-highest civilian award Padma Shri in 2021. A West Bengal minister last week handed over the award to him while he was undergoing treatment. Earlier, he was awarded Bangabibhsuan in 2013 and the Sahitya Academy Award.Debnath immortalised comic characters such as Handa Bhonda, Batul the Great, and Nonte Fonte.“He was admitted in the hospital on December 24 with kidney and lung problems,” said Tapas Debnath, Narayan Debnath’s son. Narayan Debnath is survived by two sons and a daughter.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said his passing has created an irreparable void in the world of cartoons. “I am deeply saddened by the demise of noted cartoonist Narayan Debnath,” Banerjee said in a statement. Suvendu Adhikari, the leader of the Opposition in the West Bengal assembly, said Narayan Debnath’s legacy will always be cherished. “Legendary cartoonist Narayan Debnath; creator of immortal fictional characters like ‘Batul the Great’, ‘Handa Bhonda’ & ‘Nante Fante’ has passed away. His legacy will always be cherished by children and grown ups alike. Condolences to family and countless admirers. Om Shanti,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cartoonist-narayan-debnath-passes-away-101642487144545.html
18-01-2022||Patna||Bihar govt orders probe after Patna doctor takes 5 Covid vaccine shots||The Bihar government has ordered an investigation after records showed that a Patna-based civil surgeon was administered five shots of the Covid-19 vaccine.The civil surgeon, Dr Vibha Kumari Singh, however, said she had taken the jab thrice as per rules.Singh also claimed that someone else managed to get vaccine shots using her PAN card details, and called for a probe.According to the CoWIN portal, she received the first dose on January 28, 2021 and was fully vaccinated by March last year.Government records showed Singh was also jabbed on February 6, 2021 using her PAN card information, and for the fourth time on June 17 that year. She then took a precautionary dose on January 13, 2022.Patna District Magistrate Chandrashekhar Singh on Monday said the administration has started an investigation. “Strict action will be taken against those found guilty,” he said.Earlier this month, an 84-year-old man in the north Bihar district of Madhepura caused a flutter with the claim that he has taken a dozen shots of the coronavirus vaccine.“I have used my Aadhaar card and my voter ID card on different occasions to get myself registered… Every single dose has helped relieve my chronic back pain. I have never caught a cold since I took the first shot 11 months ago,” the octogenarian Brahmadeo Mandal had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-govt-orders-probe-after-patna-doctor-takes-5-covid-vaccine-shots-101642485928194.html
18-01-2022||Delhi||Cold day conditions likely to abate in Delhi today||NEW DELHI: Cold day conditions are likely to abate in Delhi on Tuesday with the city expected to record an increase in the maximum temperature by two degrees even as the air quality was in the “very poor” category again. Delhi recorded an Air Quality Index (AQI) of 332 at 7 am on Tuesday. The AQI was 327 at 4 pm on Monday while it was 264 (poor) on Sunday.The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research said the air quality is likely to start improving from Tuesday as wind speeds pick up. “Maximum temperature and wind speed are likely to increase gradually for the next three days, enhancing ventilation of pollutants and leading to improvement in air quality. From January 21, the wind speed will pick up even more.”Delhi has experienced cold day conditions for five days as dense upper-level fog made it difficult for sunlight to penetrate to the surface. It recorded a minimum temperature of 9 degrees Celsius on Tuesday morning. Shallow fog persisted in the early hours. It was expected to clear out in the second half of the day.Safdarjung, Delhi’s base weather station, recorded a maximum of 16.1 degrees Celsius on Monday, four degrees below normal. A maximum temperature of 18 degrees Celsius was expected on Tuesday.A slight rise in temperature is expected as the upper-level fog is beginning to clear out. A western disturbance is also expected to bring rain to Delhi this week.A day is classified as cold when the maximum temperature is 4.5 degrees or more below normal while the minimum is below 10 degrees Celsius. A severe cold day is when the maximum is 6.5 degrees or more below normal.The maximum temperatures during the last five days were hovering between 14-16 degrees with a season-low of 14.8 degrees Celsius recorded on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cold-day-conditions-likely-to-abate-in-delhi-today-101642476523896.html
18-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi high court pulls up SDMC over disability audit||The Delhi high court on Monday pulled up the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) for not carrying out a social disability audit in a “proper manner” in Vasant Vihar area and failing to take steps to make streets and pavements friendly for wheelchair-bound people.Justice Najmi Waziri, while hearing a contempt plea alleging inaction of the authorities in preserving trees and preventing them from concretisation, took note of a video showing civic officials conducting the audit on a wheelchair but with assistance from another person.On November 15 last year, the court said SDMC engineers shall traverse the entire colony’s footpaths on a wheelchair unaided to ensure the usability the footpaths. In compliance, the civic body officials carried out an audit, but with assistance.The court observed that every citizen has a right to move around in the area created by the state and asked why SDMC officials were not moving independently on wheelchairs.“When they moved around in wheelchairs, did they find it difficult?” the court asked the SDMC counsel.When the counsel gave an answer in negative, the court wondered how they did not find it difficult and also questioned why another person was pushing the wheelchair and the official sitting on the chair was not moving it on his own. htc||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-high-court-pulls-up-sdmc-over-disability-audit-101642457727532.html
18-01-2022||Delhi||Govt extends online yoga classes to those in home isolation||The Delhi government’s free online yoga classes under “Dilli Ki Yogshala” for patients in home isolation began last week, said officials.The Delhi government in a statement said the classes not only boost immunity, but also help patients quickly recover from Covid-19.On January 11, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced free online yoga classes by professionally trained teachers for Covid patients being treated at home. Patients can register for online yoga classes by clicking on a link sent to them by the health department. So far, over 3,000 people have enrolled in this scheme.Only 15 patients are assigned to one yoga instructor so that they receive better care and individual attention. Currently, the Delhi government has employed hundreds of professionally trained yoga instructors and is training new ones.Dr Munesh Kasana, a resident of from East of Kailash and a Covid patient, said: “Because Covid affects the lungs, we were taught special asanas and pranayama in yoga class to ensure our oxygen levels do not drop. I am impressed with the government’s initiative, and I am also promoting it among my family.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-extends-online-yoga-classes-to-those-in-home-isolation-101642456658539.html
18-01-2022||Dehradun||Why Uttarakhand BJP’s pre-emptive strike hurts Harak Singh Rawat, helps Congress||DEHRADUN: The pre-emptive action by the BJP against Harak Singh Rawat by expelling him from the party for six years amid speculation that he is headed to join the Congress has compromised Rawat’s bargaining power, analysts said.Rawat, who hadn’t foreseen that the BJP will take such an action, told reporters on Monday that he feels insulted as he was not told anything about the decision and that the party took action based on social media reports.With his sacking from the cabinet and expulsion from the party, he is now left with no other option but to join the Congress that he had quit ahead of the 2017 state assembly polls. Rawat told local media on Monday that he will join the Congress or serve the people of the state.Also Read: ‘Joining Congress wasn’t my plan... BJP overreacted,’ says Harak Singh RawatAccording to political experts, the pre-emptive action has benefited the Congress as the party can now take him into the party fold on its own terms. Political analyst MM Semwal said if Harak Singh joins Congress, it won’t send a good signal in the party as most of workers and leaders have struggled for last five years, while he was enjoying power. “Now, with the BJP taking pre-emptive action, the Congress has an upper hand as it can decide whether to take him in or not and if they taken him in, what role he would be given.”Most senior Congress leaders, including state president Ganesh Godiyal and leader of opposition Pritam Singh maintained that party high command will take the decision on Rawat’s joining and the role that he will be assigned. With Rawat almost set to join the Congress, many people both within the party and outside have started questioning if the party take back a leader who played a key role in the rebellion of nine Congress MLAs in 2016 and switched to the BJP. Many Congress leaders were seen now trying to defend this in media by saying that he has apologised for it and his joining the party will make the party stronger. Godiyal said Rawat acknowledged that what he did in 2016 was wrong and as such these issues should not be brought up now.When Congress leader Harish Rawat was asked by reporters in Delhi about his past equation with Rawat and if his joining the party will send a wrong signal , the veteran leader, who has not been in good terms with Harak Singh given his role in 2016 rebellion, said, “Harish Rawat is not important; democracy and democratic traditions are important, and state is important…. This question is imaginative as right now, I don’t even know whether he wants to join or not join (Congress)…” When asked about statements that his support will strengthen the Congress, Harish Rawat said, “There are many people for strengthening the party…whether to take him in the party fold will be decided by the party high command.”Meanwhile, Governor Lt Gen Gurmit Singh (retd) removed Harak Singh from the state cabinet and allotted his departments to chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami. Dhami on Sunday had written to governor that Harak Singh be immediately removed from the cabinet. The 1960 born Thakur leader from Garhwal was first elected as an MLA in 1991 from Pauri and became the youngest minister of Uttar Pradesh. In 2002 he was elected as MLA from Lansdowne assembly segment. In 2007, he was re-elected form Lansdowne. In year 2007 he was elected as leader of opposition in Uttarakhand legislative assembly. In 2012, he was elected from Rudraprayag assembly segment and in 2017 form Kotdwar assembly segment.
18-01-2022||Kolkata||Shantanu Thakur reaches out to disgruntled Bengal BJP leaders, calls it a picnic||KOLKATA: Two days after accusing the Bengal unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of ignoring the Dalit Matua community, union minister of state and Matua leader Shantanu Thakur on Monday organised a get-together with his followers and a section of disgruntled BJP leaders who were left out of the new state committees that were eventually dissolved on January 13 following protests.“The picnic is part of the preparations for the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. We discussed our strategy. None of those who attended it are dissidents. We all owe our allegiance to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. We have assembled here because the new state-level committees were formed with an ulterior motive. We foresee a danger for the Bengal BJP,” Thakur said on Monday.The meeting was held at the residence of a BJP local unit president at Bongaon in North 24 Parganas district.On Sunday, Thakur held a meeting with leaders of the All India Matua Mahasangha at Thakurnagar, the community’s headquarters in North 24 Parganas district. Thakur is the president of the Mahasangha.The Matua community’s support to the BJP was believed to have helped the BJP bag several Lok Saba and assembly seats 2019 and 2021, respectively.“Implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) has been the principal demand of the Matuas. We will discuss it with our central leaders and union home minister Amit Shah,” said legislator Subrata Thakur, also the brother of union minister Shananu Thakur.Shantanu Thakur and four legislators left all WhatsApp groups of the West Bengal BJP on January 4, saying the Matua community was not properly represented in the new organisational committees formed during a state-wide reshuffle on December 22.On Saturday, Thakur demanded the removal of Bengal BJP general secretary (organisation) Amitava Chakraborty without naming the latter.On Monday, huge posters, demanding Chakraborty’s removal appeared near the Bengal BJP headquarters at Muralidhar Sen Lane in central Kolkata. In one poster, he was accused of being the agent of Mamata Banerjee’s election strategist Prashant Kishor.Chakraborty did not make any comment. “The post of general secretary (organisation) is above this bickering in the BJP. The person holding that post does only internal work. He does not form organisational committees or make public speeches. Dragging Chakraborty into this is unfair and condemnable,” Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said.“There are no differences between the Matuas and the BJP. The new citizenship law will surely be enforced in Bengal before the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. This is being handled by the Central government. The party cannot comment on administrative issues,” Bhattacharya added. The recent rejig made not just the Matua leaders unhappy but left many others grumbling as well. Signs of dissent emerged from several quarters as many BJP old-timers were replaced. The party announced the names of 11 new vice-presidents, five general secretaries, 42 organisational district unit presidents and 12 state secretaries alongside seven new morcha (front) presidents.Apart from the Matua leaders, Ritesh Tiwari and Jay Prakash Majumdar, who were state vice-presidents before being dropped, and Sayantan Basu, who was a state general secretary, attended Monday’s picnic.“See this as a social gathering,” Majumdar quipped. The Centre has said that it is in the process of framing laws for the CAA which the Parliament passed in 2020.The law offers citizenship to non-Muslims who entered India from Afghanistan, Pakistan and Bangladesh before 2015. The TMC insists that the law is unconstitutional as it links citizenship to faith in a secular country. The Matuas are a part of the large Dalit Namasudra community that migrated from Bangladesh during India’s partition in 1947 and the 1971 Bangladesh Liberation War to escape religious persecution.Thakur, 39, the Lok Sabha member from Bongaon, was made minister of state for ports, shipping and waterways during the Union cabinet reshuffle last year.This was seen as a move by the BJP central leadership to keep the Matuas happy as Thakur has been demanding the implementation of the new citizenship law. He even accompanied Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the latter’ visit to Bangladesh on the eve of the March-April assembly polls last year.Modi offered prayers at the Matua temple at Orakandi near Dhaka and praised Thakur in his speech, triggering a sharp reaction from chief minister Mamata Banerjee.In February last year, Shah announced during his visit to Thakurnagar that the Centre will enforce the citizenship law once vaccination across the country is over and the Covid-19 pandemic ends.Even as the BJP found itself in an embarrassing situation, Sukanta Majumdar said: “Winter is a right time to organise picnics. Anybody can attend it. I do not want to comment. As far Sunday’s meeting is concerned, it was held by Matua leaders. The BJP stands by the community.”The TMC observed that the rumblings were bad news to the BJP. “The signs are clear. The Bengal BJP is breaking up,” said TMC Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/shantanu-thakur-reaches-out-to-disgruntled-bengal-bjp-leaders-calls-it-a-picnic-101642452822449.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: More desertions, rebellion by sulking leaders prickle Cong||The ruling Congress’ troubles mounted in Punjab on Monday with more leaders, including a six-time former minister and a senior cabinet minister’s son, miffed over being ignored in the first list of candidates for the February 20 assembly elections, quitting the party or throwing their hat in the ring. Cabinet minister Rana Gurjeet Singh’s son Rana Inder Partap Singh announced to contest as an Independent candidate from Sultanpur Lodhi after the party decided to again field sitting MLA Navtej Singh Cheema from the constituency. “I am going to fight this election for the people of Sultanpur Lodhi who suffered immensely during the past five years,” he told Hindustan Times, giving a tongue-lashing to Cheema for alleged corruption and neglect of the segment. The first list of 86 candidates out of 117 that came out on Saturday has led to an outpouring of anger from those who were denied tickets with some of them rushing to join other parties. On Sunday, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s brother also rebelled and decided to fight as an Independent after being denied ticket from Bassi Pathana, landing the party leadership in a thorn bush of embarrassment. Claiming that he was fighting to save the Congress, Rana Inder said he had the blessing of his father. Rana Inder, who had applied for the ticket and made his intentions known to the leadership well in advance, has been crisscrossing the assembly segment continuously for the last two months. Both Rana Gurjeet and Cheema have been at loggerheads and targeting each other. Former jails minister and six-time former MLA Sarwan Singh Phillaur and his son Damanvir Phillaur were also upset and quit the Congress to join the Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa-led Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt). Damanvir was seeking the Congress ticket from the Phillaur reserved assembly constituency and had been active in the area, but he was ignored as the party opted for Vikramjit Singh Chaudhary, who was the runner-up in the 2017 elections, losing to Baldev Singh Khaira of the Shiromani Akali Dal. SAD (Sanyukt) president and Rajya Sabha member Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa inducted them into the party. The SAD (Sanyukt) is fighting the elections in alliance with the BJP and Capt Amarinder Singh-led Punjab Lok Congress. Another setback for the party was the exit of two-time former MLA Luv Kumar Goldy, who, along with several of his supporters, jumped ship to the PLC after the party overlooked his candidature from Garhshankar. On Sunday, Nimisha Mehta had also joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) after the party opted for former Punjab Youth Congress president Amarpreet Singh Lally from Garhshankar. Mehta was being backed by chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi but faced opposition from campaign committee chairman Sunil Jakhar. Rajya Sabha member Ambika Soni was also backing Lally, according to party sources. Earlier, sitting Moga MLA Harjot Kamal Singh also crossed over to the BJP after the name of actor Sonu Sood’s sister Malvika Sood Sachar was announced from the seat. Also, senior leader and former MP Mohinder Singh Kaypee, who is related to the chief minister, was also discontented over the denial of ticket from the Adampur assembly seat. Sukhwinder Singh Kotli, who joined the Congress from the BSP last month, has been fielded from the segment. Only one person gets the ticket, heartburn is natural: Channi Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi said the candidate selection was a democratic process. “Everyone has the right to seek the party ticket but only one person gets it, and heartburn is natural,” he said at a press conference. Asked about his younger brother’s decision to fight as an Independent, the CM said theirs was a joint family and he was aware of the circumstances. “My brother was a doctor and posted in Bassi Pathana from where the MLA (Gurpreet Singh) GP got him transferred. He requested the MLA, even telling him that he is the minister’s brother, but that did not help,” he said. Channi said his brother quit his job and decided to contest the election, asking for the party ticket. “The party did not give it. GP is also our brother. We will sit together and work out something,” he said. In response to another query, he justified Kaypee’s resentment, stating the party leadership was considering the matter. “He is a stalwart and has been the Congress chief. The party is looking into it,” he said.
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Clear stand on SYL Canal issue, Sidhu tells Kejriwal||Launching a fresh attack on Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal, Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday asked him to clear his stand on the Sutlej Yamuna Link (SYL) Canal issue, while dubbing him “migratory bird who comes to Punjab during the poll season”. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, through an affidavit in the Supreme Court, had initially supported Haryana’s stand on SYL Canal issue, but he took a U-turn in December 2016 ahead of the Punjab polls, saying that Punjab had no water to spare. Addressing a press conference at his residence here, Sidhu said, “I am not against Kejriwal personally. But I am against his activities in Punjab. He is like a chameleon that changes colour according to the place and situation. I will also call him a “political tourist”. “Why am I calling him so, there are a number of reasons. He apologised to Majithia after making a statement on his alleged link with the drug peddlers. He accumulated money through donations from NRIs, but never made the accounts public. Now, he is facing accusations of selling tickets. Does he have a roadmap for Punjab as I have?” he said, adding that under the Congress’s ‘Punjab model’, there was a plan to introduce single-window e-governance for hassle-free services. Sidhu further said he doesn’t speak against Bhagwant Mann because he is not a thief. “Kejriwal facilitates the businesses of Badals and liquor barons. He must tell people what is his stand on the SYL canal issue. Is there a Punjabi in his Delhi cabinet? He is planning to run Punjab with remote control from outside,” Sidhu said. “This time, the Congress will contest the polls on an agenda. I have given a 13-point programme. We will see what points are figure in the party manifesto,” he said, while welcoming BSP former district president Tarsem Singh Bhola and his supporters into the party fold. On Congress’s CM face, Sidhu said, “Last time, Rahul ji announced the CM face at an election rally in Majitha. So, it is up to the party high command to make such an announcement. We will abide by what the high command decides.” He said ideology was the core strength of the Congress. “Nobody can defeat the Congress if the leaders are united. It is the Congress that defeats itself,” he said, adding that he will try to pacify leaders who have revolted over denial of ticket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/clear-stand-on-syl-canal-issue-sidhu-tells-kejriwal-101642451623088.html
18-01-2022||Other||Search ops intensified, zero tolerance for drugs: Punjab Police||Chandigarh Chief director Vigilance Bureau-cum-State Police Nodal Officer (SPNO) Ishwar Singh on Monday said assembly elections in the state will be conducted in a fair and transparent manner, with the Punjab Police intensifying search operations, especially in border districts, and along the international border. “Vigil is being kept on illegal activities in doubtful/vulnerable areas,” he said, adding that the BSF, the PAP, CID units, special branch, excise and taxation department and dog squad and anti-sabotage Teams. The statement from the SPNO office added said apart from conducting conventional combing and search operations, Punjab Police has been using technology-driven policing. “Drones are being deployed to conduct aerial surveys to cover inaccessible areas of Mand along Beas and Sutlej rivers,” the statement said, adding that during search operations, special attention is being paid to isolated areas, unpaved roads (Pagdandi), tubewells, freshly dug out areas, freshly cleared areas inside fields, Deras/Gujjar outside villages. The Punjab DGP, along with the SPNO held a high-level meeting with the CPs/SSPs of the state, on Monday, to prevent inflow of drugs in the state. The force has been instructed to follow a zero-tolerance policy towards drugs and bootlegging ahead of elections. The SPNO added that Joint Task Force teams have been formed in each district and raids are being conducted on a routine basis to ensure that no illegal activity takes place. On Monday itself, Amritsar Rural Police recovered 1,100 kg of illicit liquor; the Batala Police recovered 620kg of illicit liquor during raids, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/search-ops-intensified-zero-tolerance-for-drugs-punjab-police-101642450722115.html
18-01-2022||Other||Day after joining BJP, Cong Amritsar rural chief returns on ministers’ intervention||Amritsar Congress Amritsar rural chief Bhagwant Pal Singh Sachar, who had joined the BJP on Sunday, returned to the party on Monday, after three Punjab ministers, including the deputy chief minister, reached out to him. Sachar had gone to the BJP after expressing his disappointment at the Congress denying him a ticket from the Majitha assembly segment. On his homecoming in less than 24 hours, Sachar said, “I was in deep shock at the ticket denial. My supporters also exhorted me to contest the elections at any cost. Hence, I went to the office of the BJP and joined it,” adding, “I was not in a normal state of mind when I joined the BJP.”On Monday, Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, along with Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, approached him at his residence. After meeting them, Sachar said, “I committed a mistake in not contacting these three ministers who are my big brothers. I made that decision in haste. Sarkaria ji visited my house and asked me why I took the step (of joining the BJP). All three ministers have given me their word that the issue of my ticket will be taken up with the high command, and reconsidered.” Sachar had been working tirelessly and was considered the front-runner for the Congress ticket from Majitha, the bastion of senior Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader and former minister Bikram Singh Majithia.His claim to the ticket got a fillip after Sukhjinder Raj Singh, aka Lali Majithia, joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). The Congress, however, allotted the ticket to Lali’s brother Jagwinder Pal Singh, aka Jagga Majithia. Deputy CM Randhawa said, “Sachar is an old leader of Congress. He has corrected a decision taken in haste. The party will respect his feelings and consider the hard work he has done for the party in the constituency.”
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Rana Gurjeet’s son Rana Inder Partap to contest against Cong MLA from Sultanpur Lodhi||Desertions and rebellion in the Punjab Congress continue. A day after chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s brother Manohar Singh announced to fight the election as an independent candidate from Bassi Pathana, Punjab technical education and industrial training minister Rana Gurjeet Singh’s son Rana Inder Partap Singh has declared to contest against sitting Congress MLA Navtej Singh Cheema from Sultanpur Lodhi constituency. Cheema has the backing of Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, it is learnt. Rana Gurjeet, who represents Kapurthala constituency, and Cheema don’t see eye to eye with each other. After Rana Gurjeet’s ouster from the previous Capt Amarinder cabinet over the ‘sand mining scam’, Cheema was among the six MLAs who had written to Navjot Sidhu, opposing the former minister’s comeback after the change of guard in the state. Rana Inder Partap said during his interaction with the constituents over the last two months, he received complaints about how Cheema allegedly implicated people in false police cases. He also accused Cheema of misappropriating funds meant for 550th birth anniversary celebrations of Guru Nanak. Cheema on the other hand trashed the allegations, saying ‘it is a fit case where the pot is calling the kettle black’. “I would request the party to take disciplinary action against Rana Gurjeet for the anti-party activities. People will show them the mirror in the election results, anyway,” Cheema said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rana-gurjeet-s-son-rana-inder-partap-to-contest-against-cong-mla-from-sultanpur-lodhi-101642449882030.html
18-01-2022||Other||Majithia appears before SIT, 3rd time in less than a week||Chandigarh SAD leader and former Punjab minister Bikram Singh Majithia on Monday, again, appeared before the Punjab Police special investigation team (SIT) probing the drugs case in which he was booked on December 20. This was his third appearance before the SIT in less than a week. On January 12, the former minister was granted interim protection from arrest till the next date of hearing on January 18 and was also directed to join the SIT probe. Speaking to newsmen outside the Crime Wing police station in Mohali, Majithia said the SIT served him the notice to appear on Sunday 5pm and abiding by it, he had joined the probe. Majithia has been booked under Sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, with the major ones being 25 (punishment for allowing premises for commission of offence), 27 (A) (financing any activities pertaining to narcotic drugs) and 29 (party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/majithia-appears-before-sit-3rd-time-in-less-than-a-week-101642449581973.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Sitting Congress MLAs from Khadoor Sahib, Khemkaran in a quandary over ticket||The incumbent MLAs of the ruling Congress from Tarn Taran district’s Khadoor Sahib and Khemkaran segments are in a quandary over their candidature. The party didn’t name candidates for the said seats in its first list, implying that the sitting legislators were not the obvious choice. Two-time MLA from Khadoor Sahib Ramanjit Singh Sikki has been facing a stiff challenge from party’s member of Parliament (MP) Jasbir Singh Dimpa, while Khemkaran MLA Sukhpal Singh Bhullar is facing heat from his elder brother and senior Congress leader Anoop Singh Bhullar. Dimpa has already been campaigning in Khadoor Sahib for a couple of months with an eye on the ticket either for himself or his son Updesh Gill. Sikki has been camping in Chandigarh for about a week and meeting people to set the tide in his favour. Dimpa, however, claims that he has only been canvassing for the party. “I will support anybody the party high-command will choose,” he said in reply to a question what if Sikki is the party candidate. Dimpa and Sikki have not been sharing the stage at party events in the constituency in the recent weeks. Both are holding separate functions to mobilise support. Though Sikki won the last two assembly elections from the segment that was considered an Akali Dal bastion, MP Dimpa also considers Khadoor Sahib as his stronghold. Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has already fielded former minister Ranjit Singh Brahmpura from the segment. In Khemkaran constituency, Sukhpal Singh Bhullar has been facing a challenge from his elder brother Anoop Singh Bhullar. The day the Congress party released its first list 86 candidates, Anoop, on his Facebook page, demanded party ticket for his father and former minister Gurchet Singh Bhullar. “If the party high command will give the ticket to my father (Gurchet Singh Bhullar), I will support him. If anyone else gets the ticket, I will fight the election as an independent candidate,” Anoop told HT over phone, adding, “I am confident that the party won’t give ticket to my brother Sukhpal.” Meanwhile, senior Congress leader and vice-chairman of Punjab Mandi Board Tejpreet Singh Peter said, “If the party gives ticket to any member of the Bhullar family, I and my workers will oppose this. The party should consider giving ticket to somebody else.” During the 2017 assembly elections, Sukhpal managed to get the party ticket with the support of former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. In the 2012 elections, his father Gurchet Singh Bhullar was the party candidate. Insiders say it will be a tough call for the party to name candidates for the two seats. “Ignoring sitting MLAs is not easy as there will be widespread dissent,” said a party leader on condition of anonymity. Repeated attempts to contact Sikki and Sukhpal Bhullar for comment went futile.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sitting-congress-mlas-from-khadoor-sahib-khemkaran-in-a-quandary-over-ticket-101642449461979.html
18-01-2022||Other||Former Patiala mayor rejoins Congress||Patiala Former Patiala mayor Vishnu Sharma joined the Congress in presence of Punjab Pradesh Congress committee (PPCC) president Navjot Singh Sidhu in the city on Monday.Sharma had switched to the Akali Dal before the 2014 general elections. Prior to this, he was in the Congress and one of the close associates of former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. He remained the Patiala mayor, during the Congress rule from 2002-2207. District Congress president Narinder Lali said Sidhu was keen to have Sharma back into the party fold. “Vishnu Sharma is one of the contenders for the party ticket from Patiala urban. His joining has boosted the morale of the party. The final call for the ticket, however, lies with the party high command,” Lali added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/former-patiala-mayor-rejoins-congress-101642449281892.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Two held for carjacking in Ludhiana, pistol seized||Two people were arrested for stealing a person’s car at gunpoint on Sunday. Cops recovered the Maruti Suzuki Swift, which the accused – Pritpal Singh of Bajda village and Sandeep Singh of Bhikhi – had stolen from a man on the Sirhind-Chunni Road on January 11, and also seized a .32 bore pistol and two bullets from them. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP, investigation) Varinder Brar said the accused had been arrested near the Mundian Kalan T-Point on Chandigarh Road. A case was registered under Sections 379B (theft) of the Indian Penal Code, and sections of the Arms Act. The DCP added that a case of carjacking at gunpoint had been lodged against the accused at the Vadaliwala police station in Fatehgarh Sahib. Pritpal Singh is already facing trial in 17 cases, including fraud, attempt to murder, robbery, possessing an illegal weapon and causing a road mishap. Man arrested with weapon In another case, a man was arrested with a countrymade illegal weapon and two bullets. Acting on a tipoff, the police arrested the accused, Anil Kumar of Mohalla Janakpuri, near Sufiyan Chowk. A case under sections of the Arms Act has been lodged against the accused at the Division 2 police station, and the accused was remanded a day in police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-held-for-carjacking-in-ludhiana-pistol-seized-101642449042043.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir sees 2,827 Covid cases, five deaths; Srinagar records 618 infections||Jammu and Kashmir on Monday witnessed five Covid-induced deaths and 2,827 fresh infections – reporting a drop of 19 percent over Sunday’s cases. Since January 6, the cases have been consistently increasing from 349 to an 8-month high of 3,499 on Sunday. Of the total infections on Monday, Kashmir valley saw 1,734 infections while 1,093 cases and five deaths were reported in the Jammu division. Jammu division’s Jammu district reported the highest 711 cases followed by 122 in Udhampur and 52 in Samba. Kashmir valley witnessed the highest 618 cases in the summer capital Srinagar followed by 315 cases in Baramulla, 295 in Budgam and 168 in Anantnag. Jammu district has the highest number of Covid active cases at 4,289 followed by Srinagar and Baramulla districts with 3,877 and 2,514 active cases, respectively. This month has witnessed a steep rise in cases. As many as 2,456 cases were detected on Friday, 1,996 cases on Thursday, 1,695 cases on Wednesday and 1,148 on Tuesday. From January 5 to 10, the union territory saw between 400 to 700 cases daily. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 777 with active positive cases reaching 17,928. However, of the 4,794 beds dedicated for Covid patients, just over 7 percent or 344 are occupied, indicating that the higher cases are not translating into higher hospital admissions. The authorities have already imposed restrictions over weekends and have stopped non-emergency OPD services at prominent hospitals. The Doctors Association Kashmir (DAK) on Monday said lockdown should be decided on the basis of the number of patients hospitalised with Covid rather than the number of positive cases. “Hospitalisation rates, not case count, should determine curbs and restrictions,” said DAK president and influenza expert Dr Nisar ul Hassan. He said while the Omicron variant causes a lot of infections, most of the infections are mild. “Even though the positivity rate is high, most of the cases do not require hospitalisation,” he said. “We should be shifting our focus on Covid-related hospitalisations, bed occupancy and the number of patients on ventilators. “That should be the major metric and not cases in deciding about imposing severe restrictions, like lockdown,” he added. The officials said 64,017 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT. The authorities have been conducting between 42,000 and 56,000 average daily tests every month from May to December. The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 55,629 vaccine doses were administered taking overall doses administered in the UT to 1.991 crore. The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,39,700 prompting the recovery rate to reach 93.78%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,62,200 and the death toll has reached 4,572. The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,173 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 886 deaths. Meanwhile, the University of Kashmir on Monday deferred all ongoing and scheduled examinations with effect from January 18, 2022, until further notice in view of the pandemic. Controller of examinations Prof Irshad A Nawchoo said the revised dates for the deferred examinations shall be notified separately in due course of time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-sees-2-827-covid-cases-five-deaths-srinagar-records-618-infections-101642448864676.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 6,656 fresh Covid cases, 20 deaths||Chandigarh : Punjab on Monday reported 6,656 fresh Covid cases taking the infection count to 6,70,460, according to a medical bulletin.The state also reported 20 Covid-related fatalities, taking the death toll to 16,790. The positivity rate of the state was 20.89%. Among the fresh infections in the state, Jalandhar topped the list with 1,279 cases, followed by 1,041 in Ludhiana, 702 in Mohali, 555 in Amritsar, 542 in Hoshiarpur, 337 in Bathinda, 284 in Patiala, 210 in Gurdaspur and 205 in Rupnagar. Patiala reported four deaths, followed by three in Bathinda and two each in Amritsar, Jalahdhar, Ludhiana, Moga and Hoshiarpur, according to the bulletin. With 4,393 persons recovering from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 6,10,241, the bulletin said. A total of 2,82,649 doses of the vaccine were administered on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-6-656-fresh-covid-cases-20-deaths-101642448863350.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||NIA files supplementary chargesheet against 4 LeM militants||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has said that the proscribed terror outfit--Lashkar-e-Mustafa (LeM), a frontal organisation of Jaish-e-Mohammad, had procured and transported weapons from Bihar to Jammu and Kashmir via Punjab and Haryana early last year to carry out terror strikes in the union territory. In its supplementary chargesheet filed before a special NIA court here, the NIA identified the four militants as Mohammad Arman Ali, alias Arman Mansuri, Mohammad Ehsanullah, alias Guddu Ansari of Saran in Bihar, Imran Ahmad Hajam, alias Imran Nabi Hajam of Nathpora, Khanabal, Anantnag, and Irfan Ahmad Dar of Batengoo, Anantnag. The NIA has filed the chargesheet under Sections 120B, 121A and 122 of the IPC, 1860; Section 25 (1AA) of the Arms Act, 1959; Sections 3 & 4 of the Explosive Substances Act, 1908 and Sections 18 & 23 of the UA (P) Act, 1967 against them. “The case relates to the hatching of a conspiracy by the operatives of Lashkar-e-Mustafa (LeM) at the behest of proscribed terrorist organisation Jaish-e-Mohammed to carry out terrorist activities in the Jammu area with an intention to threaten the sovereignty, integrity and security of India,” said a spokesman. Earlier, a chargesheet was filed in the case against six persons on August 4 last year by the NIA. “Investigation revealed that the four accused chargesheeted had conspired, procured and transported weapons from Bihar to Jammu and Kashmir via Punjab and Haryana for Lashkar-e-Mustafa (LeM) terrorist group in order to carry out terror activities in the UT of Jammu and Kashmir, especially in the Jammu region,” added the spokesperson. Further investigation in the case continues. The Jammu and Kashmir Police recovered a hand grenade, three cellphones and other incriminating material from Hidyat Ullah Malik, the self-styled chief of LeM, during a search operation in Jammu on February 6 last year. Police had recovered two pistols, three magazines and 28 rounds of ammunition from a house in the Sunjuwan area of Jammu where the terrorist had been living as a tenant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nia-files-supplementary-chargesheet-against-4-lem-militants-101642448804432.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Traffic restored on Jammu-Srinagar highway||The 278-km-long Jammu-Srinagar national highway, the all-weather surface link to Kashmir, was briefly blocked at Ramsu in Ramban district on Monday before it was restored, said officials.“A fresh landslide blocked the highway at Ramsu in Ramban, but we created a diversion and restored the traffic movement after some time,” said SSP, traffic, national highways, Shabir Malik.He said that the landslide was being cleared. “No vehicles are stranded on the highway as of now,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/traffic-restored-on-jammu-srinagar-highway-101642448803213.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Getting rid of BJP will be bigger than freedom from British rule: PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti||In the run-up to the assembly elections in five states, former chief minister and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Monday asked people to “get rid of BJP” and said that “doing so would be bigger than freedom of India from the British rule”. Addressing party’s tribal youth convention here, Mehbooba claimed that Jammu and Kashmir was in dire straits since August 5, 2019, and urged the youth to stand up against BJP’s “divisive politics”. “They have ruined the country…Today one feels insecure and does not know whether he/she will be alive tomorrow or not. The arrests and raids by the ED and other government agencies against the opposition leaders have become a daily affair,” she said. The PDP president urged the youth to read history, take inspiration from it and write their own destiny with pen and paper. “History gives an opportunity to play a role… 70 years ago people of India availed this opportunity and freed India from the British rule. Today, we have another opportunity to get rid of the BJP. If we succeed, this development will be much bigger than India’s freedom from British rule,” she said. Mehbooba said Jammu and Kashmir acceded to Mahatma Gandhi’s India and not Nathuram Godse’s India. “We will not allow this country to become Nathuram Godse’s nation. They pray to Godse but Gandhi was the biggest Hindu, a vegetarian and a secular leader who was not having any hatred against anyone, even those who were non-vegetarians,” she added. She urged the youth to stand up to the onslaught post-revocation of Article 370 and write their own destiny. “Be proactive and face them…Agar dar gaye to smajho mar gaye…Darna nahi hai. And, we have to face them with pen and paper…not with stones and guns because … they want us to indulge in violence and then they get the opportunity to slap the UAPA, PSA and ED, etc,” she added. The former chief minister cautioned the BJP of the serious ramifications of its “communal” politics. “You are not the godfather of Hindus and this country. We have to stand up and face the challenges together, irrespective of our religion, caste and creed and counter them by spreading love and friendship,” she said. She also accused the BJP of harbouring mala fide intentions of finishing the existence of Jammu and Kashmir. “Today, the youth have a responsibility because coming generations will ask you whether you stood up to BJP’s onslaught on our identity and culture or meekly surrendered,” she said. Later, she met women and children of Gujjar families at Roop Nagar, who were recently evicted by the JDA from their houses during an early morning anti-encroachment drive. The JDA had claimed the houses were illegally constructed on government land. The PDP president asked them to stand their ground and do not bow down to pressure tactics. “I urge LG Manoj Sinha to intervene. They (BJP) could do nothing to China that usurped our land in Ladakh but they uprooted you. You people didn’t come from China or Pakistan,” she said. She assured them of every possible help but advised them to stand their ground, the way farmers did against farm laws. 
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Two militant associates held in south Kashmir’s Awantipora||The police on Monday arrested two militant associates in south Kashmir’s Awantipora area and also produced a charge sheet against a militant associate under the UAPA in Kulgam district.The police said the two associates were arrested in Awantipora, Pulwama, along with explosives. “Based on specific input, the police along with the 42 Rashtriya Rifles and the CRPF arrested two militant associates linked with the proscribed terror outfit JeM. They were identified as Zahid Ahmad Lone of Naristan Tral and Shakeel Ahmad Malik, alias Abu Dujana, of Noor Pora, Awantipora. Incriminating materials, including explosives, have been recovered from their possession,” a police spokesman said in a statement.The spokesman said that preliminary investigation revealed that they were providing shelter, logistic support and transportation of arms and ammunition to the active terrorists in the Tral and Awantiprora areas in Pulwama district.“The arrested associates were in touch with Pakistan-based self-styled terror commanders on different social media platforms and were planning to join terrorist ranks. A case under relevant Sections of law has been registered at the Tral Police Station and further investigation has been initiated,” the spokesman said.Meanwhile, the police in Kulgam produced a charge sheet against another militant associate identified as Suhail Ahmad.“The case pertains to the terror incident dated September 26, 2020, when terrorists fired indiscriminately upon police personnel near the Behibagh Police Station. Although, alert police personnel had effectively retaliated, the terrorists had managed to flee from the spot with the help of the said terror associate and under the cover of darkness. Subsequently, he was arrested by the investigating team and also recovered incriminating material, including arms and ammunition from his possession,” the spokesman said, adding that based on the evidences, including digital collected during the course of investigation, it was revealed that the two terrorists of proscribed terrorist outfit LeT Amir Ahmad Mir and Amir Manzoor Ganie (both neutralised) along with the said associate were involved in the attack.“On Monday, a charge sheet of the case was produced before the NIA court, Anantnag, for judicial determination,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-militant-associates-held-in-south-kashmir-s-awantipora-101642448744374.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Kashmir witnesses fresh spell of rain, snow; Gulmarg shivers at -4.6°C||Kashmir witnessed a fresh spell of rains and snowfall in the plains and upper reaches due to a fresh western disturbance that is active over the region.The MeT department had already predicted two back-to-back western disturbances that could see fresh snowfall in the Valley.MeT office in a statement said that a spell of light rain/snow in plains and light to moderate snow over higher reaches at scattered places during January 17-18 and 21-22. “There is no forecast of major snow till January-end and there will be an improvement in fog.”Director, MeT, Sonum Lotus said that there isn’t any forecast for a major snow spell till this month end. “The two weak western disturbances are active over the region this time that can bring light to moderate snow in the region.”On Sunday night due to cloud cover there was an improvement in cold conditions across Kashmir. The lowest temperature of -4.6°C was recorded in Gulmarg while another tourist resort of Pahalgam in south Kashmir shivered at -3.6°C. The mercury settled at 1.0°C in the summer capital Srinagar during the night while it was -1°C in south Kashmir’s Qazigund, the gateway into Kashmir from Jammu.Leh recorded - 13.1°C. Kashmir is under the grip of Chilai Kalan, the Valley’s harshest over 40-day winter period which started on December 21.J&K witnessed widespread rains and snowfall between January 4 and 8 leading to the closure of the Srinagar-Jammu highway and the cancellation of hundreds of flights at the Srinagar International Airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kashmir-witnesses-fresh-spell-of-rain-snow-gulmarg-shivers-at-46c-101642448743193.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: BJP likely to announce first list of candidates on Wednesday||Chandigarh : The first list of the BJP or Punjab assembly polls scheduled for February 20 is likely to be announced on Wednesday. The names for more that 35 seats were discussed in the core group meeting of the party’s Punjab unit that met in New Delhi on Monday. Later, these names were discussed by party’s election affairs in-charge and Union minister Gajendra Shekhawat with National BJP chief JP Nadda and national organisation secretary BL Santosh. The names would be finalised only after discussions in the party’s parliamentary board, which is likely to meet on Wednesday, a senior leader privy to the developments said. According a senior party functionary, two Congress MLAs, who have joined the BJP, including former minister Rana Gurmit Sodhi and Qadian MLA Fateh Jung Bajwa, may be fielded from Ferozepur and Batala, respectively. The first list will have candidates from most of the seats traditionally contested by the BJP in Punjab, it is learnt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-bjp-likely-to-announce-first-list-of-candidates-on-wednesday-101642448741971.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Over 400 medics infected with Covid since January 1 in Kashmir||The third wave of Covid-19 has infected over 400 doctors, healthcare workers and medical students in major government hospitals of Kashmir this month, officials said.Experts say that the high number of infections in doctors and paramedics is worrisome but they say that the intensity of the symptoms of the disease has not been that severe.Prof Dr Mohammad Salim Khan, head of the department of community medicine at Government Medical College (GMC), Srinagar, and nodal officer, Covid, said that 405 doctors, MBBS students and paramedics have been infected by novel Coronavirus from January 1 to January 16 in various hospitals of Kashmir controlled by the GMC.“As many as 145 doctors, 130 MBBS students and 130 paramedics tested positive for Covid in GMC, Srinagar, and associated hospitals since January 1, 2022,” Khan said in a post.He said that most of them have mild symptoms and are in isolation. “Almost everyone has received Covid vaccines. No one was hospitalised. However, they are in isolation and hopefully shall report back in a week’s time,” he said.Government Medical College (GMC), Srinagar, leads in contributing a major portion of healthcare manpower to the state. Currently, there are eight hospitals associated with the GMC which include Shri Maharaja Hari Singh (SMHS) tertiary care hospital along with its Super Specialty Hospital, GB Pant Children Hospital, Lal Ded Maternity Hospital, Psychiatric Diseases Hospital, Chest Diseases (CD) Hospital, Barzulla, Bone and Joint Hospital and Kashmir Nursing Home.SMHS, CD hospital and SKIMS-Bemina (not managed by GMC) have been designated as Covid-19 hospitals.Dr Khan urged people to stop visiting hospitals unnecessarily. “Hospitals are mostly frequented by infected persons. Visit hospitals only in case of emergency. There is no need to visit your near and dear ones admitted in hospitals or isolated and quarantined at homes,” he said.He said that even though hospital admissions haven’t been consistent with a surge of positive cases, the mortality is still there. “Six deaths were reported due to Covid on Sunday,” he said.Jammu and Kashmir has been witnessing a major surge of cases since January 5. On Sunday, six Covid-induced deaths and 3,499 infections were recorded, the highest daily surge of cases after May 21. The daily infection count increased by 7.6 percent over Saturday’s 3,251 cases. The last time the UT had recorded six Covid-related deaths was on July 6.However, there is one silver lining that only seven percent of 4,794 beds dedicated to Covid are occupied indicating that the disease is not leading to hospitalisation of a large number of people despite active cases crossing 15,000. Hospitals associated with the GMC have stopped non-emergency out-patient services in view of the surging number of Covid cases and some have issued numbers for teleconsultation. Earlier on Friday, the Valley’s prominent hospital and deemed university, Sheri Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS), Soura, which is not under the control of the health directorate or the GMC, stopped outpatient facilities and will be offering teleconsultation for non-emergency cases.The hospitals associated with the GMC or the SKIMS are beside the hundreds of district hospitals and public health centres operating across the Valley under the directorate of health and the government has not yet issued any data on how many health workers have been affected by Covid in the third wave.Director health of Kashmir Mushtaq Ahmad Rather on Saturday issued a circular saying that both Covid and non-Covid activities, including outpatient facilities (OPDs) and elective surgeries, will continue to function normally till further orders in the government hospitals.Dr Muzaffar Maqbool, associate professor, Internal Medicine at GMC, Srinagar, in a tweet said that people need not throng hospitals for minor ailments and use telemedicine facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/over-400-medics-infected-with-covid-since-january-1-in-kashmir-101642448685100.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Record single-day spike of 2,446 Covid cases in Himachal, 6 deaths; Kangra worst-hit district||Himachal Pradesh on Monday reported record 2,446 fresh Covid-19 cases taking the state’s total tally to 2,45,811 while the death toll mounted to 3,880 after six patients succumbed to the contagion.This is the highest single-day spike after Friday last week when 1,975 people tested positive. Also, Monday was the highest number of deaths since November 2020.Since the onset of the third wave, the positivity rate has shot up to above 11% which was only one percent in December last week. In January till date, the state has reported more than 16,000 cases.The highest 359 cases were reported from Solan, 348 from Kangra, 312 from Mandi, 310 from Sirmaur, 280 from Shimla, 214 from Bilaspur, 207 from Una, 168 from Hamirpur, 119 from Kullu, 75 from Chamba, 46 from Kinnaur and eight from Lahaul-Spiti.A maximum four fatalities were reported from Kangra and one each from Chamba and Una. The victims were in the age group of 49 to 72 and five of them were suffering from comorbidities.Active cases have shot up to 12,142 while recoveries reached 2,29,746 after a record 1,242 people recuperated. The recovery rate in the state has slipped to 93% which was above 99% in December.Kangra is the worst-hit district with its total case tally reaching 55,916 followed by Mandi with 33,678 cases and Shimla 30,436 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/record-single-day-spike-of-2-446-covid-cases-in-himachal-6-deaths-kangra-worst-hit-district-101642448683350.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Three killed in landslide in Himachal’s Sirmaur district||Three persons were killed in a landslide in Himachal Pradesh’s Sirmaur district on Monday, a senior state Disaster Management Department official said. The victims were identified as Kahan Chand of Uttarakhand and Jitender Singh and Ashok of Rajasthan, the official said, adding they were hit by boulders during the landslide near Menus Road on Hatkoti-Paonta Sahib National Highway number 707.The Sirmaur district administration sent sub-divisional magistrate and patwari to the accident site and the bodies were sent to Ronat in Shallai and Chopal for autopsy, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-killed-in-landslide-in-himachal-s-sirmaur-district-101642448682002.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||In 2 years, Himachal police collected ₹7.70 crore fine for Covid norm violations||Even as stringent curbs are back in the state in the wake of the third wave of Covid-19, the Himachal Pradesh Police has collected more than ₹7.70 crore as a penalty for violation of Covid norms in nearly two years since the outbreak of the virus in March 2020.As per the consolidated data obtained from the state police, over 1.43 lakh challans were issued for the violation of Covid norms like curfew, not wearing a mask, failure to maintain social distancing, transport violation and unauthorised gatherings and other violations between March 2020 and January 8, 2022.A total of 43,787 challans were issued from March to December 2020. Similarly, 98,131 challans were issued in 2021 and 1,358 in January 2022.As a result, the police have realised a cumulative fine amounting to ₹7,70,63,078. Of the total amount, ₹2,26,68,350 were collected in March to December 2020; ₹5,37,32,528 in 2021 and ₹6,62,200 up to January 8, 2022.“We have been enforcing Covid guidelines conscientiously. We have collected around ₹7.8 crore as a fine for non-wearing of masks and at the same time educating the public to wear masks,” said director general of police Sanjay Kundu.Maximum violations in KangraMaximum violations have been detected in Kangra district where a total 20,356 challans have been issued so far. A fine amounting to ₹93,60,227 was imposed on the violators.Kangra is the most populous district in the state having a population of more than 15 lakh as per the 2011 census.However, to instil a habit of wearing masks among the masses, the Kangra police in a new initiative are conducting Covid tests of those found without masks.The police in collaboration with the health department had deployed mobile testing vans for the purpose. Kangra SP Khushal Chand Sharma said Covid guidelines were being strictly enforced in the district. “Besides, issuing challans, we are also conducting tests of those who are found without masks,” he said.Meanwhile, as of January 8, the Shimla police had issued more than 18,000 challans and realised a fine of more than ₹1.09 crore ( ₹1,09,97,766). This is the highest amount collected among all the 12 districts. The Kullu Police had issued 15,447 challans and collected the penalty amounting to ₹1,05,39,970 since March 2020.The Una Police issued 17,997 challans and collected over ₹65.50 lakh while the Baddi district police issued 14,115 challans and collected a fine of more than ₹84.59 lakh.The lowest 883 challans were issues in the tribal district of Lahaul-Spiti and ₹5.60 lakh was collected as a fine amount while 4,458 challans were issued in Kinnaur and ₹26 lakh collected as fine.Mandi, though the second most populous district, issued only 6,841 challans during this period and over ₹43 lakh penalty was collected.
18-01-2022||Other||Cooperate in 100% vaccination of eligible students: UPSA to parents||LUCKNOW: Unaided Private School Association (UPSA) in Uttar Pradesh has appealed to the parents to cooperate with the schools in achieving full vaccination of students in 15 years to 18 years age group.UPSA president Anil Agarwal also said that the district administration would honour first 10 schools to complete full vaccination with a citation. “The initiative of the district administration is aimed at ensuring maximum vaccination that is necessary for students. I hope that all the parents will cooperate and over the next 2 days, schools and parents will jointly help in achieving the target of 100% vaccination,” he said. “Maximum vaccinations are the need of the hour. Like other age groups, the 15 years to 18 years age group is also at risk and thus ensuring that our young population remains protected is our duty and responsibility,” he said.Reverse ‘no-fee-hike’ orderThe UPSA has appealed to the additional chief secretary, secondary education, Aradhana Shukla to withdraw the order of preventing private schools from increasing fees.“Schools are under pressure from teachers and nonteaching staff who are demanding salary hike. Without fee hike, school management would find it difficult to manage their affairs,” Agarwal said. “Due to Covid-19, schools have suffered financially and the number of students enrolled with the schools has also declined. There is pressure to increase salaries of all teaching and nonteaching staff. That is why, the state government is expected to reconsider the no-fee-hike decision,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cooperate-in-100-vaccination-of-eligible-students-upsa-to-parents-101642448564498.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Insurance firm directed to pay ₹10 lakh, interest to accident victim’s wife||The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission directed an insurance company to honour a ₹10 lakh personal accident insurance claim and pay ₹5,500 as compensation for deficient service to the victim’s wife. The complainant, Rajinder Kaur, the widow of Jagtar Singh of Jhamat village, had submitted a complaint against Universal Sompo General Insurance Company Limited and Indian Overseas Bank, Baddowal Cantonment, Ludhiana. She had said that her husband who held an account with the bank was covered under the IOB Suraksha, personal accident insurance policy, which was valid from May 23, 2017 to April 13, 2018.As per terms of the policy, the nominated beneficiary, was to get an assured sum of ₹10 lakh in event of accidental death of the insured person. It so happened that her husband met with a road mishap on December 29, 2017 and succumbed to his injuries on December 31, 2017.However, the insurance company rejected the complainant’s claim on February 9, 2018, on grounds that her husband did not have a valid driving license at the time of the accident. The counsel for the insurance company pleaded that the Ludhiana consumer commission had no territorial jurisdiction to entertain and try the claim. The bank, however, said that it had nothing to do with the rejection of the claim. “Moreover, the claim has been rightly rejected that the deceased was not having a valid driving license at the time of accident and this amounts to breach of condition of the policy”, contended the bank.However, the commission in its order observed that the case studies cited by the counsel of the insurance company, demanding dismissal of the application of the complaint, were cases of vehicle insurance, rather than accidental death. The commission dismissed the complaint against the bank but allowed the complaint against the insurance company. “The insurance company is directed to pay the claim strictly as per terms and conditions of the policy along with a 6% per annum interest from the date of filing the complaint, till actual payment and also to pay ₹5,500 compensation to the complainant”, read the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-insurance-firm-directed-to-pay-10-lakh-interest-to-accident-victim-s-wife-101642448563127.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Fresh Covid surge: 450 officials tested +ve in Punjab, Haryana courts||Chandigarh: As many as 450 officials have tested positive for Covid-19 in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh courts in the fresh surge of the virus being reported across country.A senior official said 200 court staffers and 50 judicial officers have tested positive in Punjab and 70 staffers and 14 judicial officers in Haryana. So far, 115 officers and other court staff members have tested positive at the high court in Chandigarh.The data is learnt to have been shared at a meeting which was held on Monday to review the Covid-19 situation, chaired by justice Ajay Tewari. The meeting was held with the members of the Bar Council and high court Bar Association, among others.Earlier on January 5, the high court shifted to virtual mode hearings and from January 10, the HC further curtailed operations and only 50% judges are holding the courts since then. The courts have been functioning with restrictions since March 2020. Limited hearings through physical mode were resumed on February 8, 2021. However, these had to be suspended in April again in view of the second wave. It again started the limited physical hearing on September 6, 2021, and in the following months, cases were taken up through physical as well as virtual mode before fresh decision of opting for virtual mode was taken on January 5.The restrictions that Covid-19 pandemic induced have led to a massive increase in pendency of cases. According to a government data tracking agency, National Judicial Data Grid, pendency of cases in high court on December 31 was 4.48 lakh with 69,000-odd cases added to the list in 2021 alone. In Haryana, the pendency has gone up to 12.82 lakh cases, 9.19 lakh in Punjab and 69,000 in Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fresh-covid-surge-450-officials-tested-ve-in-punjab-haryana-courts-101642448561977.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Shoddy garbage management, stray animals Mohali’s biggest bugbears||Amid tall claims of development by the sitting MLA and promises by candidates of other parties, residents say Mohali is still ailing from a number of issues, 15 years after it was declared a district in 2006.While the then deputy chief minister, Sukhbir Singh Badal, had dubbed Mohali as the “future city” in 2007, over the years, persistent civic issues have impeded its progress.To date, Mohali residents continue to wage a lonely battle against poor solid waste management, encroachments and stray animals. Public toilets in markets and CCTV cameras in public places to rein in crime have also failed to see the light of the day.In the upcoming Punjab elections, Mohali, an urban constituency, is once again set to see a multi-cornered contest, with three-time MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu contesting for the fourth time from the Congress, former mayor and real estate baron Kulwant Singh trying his luck from the AAP and former MC councillor Parvinder Singh Sohana being fielded by the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD).Balbir Singh Rajewal, farmer leader and president of a faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, has nominated Ravneet Singh Brar as the face of his party, Samyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM). Captain Amarinder Singh’s Punjab Lok Congress is yet to announce its candidate.Tardy waste managementAfter GMADA allotted a 13-acre site in Phase 8-B for dumping solid waste in May 2006, some residents had moved the Punjab and Haryana high court. In May 2012, the Mohali municipal corporation had assured the high court that it would acquire 13 acres at Samgauli village near Dera Bassi for a permanent dumping ground, a promise it failed to keep. Three years later, in 2015, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had directed the corporation to acquire land for the dump by January 2015 and make it fully operational by January 2017. Meanwhile, the civic body was allowed to dump the daily waste temporarily in another ground in Phase 8, but only after segregating it according to the Municipal Solid Wastes (Management and Handling) Rules, 2000. But years later, the corporation has neither been successful in ensuring garbage segregation or an efficient solid waste processing system.No end to stray cattle menaceThe stray cattle menace continues unabated in the city, with herds often visible even opposite the MC office in Sector 68. A number of fatal accidents have taken place due to the presence of the animals on busy roads, claiming 10 lives in the past year alone. But a permanent solution has evaded the city.Encroachments galoreWhile the civic body has identified as many as 4,200 encroachers, it has failed to issue any notice. Most violations are done by VIPs or their security personnel, through illegal occupation of government land, be it parks or road berms. Vendors have also encroached upon corridors, walkways and parking areas, but the MC is sitting tight on conducting an aggressive drive to remove them.City mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu said since the formation of the new MC House in February last year, several development works had been executed in the city. “Parks have been fully developed, roads have been carpeted and Mohali’s sanitation rank has also improved. A cattle shed outside the city limits is already in the works, so the stray cattle menace will also be sorted out soon.”“Stray cattle and dogs are a major problem in Mohali. Despite requesting the civic body authorities several times, the issue remains unaddressed,” said Mohinder Pal Singh, president, Resident Welfare and Development Committee, Sector 79.Paramjeet Singh, president of the Citizens Welfare and Development Forum, Mohali, added that though Mohali had seen several major development works in the past year, encroachment, poor solid waste management and stray cattle menace still ailed the city.
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||AAP candidates move HC seeking quashing of Chandigarh mayoral elections||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) candidates, who lost the mayor, senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor elections in Chandigarh on January 8, have approached the Punjab and Haryana high court seeking quashing of the elections.The court will take up the plea on January 19.In the January 8 mayoral elections, BJP’s first-time councillor Sarabjit Kaur Dhillon had won after defeating AAP’s Anju Katyal by one vote. While Kaur received 14 votes, Katyal managed 13, as one AAP vote was declared invalid, tipping the election in the former’s favour. In the polls for the senior deputy mayor, the BJP candidate, Dalip Sharma, pipped AAP candidate Prem Lata by two votes. Sharma polled 15 votes, while Lata got 13.For the deputy mayor’s post, after BJP’s Anup Gupta and AAP’s Ram Chander Yadav were tied at 14 votes each, a draw of lot was conducted, which went in Gupta’s favour.The results of the Chandigarh civic body polls, which were declared on December 27 last year, had thrown up a hung House, with the AAP winning 14 of the 35 wards in its first civic body elections. The BJP won 12 seats, the Congress eight and the SAD got one. For the mayoral polls, both the AAP and the BJP had 14 votes, including the MP’s vote, while the Congress and the SAD skipped the poll process.In their plea, the AAP candidates have alleged that the BJP indulged in horse-trading and also levelled allegations against BJP’s Maheshinder Singh Sidhu, who was the presiding officer in the January 8 elections.They said as per the prevailing practice and norms for the mayoral elections, only a nominated councillor could be the presiding officer. But the process to select nominated councillors was delayed and Sidhu was chosen as the presiding officer. They also questioned why one torn vote in the mayor’s election was not declared invalid by the presiding officer, while another with a “tick mark” was. Stating that instead of secret ballot, open voting should have been allowed, they demanded that re-polls be ordered and poll-related record be summoned from the municipal corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-candidates-move-hc-seeking-quashing-of-chandigarh-mayoral-elections-101642448450014.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Adviser wants road map to achieve Chandigarh Master Plan’s goals||With an aim to make the Chandigarh Master Plan (CMP) 2031 a living document, UT adviser Dharam Pal has directed the administration to prepare an action plan for each of the components prescribed under it.In a high-level meeting on Monday, the adviser reviewed CMP-2031 and directed officials to create a road map for its effective implementation. “Everything is in the plan. It details how many schools, police stations and hospitals are needed, and what can be the future commercial and residential developments in the city. But since its inception, the plan’s implementation has remained only on paper. In the meeting today, the adviser directed creation of action plans specific to each component,” said a senior UT official, who attended the meeting.The adviser also directed preparation of time lines for different components and clear classification of projects, which will be reviewed periodically. “The adviser opined that for balanced growth of the city, different components should be implemented in a phased manner and accordingly, budgetary provisions will be made. It will also require simplification of systems, which are unnecessarily complicated,” said the official.CMP-2031 was approved by the Union ministry of home affairs and notified by the UT administrator on April 23, 2015.At the Monday meeting, UT chief architect Kapil Setia highlighted important components of CMP-2031 with respect to various land uses, including sub city centres in Sectors 34 and 43, commercial areas in Manimajra, housing projects in third-phase sectors of Chandigarh, IT habitat, reutilisation of government housing, Beant Singh Memorial in Sector 42 and transit-oriented development along Vikas Marg, among others.The meeting was also attended by the finance-cum-urban planning secretary, Chandigarh Housing Board CEO, estate officer, special finance secretary, joint estates secretary, UT chief engineer, MC chief engineer, land acquisition officer, and senior officials from the Chandigarh Police and other departments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/adviser-wants-road-map-to-achieve-chandigarh-master-plan-s-goals-101642448448378.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Sirsa man held for ATM card fraud in Chandigarh||The cyber crime investigation cell of Chandigarh Police have arrested a Haryana resident for fraudulently withdrawing ₹20,000 from a bank account using a cloned ATM card. The accused, Sandeep Kumar, 33, hails from Sirsa, Haryana. He was arrested from Sirsa and sent to judicial custody by a Chandigarh court.Kumar was arrested on the complaint of Karnail Singh, who is employed with the India Reserve Battalion, Chandigarh Police. He is posted as the cook of UT superintendent of police (SP, Crime) Manoj Kumar Meena.Singh had complained to the police in April 2020 that ₹20,000 were withdrawn from his salary bank account through an ATM in Ghanauli, Ropar, while his ATM card was with him at his house in Sector 22, Chandigarh.On his complaint, a case under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sector 17 police station on May 4, 2020. During investigation, Sandeep was identified through the CCTV footage of the ATM from where the money was withdrawn and he was arrested.A police official said Sandeep used to source cloned cards from a Nigerian national in Delhi and illegally withdrew money from bank accounts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sirsa-man-held-for-atm-card-fraud-in-chandigarh-101642448445786.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Now, oxygen concentrators just a call away in Chandigarh||Now, Covid-19 patients, who are isolated at homes, can get oxygen concentrators in case their health condition deteriorates. In case of the requirement, people can contact the health department or the Indian Red Cross Society, which will provide concentrators against a refundable security amount of ₹5,000.“Considering that about 98% Covid positive patients are in home isolation, we are working to give special focus on providing better health care,” said UT health secretary Yashpal Garg. “In case a Covid patient in home isolation requires oxygen concentrator, they can contact Covid control room (at 1075 helpline number) or the rapid response team at the nearest government hospital (see box), who will further co-ordinate with the oxygen concentrator bank of the Indian Red Cross Society, Chandigarh, for providing the facility,” he said, adding that people can also call Red Cross helpline number 6280-726-662 directly.New Covid care centre opens
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Gang of burglars busted in Chandigarh, three held||Police have busted a gang of burglars with the arrest of three men.The accused have been identified as Nitish, 22, Rohit, 21, both residents of Ram Darbar, and Vishal, 23, of Sector 56. The arrests came following a theft report by Ram Darbar resident, Mohit Kumar.He alleged that on January 14, when he returned home, he found the main door’s lock broken, and several gold and silver jewellery articles, ₹26,000 in cash and four mobile phones stolen. A case under Sections 379 (theft), 457 (house trespass) and 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered on Sunday and the accused were arrested while roaming in Ram Darbar to find buyers for the stolen articles. The entire booty was recovered from their possession. The accused were produced before a court on Monday and sent to one-day police custody. Woman, man arrested for stealing purse, car batteryPolice have arrested a woman and a man in two separate theft cases. Sukhjeet Kaur, hailing from Rajasthan, was arrested for stealing a customer’s purse at the Sector-19 Sadar Bazaar.The victim, Rekha Devi, a resident of Sector 56, had complained that her purse was stolen while she was at a garment shop. It carried ₹6,440 cash and important documents.Kaur is facing a case under Sections 379 and 411 of the IPC. In another case, a 32-year-old man was nabbed for stealing a car battery. He was identified as Nanak Ram of Small Flats, Dhanas. The car’s owner, Abheek Sood of Zirakpur, had reported that his vehicle’s battery was stolen from near his transport company office in Daria village on the intervening night between January 15 and January 16. A case under Section 379 of the IPC was registered against Ram. MORE NEWS IN BRIEFBag containing ₹4.07 lakh stolen after smashing car’s glassIn third such incident this month, miscreants stole a bag carrying ₹4.07 lakh from a parked car after smashing its glass in Manimajra. Panchkula resident Parmod Bansal said he had gone to his stationery shop after parking his car near Little Flower School, Gobindpura, when the incident took place. An FIR has been registered.Minister reviews welfare schemesMinister of state for social justice and empowerment Ramdas Athawale on Monday reviewed the progress made by Chandigarh in schemes pertaining to scheduled castes and other backward classes. The director, social welfare, UT, told the minister that 26 beneficiaries were given financial assistance under the Encouragement to Inter-Caste Marriage scheme while 43 beneficiaries have been provided loans for their economic upliftment under various schemes this fiscal so far. Illicit liquor found in parked carPolice recovered 64 boxes of illicit liquor from an SUV parked in Sector 20. The patrolling team found the Mahindra Bolero bearing a Punjab registration number parked near a liquor shop. A case has been registered under the Excise Act.Manimajra held for gamblingA Manimajra resident was arrested for gambling near the polytechnic college in Sector 26. Police also recovered ₹12,150 from the man, identified as Devinder Kumar, 44. He was later released on bail. 10 night shelters open in PanchkulaThe Panchkula administration has set up 10 night shelters for homeless people who have been spending nights on streets amid this cold weather. The shelters have a capacity to accommodate 150 people in total. These have been set up at the Sector-5 bus stand, Sector-8 light point, Sector 15, Labour Chowk, Yamunanagar road, Rambagh road, Pinjore bus stand and Rathpur colony among other areas.Teachers training programmeA National Pharmacy Teachers Training Programme started at Panjab University on Monday. The one-week web faculty training school under the initiative of UGC Networking Resource Centre on “New Era Technologies in Formulation Design Space” is being hosted at the University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gang-of-burglars-busted-in-chandigarh-three-held-101642448442496.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Rajewal-led SSM enters into alliance with Chaduni faction||Chandigarh : The Balbir Singh Rajewal-led political outfit Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM) and Gurnam Singh Chaduni’s Sanyukt Sangharsh Party (SSP) on Monday entered into a pre-poll arrangement for the February 20 Punjab assembly polls. While the candidates of Chaduni-led outfit will contest on 10 seats, Rajewal will field the candidates on the remaining 107 segments. This decision was announced at a joint media briefing by SSM’s parliamentary committee head Prem Singh Bhangu and Punjab president of Chaduni’s SSP Rachpal Singh Joremajra in Ludhiana. Addressing the press conference, both the leaders said the two groups have reached a consensus and would support each other. According to the announcement, candidates of Chaduni’s outfit will contest from Samana, Nabha, Fatehgarh Sahib, Gurdaspur, Dakha, Ajnala, Sangrur, Dirba, Bholath and Shahkot.The decision was reached four days after Chaduni threatened to go solo and contest on all the 117 seats of the state assembly. Both the factions had marathon meetings subsequently. Chaduni earlier was asking for 25 seats which then reduced to 15 by SSM, then to 9 and subsequently to seven, which annoyed Chaduni, who posted a video on social platforms to go contest all alone on all 117 seats in the state. SSM announces candidates on 20 seats The Rajewal-led SSM announced candidates on 20 seats. The candidates are Lakhwinder Singh (Ferozepur City), Kuldeep Singh Wajidpur (Nawanshahr), Balwinder Singh Raju (Batala), Gurpreet Singh Kotli (Gidderbaha), Sukhwinder Kumar (Malout), Anuroop Kaur (Muktsar), Simardeep Singh (Payal), Buta Singh Shadipur (Sanour), Baba Chamkaur Singh (Bucho), Sarabjit Singh Alal (Dhuri), Maura Singh Anjaan (Ferozpur-Rural), Satnam Singh Ajnala (Rajasansi), Surinder Singh Dhadian (Jalalabad), Amarjeet Singh Mann (Sunam), Bhagwant Singh Sumao (Bhadaur), Abhikaran Singh (Barnala), Gurnam Singh Bikhi (Mansa) and Chota Singh Mian (Sardoolgarh). The list also has two Ludhiana-based industrialists, Tarun Jain Bawa from Ludhiana-East and Harkirat Singh Rana from Atam Nagar. 
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab assembly polls | Friends-turned-foes to slug it out in Ludhiana West||The Ludhiana West constituency is all set for a no-holds-barred contest with friends-turned-foes – former Congress leader Gurpreet Singh Gogi, who recently joined the Aam Aadmi Party, and incumbent cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu – preparing to slug it out against each other in the upcoming Punjab assembly elections. The west constituency, which has been a Congress bastion, was being considered as the grand old party’s safe seat. However, Gogi’s defection has complicated matters. Gogi and Ashu will also face a tough contest from former cabinet minister and SAD leader Maheshinder Singh Grewal.Earlier, Colonel Iqbal Singh Pannu (retd) and Ahbab Singh Grewal were being seen as front runners for the AAP ticket. However, the induction of Gogi, a councillor from Ward 76 skewed the dynamics. It did not help that Ashu had won the 2017 elections for the second time from the west constituency after defeating AAP candidate Ahbab Singh Grewal with a margin of 36,521 votes.While the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is yet to announce its candidate from the Ludhiana west constituency, Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM) has fielded Bhartiya Arthik Party’s (BAP’s) Tarun Jain Bawa from the constituency. Incidentally, both Gogi and Bawa have had a falling out with Ashu, after years of being part of the core group which devised poll strategies for the Cabinet Minister. At one point, Gogi and Bawa had enjoyed a stronghold over the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) and the hosiery industry. At the time two factions, one led by Simarjit Singh Bains and the other led by Ashu, Gogi and Sandhu held sway over the House.The rift Over the years, both the leaders – Ashu and Gogi – grew in stature and differences between the two began to simmer. Both wanted a chance to fight the assembly elections on a Congress ticket. However, it was Ashu who got the ticket and won the 2012 elections with an emphatic margin, while Gogi went on to become the president of the District Congress Committee.In 2017, several eyebrows were raised during the 2017 Vidhan Sabha elections when Gogi did not campaign for Ashu in his area, citing poor health. While enmity was brewing between the two leaders, the two refrained from washing dirty laundry in public. The rift between the two heavyweights finally came to the fore after the 2018 municipal corporation elections where Gogi was in the race to become the next mayor. However, Balkar Singh Sandhu, who had Ashu’s backing, got the top seat. Nevertheless, Gogi capitalised on his proximity to former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and became Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC) chairperson.A similar falling out took place with Bawa joining the BJP. Ashu and Bawa were seen exchanging a heated argument over the setting up of a common effluent treatment plant (CETP) during the MC house meetings. Recently, Bawa quit the BJP in protest over the farm laws and founded his own political outfit. AAP’s calculated gamble Political pundits say pitching Gogi as a candidate from the west constituency was a calculated gamble, though the move has discouraged a few AAP workers hoping to get a ticket. While SAD is increasingly gaining ground in Ashok Nagar, Sham Nagar and Jawahar Nagar area, Gogi also enjoys considerable clout. With Bawa joining the fray, the contest will be all the more intense, especially once the BJP pitches a candidate. Never before has the constituency seen a five-cornered contest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-assembly-polls-friends-turned-foes-to-slug-it-out-in-ludhiana-west-101642448321803.html
18-01-2022||Lucknow||Lucknow: UP Congress to hold ‘pratigya chaupals’ in villages||Lucknow: Uttar Pradesh Congress has decided to hold ‘pratigya chaupals’ in villages of the state every day in the coming weeks. Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) president Ajay Kumar Lallu, speaking to media persons on Monday, asked party candidates, office bearers and workers to hold the ‘chaupals’ in villages to reach out to voters, following the Covid-19 guidelines. He said, “The Congress has decided not to hold big rallies keeping in view the present Covid situation. However, smaller public meetings would be organised and at least two to three pratigya chaupals should be held every day in the villages.” Ittehad-e-Millat Council to support Congress Ittehad-e-Millat Council on Monday announced support to the Congress in elections to the five state assemblies. Speaking to media persons at UPCC headquarters here, Ittehad-e-Millat Council chief Maulana Tauquir Raza announced his organisation’s support to the Congress. He said that there would be peace and welfare of all classes of people, and communities would be ensured in the country and poll bound states under leadership of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. He said Gandhi family had made lots of sacrifices for the country and would abide by the Constitution of India. UPCC president Ajay Kumar Lallu thanks the IEMC for its support and said the support would play an important role in 2022 assembly elections in all the five poll-bound states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-up-congress-to-hold-pratigya-chaupals-in-villages-101642448261882.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Political parties in Punjab hail EC’s decision to postpone polls||Chandigarh: Political parties in Punjab on Monday welcomed the Election Commission’s decision to postpone the state assembly polls to February 20 in view of Guru Ravidas Jayanti, saying it will enable his followers to visit UP’s Varanasi for festivities.Bahujan Samaj Party’s Punjab chief Jasvir Singh Garhi was the first to demand postponement of the polling followed by chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and other political parties. The leaders had urged the poll panel to postpone the date of voting as lakhs of followers of Guru Ravidas travel to Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh to celebrate his birth anniversary on February 16. Channi had said as members of the Scheduled Caste community are likely to visit Varanasi from February 10 to 16, they won’t be able to vote in the elections. Accepting the demand, the Election Commission decided on Monday to hold the polls in Punjab on February 20 instead of February 14. The Punjab CM welcomed the decision saying it will enable a large number of followers from the state, especially the Doaba region, to travel to Varanasi to celebrate the Guru’s birth anniversary.SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said: “We had urged the Election Commission to postpone the date and we welcome the decision. Badal’s party is contesting next month’s polls in alliance with the BSP.Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu also welcomed the decision.Union minister and BJP leader Som Prakash said they had also urged the poll panel to postpone the elections and the party welcomes the decision.Aam Aadmi Party’s senior leader Harpal Singh Cheema, who is leader of the opposition in Punjab, said: “AAP had demanded that election date should be postponed and we are happy that the EC has taken this decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/political-parties-in-punjab-hail-ec-s-decision-to-postpone-polls-101642448201993.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab man held with foreign currency worth ₹51 lakh at IGI Airport||New Delhi : The customs department has arrested a passenger carrying a high volume of foreign currency worth around ₹51 lakh at the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport here. Shaukat Ali Nurvi, additional commissioner of customs (IGI Airport) said on Monday that on January 15, an Indian national, native of Punjab, intended to depart to Sharjah by a flight from Terminal 3 of Delhi airport when he was intercepted by the customs officers.“The Customs officers recovered foreign currency (USD 69,200) equivalent To ₹50,96,580 from the handbag of the passenger,” he said.He added that the recovered foreign currency was seized under Section 110 of the Customs Act.The passenger has been arrested and further investigation in the case is in progress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-man-held-with-foreign-currency-worth-rs-51-lakh-at-igi-airport-101642448025163.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Gutka Sahib pages found torn in Basant Nagar||Tension gripped Basant Nagar area in Daba after torn pages of the Gutka Sahib, a booklet containing Sikh scriptures, were found scattered near Gurdwara Reru Sahib on Sunday evening. Cops with the help of locals collected the torn pages and handed it over to the Gurdwara Sahib staff. Joint commissioner of police (JCP, rural) Ravcharan Singh Brar said some locals had spotted torn pages of the Gutka Sahib in a street near Gurdwara Reru Sahib and had alerted the police, who launched a probe. Sub-inspector Davinder Singh, Daba station house officer, said a case had been registered against unidentified persons for hurting religious sentiments. The cops are going through CCTV footage to trace the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-gutka-sahib-pages-found-torn-in-basant-nagar-101642448022953.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: AAP to announce CM face on Tuesday, says Kejriwal||New Delhi/ChandigarhDelhi Chief Minister and AAP’s national convener Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said his party’s chief ministerial candidate for the Punjab assembly polls will be announced on Tuesday.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has received around 22 lakh responses under its campaign to elect its CM face for the assembly polls, a party leader said.Kejriwal had on January 13 asked the people of Punjab to suggest names of their preferred chief ministerial candidates and launched a mobile number for the purpose.Kejriwal then said though he had wanted party’s state unit chief Bhagwant Mann’s name to be declared as the chief ministerial candidate, the Sangrur MP insisted that people should make the decision.Kejriwal had also ruled himself out of the race.“The name of the party’s chief ministerial candidate for Punjab Assembly elections will be announced tomorrow at 12 noon,” Kejriwal told reporters on the sidelines of an event in Delhi.Later in the day, AAP leader and leader of opposition in the Punjab assembly Harpal Singh Cheema said: “Till 5 pm on January 17, around 22 lakh people expressed their opinion and named their favourite chief minister on the number released by the party.” AAP leader Raghav Chadha in Chandigarh said the party received responses through SMS, voice calls, WhatsApp messages. AAP’s IT team is scrutinising each message and tomorrow Kejriwal will disclose the results, he said.Chadha said it will be only AAP which will go to the state Assembly polls with the chief ministerial face.He said none of the other political parties, including the ruling Congress, announced the name of their chief ministerial candidate.Replying to a question, Chadha said the next list of candidates will be announced soon. So far, the party has announced 112 candidates.Voting for Punjab’s 117 Assembly seats is scheduled for February 20 and the counting will take place on March 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-aap-to-announce-cm-face-on-tuesday-says-kejriwal-101642447904251.html
18-01-2022||Lucknow||UP Polls: AAP formulates strategy for each region, uses triple ‘C’ formula to vet candidates||Lucknow: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is giving final push to make inroads into electoral politics of Uttar Pradesh and register its presence in the state assembly. The party has formulated a separate strategy for each assembly segment based on caste combinations and local factors, besides giving representation to all. In addition to this, the AAP is also using its Delhi formula for selection of candidates based on triple ‘C’ which stands for crime, corruption and character. “All candidates are being vetted on the triple ‘C’ formula. It is mandatory for them to clear this test. In Delhi, candidates selected on this formula have defeated well established and prominent leaders of BJP and Congress,” said Mahindra Pratap Singh, state media coordinator, AAP. During selection of candidates, the Central and the state leaderships of the party vetted candidates on various counts, including caste combination, winnability factor, qualification and local scenario. The AAP leadership has made it a point that there would be no random selection of candidates just for the sake of it. The party will also focus on such assembly segments across the state from prominent BJP leaders are contesting. AAP will contest almost all 403 assembly seats making the polls a four cornered contest between BJP, Samajwadi Party, BSP and AAP. In its first list of 150 candidates, the AAP has given representation to all caste combinations and the Muslim community. Keeping into consideration local factors of an assembly segment, the AAP’s list of first 150 candidates has 55 OBC candidates, 31 schedule caste, 36 Brahmin, six Kayastha, 14 Muslims and seven businessmen among others. Vishnu Kumar Jaiswal will be party’s candidate from Sirathu assembly seat in Kaushambhi district. Here, he will challenge Keshav Prasad Maurya, deputy CM of the BJP. Rajeev Yadav will challenge Suresh Khanna, senior BJP leader and finance minister in the Yogi Adityanath government, in Shahjahanpur assembly segment. In Noida, a predominantly urban assembly segment in Gautam Buddha Nagar district, Pankaj Awana will be AAP’s candidate. He will challenge sitting MLA of the BJP, Pankaj Singh, who is the son of union defence minister Rajnath Singh. Now, when the Election Commission of India (ECI) has banned election rallies till January 22 due to Covid-19 pandemic, AAP is all out with its social media team to connect with voters across the state. “We have a formidable presence on social media as compared to other parties. Our goal is to make sure that the policies of Arvind Kejriwal government and promises made with electorate of Uttar Pradesh reach every cell phone in the state,” said Singh. When it comes to door-to-door campaigning, it is advantage AAP, claim AAP leaders. “We will reach out to the maximum households through door-to-door campaigning. In every assembly segment 20 teams are being constituted. Each will have five members to carry out the campaign,” said Vaibhav Maheshwari, AAP’s spokesperson, Uttar Pradesh. “In all 403 assembly constituencies across the state, these teams have the task to knock at every door,” Sanjay Singh, state incharge of AAP, had said on Sunday. For the last two years, AAP leader Sanjay Singh has been reaching out to every corner of the state from where any incident or crime has been reported. Be it Hathras gang rape and murder case or the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, Singh has been among the first politician to reach out to aggrieved families. Party’s ‘Tiranga Yatra’ spanning across the state has been successful. Delhi chief minister and AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal offered prayers at Ram Janmabhoomi site and Hanumangarhi temple in Ayodhya on October 10 last year. There, he had announced to include the temple town in the Delhi government’s free pilgrimage scheme. Deputy CM of Delhi, Manish Sisodia, had addressed the party’s Tiranga Yatra in Ayodhya on September 14 last year. 
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Cold wave to sweep Punjab, Haryana for next two days||New Delhi : The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted cold wave conditions over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan during the next two days. It may abate only after that.Fresh active Western Disturbance will affect Northwest India from January 21, IMD further predicted.Meanwhile, Delhi witnessed a minimum temperature of 8 degree Celsius at 7 am on Sunday while the maximum temperature is expected to touch 16 degrees Celsius.With cold weather conditions prevailing over Delhi and North India, a blanket of fog engulfed Delhi on Sunday morning. Following the dip invisibility, several Delhi-bound trains were running late.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cold-wave-to-sweep-punjab-haryana-for-next-two-days-101642447721949.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Local leaders overlooked in BJP’s star-studded posters||While the Shiromani Akali Dal and Congress have given space to local leaders on party posters ahead of the Punjab assembly elections, the BJP has chosen to highlight its star-studded Central leadership, completely overlooking its local leaders. The Congress is projecting the Jatt-Hindu-Dalit trio – Navot Singh Sindhu, Sunil Jakhar and chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, and SAD its candidates, while BJP’s posters feature Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah, party president JP Nadda, poll campaign in-charge Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, co-incharge for the state Meenakshi Lekhi, Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri and state BJP chief Ashwani Sharma. BJP’s prominent local leaders, including state vice-president Parveen Bansal, district president Pushpinder Singhal and state treasurer Gurdev Sharma Debi, were conspicuous by their absence. While the majority of the political parties have announced their candidates and have already started canvassing in their respective assembly constituencies, the BJP is yet to announce its list of candidates for the upcoming polls.When asked about the hoardings, BJP spokesperson Anil Sareen said, “Like always, the Prime Minister is our star campaigner and the elections will be fought under his leadership.” “This is not to say that the local party leaders are being ignored,” he added. However, those privy to the matter, say the party has refrained from featuring the local leadership on the posters due to factionalism within the local unit of the party.Besides, with former Akali leader Gurdeep Singh Gosha joining the BJP, the power dynamics have shifted within the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-local-leaders-overlooked-in-bjp-s-star-studded-posters-101642447664103.html
18-01-2022||Noida||Locals demand better civic infra, resolution of homebuyer issues in G Noida West||With over 70 high-rise societies and a population nearing about one lakh (100,000), Greater Noida West will play a crucial role in deciding the fortunes of candidates from the Dadri assembly constituency, which will go to polls on February 10, under phase one of the seven-phased assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. Of the total 586,000 registered voters in Dadri, about 100,000 are from Greater Noida West and the constituency, which is one of three assembly constituencies in Gautam Budh Nagar, is currently represented by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s Tejpal Nagar, who defeated his nearest rival, Bahujan Samajwadi Party’s Satveer Singh Gurjar, by a margin of 80,177 votes in the 2017 elections.Dadri, according to several realty surveys, is emerging as a fast growing real estate hub with towering high-rise societies, each housing hundreds of flats. According to residents there, however, the ground realities are far different from brochure pictures of real estate projects -- the area suffers from a lack of several crucial civic infrastructure and, according to residents, is treated by political parties as the “poor country cousin” of the much more urban Noida and Greater Noida. One of the major demands of voters in this area is the speedy resolution of homebuyer issues that include delays in registration and handover of flats. Homebuyers had launched a campaign called “No registry, No vote” last November, which intensified this month with elections approaching. “Builders delay flat registrations by years and our MLA does not come forward in our support. There are at least one lakh homebuyers in Greater Noida West who are awaiting possession and registration of flats. Our first demand to candidates is that they include our demands in their manifestos,” said Abhishek Kumar, president of Noida Extension Flat Owner’s Welfare Association (NEFOWA). Residents say their second demand is a multi-specialty government hospital in the region for want of which they are currently forced to travel a long way to Noida -- the District Hospital is 15km away while Government Institute Of Medical Sciences in Kasna, Greater Noida, is 28km away -- in search of quality medical care. “During the second wave of Covid-19, we realised the importance of a multi-specialty government hospital as residents were unable to find beds and private hospitals continued to cash in on our desperation. Greater Noida West has one community health centre to cater to the population of Bisrakh block but not a single government hospital,” said Manish Kumar, a resident of Supertech EcoVillage-2, Greater Noida West. Residents also said they urgently needed a cremation ground, playground and more government schools.“Greater Noida West has a large population and hence there is a dire need for a hi-tech cremation facility. Currently, we are forced to take our dead to Antim Nivas in Noida’s Sector 94, about 15km away. Moreover, the whole region does not have a single playground for children. This has been a long pending demand of residents,” said Rakesh Ranjan, a member of Gaur City 12th Avenue Apartment Owners’ Association (AOA). Their demand for civic amenities did not stop there; residents have also been demanding Ganga water supply for years now. “As voters, we are not happy with the current MLA as he never helped resolve our issues. People’s representatives are elected so that they represent us and put pressure on developers and authorities to provide us basic amenities,” said Naval Kishore, president of Green Arch AOA, Greater Noida West.When contacted, MLA Nagar refused to comment on the issue. Meanwhile, Congress’s Dadri candidate Deepak Bhati Chotiwala said homebuyer issues were a priority in his upcoming manifesto. “I have assured the residents of Greater Noida West that homebuyer issues, especially regarding delayed registry, is my priority. I will ensure that action is taken against errant developers,” he said, adding that providing basic amenities such as hospitals and playgrounds is also on his agenda. Raj Kumar Bhati, Samajwadi Party’s Dadri candidate, said, “If I am voted to power, I will ensure that the homebuyers awaiting registration are able to do that in six months. I will also ensure basic amenities such as government hospitals, playground and a cremation ground are provided to residents as soon as possible.”Political analysts in Gautam Budh Nagar said anti-incumbency is strong against the Dadri MLA. “The kind of model that was offered to the people in the past five years was based on a ”charity model” wherein the candidates promised benefits in return for votes but that has reached a saturation point as voter demands have not been met in these five years. The pandemic and the economic meltdown induced by it has changed equations and candidates need something new to keep voters engaged. Residents have started understanding this. Secondly, the perceived apathy of the people’s representative has hurt people,” said Hilal Ahmad, associate professor, Centre for the Study of Developing Societies (CSDS), Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/locals-demand-better-civic-infra-resolution-of-homebuyer-issues-in-g-noida-west-101642447661950.html
18-01-2022||Other||Gurugram: 10 duped in week after placing ads for renting flats||At least 10 people have been allegedly duped in the last one week in Gurugram after they placed advertisements for renting out their apartments in different areas through real estate websites, police said on Monday. The cyber fraudsters are using a new modus operandi where they, posing as army officers, contact the victims after taking their details from the real estate websites where the victims had placed advertisements for renting, police said, adding that over 35 similar complaints have been received since December 20 last year.“The suspects say that they are posted in the army cantonment and have been shifted to Delhi. They need to take house on rent in Gurugram as their wives are teachers in private schools. To build trust, they even share their Aadhaar card, PAN card and fake army ID card,” said KK Rao, commissioner of police.Rao said that the victims trusted defence personnel and followed their instructions and lost money. “To give token money, the suspects ask the victims to share UPI (unified payments interface) details to transfer the amount. To gain confidence, they first credit some money and ask them to scan a QR code for a money transfer. When the victims say that they are aware that the QR code is used to debit money from the account, they explain that the Army has got a different method where the money is sent using the code. The moment the victims scan the QR code, fraudulent transactions take place,” said Rao.A fraud case was registered by Bavya Sharma (36) on Sunday at Cybercrime police station, said police. Sharma, a resident of Sector 65, said that on December 25, she received a call from a man who introduced himself as an army officer. “He said he was being transferred from Ahmedabad to Delhi and had seen our property posted online for rent. He called us twice on the same day and later said that he has transferred some amount into my bank account,” she said. Sharma further said that the suspect also sent copies of an army canteen ID card, PAN card and Aadhaar card which were later found out to be fake. “He initiated two transactions amounting to ₹25,000 each through my digital wallet linked with a bank account. He had details of my PAN card, Aadhaar card and a cancelled cheque of my bank account,” she said. Police said the suspect also sent screenshots of money transferred by him to the victim’s account, which was actually never done. Similarly, another family of Sushant Lok 2 was duped of over ₹3.5 lakh on December 28, followed by a DLF Phase 2 resident who was duped of ₹2 lakh on December 29, said police. Rao said they have written to the banks to get details about the accounts to which the money was credited. “The suspects are using fake ID cards and collecting details of people who have placed ads on various online platforms for renting or selling their flats,” he said. In some cases, the suspects even make video calls after asking real estate agents to connect to gain trust. Police said they are conducting investigation and teams have been formed to arrest the gang members whose location is found to be in Uttar Pradesh and Nuh. 
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: AAP takes dig at Cong over ticket denial to Channi’s brother||Chandigarh : Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Punjab affairs co-in-charge Raghav Chadha accused the Congress of using chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi to woo the SC community. Chadha said the Congress, in its first list of candidates, has fielded the family members and relatives of several big leaders in the state but denied the ticket to the chief minister’s brother. This proves that the Congress applied “use and throw” at Channi for the votes of the SC community, he alleged at a press conference here. Referring to the families of Congress leaders who got tickets, Chadha said that the party has fielded (Fatehgarh Sahib MP) Amar Singh’s son from Raikot, (former minister) Avtar Henry’s son from Jalandhar, (cabinet minister) Brahm Mohindra’s son from Patiala Rural and (former state chief) Sunil Jakhar’s nephew from Abohar, but despite publicly expressing his desire to contest, the CM’s brother did not get the ticket. “This shows that Channi has no say at all in the party. The Congress used him as the chief minister for a few days only to get the votes of the SC community,” he said. Chadha said the Congress has a history of changing the CM after taking votes in the name of OBC-SC leaders. “They pulled something similar in Maharashtra as well. There, the Congress had used Sushil Kumar Shinde like Channi a few days before the election. After the polls, they replaced him. Like Maharashtra, the Congress is now using Channi as a ‘night watchman’ in Punjab,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-aap-takes-dig-at-cong-over-ticket-denial-to-channi-s-brother-101642447541930.html
18-01-2022||Other||UP Assembly Polls 2022:16 candidates file nomination in Agra, Aligarh and Mathura||Agra Candidates of different political parties filed their nomination papers for the first phase of state assembly elections in the districts of Agra, Aligarh and Mathura, on Monday. In all, 16 nominations were filed on the first day of the week. Elections for the first phase in the state will be held on February 10.Maximum eight nominations were filed in Mathura having five assembly seats. This included nomination by Samajwadi Party candidate from Mathura seat, Devendra Agarwal. Six nominations were filed in Agra, including by an independent candidate Arun Kant Katheriya. In Aligarh, having seven assembly seats, only two nominations were filed on Monday. The nomination process will continue till January 21. BJP candidate from Fatehpur Sikri assembly seat Chaudhary Babulal filed his nomination in Agra on Monday. He was accompanied by BJP MP from Fatehpur Sikri, Rajkumar Chahar. Babulal was MP from Fatehpur parliamentary seat in 2014 and he is again in the fray after BJP chose him over Chaudhary Uday Bhan Singh, the minister in Yogi cabinet. Dr Dharampal Singh, the BJP candidate from Etmadpur assembly seat of Agra district, also filed the nomination. DR Dharampal, who recently joined BJP, was too preferred by the BJP over its sitting MLA Ram Pratap Singh Chauhan. Apart from BJP candidates, Samajwadi Party candidate from Bah Madhusudan Sharma filed his nomination papers during the day. Sharma had won as BSP candidate from Bah assembly seat in 2007 state assembly elections, but lost in 2012 to SP candidate Raja Aridaman Singh. Congress candidate from Agra North, Vinod Bansal also filed nomination papers, besides Radhika Bai Kinnar (actual name Aakash Soni), the only transgender to file nomination papers as independent candidate from reserved seat of Agra Cantt. In Mathura, the minister in Yogi cabinet and now BJP candidate from Chata assembly seat Chaudhary Laxmi Narain, RLD candidate from the same seat Chadhary Tejpal Singh filed nomination on Monday. RLD candidate from Mant assembly seat Yogesh Nauwahar also filed his nomination papers. Former leader of Congress legislature party Pradeep Mathur filed nomination papers from Mathura city, the seat he had won for four times before losing it to minister in Yogi cabinet Sri Kant Sharma in 2017 state assembly elections. In Aligarh, BSP candidate from Charra assembly seat Tilak Raj Yadav too filed nomination on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-assembly-polls-2022-16-candidates-file-nomination-in-agra-aligarh-and-mathura-101642447422163.html
18-01-2022||Other||Gurugram: Six buildings sealed in DLF 4 for commercial activities||The enforcement team of the department of town and country planning (DTCP) on Monday carried out a sealing drive in DLF Phase 4 and sealed six residential buildings for running commercial activities. DTCP officials said that despite repeated notices issued to the violators, the property owners did not stop these activities. The sealing drive will be carried out in adjoining residential areas during the week, said the officials. RS Bhath, district town planner, enforcement, said that the six residential buildings were being used for commercial purposes, such as a guest house, a hotel, salons, clinics and showroom . “These activities were carried out in violation of rules and the establishments were sealed after giving notices. A team from the Gurugram police accompanied us during the sealing drive,” said Bhath. He further said that surveys have also been conducted in private licensed colonies in the city, and the enforcement team has identified commercial activities being carried out in various phases of DLF, Sushant Lok, South City and other such colonies. “We request the property owners to take permission for carrying out non-disturbing activities as per the rules. The owners can pay the fees and get the activities allowed by the department regularised,” he said. DTCP officials, however, said that running shops, salons, restaurants and spas in residential areas is not allowed and would face sealing. “The residents can approach us and lodge complaints if they are facing problems due to commercial activities,” he said. Last month, the department had carried out a sealing drive in Sushant Lok 1 in which about 21 properties were sealed after complaints were lodged by local residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-six-buildings-sealed-in-dlf-4-for-commercial-activities-101642447241967.html
18-01-2022||Noida||Dadri MLA Tejpal Nagar booked for violating poll code during Greater Noida visit||The Bisrakh police booked Dadri’s sitting MLA and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Tejpal Nagar for violating Covid-19 norms on Sunday during a door-to-door election campaign in the Greater Noida West area, officials said on Monday.The BJP named Nagar as the MLA candidate for Dadri for the upcoming elections in Gautam Budh Nagar. As part of the election campaign, he visited several high-rise housing complexes in Greater Noida West on Sunday. Nagar could be seen with more than five people -- which violates the Covid-19 norms imposed for election campaigning -- in the photographs shared on his social media accounts.The Election Commission of India (ECI) has allowed only five people, excluding security personnel, to engage in door-to-door campaigning by the candidates for the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, which is scheduled to be held from February 10 to March 7 in seven phases. Polls are to be conducted in the first phase on February 10 in Gautam Budh Nagar’s three assembly constituencies -- Noida, Jewar and Dadri.Commenting on this, Congress’ Noida candidate asked on Twitter on Monday “why no action was taken against Nagar for violating the Covid-19 norms”. Sharing a news report on Twitter, Pathak wrote, “It is being published in newspapers that BJP candidate Tejpal Nagar is campaigning on the streets with drums, but there is no FIR against him. At the same time, an FIR is lodged immediately on the door-to-door campaign of (Chhattisgarh) CM Bhupesh Baghel”.Pathak was referring to the FIR registered against Baghel on Sunday for violating Covid-19 protocols by conducting a door-to-door election campaign in Noida for Congress candidate Pankhuri Pathak.Taking a suo motu cognisance of Pathak’s social media post, the Bisrakh police registered the case against Nagar on Monday, said the police.Yashpal Singh, station house officer (SHO) of Bisrakh police station, said the case was registered against Nagar under Indian Penal code (IPC) sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), and Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act. “The case has been registered on the basis of the complaint on social media,” Singh said.When contacted, Nagar refused to comment on the issue.
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Challan filed in HPSC recruitment scam||The Haryana State Vigilance Bureau has presented a challan against the three arrested accused including the then Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) deputy secretary Anil Nagar, who are allegedly involved in the HPSC recruitment scam.While giving information here on Monday, a vigilance bureau spokesperson said the challan was presented in the Panchkula court against Anil Nagar, Naveen and Ashwini, within a period of two months on January 14.“The investigation in this case is in progress while the report of handwriting check, voice sample, etc is yet to arrive from the FSL, Madhuban. Once the report is received, necessary supplementary challan against the said accused will be presented by the department in court at the earliest,” the spokesperson added.“Further probe will help in getting to the bottom of the matter, and the possibility of involvement of other accused cannot be ruled out. Strict action will be taken against all the culprits,” the spokesperson said.Nagar, along with two others, was arrested for tampering with marks of candidates of the dental surgeon exam. Others arrested are Ashwani Sharma, of Jhajjar, and Naveen Kumar, of Bhiwani. The vigilance has made recoveries of ₹3.60 crore in the case.The vigilance team had seized 22 original examination sheets of the preliminary HCS exam, 2021, its carbon copies and 14 original test sheets of dental surgeon examination, 2021. The investigation so far points to Nagar’s involvement in both the exams.Nagar is a 2016-batch officer who was posted as the HPSC deputy secretary in March 2021. Earlier, he was posted as joint director, administration, secondary education, Haryana, and deputy secretary to the government, Haryana, school education department.The FIR was registered on November 17, after Naveen Kumar, a government employee, was caught red-handed while accepting ₹20 lakh bribe.Based on his confession and other evidence, the vigilance team had arrested Ashwani Sharma and seized ₹1.07 crore during a search at his house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/challan-filed-in-hpsc-recruitment-scam-101642447061866.html
18-01-2022||Lucknow||UP polls: Left parties to field candidates on a limited number of seats||The Left parties may field candidates on a limited number of seats in Uttar Pradesh to avoid a division in anti-BJP votes as such a split would be to the disadvantage of the Opposition parties, including the Congress and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP). The Communist Party of India (CPI) and the Communist Part of India (Marxist), the two main players among the Left components in the state, will meet shortly to shortlist the seats and candidates for the UP polls. In 2017, half-a-dozen Left parties together contested 140 seats in UP and drew a blank. With their efforts to be a part of an anti-BJP alliance led by the Samajwadi Party (SP) not having succeeded, these Left parties have now decided to go it alone with their own tie-ups in the UP polls. CPI state secretary Girish said the Left parties had decided to go it alone after other political parties did not respond to their overtures for the anti-BJP alliance. “We contacted almost all main political parties, including the SP, and even wrote letters to them expressing our willingness to tie up with them to defeat the BJP in UP,” he said. “But they did not respond after which we decided to form an alliance of Left parties and field candidates,” he added. The CPI, he said, was holding a meeting on Tuesday to finalise the seats. CPI (M) leader Heera Lal Yadav said the Left parties had mainly interested in forming an alliance with the SP since it was the only party that looked in a position to take on the BJP, but the efforts did not succeed. “The CPI (M) will hold its internal meeting very soon to decide on candidates,” he said. Heera Lal Yadav indicated that the Left parties, including the All-India Forward Bloc and the Communist Party of Inidia (Marxist-Leninist), may together field candidates from around 35 constituencies where they have some influence. While the CPI (M) may field candidates in districts like Varanasi, Chandauli, Sonbhadra and Mirzapur, the CPI is considering contesting seats in western UP districts too. “Since our main objective is to stop the BJP from coming to power, we have decided to field candidates only on a limited number of seats so that the ant-BJP votes do not go to waste,” Yadav said. The Left movement is said to have become weak in the post “mandal-kamandal’ era and the left parties have ceased to make an electoral mark in the politics of the state since then. They failed to send a single candidate to the Vidhan Sabha in 2007, 2012 and 2017 assembly elections though the Left parties have organisational presence in most of the districts. 
18-01-2022||Lucknow||9 Covid deaths, over 15K new cases in UP||Uttar Pradesh reported 9 Covid deaths and 15622 new cases on Monday. Maximum new cases were reported from Lucknow and Gautam Budha Nagar. In Lucknow, the chief medical officer also tested positive for Covid. According to data received from the health department, Lucknow reported 2716 new Covid cases while Gautam Budha Nagar reported 2154 cases. Ghaziabad (1281), Meerut (968), Varanasi (441), Gorakhpur (296) also reported several cases. Aligarh and Badaun reported two deaths each, while Moradabad, Prayagraj, Etawah, Mirzapur, Mau reported one death each, as per data from the state health department. “In all 216152 Covid samples were tested in the past 24-hours and 15622 of them tested positive. Till now 96534686 Covid samples have been tested in the state,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health. In all 12402 patients recovered in the past 24-hours and the number of active cases now are 106616 in UP, with majority of them in home isolation. In Lucknow out of 2716 positive cases, 925 are women. Aliganj reported 384 positive cases while Chinhat (344), Alambagh (317), Sarojininagar (205) and Indira Nagar (203) also reported many cases. “Number of contacts of Covid patients testing positive is rising gradually. In all 1013 contacts of Covid positive people, also tested positive. We should ensure strict adherence to Covid protocol while meeting people outside our homes else the risk of getting infected will be high,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general association of international doctors. Apart from residents, 66 health workers from different hospitals also tested positive for Covid and 76 patients who went for some surgery to hospitals tested positive too. Recovery rate goes up too  The number of Covid-19 cases continues to go up in the state, but those recovering in home isolation or getting g discharged from hospitals is going up as well. On Monday, 12402 patients recovered in Uttar Pradesh against 8802 on Sunday. In Lucknow ,1420 patients recovered against 626 on Sunday. “Significantly after the recent guidelines on recovery/discharge, the home isolation period is now reduced from ten days to seven. So those who tested positive on January 9 could resume work/normal life from Monday. There were over 1100 new cases on January 9 and 10,” said a senior health official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/9-covid-deaths-over-15k-new-cases-in-up-101642446881595.html
18-01-2022||Other||Will not support any party in UP assembly polls: BKU leader||Spokesperson for Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Rakesh Tikait on Monday reiterated that his party will not support any political party or alliance in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly polls. Reacting to the meeting of Union minister Sanjeev Balyan with BKU chief Naresh Tikait in Sisauli on Monday, he said, “We welcome everyone. We will extend our best wishes to any candidate (of any party) who comes to meet us. But the question of giving support to anyone does not arise.”On Sunday, Naresh Tikait had appealed for support to Rashtriya Lok Dal-Samajwadi Party alliance in the UP polls. However, he later withdrew his statement. Rakesh Tikait is camping at BKU camp in Magh Mela here for the ongoing three-day ‘Chintan Shivir’ of farmers at Parade Ground that started on Sunday.Interacting with media persons, he said farmers and he had come to Magh Mela to deliberate on the problems of the farmers. “There will be no talk of politics here. Nor will farmers be asked to vote for any party,” he said. Tikait expressed his displeasure against the state government on the question of the amount being sent to the farmers’ accounts under direct benefit transfer scheme and the BJP’s promise doubling their income, which, he alleged remained unfulfilled.“Everything is a lie. The government should get a gold medal in lying. Minimum support price for paddy is not yet available. In many states, farmers are getting electricity free of cost. When we demanded that free electricity be given to farmers in Uttar Pradesh too, the government gave subsidy. Payment of sugarcane farmers is still stuck. There is a resentment among the farmers over all these issues. If leaders go to seek votes, farmers will definitely ask these questions,” he claimed.He said after 13 months of nationwide farmers’ agitation, if the farmers voted on the issues of crops and development, its effect will be very much visible this time around. Tikait, however, praised the government for giving some relief to farmers in the area of mining.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/will-not-support-any-party-in-up-assembly-polls-bku-leader-101642446765844.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||In 12 days, 432 health workers test positive for Covid at PGIMS, Rohtak||The third wave of coronavirus (Covid-19) has hit Rohtak’s Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) staff badly as 423 of its health workers, including 158 resident doctors have tested positive in just 12 days.On Monday, a total of 40 healthcare workers tested positive. As per the health bulletin released by the PGIMS, 39 Covid patients are undergoing treatment – two of them are on oxygen support and four on ventilator.A senior doctor, pleading anonymity, said it is a matter of serious concern that more than 400 employees have tested positive so far.“The infected staff had isolated themselves. Their symptomatic colleagues and contacts were quarantined while the asymptomatic contacts had to continue their work. We are hoping that the situation remains under control,” the doctor added.“Most of my infected colleagues have mild symptoms and are struggling with fever, cold and cough. Cases are soaring among nurses, lab technicians, resident doctors, Class-4 workers and even the administrative staff. No one should lower their guards as the cases are rising. No one had expected that even after getting both the doses of vaccination, such a large number of health workers will be affected,” a resident doctor said.PGIMS official spokesman Dr Varun Arora said many health workers have tested positive at the institution.“So far, our work is not hampered. We are managing the situation with the existing staff. Health workers are taking all precautions but still they have tested positive for the virus. Some of the key staff members have been infected and are in home-isolation. We are asking our health staff to resume services only after fully recovering from the infection. Booster doses are also being given to the workers,” Arora added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-12-days-432-health-workers-test-positive-for-covid-at-pgims-rohtak-101642446762960.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid: Chandigarh sees drop in cases for third straight day||With 864 people testing positive for Covid-19 on Monday, Chandigarh’s daily tally witnessed a downward trend for the third consecutive day, over 50% drop from the all-time high of 1,834 registered on Friday. On Saturday, 1,795 cases had surfaced, while 1,358 people tested positive on Sunday.Even the tricity saw a dip in daily infections for the first time in five days, as only 2,215 people tested positive, including 702 in Mohali and 649 in Panchkula. The all-time record was set on Sunday with 3,907 cases. Even Mohali recorded a drop in numbers after four days, and Panchkula registered it after three days. Mohali had set a record with 1,831 cases the previous day, while Panchkula hit an all-time high with 734 cases last Wednesday (January 12). “Even though the cases in Chandigarh are falling for three days, it is too early to say that the peak is over. Usually, the graph first flattens among the health workers and then in the community. A the PGIMER, the daily infection count among health workers has been dropping for the past six days. In the community, most people have already got tested and are infected, due to which not many are coming positive these days,” said Dr PVM Lakshmi, professor, Community Medicine and School of Public Health, PGIMER. While cautioning people against lowering their guard, Dr Lakshmi said: “We should observe for another week, and when the positivity rate will drop despite the high number of samples tested, only then can we say that the graph is flattening.”Meanwhile, Dr Suman Singh, director, health services, Chandigarh, said, “We are testing more than 4,000 people daily. Even when 1,358 cases were reported on Sunday, the samples tested were above 6,000. The cases are dropping, as we have reached the herd immunity stage, where more than 60% people in the community are already infected and have antibodies to fight the virus. Also, since most of the people are now fully vaccinated, the graph will drop with the same speed with which it initially rose.”Four fatalities across tricityA day after registering eight deaths, the tricity recorded four more: two each in Chandigarh and Mohali.In Chandigarh, the victims included two women, aged 63 and 65, who were residing in Maloya and Sector 49, respectively. Both were fully vaccinated. While the Maloya woman was a cancer patient undergoing chemotherapy, the other was suffering from renal disease and hypertension.In Mohali district, the victims have been identified as a 78-year-old man from Sector 78 and a 60-year-old woman from Dera Bassi.79% positivity rate in PanchkulaAt 79%, Panchkula recorded the highest positivity rate on Monday. On Sunday, it had stood at 35%. Health officials said the number surged because of limited number of tests done on Sunday, the results of which came on Monday. It means, of every five people sampled the previous day, four were confirmed positive on Monday. Meanwhile, there are 2,891 active cases in Panchkula, but only 21 people are hospitalised. In Mohali, the active caseload has reached 7,834. The tricity’s total stands at 19,829, including 9,104 in Chandigarh. However, only 119 people are hospitalised in Chandigarh, while 8,886 are isolated at their homes and 99 at mini Covid care centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-chandigarh-sees-drop-in-cases-for-third-straight-day-101642446644806.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Omicron: 10 more cases confirmed in Chandigarh||The Omicron variant has been confirmed in 10 more people who had tested positive for Covid-19 between December 21 and January 2 in Chandigarh. As many as nine of them have no travel history, while one had returned from Australia, a low-risk country, confirming community spread of the highly infectious variant of concern in Chandigarh. The samples were among 75 sent for genome sequencing in order to establish the variant. In December, an Italy-returnee and his two family members were found positive for Omicron, which was first detected in South Africa in November last year.Variants of concern in just 27% samples“Of the 75 samples, variants of concern were found in only 20. The Omicron variant was found in 10 people, while the other 10 were infected with the Delta variant. The other samples didn’t have variants of concern or were inconsequential,” said Dr Suman Singh, director, health services, Chandigarh. Dr Singh said the fact that nine out of the 10 Omicron positive people didn’t have any recent international travel history is worrisome. “This indicates that the new variant is highly prevalent in Chandigarh. Since Omicron and Delta variants are spreading in the community, it is believed both of them are leading to the recent Covid-19 surge in the city,” she said.Delta (B.1.617.2) variant is seen as the major reason behind the second wave in Chandigarh last year. Meanwhile, the World Health Organisation has warned that the risk related to Omicron (B.1.1.529) strain is “very high”, and it has been driving the recent pandemic surge across the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/omicron-10-more-cases-confirmed-in-chandigarh-101642446643114.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid: Weekly tally goes up threefold in Chandigarh tricity||In a steep surge, the Chandigarh tricity area reported 20,904 fresh Covid-19 cases in the past one week (January 10-16), over threefold rise over the previous week’s tally. Amid the rising infection count, the death toll also recorded over fourfold jump, adding to the worries of the health officials.Amid 17 virus-related deaths in the tricity, health officials said most of the deceased were either co-morbid or aged or not vaccinated. On January 16 alone, eight deaths were reported, highest since the second wave receded in June, besides 3,907 cases, an all-time record. In comparison, in the week ending on January 9, the tricity had reported 6,441 cases and four fatalities.Of the three areas, Chandigarh remained the worst-affected, with 9,207 cases and seven deaths in a week, a significant rise from the previous week’s 2,360 infections and one fatality. In Mohali, the tally was 7,808 cases and eight deaths, up from 2,473 and two, respectively. Panchkula’s case tally rose from 1,608 to 3,889 and death toll from one to two.The second wave had peaked in May, when the tricity recorded 46,245 cases and 790 deaths in just one month. After the weekly cases dipped below 100, a gradual rise was seen in December before a sudden spike this month.Death toll: age, vax, comorbidities factorsAll seven Chandigarh resident who died in the past one week were aged above 38, with six in the 45+ age group. Also, all were suffering from co-morbidities, such as hypertension, diabetes, and heart or kidney related illnesses. Three of them had not even taken the first dose of the vaccine. “Only 2% of the infected people are requiring hospitalisation in Chandigarh, as they have one or the other co-morbidity. Only a few patients are requiring oxygen or ventilator support, as vaccination is helping in reducing the severity of the infection. People must monitor their health, and if required, they should inform the health department immediately and get hospitalised,” said Dr Suman Singh, director, health services, Chandigarh.In Panchkula, the deceased were identified as two men, aged 59 and 76, both of whom had comorbidities. In Mohali, six of the eight deceased were above the age of 50, while two were aged below 10. All were co-morbid. The youngest of them, a one-year-old girl from Balongi village, died on January 16.End hesitancy: testing, vax, hospitalisation“We cannot say that people are dying only because of Covid-19, as people have co-morbidities too,” said Dr Mukta Kumar, chief medical officer, Panchkula.Dr Girish Dogra, nodal officer for Covid-19 in Mohali, said: “Despite repeated requests, people are still hesitant to get tested for the virus or to inform the health department about their deteriorating health condition. People must not self-medicate and get hospitalised when required, as it will help in controlling the fatality rate. Since vaccination is the only prevention, people must step forward and get vaccinated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-weekly-tally-goes-up-threefold-in-chandigarh-tricity-101642446641787.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh colder than Shimla for two days in a row||Even as the maximum temperature rose by a notch — from Sunday’s 11°C to 12°C on Monday — Chandigarh remained colder than Shimla for the second day in a row. With the maximum temperature remaining 9.1°C below normal, the city also recorded second severe cold day in a row, with a third likely on Tuesday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).In Shimla, the mercury rose up to 13.4°C, while even Dharamshala recorded a maximum of 14°C degrees. However, while Chandigarh’s minimum temperature was 9.5°C (up from 8.2°C the previous day and 3.8°C above normal), it settled at 6.6°C in Shimla and 7.4°C in Dharamshala. IMD, Chandigarh, director Manmohan Singh, who was earlier the regional head of IMD, Shimla, said: “In the plains, the drop in temperature is due to fog, but we don’t see fog like this in the hills. With no sunlight in the day, the temperature stays low, but in Himachal Pradesh, it gets warmer in the day and gets much colder at night.”Severe cold day aheadAccording to the IMD, a severe cold day is declared in the plains when the minimum temperature is below 10°C and the maximum temperature goes more than 6.5°C below normal. Similar conditions are likely to continue in the coming days.However, minimum temperature is likely to rise gradually by two to four degrees in the next few days due to a fresh western disturbance around January 21, said Manmohan Singh. “Some rain can be expected in the city around the weekend and the system will be the strongest around Saturday. The maximum temperature is still likely to stay below normal, though the minimum temperature will rise during this period,” he said.In the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain between 13°C and 15°C, while the minimum will settle around 10-12°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-colder-than-shimla-for-two-days-in-a-row-101642446588388.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid surge continues in Haryana||The surge in coronavirus (Covid-19) infections in Haryana continued with the state reporting more than 52,000 infections last week as compared to about 19,000 reported the week before.Health department statistics showed that 52,747 cases were reported between January 10 and 16 as compared to 19,234 infections reported between January 3 and 9.As of Monday, there were 54,814 active cases in the 22 districts of Haryana. More than 95% active cases were in home-isolation. Six districts – Gurugram, Faridabad, Panchkula, Ambala, Karnal and Sonepat – were the most-affected districts having recorded the maximum number of cases last week. About 3.21 lakh persons were tested for infection during last week.As per statistics, the average daily positivity rate of the state since January 1 is about 10%. The average daily positivity rate of Gurugram in the last fortnight was the highest in state at about 17%, followed by Panchkula 16.81%, Faridabad 16.44%, Ambala 12.04%, Sonepat 11.31% and Karnal 9.7%.Mahendergarh with an average daily positivity rate of 1.83% in the last fortnight was at the bottom of charts along with Palwal 2.44% and Bhiwani 2.49%.Additional chief secretary (ACS), health Rajeev Arora, however, said they are witnessing a slowing down of the infection growth rate. “The infection is stabilising in certain districts. A clearer picture will be visible in a couple of weeks,” he said.State nodal officer for Covid, Dr Dhruva Chaudhary said in some districts including Gurugram and Rohtak, the infection growth rate seems to be stabilising.“Every district will have a different peak period depending on the point of time when the surge started. The next 10 days are crucial in terms of the number of people hospitalised because of Covid or complications associated with co-morbidities. Also, it’s time to look at patients with co-morbidities who are becoming infected but are reporting to the hospital because of worsening of primary diseases,” he said.12 more people succumb to CovidHaryana on Monday recorded 12 Covid-related deaths, the highest single-day spike in fatalities in the recent months and especially since the beginning of the third wave of the pandemic.According to the health bulletin, four people died in Karnal, two each in Gurugram and Yamunanagar, while Faridabad, Ambala, Kurukshetra and Fatehabad recorded one fatality each. The death toll has now mounted to 10,116.Meanwhile, the fresh cases continued increasing as the state detected 9,204 positive cases of the 32,566 samples tested in the last 24 hours.The bulletin stated that Gurugram recorded 3,448 new cases, Faridabad 1,435, Hisar 198, Sonepat 799, Karnal 284, Panipat 267, Panchkula 649, Ambala 401, Sirsa 110, Rohtak 261, Yamunanagar 155, Bhiwani 75, Kurukshetra 196, Mahendergarh 78, Jind 115, Rewari 238, Jhajjar 185, Fatehabad 96, Kaithal 111, Palwal 24, Charkhi Dadri 53, and Nuh 26.Govt flags off Covid-prevention kitsHaryana governor Bandaru Dattatraya on Monday flagged off two trucks containing 4,000 hygiene kits prepared by the Indian Red Cross Society for 22 districts of the state for prevention Covid-19.This kit contains soap, oil, toothpaste, toothbrush, napkin, etc and each district will get 150 to 200 kits. Dattatraya said these kits should reach the poorest of the poor in all districts so that they become aware of the best practices to check the spread of Covid.The workers of the Red Cross Society, he said, have done a commendable job Covid by helping people in many ways. Dattatraya said 500 oxygen concentrators have also been made available in all districts by the Indian Red Cross Society, according to a press release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-surge-continues-in-haryana-101642446587014.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Congress undermined Mohali’s development: SAD candidate||Shiromani Akali Dal candidate Parvinder Singh Sohana has started door-to-door campaign in Mohali assembly segment to highlight public welfare and development works carried out by the party in its previous regimes in Punjab.Addressing voters on Monday, Sohana alleged that Mohali’s development that had taken place during the Akali rule was undermined during the present Congress regime owing to illegal occupations. He also listed the international airport, bus stand and beautiful roads as achievements of the previous Akali government. “SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal’s dream is to make Mohali more beautiful than Chandigarh,” he said. AAP gaining ground in Mohali: Kulwant Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) candidate Kulwant Singh said on Monday that the party is gaining ground in Mohali, as a large number of people from other parties, including the ruling Congress, are joining it.Kulwant Singh, who was speaking at Balongi village, said: I am thankful to the people of Balongi for extending their support and their love, which is making us stronger day by day.”The real estate baron and former mayor said his main aim is to save the people of Mohali from all problems that are hampering the city’s development.AAP, Akalis making hollow claims: Sidhu Three-time sitting MLA and Congress candidate Balbir Singh Sidhu on Monday inaugurated a party election office at Daidi village. Speaking on the occasion, he said that development is the party’s main election issue. Claiming that both Akalis and AAP were just making hollow claims, Sidhu said: “They had claimed to form their respective governments in the last elections as well, and now they are again making these claims. Not only Mohali, but the people of Punjab have understood the alluring talk and false promises of the AAP and Akalis. I not only hope, but have full faith, that this time again the people of Punjab will ensure Congress win with a thumping majority.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-undermined-mohali-s-development-sad-candidate-101642446584671.html
18-01-2022||Noida||Samajwadi Party fielding ‘criminal elements’, says UP CM during Ghaziabad visit||With campaigning by political parties for the upcoming assembly elections gaining momentum, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath trained his guns on Samajwadi Party (SP) on Monday and accused the rival party of giving tickets to “criminal elements” in western Uttar Pradesh. The chief minister was in Ghaziabad on Monday for a review of the Covid-19 situation. The first phase of the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections is scheduled to be held on February 10 and comprises 58 assembly segments in 11 districts, including Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar. Adityanath spoke at length about the work his government had done to combat the pandemic and lashed out at the SP in reply to a question posed by the media. “We all know that during the past five years, our government has cracked down hard and instilled fear among professional criminals and goonda elements and that gave a secure environment to people. The face of the SP has come to fore from Kairana to Bulandshahr, Siyana and Loni where they have fielded candidates involved in the exodus of Hindu traders from Kairana and even those who were behind the Muzaffarnagar riots besides professional history sheeters,” Adityanath said during a media briefing at Santosh Medical College, in response to a query on why SP was not issuing a list and only allotting symbols.Before the 2014 general elections, the riots in August and September of 2013 between Jats and Muslims in Muzaffarnagar had left 60 people dead and displaced nearly 50,000. In 2016, a few BJP leaders alleged that there was an exodus of Hindus from the Muslim-dominated town of Kairana in Shamli district. However, a five-member team of Hindu seers in June 2016 (during the Samajwadi Party government) contradicted the BJP’s claims of an exodus but said there was an atmosphere of fear in the town because of criminals.The issue of exodus was raised by BJP’s Kairana MP, late Hukum Singh, and his daughter Mriganka Singh is the BJP candidate from Kairana this time.Later, during the 2017 state assembly elections, the BJP banked heavily on the issue of rising crime in Uttar Pradesh and promised that it will crack down hard on criminal elements after coming to power. “By giving tickets to these criminal elements, the SP has brought to fore its actual character and its first list has proved it. With this, the party has proved that they are trying to project people who are against social justice, Dalits, the poor, backward classes, traders and the common man. They have not strayed from their inherent habits and such habits don’t improve easily,” Adityanath said. Adityanath’s attack on SP comes on the heels of several prominent OBC (other backward classes) leaders from the BJP jumping ship to the SP. They include former UP ministers Swami Prasad Maurya, Dharam Singh Saini and Dara Singh Chauhan, among others. Responding to Adityanath’s comments, the SP alleged that the chief minister has violated the model code of conduct. “The chief minister was on an official visit to Ghaziabad and should not have made political comments and it amounts to election campaigning. There are lot of people in the BJP with criminal records and the actual standing of the BJP will come to the fore after the first phase of elections. The SP will win the elections with a thumping majority,” said Rashid Malik, Ghaziabad president, Samajwadi Party. The SP has not filed any complaint in the matter as yet. District election officer, RK Singh, who is also district magistrate, did not respond to calls.In Ghaziabad, the BJP as well as the SP along with its ally the Rashtriya Lok Dal have fielded candidates from all five assembly segments of Loni, Muradnagar, Sahibabad, Ghaziabad and Modinagar. The BJP has fielded all five sitting MLAs in Ghaziabad as well as all three incumbent MLAs from seats of Noida, Jewar and Dadri in Gautam Budh Nagar.In 2017, the BJP assumed power in Uttar Pradesh after contesting on 384 seats and winning 312 seats. This led to ouster of the government of the Samajwadi Party which contested on 311 seats and won only on 47. “The BJP primarily won the previous elections on the issue of safety and security in the state. Adityanath in his address today tried to make people realise that his party was tougher on criminals than the previous governments and has brought the issue to the fore once again,” said KK Sharma, associate professor (history) at MM College, Modinagar.
18-01-2022||Other||Gurugram: 24 projects get nod in MCG’s finance and contract panel meeting||The finance and contract committee (F&CC) of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) approved 24 developmental projects during a meeting held at the civic body’s Sector 34 office on Monday. A release issued by the MCG stated that the approved projects included renovating nine parks in Sector 23, renovating green belts in Palam Vihar, and constructing a badminton court in Palam Vihar.Of the 24 projects, estimates for 16 and tender allotment of eight projects were approved in the F&CC meeting.The committee, consisting of councillors and senior MCG officials, approves civic projects costing between ₹1 crore and ₹3 crore. The projects that cost more than ₹3 crore are sent to the directorate of urban local bodies (DULB) for approval.The estimates approved for 16 civic projects in the meeting included ₹1.49 crore for renovating nine parks in Sector 23, constructing a booster station at Shankar Vihar for ₹2.42 crore, constructing a dispensary in Sector 9 for ₹1.34 crore, constructing a road near Sector 9 Huda market for ₹1.76 crore, constructing 10-metre-wide road in Sector 46 for ₹2.23 crore, developing a multi-purpose hall at Arjun Nagar for ₹2.19 crore, constructing a badminton court in Palam Vihar for ₹2.33 crore and developing an indoor badminton court in Gandhi Nagar area for ₹2.35 crore.Allotment of tenders for projects such as reconstructing various roads in Sector 9A area for ₹1 crore, a park in Sector 23A area for ₹2.38 crore, and renovating green belts in Palam Vihar area for ₹2.39 crore were approved in the meeting.“The objective of the MCG is to provide better and accessible facilities to the citizens so that the standard of living is increased. With the development of various parks and green belts, not only will the green cover in the city increase, but air quality will also improve. With the development of facilities related to sports, players would get better amenities,” said mayor Madhu Azad, who chaired the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-24-projects-get-nod-in-mcg-s-finance-and-contract-panel-meeting-101642446342080.html
18-01-2022||Lucknow||Bone-chilling cold, heavy fog grips UP||Uttar Pradesh witnessed the third consecutive day of severe cold on Monday as the average day time temperature across Uttar Pradesh stayed around 17 degrees Celsius, one of the coldest this month.The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) issued an alert for the following days, for similar weather conditions across UP, on Monday. The daytime temperature in Lucknow stayed around 15.3 degrees Celsius which was six degrees below normal. The minimum temperature was recorded at 7.1 degrees which is normal for this time of the year.Bareilly district in western UP was the coldest with the day temperature dropping to the 11-degree Celsius mark. Kanpur recorded the lowest minimum temperature of 4.6 degrees Celsius followed by Meerut where the mercury dropped to the 5.3-degree Celsius mark. The day temperature in Prayagraj, Varanasi and Gorakhpur were recorded as 18.5, 17.6 and 12.6 degrees Celsius, respectively, while the minimum temperature was recorded at 9.6, 7.7 and 8 degrees Celsius, respectively.Heavy fog accompanied with Westerly Winds added to the chill till the Sun came out around afternoon. Lucknow will experience similar weather on Tuesday with day temperature expected around 15 degrees and night temperature around 8 degrees Celsius. In several places across Uttar Pradesh, the day temperature dropped to the 11-degree mark. The MeT department has also issued a forecast of scattered rain in UP after midweek.According to the alert issued by IMD, “Very cold and cold weather is very likely over Kushinagar, Lakhimpur Kheri, Balrampur, Lucknow, Sitapur, Hardoi, Bahraich, Sravasti, Siddharth Nagar, Maharajganj and adjoining areas on Tuesday.”“Dense fog is very likely over Moradabad, Rampur, Amroha, Meerut, Baghpat, Hapur, Ghaziabad, Guttam Buddh Nagar, Bulandshahar, Aligarh, Hathras, Mathura, Agra, Firozabad, Sambhal, Badaun, Bareilly, Pilibhit, Azamgarh, Mau, Ballia, Jaunpur, Ghazipur, Etah, Kasganj, Amethi, Shahjahanpur, Lucknow, Rae Bareli, Farrukhabad, Barabanki, Ayodhya, Ambedkarnagar, Sultanpur, Gonda, Basti, Santkabir Nagar, Gorakhpur, Deoria and adjoining areas,” the IMD warning reads.Director of state MeT department JP Gupta said, “A low-pressure atmospheric zone has developed over central and west UP which is responsible for the drop in temperatures. The low-pressure zone will subside gradually in the next two days.”Considering the forecast, the state MeT department has alerted district authorities about the adverse weather conditions suggesting them to make appropriate arrangements to fight the cold.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bonechilling-cold-heavy-fog-grips-up-101642446282495.html
18-01-2022||Other||Dolphins thrive at Ganga-Gomti confluence in Varanasi||The Gangetic Dolphins have increased in the river Ganga near Kaithi village in Varanasi district, the point where the river Gomti merges with the Ganga. This confluence of the Ganga and the Gomti is about 29 kilometers off Varanasi towards the east. Divisional forest officer, Varanasi, Mahavir Kaujalgi says, “As per a survey by the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), there were 21 dolphins in Ganga stretch of Varanasi. Now, as per an assessment, dolphins have increased at the Ganga-Gomti confluence point and there should be 35 to 39 dolphins here at present.” “This Ganga-Gomti point provides ideal environment for dolphins due to the depth of the river here. The water is also clean at this point,” he said. “Rise in number of dolphins means that they consider this river stretch safe to live and breed,” he said. “Efforts to clean Ganga have also resulted in the river water being cleaner,” Kaujalgi said. “Efforts for conservation of Gangetic dolphins have also helped in creating a safer environment and thus the rise in the number of dolphins is a very positive development for biodiversity,” he said. Kaujalgi held a series of meetings with the locals in over a dozen villages, including Dakwa village in 2020 and 2021 (excluding Covid-19 period). Then, he apprised the locals about the importance of dolphins and encouraged them to make efforts for conservation of dolphins. He said locals have been asked to inform the officials of the forest department whenever they came across any incident of anyone trying to harm the dolphins. Kaujalgi said hunting of dolphins is banned on the Ganga and violators are liable for punishment. “During awareness drive we tell locals to protect the dolphins to stay happy and joyous as it would earn them the blessings of Maa Ganga. Increase in number of dolphins prove that the Ganga water has become clean as dolphins live only in clean water,” Kaujalgi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dolphins-thrive-at-ganga-gomti-confluence-in-varanasi-101642446221944.html
18-01-2022||Mumbai||City crosses 1 million mark as cases dip below 6,000||Mumbai The city continued to register a drop in daily Covid-19 cases, recording less than 6,000 cases for the first time in 16 days as it logged 5,956 fresh infections on Monday, according to official data. Mondays often see a dip in cases due to lower testing on weekends. The daily test positivity rate dipped to 12.51%, down from 13.7% the previous day.Government officials said they might consider easing the curbs if the Maharashtra capital continued to see a drop in daily infections but advised people against lowering their guard. “There is no doubt that the cases are going down and the hospitalisation rate is also going down, but we will have to monitor the situation till Wednesday. If the trend continues till then, we might put the city in the safe zone. But we will have to remain alert and take all necessary precautions,” additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said. The city also reported 12 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the overall toll to 16,469. Experts said that genome sequencing should be scaled up in order to help them ascertain which variant is leading to deaths or critical ailment. Dr Madhav Satthe, former microbiology professor at Nair Hospital said, “We need to find out if it is Delta variant or Omicron variant that is causing deaths in critical patients. Hence, positive samples of patients on ventilators or ICU should be sent for genome sequencing.” Meanwhile, experts believe genome sequencing of critical patients should be done to ascertain which variant is leading to deaths or critical ailment. Dr Madhav Satthe, former microbiology professor at Nair Hospital said, “We need to find out if it is Delta variant or Omicron variant that is causing deaths in critical patients. Hence, positive samples of patients on ventilators or ICU should be sent for genome sequencing.” According to the state health department data, the city’s recovery rate is 93.04% with 935,302 recoveries and the mortality rate is 1.63%. There are 50,757 active cases in the city and four Omicron variant Covid-19 cases have been reported on Monday. Further, the hospitalisation rate in the city has come down from 21% (10 days ago) to 14.7% (on Monday). Out of the total 38,140 beds in the city, 5,628 are occupied. “We will continue to conduct around 50,000 to 60,000 tests in the city in the coming days to ensure that testing is not falling drastically in the city,” said Kakani. The city case tally had crossed the 0.5 million mark in April 2021 during the second wave and the 0.1 million mark in July 2020 during the first wave. Currently, the ongoing third wave started December 21, 2021, and is expected to settle down by the end of this month, according to BMC. In the city, overall, 14.6 million tests have been conducted and the overall positivity rate is 6.82%. Meanwhile, on the cases going down in the city, Dr Harish Chafle from Critical Care at Global Hospital in Parel said, “Usually, Wednesday is the day you rely upon and also if the trend of cases is to go down then it has to sustain for a week to say that it is truly going down Also, many are doing self-testing by rapid antigen test at home which would definitely alter the total cases reported daily.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/city-crosses-1-million-mark-as-cases-dip-below-6000-101642446104482.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Speeding mini bus mows down 3 labourers in Ludhiana||In the second such incident in as many days, three labourers were crushed to death after a speeding bus rammed into their motorcycle on the Kohara-Lakhowal Road on Monday. The victims – Manish, 24; Munna Manji, 27; and Madan Lal, 21 – worked at Bhagwati Cotton Mills on Lakhowal Road and were on the way to the petrol pump when the accident took place. After mowing down the labourers, the unidentified driver of the mini bus fled, leaving the vehicle on the road. The bus has been impounded, and a case has been registered under Sections 279 (rash driving), 427 (damages) and 304A ( death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. The complainant, Pankaj Kumar, the brother of Manish, said he had been following the trio on a separate bike when he saw a private bus coming from Lakhowal hit the bike. “Manish and Munna Manji were killed on the spot, while Madal Lal succumbed to his injuries at the hospital.” Sub-inspector Kamaljit Singh, Koomkalan station house officer, said a hunt was on for the accused. On January 15, two teenagers friends had died, while another had suffered injuries after a Congress councillor’s speeding car had hit them in Jandiali village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/speeding-mini-bus-mows-down-3-labourers-in-ludhiana-101642446102585.html
18-01-2022||Lucknow||In the name of dharma, saints take active interest in Uttar Pradesh assembly polls||Several organisations of sadhus (Hindu saints), either based in Kashi or other parts of eastern UP, are taking an active interest in the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, looking to support those who they say worked in the interest of Sanatan Dharma (Hinduism), Indian culture and values.For instance, the Akhil Bharatiya Sant Samiti, one such organisation of sadhus, is holding a series of sant sammelans (conference of saints) at various pilgrim centres. Similarly, Baba Balakdas, mahamandaleshwar (abbot) of the Patalpuri Math of Kashi, has appealed to his disciples to support that party which has worked for protecting the Sanatan Dharma.Then there is Ram Panth chief Dr Rajiv, also known as “Sri Guru Ji”, who has launched a drive among tribals to connect them with the idea of realising Ram Rajya in the true sense.He has held meetings with the tribals of the Musahar community in Sonbhadra in eastern UP in the recent past. Explaining the inter-play of ascetism and politics, he says, “For the last many decades, saints detached themselves from politics in India due to which idealism gradually disappeared from politics, and politics became too polluted. Politics needs to be purified now. Therefore, several sadhus and maths have started guiding politics in the country. It is the need of the hour.”“We worship Lord Ram and follow his ideals. Lord Ram had completed his education under the great sages like Maharishi Vashishtha and Vishwamitra. Maharshi Vashishta had taught him values, ideals, righteousness, sanskars and Brahmarishi Vishwamitra gave him the knowledge of celestial weaponry and politics with idealism. Lord Ram followed all the teachings by his gurus during his rule. His rule is called Ram Rajya. Ram Rajya is an ideal of good governance and inclusive politics. Ram Rajya is the best model of good governance and inclusive politics because it was guided by sages and saints. It means sadhus and sages used to play a significant role in politics,” he says.“In 2022, naturally, sadhus like me will support the people with whose efforts a grand temple of Lord Ram is being built in Ayodhya and who have built a grand Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, both centres of Sanatan Dharma,” he adds.He has already appealed to his over 10,000 followers for the same. Ram Panth is promoting inclusive politics and working to eliminate casteism, he claims. Baba Balakdas appears to have a clear inclination towards the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party.“We are not going to support such political parties which used saints as a tool to win the support of our followers for political gains and the parties which ignored the advice given by saints for the cause of Sanatan Dharma. We will support that party, which while in power, paved the way for constructing the grand Ram temple in Ayodhya and built a grand and divine Kashi Vishwanath Corridor here. Our support is for the party which works for protection of sadhus and Sanatan Dharma and takes care of their interests.”Although Baba Balakdas says he has nothing to do with politics, he has appealed to his disciples and followers of Sanatan Dharma to take care of the party and people who took care of the interests of sadhus, saints, the Ganga and cows. For its part, the Akhil Bharatiya Sant Samiti, in association with the Akhada Parishad, has already started organising conferences of saints across the state. The first conference was held at Naimisharanya, a pilgrim centre in Sitapur district, on January 11. Swami Jeetendrananda Saraswati, general secretary of the Samiti, says, “We have planned a series of sant sammelans to expose those who are criticising Hindus and Hindutva. The first Sant Sammelan has already been held at Naimisharanya.”More such conferences will be held in Kashi (Varanasi), Prayagraj, Ayodhya, Chitrakoot, Bithoor, Vrindavan, Shukratal, Brajghat, Garhmukteshwar, Kachla, Soron, Deoria, Orchha and Vindhyachal in UP. “We want to tell such politicians to not attack Hindutva and Hindus for their politics. Such pseudo-socialists and leaders who are continuously making unrestrained statements on Hindus and their traditions will be exposed through the sant sammelans followed by drives in the villages,” he adds. After the sammelans, the saints will go to their respective areas and hold meetings with the villagers to expose the critics of Hindus and Hindutva on various platforms, he adds.The saints will also give a message to work for cleaning the Ganga and cow protection. They will also apprise the people of the grandeur of Kashi Vishwanath Corridor. The temple that is coming up in Ayodhya will also be part of the discussion. He says the saints will hold meetings with locals and discuss the people who are working for Sanatan Dharma, spreading Indian culture and values. Naturally, saints will give their blessings to such people, he adds. Several other saints are also active in their own way. Ashwani Pandey, a resident of Pandeypur area in Varanasi, says, “This is not a new trend in Kashi. Several saints used to take keen interest in politics and used to extend support to the political party of their liking from behind the scenes earlier too. But this time, many saints are openly supporting the BJP.”Political analyst Prof Kaushal Kishore Mishra says, “A grand temple of Lord Ram is being built in Ayodhya, which each and every sadhu and saint wanted for a long time. Their dream has come true during the tenure of the present government. In addition, the grand Kashi Vishwanath Corridor has also been built and the Vindhayachal Corridor is being constructed. Rejuvenation and beautification of various other pilgrim centres have been done. So, many of them are frankly supporting the BJP.” 
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: At 12.6°C, city records lowest max temperature of season||With the region in the grip of a cold wave, the city recorded the lowest maximum temperature of this season at 12.6°C on Monday. Punjab Agricultural University’s (PAU’s) department of climate change and agricultural meteorology has predicted that the temperature will plunge further over the next two days. the minimum temperature on Monday was 9.3°C, while the average temperature hovered around 17°C. Department head Prabhjyot Kaur said the maximum temperature has been this low only twice before in the last 50 years – on January 17, 1987 and then January 17, 2017. Kaur added that the weather will remain cloudy and the chill will persist till January 19. The India Meteorological Department has also issued an alert and predicted cold to severe weather conditions in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Rajasthan over the next two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-at-12-6-c-city-records-lowest-max-temperature-of-season-101642446056912.html
18-01-2022||Other||Sadar Bazar pedestrian trial helps Gurugram bag award||Gurugram has been included among the top 11 awardees in the Streets4People Challenge -- a central government initiative to make city streets pedestrian-friendly -- for its pedestrian-only trial conducted at Sadar Bazar in March last year. Of the 38 cities that submitted a pedestrian-friendly proposal, the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs announced the top 11 award winners, which include Gurugram, in an online programme on Monday.On March 20 last year, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) had attempted to turn a 600-metre stretch of the main Sadar Bazar market, between Jama Masjid and old post office, into a pedestrian-friendly one. The vehicle-free trial was meant to last for a week, however, heavy protests by shopkeepers led to the MCG making major changes in the trial. Within an hour of the trial, the MCG had reversed its main standout point -- preventing the entry of vehicles into the market area.Despite the trial’s failure, the MCG’s pedestrian-friendly concept for Sadar Bazar market and the adjacent government school area helped Gurugram win the first phase of the challenge, along with the cities such as Kohima, Kochi, Bengaluru, Nagpur, Pune, and Udaipur.“The focus of the challenge was to come up with a proposal, and later, implement it on ground. The success of the implementation was not a primary factor. It was largely limited to the conceptualising of it. Hence, Gurugram was included in the list of awardees despite the trial being unsuccessful,” said a senior MCG official.The MCG additional commissioner, Dr Vaishali Sharma, said that the challenge is aligned with the National Transport Policy 2006 and for this, the civic body conducted a transformation trial of the entire 21 hectares commercial space of Sadar Bazar area by fully pedestrianising the main 600-metre road of the market.The Streets4People Challenge was launched by the central government in 2020. The criteria for the challenge includes formulating designs that can be executed in quick time, are cost-efficient, and address key pedestrian-friendly parameters such as adequate space, safety, comfort, while keeping localised needs in mind.Sharma said that Sadar Bazar, purely a commercial area where 95% of the customers can reach on foot, but only 15 to 20% of the road space is available for them, as it is filled with haphazard parking and vehicular traffic.“The complete pedestrianisation of the market will provide customers with a safer and comfortable shopping experience, along with the provision of seating, lighting, and venue for hosting cultural activities. Our main objective is to redevelop the main road of Sadar Bazar by making it walkable,” said Sharma.MCG commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said that the civic body will further participate in the second phase of the challenge, which focuses on expanding the idea across the city, with permanent implementation and sustained stakeholder participation.However, Bablu Gupta, president, Sadar Bazar Vyapar Mandal, said that giving the award to Gurugram for Sadar Bazar pedestrian-friendly trial is a complete mistake on behalf of the central government.“The MCG’s trial was a mere eyewash. They only placed some barricades at entry and exit points, placed a few benches, set up some streetlights, and painted footmarks on road. This does not warrant an award,” said Gupta.Road safety experts said that replicating a similar concept in other parts of the city cannot be done, as the design of Sadar Bazar is one of its kind in Gurugram. “Instead, using the learnings from the trial, MCG can transform a few streets across the city by integrating pedestrian-friendly measures such as cycle tracks, footpaths along popular public spaces and ensuring equitable share is provided to all road users,” said Sarika Panda Bhatt, a city-based urban planner and road safety expert.
18-01-2022||Other||MNNIT’S 18TH Convocation: 1,464 students to be awarded degrees in virtual mode today||The 18th Annual Convocation-2021 of the Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology (MNNIT) Allahabad, Prayagraj, is scheduled to be held on Tuesday, in the virtual mode. Students of various courses shall be awarded degrees at the ceremony that will have Union minister of state for Education Subhas Sarkar as the chief guest. “In all, 1,464 degrees shall be awarded at the 18th Convocation function of the prestigious Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology (MNNIT)-Allahabad, on Tuesday. The degrees to be awarded will include 860 BTech, 367 MTech, 85 MCA, 35 MBA, 18 MSc, and 99 PhDs. During the convocation, 61 foreign students admitted through DASA shall also receive their degrees,” informed director of the institute, Prof Rajeev Tripathi, in an online press meet on the eve of the ceremony. Tripathi is also the chairman of board of governors and chairman of the senateMeritorious students of the institute shall be awarded with gold medals of which 32 gold medals will be given to postgraduate students and 13 gold medals will be awarded to undergraduate students. Apart from these gold medals, 12 sponsored gold medals constituted by faculty, alumni and industry shall be conferred to students for their outstanding performance, he added. Prof Tripathi further said that a total of 229 girl students shall be awarded degrees. Akshat Jain of BTech civil engineering branch shall be awarded the overall institute Gold medal as the best student amongst all the BTech final year students passing out batch 2021. He shall be awarded five gold medals. In the year-wise gold medal category, Aryan Mittal (CSE) for third year, Shubham Dixit (CSE) for second year and Amisha Sinha (ECE) for first year shall be awarded gold medals.“The Institute has crafted its own niche in the present pandemic times by securing attractive placement offers for its final year students. More than 67% of BTech students and 57% of MCA students, and 19% of MTech students have been placed in more than 158 companies till date,” said Prof Tripathi. The director also highlighted many initiatives and achievements that the institute has taken to improve the overall academic performance of the institute by focusing on composite development of physical infrastructure as well as intellectual inputs. “The institute augmented its luminary position by securing its position in Top 10 in the Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements. Further, Institutions’ Innovation Council, MNNIT Allahabad was awarded “Four Star” rating by the Ministry of Education’s Innovation Cell (MIC) and All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) which is also the best rating awarded to any Institute/University amongst all zones of India,” said the director.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mnnits-18th-convocation-1-464-students-to-be-awarded-degrees-in-virtual-mode-today-101642445814148.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Two women posing as maids steal cash, jewellery after sedating woman, daughter||Two unidentified women posing as domestic helps sedated a 40-year-old woman and her daughter in Manjit Vihar, Salem Tabri, and decamped with cash, jewellery and other valuables on Sunday.The victim, Prabhdeep Kaur, stated in her complaint that her husband works in Dubai and she lives here with her daughter. She said that on January 6, the two women approached her for work with the reference of her neighbour. Minutes that after that, she and her daughter lost consciousness, and woke up the next day. Kaur suspects that the accused sprayed the room with a sedative. She tried to trace the duo with help from her neighbours, but failed, following which she approached the police. Sub-inspector Tamana Devi, who is investigating the case, said that as there are no CCTV cameras installed in the street and the camera installed at the residence of the complainant was not operational, no footage of the accused women was available. A case under Sections 380 and 34 of IPC has been registered and efforts are being made to nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-two-women-posing-as-maids-steal-cash-jewellery-after-sedating-woman-daughter-101642445810707.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Teens killed: Ludhiana councillor claims car was stolen||Two days after two teenagers were crushed to death under councillor Umesh Sharma’s car, the Congress leader on Monday claimed that his vehicle had been stolen. Sharma, who is the ward 16 councillor, had filed a complaint two hours after the road mishap, said the burglars must have hit the teenagers in a rush to escape. A case has been registered against the unidentified driver of the Maruti Suzuki Ertiga for causing deaths due to negligence. Meanwhile, a relative of one of the victims accused the police of bending to political pressure and favouring the councillor. Inspector Rajesh Kumar, Focal Point station house officer, said it had not been established who was behind the wheel when the road mishap took place. “We are scanning CCTVs to trace the accused.” Sharma, in his complaint filed with the Moti Nagar police, said he and his family members were dining out at the time of the accident, and had parked the vehicle outside the restaurant. “When we came out of the restaurant, we did not find our car there and lodged a police complaint. However, the cops have not taken any action on the complaint of vehicle lifting so far.The victims had been pushing their bike, which had developed a snag, when they had been nowed down. Their friend had been injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/teens-killed-ludhiana-councillor-claims-car-was-stolen-101642445801501.html
18-01-2022||Noida||Pet dog attacks minor boy in Greater Noida; 2 held for assaulting victim’s uncle||Greater Noida: Police arrested two people on Monday after their pet dog allegedly attacked a six-year-old boy in Badalpur in Greater Noida on Sunday, said officials.The victim -- Shaurya, 6 -- was admitted to a nearby private hospital after he suffered injuries to his legs. He is fine, and has been discharged, said the police.Elamaran G, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said that 30-year-old Manveer Basoya, a resident of Sadopur village, filed a complaint at the Badalpur police station on Monday, saying that his nephew, Shaurya, was playing near his home on Sunday when a neighbour’s pet dog -- a Dogo Argentino breed -- mauled him.The dog inflicted deep wounds in the legs of the child. A video of the incident was also widely circulated on social media, in which the dog could be seen attacking the child as two women tried to rescue him. Later, a man was seen rescuing the child.Dinesh Kumar, station house officer (SHO) of Badalpur police station, said that the dog owner Rajinder Singh, 40, was watching the incident from his rooftop but he did not stop his pet dog. “On Sunday evening, when Basoya went to Rajinder’s house and questioned him about his apathy... Rajinder, his brother Jagat Singh, 50, and nephew Saurabh Singh, 27, manhandled and abused him,” said the SHO, adding that Basoya filed the police complaint after this episode.A case was registered against the three suspects under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 289 (negligent conduct with respect to animal), 323(punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), and 504 (intentional insult) at the Badalpur police station on Monday.“A police officer visited the spot and arrested Rajinder and Saurabh from their residence. Rajinder earlier shifted the dog in question to a relative’s house... The two suspects were produced before a court and sent to judicial custody on Monday,” Kumar added. Police have launched a search to nab Jagat, who is still on the run, at the earliest, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/pet-dog-attacks-minor-boy-in-greater-noida-2-held-for-assaulting-victim-s-uncle-101642445681705.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Petrol pump employee foils robbery bid||An employee foiled a robbery bid at a petrol pump in Dehlon on Sunday. The accused have been captured in the CCTV cameras installed at the petrol pump and police are trying to identify them.An FIR has been lodged against unidentified accused based on the statement of Balwinder Singh of Dolon Khurd village, the owner of the petrol pump.He stated that three motorcycle-borne people turned up at the petrol pump impersonating as customers and tried to snatch a bag containing cash from one of his employees, Narinder Kumar.Kumar immediately raised the alarm and called out to the other employees, following which the accused fled the spot.ASI Karamjit Singh, who is investigating the case, said that an FIR under Sections 379-B, 511 and 34 of Indian Penal Code has been registered against unidentified accused.The accused were riding a motorcycle without number plate, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-petrol-pump-employee-foils-robbery-bid-101642445568498.html
18-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi schools hope to hold exams offline||With the continued closure of schools amid the pandemic, school administrations said they’d hold online assessments for students in junior classes but were still hoping to hold in-person exams for students in senior classes (9-12) by March. Many schools are of the view that they could reopen for classes 9-11 gradually by February-March if curbs are lifted amid a decline in Covid cases. Sudha Acharya, chairperson of the National Progressive School Conference (NPSC), a consortium of 122 Delhi schools, including Sardar Patel Vidyalaya, Bal Bharati Public School, Springdales School, Sanskriti School, Delhi Public Schools, Ahlcon International School, and Amity International School, said that while assessments for students in Class 8 and below could be conducted online, schools were still hopeful of holding in-person exams for students in senior classes. “For students in classes 9 to 12, we will not hold online exams. We will wait for the Covid situation to improve. We think that the situation might improve by February-end, and we will be able to reopen schools and conduct exams offline,” said Acharya, who is also the principal of ITL Public School. She said that the school was keeping all possibilities in mind, but would prefer holding offline exams. Acharya said that while online classes were taking place, the school would focus on the completion of practical exams and revision of the syllabus as and when schools reopened. “Physical classes cannot be replaced. The World Bank, WHO, and other global experts have said that schools should not remain closed, but we are not learning from global practices,” she said. Tanya Joshi, principal of Indian School, said that while the school’s decision would depend on the evolving Covid situation, it aimed to conduct classes for students in classes 10 and 12 in March. Joshi said that the experience from the CBSE Term 1 examination had shown them that students needed to work on various fronts. “Students are not ready. We saw the challenges that arose during the first term and need to resolve them,” said Joshi. While outlining the learning gap and the changing nature of the teaching-learning process due to the pandemic, Joshi said that a sense of fatigue was bogging down stakeholders. “Now, parents themselves are asking us to ensure that their child attends classes attentively while keeping the web camera on. They can sense that the children’s interest levels are waning with time,” said Joshi. Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School in Rohini, said that the school was hopeful that it would be able to conduct end of term exams offline by the end of February or beginning of March. “We are confident that we will be able to hold exams offline as the situation continues to improve. The assessment and subsequent doubt clearing sessions that take place offline are extremely crucial,” said Arora. She said that it was crucial for schools to reopen to bridge the learning gap, which had widened in the past few years. “We will not be able to fulfil the gap if schools don’t reopen now. For two years, learning has been taking place remotely and its impact will be far-reaching. Even parents are beginning to understand that schools need to reopen,” said Arora.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-schools-hope-to-hold-exams-offline-101642445561496.html
18-01-2022||Gurugram||Leachate from Bandhwari site forming ponds in Aravallis: Green activists||Environmentalists on Monday alleged that leachate from the Bandhwari landfill had formed ponds in the Aravalli forest area over the past few weeks, posing an environment hazard and a threat to the wildlife in the area. They said small mining pits in the area were also found to be filled with leachate. When contacted, the concessionaire looking after the Bandhwari plant said they are looking into the matter.Sunil Harsana,a resident of Mangar village, which in the vicinity of the landfill, said, “There are at least three leachate ponds in this area that were formed in the past six months and leachate is also being discharged into old mining pits near the Bandhwari village. This area, which is a continuation of the Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary, has frequent wildlife movement and studies have found the presence of leopards, jackals, nilgai and smaller mammals here.The leachate is destroying the natural watering holes of these animals.”On visiting the spot on Saturday, HT found a dark oily liquid flowing on to on the road nearby the landfill, where around 1,800 tonnes of waste is dumped daily from from Gurugram and Faridabad. The landfill also has about 2.5 million tonnes of legacy waste, according to environmentalists and Municipal Corporation of Gurugram.Vaishali Rana, a city-based environmentalist, who has been raising this issue of leachate with the authorities, said, “We have reported at least eight times in the past three years about leachate being discharged into the surrounding Aravalli forests, which is a crucial wildlife movement area. This has become a regular affair by the authorities concerned, thereby destroying the sensitive wildlife habitat and the Aravalli forests. Last year, the pollution control board had tested samples from these ponds and found high levels of toxins in it, but no action has been taken till now.” A report released by the Haryana State Pollution Control Board in August last year found that the biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), chemical oxygen demand (COD), zinc, chloride, fluoride were all found to be significantly higher than permissible norms, indicating heavy level of contamination. During Saturday’s visit, the HT team also spotted droppings, believed to be that of nilgai, at four to five spots near the leachate pond, as well as pug marks of what appeared to be golden jackal, indicating a healthy wildlife movement in the area. Residents said an animal carcass was also sighted last week near the leachate pond, which is situated around 200m inside the forest from the Gurugram-Faridabad highway. Jyoti Raghavan, a member of Aravalli Bachao citizens movement, working for the protection of the Aravalli forests, said, “Pools of leachate created in the forest are a huge threat to the wildlife that roam around the jungles. A survey of the Aravalli forests of Gurugram, Faridabad and Delhi, conducted in 2019 by the Centre for Ecology Development and Research (CEDAR) revealed that these forests are home to a rich diversity of wildlife especially rare native species such as honey badger, Indian fox, ruddy mongoose, hyena, and grey langur, among others. Wild animals as well as cattle from nearby villages have been dying after drinking the poisoned water. The ground water in the region is also getting contaminated by to leachate.” Meanwhile, officials of Ecogreen Energy, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram’s concessionaire for waste management at the Bandhwari landfill, said that rainwater mixed with leachate spilt outside the landfill and accumulated.Sanjeev Sharma, the spokesperson for Ecogreen Energy, said, “A wall that is being built by the MCG on the outskirts of the landfill had breached due to rain last week because of which rainwater mixed with leachate spilt outside and got accumulated. The work for the wall got delayed due to extreme weather, but we are helping them and the water is being cleared out.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/leachate-from-bandhwari-site-forming-ponds-in-aravallis-green-activists-101642445441754.html
18-01-2022||Delhi||Timer, RDX used in bomb found in Ghazipur, NSG tells Delhi Police||The improvised explosive device (IED) found at Ghazipur wholesale flower market last Friday was destroyed just one and half hours before it could go off, according to the reading on the a time device attached to it, the National Security Guard (NSG) has said in a forensic examination report submitted to the Delhi Police, officials aware of the matter said on Monday.The bomb experts from the elite force destroyed the explosive device in a controlled explosion at the market by burying it in a pit, and collected samples of explosives from the site for examination.According to the officials, the IED found in an unclaimed bag at the entrance of the flower market contained RDX and ammonium nitrate apart from the timer device, NSG said in its report.The NSG on Friday indicated to the presence of RDX, ammonium nitrate and shrapnels in the IED that was stuffed inside a steel tiffin, and kept in a black bag. It was spotted around 10am outside gate number 1 of the market by a shopper. There were 4,000 to 5,000 people inside the market when the explosives were found.Delhi Police investigators have said that the black bag, which contained the bomb, did not have any identification marks such as the manufacturing company’s tag or sticker.“Investigators were hoping to get some clues from the bag, as the manufacturing company’s tag found in a laptop bag containing the low-intensity IED that had exploded at Rohini courtroom on December 9 last year helped the investigating team identify the suspect and crack the case. However, in the Ghazipur IED case, the bag did not have any identification marks,” said a police officer associated with the probe.On Sunday, the police said that Mujahideen Ghazwat-ul-Hind (MGH), an al Qaeda-affiliated terrorist group active in Kashmir, has claimed responsibility for planting the IED at the Ghazipur market. They said the group made the claim on a Telegram group, where it also claimed that “the IED did not explode due to technical glitches”. The Telegram message was spotted by the central agencies during the social media monitoring, and the information was shared with the Delhi Police special cell, a second police officer said.“Our special cell sleuths are trying to ascertain the source of that Telegram message and establish the authenticity of the claim. It’s a tedious task because the message came through an encrypted channel,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/timer-rdx-used-in-bomb-found-in-ghazipur-nsg-tells-delhi-police-101642445381975.html
18-01-2022||Noida||Noida IT company’s cryptocurrency account hacked, case filed||Police have booked unidentified people for allegedly hacking the cryptocurrency account of an information technology (IT) company in Noida’s Special Economic Zone and withdrawing all the money, officials said on Monday.Hemendra Bharadwaj, admin head of the company, filed a complaint in the matter at the Phase 2 police station on Friday, but did not reveal the total money/cryptocurrencies duped in the fraud.Bharadwaj said in the complaint that his company had purchased virtual currencies from a cryptocurrency exchange company located in the British Virgin Islands in the United Kingdom.“At 10:30am on December 13 last year, the company received a few text messages about cryptocurrency withdrawal from our account. We had not made any transaction. On enquiry, the cryptocurrency trading company informed us that our account was hacked,” Bharadwaj said in the FIR, adding that the cryptocurrency trading company refused to share details of the suspects who made the fraudulent transactions. When contacted, Bharadwaj said that he had received the complaint copy from the management of the IT company, and he submitted the same at the Phase 2 police station. According to Bharadwaj, he does not know the amount lost in the fraud. Management officials of the company did not comment on the matter yet. Elamaran G, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said that a case has been registered against unidentified persons under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 420 (cheating) and Section 66 of the IT Act. “The case needs technical expertise for investigation. The cyber cell is investigating the matter. We are also seeking help from external investigators in the case,” he said. Anuj Agarwal, cyber and privacy law expert, said that people should deal in cryptocurrencies only if they have proper knowledge in this field. “The investors should also have a computer system with anti-virus software to make it hack proof. The cryptocurrencies do not have any serial number... and there is no centralised agency to regulate those. The stolen cryptocurrencies can be reclaimed, but it is technically a difficult task,” he said.At present, there is no particular law in India, which prohibits or allows trading in cryptocurrency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-it-company-s-cryptocurrency-account-hacked-case-filed-101642445263039.html
18-01-2022||Mumbai||Maha to SC: Recall order de-notifying OBC seats||Mumbai: A month after the Supreme Court ordered the state election commission (SEC) to re-notify the seats reserved for Other Backward Class (OBC) candidates in local bodies as general category seats, the Maharashtra government on Monday filed an interim application in the apex court asking it to recall its December 15 order. The bench comprising justices A M Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheswari and C T Ravikumar informed senior advocate Shekhar Naphade, who appeared in the matter on behalf of the state government that the matter would be taken up for consideration on January 19.The top court had ordered the SEC to re-notify the seats reserved for OBC candidates in the local bodies as general category seats following which, on December 21, elections were held in the district councils of Bhandara and Gondia, 105 nagar panchayats across various other districts and bypolls were conducted in 4,500 gram panchayats — all as general category seats.The SC was scheduled to hear a clutch of petitions on the issue of OBC quota for political reservations on Monday, but Maharashtra’s fresh application led to the hearing being pushed to January 19. The state government has already requested the SC to postpone upcoming local body polls — scheduled to be held between February and April 2022 — by some months and promised to submit fresh empirical data on OBC communities within three months. As many as 15 out of 27 municipal corporations, 25 out of 34 district councils and more than 320 municipal councils and nagar panchyats are due for elections in the next three months. This is slated to take place across Maharashtra, including in cities like Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Nagpur, and Aurangabad.“Election to 34 out of 37 zIlla parishads, 313 out of 351 panchayat samitis and 9000 village panchayats are due up to March 2022. The OBC candidates will not get representation in the local bodies in the state for the next five years,” the state said in its application. Food and civil supplies minister and OBC leader Chhagan Bhujbal, said the state made recall application and the court would take up the matter on Wednesday as “the court did not get the copy of the application” which was filed electronically.The court directed the state counsel to also supply a copy of the application to the poll panel, which is yet to announce the polling schedule for the local body elections scheduled to start next month.“The Centre’s application supports our stand, though it is actually related to the SC ruling on local body polls in Madya Pradesh. We have also assured the top court to provide the data on OBC communities in three months. [On Wednesday] we will also argue that the polls be postponed due to the rising Covid-19 cases in the state,” a senior government official who did not wish to be named, said. The decision to file the recall application was taken after the Centre moved one on December 26, the official said. The Centre’s recall application suggested that the bodies be governed by administrators as a stop gap arrangement. “Any intervention at this stage would deprive the OBC representatives for five long years, which is not a short period,” it stated.On December 17, the SC had asked the Madhya Pradesh SEC to re-notify the OBC-reserved seats (27% of all seats) to general category in its upcoming panchayat polls. The MP government filed an application to recall this order, following which, in the last week of December, the Central government filed an application seeking suspension of local body polls in MP for four months.The SC has been dealing with the issue of political reservation in Maharashtra since the start of 2021. In March, it ordered Maharashtra to conduct a rigorous empirical survey to ascertain the exact nature of the socio-economic backwardness of OBC communities before deciding on the quantum of reservation. It said that the legal provisions in place failed the triple test of reservation — one of which is that it exceeded the 50% ceiling on reservation when taken together with other constitutionally-mandated reservations to persons from Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.In December, it struck down an Ordinance, promulgated by the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in September, which granted up to 27% political reservation to OBC communities. The state passed the Ordinance after the top court’s March ruling, which had also struck down provisions in a state law which governed local body elections and granted full 27% reservation to OBC candidates. “In other words, the SEC must immediately issue a fresh notification for the 27 per cent seats reserved for OBCs as general category seats and initiate the election process for these seats along with the election process already on its way for the remaining 73 per cent of seats in the concerned local bodies,” the apex court said in its December order.Following the SC’s March ruling, in June 2021, the state constituted a 10-member State Backward Class Commission and in its winter session in December, the state cabinet presented a supplementary demand of ₹435 crore to conduct the survey. Members of the Commission met last week to finalize the questionnaire that would be used to collect relevant information. “We will map the proportion of OBCs in the population,” Govind Kale, a member of the Commission, had said last week, and added that the survey would be completed by April-end, contingent on the pandemic. “We can submit the interim data. A complete report may take a few more months. The state government wasted too much time since June, first asking the Centre for data and then to release the funds required [for our survey]. The SBCC is however firm on its stand that it would not compromise on authenticity and accountability of the report. We do no want to face any strictures by the courts like the ones passed against the earlier report by the Commission on Maratha reservation,” another member of the Commission, who did not wish to be named, said.Former state minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule, who is a senior OBC leader from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said that the state should have filed its application earlier. “The recall application made on Monday could have been done earlier. The Maharashtra government is not serious over the issue of reservation to OBCs. The state BJP unit and even the Centre has been supporting the state government’s stand of availing empirical data within three months, but we expect it to be honest in its intention,” he said.Sachin Rajurkar, general secretary, national OBC federation, said that Central government’s intervention was key. “Even if the SC admitted to hold the elections with OBC quota or even if the quota is restored after the submission of empirical data, it would still be up to 27% and not completely 27%. The Centre has moved the SC with its own recall application. We urge it to make the necessary amendment in article 243 (T) and (D) [of the Indian Constitution] to make way for OBC reservation,” he said.
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: GRP asked to expedite disposal of unclaimed vehicles||A local court has directed the Government Railway Police (GRP) to immediately submit the list of unclaimed vehicles which have been lying in the backyard of the police station for many years and expedite their disposal.Harsimranjit Singh, additional chief judicial magistrate, Ludhiana, while writing to the station house officers of , GRP and Division 5 police station, cited an order passed by the Punjab and Haryana high court dated November 22, 2021. HC had issued directions to constitute a committee in each sessions division for disposal of unclaimed vehicles lying in the police stations for more than one year as of November 1,2021.The railway police are currently in custody of 165 unclaimed vehicles, of which 110 will be auctioned, including four cars, 42 scooters, four auto rickshaws and 60 motorcycles. The auction was supposed to be held in October, but due to a strike of the ministerial staff, the meeting of the committee was postponed.Reserve Price fixedAfter receiving the court order, a five-member committee comprising the GRP deputy superintendent of police, an inspector, the work manager of Punjab Roadways, an official from the district transport office and another transport official on Monday fixed the reserve/base price of each vehicle to be auctioned.According to the officials, the base price of two cars have been fixed at ₹18,000 each, and the other two for ₹12,000 and 19,000, considering their model and condition.For three autos, it has been fixed at ₹12,000 each, and for one at ₹13,000.Also, the reserve price for two bullet motorcycles is ₹20,000 and for two Bajaj bikes, it is ₹7,000. For the rest, it is ₹5,000 each. The base price for scooters will vary from ₹2,500 to ₹3,500.“The date for the auction will be decided soon, following which vehicles worth lakhs will be auctioned by GRP to various scrap dealers in Ludhiana”, a GRP official stated.Another officer said that while cars and autos will be auctioned in one lot, there will be two lots of scooters and motorcycles for auction.The GRP will hold the auction under Section 25 of the Police Act (police- officer to take charge of unclaimed property, and be subject to magistrate’s orders as to disposal) and under Section 102 of the CRPC (any police officer, may seize any property which may be alleged or suspected to have been stolen, or which may be found under circumstances which create suspicion of the commission of any offence).
18-01-2022||Other||Gurugram reports two Covid-19 deaths, over 3,400 fresh cases||The district on Monday reported two deaths due to Covid-19, along with 3,448 fresh cases at a test positivity rate of 28%, according to the district health bulletin. As many as eight Covid-19 deaths have been reported in the district this month so far. Health officials said that two fully vaccinated male Covid-19 patients -- one was 60-year-old and the other 80-year-old -- died due to comorbidities. Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer, said, “Both these patients were undergoing treatment at private hospitals where they tested positive for Covid-19. The 60-year-old male was suffering from chronic liver disease, while the 80-year-old was a chronic hypertensive patient. The district at present has 284 patients hospitalised, including non-residents of Gurugram, of which 16 are in ICU and 22 on ventilator.” On Monday, the active case tally reached 22,118, of which 154 patients are hospitalised in the district and the rest are in home isolation. According to the official data, 2,457 people also recovered in the district. On Monday, the health department collected 12,083 samples for testing. With cases increasing, the district health department has increased testing and are also using mobile testing vans in public places with heavy footfall. A mobile testing van was sent to Sadar Bazar on Monday for random testing of people. On Monday, Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, also visited three urban primary health centres in the city and inspected the Covid-19 management system and vaccination process. The CMO also directed officials to visit different health centres so that issues faced by citizens and health care workers can be resolved at the earliest. He also conducted a meeting with health care workers managing patients under home isolation. The workers apprised him that many resident welfare associations (RWAs) do not let them enter the housing societies due to which they face problems in home visits of patients and are unable to provide home isolation kits. “I appeal to all the RWAs in Gurugram to allow the health workers and home isolation teams to examine all those patients who are in isolation, by checking their identity cards,” said Yadav. From Tuesday onwards, the district health department will start vaccination for children falling under the category of persons without identification . A total of 300 slots are available for this category and three vaccinations sites would be set up under primary health centres of Badshahpur, Laxman Vihar and Palra. On Monday, a total of 14,861 doses were administered, including 5,817 first doses, 7,321 second doses and 1,723 precautionary doses. With this, over 4.65 million doses have been administered in the district till now. On Monday, 2,100 children were vaccinated in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-reports-two-covid-19-deaths-over-3-400-fresh-cases-101642444904489.html
18-01-2022||Delhi||Finalise demolition plan in two weeks, Supreme Court tells Supertech||The Supreme Court on Monday fast-tracked the demolition of Supertech’s 40-storey twin towers at Noida’s Emerald Court project by directing the real estate builder to ensure all formalities for beginning the demolition of the towers is completed within two weeks. The apex court declared the towers illegal on August 31, 2021, and set a deadline of three months to demolish them.The order came on a day when the Noida Authority informed the Supreme Court that the Central Building Research Institute (CBRI), Roorkee, the agency engaged as an expert by Noida authority to oversee the process, on January 14 approved the demolition plan submitted by Edifice Engineering, a firm suggested by Supertech.According to this plan mentioned in the Supertech’s affidavit, Edifice will carry out the demolition in three months, remove debris in another three months and conclude the entire process in less than seven months.However, Supertech told the top court on Monday that the contract cannot be signed with Edifice without receiving no objection certificate (NOC) from various government bodies, including permit to store explosives needed for demolition.A bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and Surya Kant said, “Irrespective of NOCs, the contract should commence….We direct that the contract (with Edifice) be executed within a week.” The court posted the matter after two weeks informing the builder to comply with all formalities (of NOCs) by then.Senior advocate Ravindra Kumar, who represented the Noida authority, told the court that the timeline for demolition kicks in from the date of signing of contract, and Supertech cannot be permitted to delay signing of contract for need of NOCs. Even the bench agreed and said, “You (Supertech) will get NOC within a week. The demolition is as per the Supreme Court judgment.”On January 12, the court took serious exception to its order not being complied with by Supertech as neither had the demolition process been finalized nor the residents who invested in the two towers got their refunds, as ordered on August 31. The court said, “We are going to send your directors to jail. You are playing truant with the Supreme Court.”Senior advocate S Ganesh, appearing for Supertech, told the court that calculations of refund were made and cheques prepared. He was willing to transfer the amounts digitally to the bank accounts of the buyers. However, amicus curiae Gaurav Agrawal prepared a note showing stark difference in the amounts calculated by him and those prepared by Supertech for paying homebuyers.The homebuyers represented by advocate Abraham Mathews requested the court to allow the cheques prepared by Supertech to be encashed while reserving their right to get additional payment. The court accepted the request and said, “The cheques (presented by Supertech) can be encashed by homebuyers subject to further proceedings.”Some of the homebuyers complained to court that the builder was not heeding to their requests for repayment as they had not filed contempt petitions against the real estate company in the top court. The bench decided to hear the contempt petitions on Friday in order to settle the payment dues.Over 250 homebuyers sought refund of their money invested in the two towers having 915 flats of which 633 were booked. The order to demolish the towers came on a petition moved by the Emerald Court Owner Resident Welfare Association for reclaiming the green space earmarked in the original plan. The court noted the connivance between the builder and Noida authority that allowed further construction of these towers in violation of the 16 metre minimum distance norm between two towers as per the National Building Code 2005.After the judgment, Supertech came with a proposal to slice one of its towers, but the application was dismissed by the top court on October 4. Supertech has subsequently filed a review petition against the August 31 ruling that is yet to be heard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/finalise-demolition-plan-in-two-weeks-supreme-court-tells-supertech-101642444903232.html
18-01-2022||Pune||Pune consumer commission directs telecom operator to pay ₹1.50 lakh to consumer||Pune: The Pune District Consumer Redressal Commission has directed telecom operator Tata Teleservices Ltd to pay to the complainant Rs.1.50 lakh by way of compensation towards physical and mental agony and financial loss. The complainant identified as advocate Siddhartha Sharma in his complaint had sought relief that Tata Teleservices be directed to pay compensation of ₹5 lakh to him for the damages suffered by him for the unsolicited telemarketing calls made by the company for four years. The forum in its order stated “The company must severally and jointly shall pay to the complainant an amount of ₹1.50 lakh as compensation towards physical and mental agony and financial loss. It shall jointly pay to the complainant ₹30,000 by way of costs of complaint. The opposite parties are hereby directed to comply with foregoing order within a period of six weeks from the receipt of this order failing which the opposite parties shall also be liable to pay to the complainant interest at 9% per year, on the entire awarded amounts as per forgoing order as from the date of expiry of stipulated period of six weeks till the realisation of the amount by the complainant.” Advocate Sharma had sought relief that the company be directed to pay compensation of ₹5 lakh, for the damages suffered by him for the unsolicited telemarketing calls made by the opposite parties for four years. The second prayer of Sharma was that the company be directed to pay him a compensation of ₹5lakh for damages suffered by him for illegal deactivation of his SIM card by the company for the mala-fide and vindictive purpose. Sharma also sought relief that the company be directed to pay him ₹5 lakh towards compensation for the damages suffered by him for poor, degrading and no network connectivity. Besides compensation of ₹2 lakh for damages suffered by him for unfair and illegal balance deductions from the SIM card of the complainant. The complainant was a subscriber with the mobile firm from 2012 to November 2016. The company denied allegations mentioned in the complaint against them. According to the company, the present complaint is barred by limitation and the complainant has mixed many separate and different causes of action. The complainant has grievances about the telemarketing calls which at no length of imagination can get covered under “deficiency of service” and “unfair trade practice”. The complainant can allege that he suffered mental agony due to such clauses but for that, the complainant needs to approach TRAI or civil court and not consumer forum. The claim of the complainant relates to August 2014 as it alleges that the SIM was deactivated on August 14, 2014 and the complaint regarding the same is made 2017 which is admittedly barred by law of limitation. After perusal of the contents there is allegation of illegal balance deductions from the main account of the complainant in 2012 but after the complainant made complaints, the same were refunded. The said submission of the complainant itself suggests two things, firstly, the claim is time barred as it relates to 2012 and for the same it is again asking for compensation which is again exclusive domain of the civil court and not consumer forum. Secondly, without prejudice to the above contents the cause of action does not survive as the balance was refunded immediately, the company stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-consumer-commission-directs-telecom-operator-to-pay-rs-1-50-lakh-to-consumer-101642444841565.html
18-01-2022||Mumbai||BMC, BPCL set up 2 oxygen refilling plant||Mumbai Amid surging Covid-19 cases, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Monday started two oxygen refilling plants at Mahalaxmi Race Course and Mahul. During the second wave between April and June last year, Mumbai faced an acute shortage of medical oxygen.The oxygen refilling plants have been set up as part of joint efforts between the BMC and Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL). The BMC said that BPCL will supply the oxygen on a chargeable basis.Inaugurating the plants via video conferencing, the state environment minister, Aaditya Thackeray, said that BMC is the first civic body in India to have its own oxygen refilling plant.P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner (projects), said that these new oxygen filling plants will be cost-effective, saving ₹1.5-2 crore for BMC every year. As many as 112 oxygen cylinders could be filled at a time at the Mahul plant.“During the second wave we were heavily dependent on private suppliers and other municipal corporations were getting priority over the BMC as these plants and the suppliers were based in their area. It was necessary for us to have our own oxygen plants and minimise dependency on private vendors,” said Velrasu.The BMC also said that the pressure of oxygen filling has been increased to 150kg/cm² from 1.5kg/cm². The Mahul plant has been built over an area of over 850 square meters and is equipped to fill 1,500 jumbo cylinders per day, while the Mahalaxmi plant can refill 100-150 dura cylinders per day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-bpcl-set-up-2-oxygen-refilling-plant-101642444607562.html
18-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi civic bodies say they spent ₹11,750 crore on sanitation over last 5 years||The three municipal corporations of Delhi have spent over ₹11,750 crore on sanitation and cleaning services in the Capital over the last five years, said the three civic bodies in an official reply to a question in the Delhi Assembly.The data submitted by the respective departments of environment management services (sanitation departments) claims that the South MCD spent ₹6,284.6 crore, the North MCD spent ₹4,998.12 crore, while the East corporation spent ₹476.6 crore on refuse removal, cleaning of drains and other cleaning operations from 2016-17 to 2020-21. While the three civic bodies continue to fare poorly in the sanitation markers and annual Swachh Surveskhan (cleanliness survey) rankings, the last five-year period witnessed heavy mechanisation of the garbage collection mechanism with the introduction of fixed/mobile compactors, auto-tippers and loaders as garbage transportation was outsourced to private concessionaires at the zonal level.Of the 48 assessed urban local bodies in Swachh Survekshan 2021, two of the three municipal corporations in Delhi finished in the bottom 10. The rankings declared in November last year show that the East MCD ranked 40th, South MCD 31st and North MCD 45th--fourth-last from the bottom.In the 2020 survey, the East, South and North corporations were ranked 46th, 31st and 43rd, respectively. The civic bodies oversee the housekeeping work of 272 municipal wards that house around 96% of the Capital’s population.A break-up of the expenditure shows that a large component of the expenditure on sanitation is spent on refuse removal, salaries and motor workshops or transportation vehicles. In the case of North corporation, for instance, ₹4,768 crore was spent on the DEMS department, ₹119 crore on refuse removal, ₹66.5 crore on motor workshop and ₹7.6 crore on compost plans during this period. The civic body also procured 26 tipper trucks each at a cost of ₹20.31 lakh for the Narela zone.The East civic body bought 20 trucks and a loader for its fleet. However, the data does not include details of the vehicles deployed by private concessionaires. A senior municipal official from the sanitation department said that the cost should be taken into context. “We are talking about daily collection and transportation of over 12,350 tonnes of municipal solid waste every day. The overall cost should be seen in terms of managing waste for a city with a population of over 20 million and severe space constraints,” the official said, requesting anonymity.Currently, around 85% of the city’s garbage is collected by municipal corporations and much of it — 55% — ends up in the three overexploited landfills in Okhla, Ghazipur and Bhalswa.Experts argue that the focus on municipal sanitation expenditure should shift from garbage transportation incentivisation to decentralised systems, resource recovery and segregation.Chitra Mukherjee, a consultant on circular economy and sustainable livelihood said Delhi’s civic bodies continue to collect unsegregated waste from households and dump it in open dumpyards mostly within the city.“Waste recycling and resource recovery are not prioritised even though 15-20% of the waste can be recovered. Three-fourths of the municipal budget goes to collection and transportation, leaving very little for resource recovery and disposal. Processing waste rather than landfilling is the solution. Delhi relies on a largely informal sector of waste pickers to collect, segregate and recycle waste. Yet they remain unacknowledged and unrewarded,” she said.Mukherjee added that civic bodies need to follow Solid Waste Management Rules. Waste segregation, decentralised treatment and incorporation of the informal sector in waste collection have also been mandated in the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 and Delhi bye-laws but their implementation has been an uphill task.Mayor of East corporation Shyam Sunder Aggarwal said that bio-mining of landfill sites, the introduction of fixed/mobile compactors and closing of dhalaos (garbage receptacle points) have been the key achievements of the civic body.“We are also operating 40 sprinklers for pollution control and 10 mechanical road sweepers for dust control on PWD roads. Money spent should be put in context. EDMC areas alone have a population of 8 million, with some wards housing over 120,000 inhabitants,” he said.Aggarwal said the East corporation has also started the door-to-door collection of garbage through private concessionaires last year. “During cleanliness surveys, we are compared to cities with a population of 1 million, but our challenges and scale are entirely different. Delhi does not have the luxury of space for waste management and our population is at a different scale,” he said.With the addition of Shahadra South and North zones, nine out of 12 administrative zones now have private concessionaires handing waste collection while the North MCD is also in the middle of the process of covering the three remaining zones-- Narela, Karol Bagh and City Sadar-Paharganj--under a similar system.Leader of the Opposition in the North corporation Vikas Goyal said that sanitation is the primary job of the corporation and it has been a complete failure.“We have mounds of garbage at all entry points of the city, our lanes are not cleaned on time, the workers are not paid salaries on time, and the MCD has failed in its primary role. While the population of city has expanded, no new posts for sanitation staff have been created in the last two decades. A large chunk of funds are wasted in corruption,” he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-civic-bodies-say-they-spent-11-750-crore-on-sanitation-over-last-5-years-101642444605415.html
18-01-2022||Delhi||Marital rape: HC seeks to know precedence of courts striking down a statute||The Delhi high court on Monday, while hearing a clutch of petitions seeking to criminalise marital rape, sought to know from the amicus curiae whether there was any precedence of a constitutional court striking down a statute, especially a criminal offence, so that it could look up some guidelines while deciding on the matter.A bench of justices Rajiv Shakdher and C Hari Shankar told the amicus curiae senior advocate Rajshekhar Rao, “…till today there has not been even a single argument, except in your arguments to some extent, or the judgments of the Supreme Court which lay down principles on which a statute can be declared unconstitutional, especially a statute dealing with criminal offence. Are there any decisions in the past where a statute which has said that an act is not an offence, has been quashed or struck down by any court, either by the Supreme Court or the high court?” Justice Shankar also said it is not enough to say that the “act” inside a marital sphere is not rape or sexual assault and outside the sphere it is.The bench is hearing PILs filed by NGOs RIT Foundation, All India Democratic Women’s Association, a man and a woman seeking striking down of the exception granted to husbands under the Indian rape law.“When a man is married, there is a social, moral and legal right for each partner to expect meaningful conjugal relations with the other. There is an expectation of accommodating the partner. If we have to say no then we have to make out a case that the marital relations are totally irrelevant,” the judge said.Meanwhile, the Centre told the high court that it would require “reasonable” and “considerable” time to formulate its stand on the issue.Solicitor general (SG) Tushar Mehta said the government is in talks with the various stakeholders and it would not be appropriate to file a response without proper consultations. While seeking a couple of weeks to file its response, the SG said “nothing imminent is going to happen”.He said the petitions have been filed in 2015 and hence requires consideration on the part of the Union government.To this, the court said whatever consultations are ongoing, it is the Union government that has to finally take a stand. It said the Centre can take time to file its stand, but the arguments by the other parties will continue in the meanwhile.“However much you deliberate, but you have to say a ”yes” or a ”no”.They (Centre) have to take a decision. There are some matters, for whatever reasons, I think the court ultimately decides one way or the other and that’s how it gets resolved. You take your time,” the court said.Earlier, on January 13, the Union government had told the high court that it was considering a “constructive approach” on the issue and had sought suggestions from several stakeholders and authorities so as to make comprehensive amendments to the criminal law, which includes Section 375 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code.In an additional affidavit, the Centre asserted that it is “already seized of the matter” and that the marital rape exception in Section 375 -- it exempts forceful sexual intercourse by a man with his own wife from the offence of rape -- could not be struck down only at the instance of the petitioners as the principles of natural justice required a “larger hearing of all stakeholders”. Senior advocate Rao has submitted that there was no reason to preserve the exception. The amicus argued that a married woman cannot be denied the right to prosecute her husband if she believed that she was raped. In case of denial of conjugal relationship, the remedy before the spouse is to file a plea for restitution and “not force himself upon her”.The hearing will continue on Tuesday.
18-01-2022||Mumbai||Four decades later, mill workers still wait for redemption||MUMBAI: On January 18, 1982 – exactly 40 years ago – more than a quarter of a million workers from nearly 60 textile mills in Mumbai struck work, demanding better wages and bonuses. What started out as a labour strike would go onto change the economics, politics, and socio-cultural structure of a city that had made its mark in the world of global commerce partly due to its massive textile mill network, considered one of primary engines of Mumbai’s growth. Regarded as one of the longest industrial strikes in history – it lasted over a year and was, technically, never withdrawn – rendered tens of thousands of workers jobless, thanks to an adamant stand taken by their union led by a doctor-turned-trade-union-leader named Datta Samant as well as mill owners, and the Central and state governments. Apart from a rise in wages, the union also demanded the scrapping of the Bombay Industrial Relations Act, a law that allowed only one trade union – Rashtriya Mill Mazdoor Sangh (RMMS) – to function. For long, industrial workers had accused RMMS of being hand in glove with owners. The long-drawn high-stakes tussle meant that the strike eventually fizzled out with workers never getting any of their demands met. Rambhau Kadam (now 75) worked at Jupiter mills at Parel at the time. He recalls the day workers assembled at the mill’s gates. “We started sloganeering against the owners demanding our rightful dues,” Patil recollected. “However, after some months, we lost all steam. Even in the normal course, our salary would suffice us only a few days, and here we were, without wages for months. First, we sold our jewellery and then even our utensils to get our daily food. My children starved and my elder son dropped out of school.”Raghoba Dhondu Bait who now lives in India United Mills chawl at Lalbaug in central Mumbai says his entire family was jobless. “My father and we four brothers worked in the mills and had no income for more than six months. We did odd jobs to support our family,” said Bait.Dr Arvind Ganachari, former head of the history department at Mumbai university, was a close observer of the strike and its repercussions. “It destroyed the labour movement in Mumbai,” he said. “Workers’ lives were destroyed as industrialists began shifting their factories and mills out of Mumbai. It was not just the labour class that suffered, but also the literary class. The city’s cultural scene, dominated by Girangaon in central Mumbai, lost its primacy.” Some trade unionists are of the opinion that Samant did not know when to stop, and it was this approach that turned the strike into a failure. He had even rejected a wage hike proposed by the state government. Communist leader Vithal Ghag, then a worker at Swan mills in Sewri, said: “Samant should have understood that the mill workers could not remain jobless for years and should have tactfully negotiated, but he was adamant. He was caught in the trap set by the owners who anyway wanted to wind up their operations and commercially exploit their land. The Communist Party was trying to make him understand this, but he refused to listen to us.” Former state minister Sachin Ahir and current RMMS chief said, “The whole atmosphere was tense and the workers were carried away by Dr Samant’s rhetoric. We were pleading that such a strike would deal a death blow to the textile mills and that was what precisely happened.” Ahir said that a year after the strike began, eight mills shut down, while 20 others were taken over by the National Textile Corporation (NTC). “We never recovered,” he said. Meanwhile, as the strike became a distant memory for a city progressing as a services hub, large swaths of land in central Mumbai occupied by these mills were replaced by huge skyscrapers following a decision by the Maharashtra government that allowed mill owners to sell their land, provided they allocated two-thirds of it to government agencies for civic amenities and mass housing. In 2003, the state government tweaked rules in favour of the mill owners, giving them back 340 acres of prime land that would otherwise have been demarcated for affordable housing and open spaces. Mill workers, on the other hand, never recovered. Unable to sustain even a modest lifestyle in their original houses in chawls, they began moving to the city’s outskirts. Some, like Arun Gawli, took to crime and joined the underworld. Datta Samant, meanwhile, was killed on January 16, 1997. Samant was travelling from Powai to Ghatkopar in a jeep when four unknown people obstructed his vehicle and fired at him. It was alleged that a trade union dispute was the motive behind the murder and that underworld don Chhota Rajan was connected to this killing. The case was later handed over to the Central Bureau of Investigation. Pravin Ghag, who heads the Girni Kamgar Sangharsh Samiti, an outfit that fights for the rights of mill workers, says the mill-worker community that played an important role in the development of Mumbai, is now greatly marginalised. “A majority of the workers had to leave Mumbai and even now we have to agitate to get our rightful houses,” Ghag said. “These textile mills ran due to our sweat and blood, but in the revamp, we were made to beg for our share.” Forty years later, according to government documents, only 24,000 workers have received tenements promised to them. Bhushan Samant, son of Datta Samant and the person who heads Kamgar Aghadi defends his father, and blames the then ruling Congress party for this state of affairs. “My father was reluctant to lead the mill workers but for four months, these workers regularly came to our office and pleaded with him,” he said. “It was a do or die battle. My father tried to meet the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi to solve this tangle but the local Congressmen thwarted his efforts fearing he would emerge powerful and challenge them. My father collected ₹30 crore at that time and distributed to the agitating workers so that they can buy their ration. Which leader does so much? The strike is continuing and we will not call it off until every mill worker gets his rightful house.” 
18-01-2022||Other||Top Haryana official takes stock of Covid situation in Gurugram||As Gurugram has been reporting over 3,000 Covid-19 cases daily for the past three days, Haryana chief secretary Sanjeev Kaushal on Monday took stock of the situation in the district and directed the district administration to ensure that oxygen, medicines and other facilities are arranged in time to help the general public fight the pandemic.“Gurugram district has the highest number of Covid-19 patients among all the districts of the state, and the effect of increasing cases in Delhi can be felt here too. So, keep your preparations complete. Keeping in mind the current situation of rising Covid-19 cases, assess what could be the situation of the infection in future and manage accordingly,” Kaushal said during a meeting with officials from the district administration.In the meeting held in Gurugram, the chief secretary also said that the instructions of the state government should be strictly followed to control the infection.Presenting a report on the status of Covid-19 infection in Gurugram district and the arrangements made to deal with the situation, deputy commissioner Yash Garg apprised the chief secretary of the current situation and said that despite high number of cases, less than 1% of the infected patients are hospitalised in the ongoing third wave of the pandemic.“Around 6,000 beds are available in various hospitals for Covid-19 patients in Gurugram. At present, only 152 patients are under treatment in various hospitals. The availability of oxygen has also been increased in the district with 4,150 litres per minute capacity of oxygen production,” said Garg.In the meeting, the deputy commissioner also said that a meeting was convened with all the private hospitals of the district directing them to avoid unnecessary admission of patients with mild symptoms.Health department warns against fraud messages regarding booster doseThe health department on Monday issued a statement warning people against rise in fraud emails and messages where fraudsters posing as officials from the department are asking people to get their booster dose and duping residents. The officials said that the health department does not call people asking them to get vaccinated.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said that cases of fraud calls in the name of vaccination campaign are being reported from different parts of the country and people are being cheated financially by cyber frauds.“At present no such case has been reported in Gurugram, but we all need to be cautious. In such cases, cyber frauds, posing as health department officials, send emails and messages advising people to take the booster dose and for this, a link for registration is sent. Once the beneficiary fills in their details, an OTP is sent and after he/she gives that OTP to the frauds, money is debited from their accounts. No such mails/messages are made by the health department and registration on the CoWIN portal is mandatory for taking the booster dose,” said the CMO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/top-haryana-official-takes-stock-of-covid-situation-in-gurugram-101642444362933.html
18-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi CM flags off city’s first e-bus, 300 more by April 2023||The Delhi government on Monday pressed into service its first ever electric public transport bus that will run on a designated circular route, E-44, from the Indraprastha Depot and covering central and south Delhi locations.Launching the bus service, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the Delhi government aims to procure at least 2,000 electric buses in the next few years, and termed it the beginning of a new era in public transport. By April next year, the city will have at least 300 more e-buses, the government said.“Today, the Delhi government has dedicated the state’s first electric bus to the public. This marks the beginning of a new era in the transport sector of Delhi. Now, we will see a revolution where as and when older buses go of service, new electric buses will be onboarded. This is a very important step in combating the problem of pollution. This is a zero emission bus and there’s barely any noise,” Kejriwal said while inspecting the bus at the Indraprastha (IP) Depot.In July 2018, the Delhi government first announced that it would induct 1,000 electric buses into the city bus fleet, after the Delhi cabinet approved the scheme. The government then claimed that it would be the first state to roll out e-buses on such a large scale. Three and a half years later, cities such as Pune, Hyderabad, Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Kolkata already have functional e-buses, while Delhi kickstarted its first e-bus on Monday.This e-bus will be operated by the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) on route number E-44, which has been designed as a “circular bus service” -- starting from IP Depot via ITO, AGCR, Tilak Marg, Mandi House, Barakhamba Road, Connaught Place, Janpath, Rajesh Pilot Marg, Prithviraj Road, Aurobindo Marg, AIIMS, Ring Road, South Extension, Ashram, Bhogal, Jangpura, India Gate, Delhi high court, Pragati Maidan and back to IP Depot. The service will be available between 5.30am and 8.20pm.Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot said this is also the first time that DTC has managed to procure a bus since 2011. On July 26 last year, HT first reported how the entire fleet of 3,760 buses run by DTC was officially declared “overage”, a first in the history of the state transport utility, which was set up in 1971. To meet the demand of public transport in the city, the DTC had to seek special permission from the state transport authority to allow all its buses to operate till the age of 15 years instead of 12, which is the usual norm.Delhi now has about 6,900 buses which is also the highest number of buses the city has ever had. Talking about the e-buses that will start coming in the city, Gahlot said, “The bus can be charged within one to one and a half hours on a fast charger. It can run for a minimum of 120 kilometres in one charge. All our depots are being made electric charging friendly.”The e-buses will have kneeling ramps for the disabled and elderly passengers, and special pink seats for women. Each bus will be equipped with CCTV cameras, connected to a two-way Central Command and Control Centre (CCC) at Kashmere Gate,10 panic buttons and a hooter.
18-01-2022||Delhi||Scrolls on freedom movement, 10 LED screens on Rajpath for R-Day parade||Ten gigantic scrolls, each measuring 750 metres and depicting tales of valour of the unsung heroes of India’s freedom movement, and 10 large LED screenings for easy viewing of the parade, are among the preparations for the upcoming first Republic Day celebrations at the revamped Central Vista Avenue.With less than 10 days left for the event, the CPWD is giving final touches to the redevelopment work at Central Vista Avenue. In a unique initiative taken by ministries of culture and defence, the scrolls have been painted by over 500 artists at workshops held in Odisha and Chandigarh, and reflect traditional art forms such as Madhubani, Pattachitra, Talapatra Chitra, Manjusha and Patua.In a statement, Adwaita Garanayak, Director General of the National Gallery of Modern Art (NGMA), said, “The NGMA has organised these workshops with the aim of amalgamating varied forms of visual and performing arts of the country to represent the true essence of unity and diversity in India. I believe that the gigantic scrolls when displayed at Rajpath will garner the interest of each individual to delve deep into the history of the unsung heroes of India’s freedom struggle and would also draw attention towards the unified visual aspects of modern, indigenous and contemporary arts of India.”The scrolls will be put up behind the seating arrangement for the public, said a senior CPWD official.“Major work at the Avenue for the parade is over and final touches are being given. This time, 10 huge LED screens, including four near the presidential dais, for the public. Live visuals of the parade will be telecasted,” said a senior CPWD official asking not to be named.The agency is also making arrangements for parking cars of visitors. “Parking space for close to 4,000 vehicles will be provided at the site. The work is almost complete,” a senior official said.However, a senior Delhi traffic police official said that parking space for around 7,000 vehicles will be needed. “The parking space at the venue has slightly been reduced due to the construction of amenity blocks and underpasses. We have been provided alternate parking sites at Jawahar Bhawan (on Raisina Road) and Vanijya Bhawan (on Akbar Road). This is for the first time we have been provided parking sites at these locations,” said a senior traffic police official, aware of the development.Due to the Covid situation in the Capital, a senior traffic official said that the parade will terminate at the National Stadium but the tableaux will be proceed till Red Fort.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/scrolls-on-freedom-movement-10-led-screens-on-rajpath-for-r-day-parade-101642444181944.html
18-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi: Minor girl, woman raped in separate cases, suspects nabbed||An eight-year-old girl and a 30-year-old woman were raped in Delhi in two separate incidents reported on Friday and Saturday last week, the police said on Monday informing that the suspects in both the cases have been arrested.Police said the first incident was reported from outer Delhi’s Nihal Vihar where a woman was allegedly gang-raped by two men on January 14. According to the statement given by the victim to the police, a neighbour invited her on the occasion of Makar Sankranti on Friday and gave her sweets that were allegedly laced with an intoxicant. As soon as the victim had it, she said, she lost consciousness.She told the police that two men, who were already present at her neighbour’s house she went there, gang-raped her.Police said after the woman regained consciousness, and became aware of the assault, she returned home and told her husband about it. The husband took her to the police, and got a complaint registered.Investigators said a was immediately registered, and the woman was taken to a hospital for a medical examination that confirmed rape. The police reached her neighbour’s house, and arrested the two suspects, said Parvinder Singh, DCP (outer). The woman is on the run.In the second incident reported on Saturday evening, an eight-year-old girl was raped by a neighbour in north Delhi’s Alipur area.According to the police, the girl went to a nearby temple with her elder sister around 6pm on Saturday. The neighbour approached the girl in the temple, and lured her to an isolated spot nearby where he raped her.The girl’s sister raised an alarm when she did not find her. Around 8 pm, the girl returned home and told her family members about the crime.Police said that the accused was identified and nabbed with the help of CCTV footage. He was arrested from his house around 2am on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiminor-girl-woman-raped-in-separate-cases-suspects-nabbed-101642443942768.html
18-01-2022||Delhi||As chill persists, IMD says maximum temperature in Delhi may rise||Parts of the national capital saw ‘cold day’ conditions for the fifth straight day on Monday, as low clouds over Delhi kept the sun at bay.While Safdarjung, Delhi’s base station recorded a maximum temperature of 16.1 degrees Celsius (°C), Jafarpur was even colder at 13.2°C.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said it expects the maximum temperature to rise to around 18°C from Tuesday, but added that there is still a chance that isolated parts of Delhi could record cold day conditions, officials said.Delhi is also expected to receive a spell of rain from January 21 till January 23, the weather office said.The IMD classifies it a ‘cold’ day when the maximum temperature is 4.5 degrees or more below normal, while the minimum is below 10 degrees Celsius. It is classified as a ‘severe’ cold day when the maximum is 6.5 degrees or more below normal.Delhi’s maximum temperature on Monday dipped, compared to the previous day, when it was 17.2°C, while it touched a season’s low of 14.8°C on Saturday.RK Jenamani, scientist at IMD, said the last time Delhi saw such an extended spell of cold days was in December 2019. At the time, a seven-day spell of cold days extended into the first week of January 2020 as well.Parts of Delhi also saw shallow fog on Monday, he said.“Delhi recorded shallow fog at both Safdarjung and Palam, with visibility dropping to a low of 800 metres in the morning. However, upper-level fog still persisted and its impact could remain intact over Delhi on Tuesday as well. From Wednesday, the maximum should rise further and provide some respite,” Jenamani said.He said Delhi is also expected to receive more rain before the month ends, with a drizzle expected on January 21 and 23, and a forecast of light rain on January 22.“Another western disturbance will start to influence Delhi from January 20. We will see some drizzle on January 21 night, with light showers expected the next day. During this spell, the maximum temperature could drop again,” he said.The overcast conditions have also led to a deterioration in air quality in the past 24 hours, with Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) plummeting into the ‘very poor’ zone on Monday. According to the Central Pollution Control Board’s 4pm bulletin, Delhi logged an AQI of 327 (very poor), worse than 264 (poor) on Sunday.According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), Delhi’s air quality is likely to improve in the next three days as wind speeds pick up.“Maximum temperature and wind speed are likely to increase gradually for the next three days, enhancing ventilation of pollutants and leading to improvement in air quality. From January 21, the wind speed will pick up even more,” said Safar on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/as-chill-persists-imd-says-maximum-temperature-in-delhi-may-rise-101642443522794.html
18-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi govt pays ₹93.8 crore to kin of 18,766 Covid victims||The Delhi government has paid an additional ₹93.8 crore to the kin of 18,766 Covid-19 victims as one-time ex-gratia payment, according to documents seen by HT.Government officials confirmed that these 18,766 people who lost a family member to Covid-19 have already received ₹50,000 as ex gratia under the Mukhyamantri Covid-19 Pariwar Aarthik Sahayata Yojna, and have now been given an additional ₹50,000 each under the Delhi Disaster Response Fund.According to a Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) order for disbursal of compensation dated January 6,2022, over 20,000 people who lost a family member to Covid-19 and have already received ₹50,000 as ex gratia under the Mukhyamantri Covid-19 Pariwar Aarthik Sahayata Yojna, will now be given an additional ₹50,000 each under the Delhi Disaster Response Fund.A total of 22,131 people have so far received ₹50,000 as ex-gratia under the Mukhyamantri Covid-19 Pariwar Aarthik Sahayata Yojna, of whom 18,766 received an additional ₹50,000. The highest number of applications has been sanctioned in the South West district (3,479), followed by West (3,044), North West (2,768), Shahdara (2,043) and lowest from North (277), according to the government documents.A DDMA official said the ex-gratia amount will be released to the remaining eligible families without them having to submit an application, as the credentials and bank details of the beneficiaries who were provided with financial assistance were already verified.The new scheme also allows any Delhi resident who loses a family member or has lost a family member to Covid and is yet to get the ex-gratia to submit an application.A DDMA official, who asked not to be named, said all new claims will be settled within 30 days of submission of required documents and disbursed through Aadhaar-linked direct benefit transfer. “The Central government contributes 75% to the Delhi Disaster Response Fund and the Delhi government contributes 25%. It is a standing fund,” the official said.Now, Delhi has two Covid compensation schemes -- the chief minister’s scheme and the other under Delhi Disaster Response Fund, each for a sum of ₹50,000.Applicants can submit applications via https://edistrict.delhigovt.nic.in/. The district magistrate offices will also accept hard copies of applications from those who are unable to apply on the portal.“Applicants who have not yet applied for the ex-gratia for Covid deaths are required to apply directly to the concerned district magistrate. The DDMA will release funds directly to the beneficiary in accordance with detailed guidelines about eligibility,” a DDMA official said.The guidelines state that deaths taking place within 30 days from the date of testing or from the date of being clinically determined as a Covid-19 case shall be treated as “death due to Covid-19”, even if the death takes place outside the hospital or in-patient facility.A family member of a person who died by suicide within 30 days of being diagnosed as Covid-19 positive shall also be entitled to avail the ex-gratia assistance. “People who have lost a family member during the current wave can also apply for the ex-gratia,” said an official.In June 2021, the Supreme Court directed the National Disaster Management Authority to recommend guidelines for ex-gratia assistance to the kin of those who lost their lives due to Covid-19. The order came in response to petitions seeking directions to the Central and state governments to provide ex-gratia compensation under the Disaster Management Act for Covid deaths.In December, the Supreme Court sought information from the Delhi government and many other states on the progress of processing applications and releasing payments under the scheme.
18-01-2022||Lucknow||UP poll battle goes musical, campaign songs create a buzz online||The UP poll battle is turning musical with a Bhojpuri flavour and catching the attention of people on the social media ahead of the seven-phase state assembly elections that will begin on February 10.These songs are creating a buzz online when the Election Commission (EC) is yet to allow any physical campaigns for the polls. More such songs praising or targeting political parties may be heard in the coming weeks.Bhojpuri singer Neha Singh Rathore has come out with the number “UP Mein Ka Ba? (What is there in UP?)” in an apparent response to BJP MP Ravi Kishan’s song “UP Mein Sab Ba” (UP has everything) that chief minister Yogi Adityanath released in Gorakhpur on January 15.Ravi Kishan, in this campaign song, has listed the achievements of the Yogi Adityanath government with the lyrics: “Yogi ki sarkar ba, vikas ki bahar ba.. sadkan ke jaal ba, kaam bemisal ba, je kabau na rehal u ab baa. UP mein sab ba (A spring of development is flowing during the tenure of the Yogi government. A network of roads has been laid. Unmatched work has been done. UP has all that was never there before).”“Yes, chief minister Yogi Adityanath released the song on ‘khichri’ on January 15. It’s got a very good response. It’s getting viral,” said Ravi Kishan.Ravi Kishan’s song got an immediate response with Bhojpuri folk singer Neha Singh Rathore, who is said to have brought out campaign songs during the Bihar assembly elections as well.Her song appears to question chief minister Yogi Adityanath for his achievements, handling of Hathras incident and Covid-19. The song also raised the issue of mowing down of farmers by a vehicle in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3, 2021. Ashish Mishra, the son of union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni, is the main accused in the case.Without naming the chief minister or anyone else, Neha Rathore is heard singing, “Baba ke darbar ba, khatm rozgar ba. Hathras ke nirnaya jo hat, ladki ke parivar ba, arrey ka ba, UP mein ka ba, corona se lakhan mar gai le, lashan se Ganga bhar gai le (No jobs have been left in Baba’s darbar. What decision was taken with regard to Hathras incident? Lakhs died of Covid-19 and their bodies floated in the Ganga. What is there in UP?)”“Mantri ke bitwa badi rangatdar ba, mantri ke bitwa badi rangatdar ba, kisanan ke chhati pe raundat motor car ba. E chowkidar bolo ke jimmedar bar ba, ka ba, UP mein ka ba,” (The minister’s son had lot of influence and he mowed farmers down under his car. Chowkidar! Who is responsible. What is there in UP?).“Ram raj ke jhanki ba, Kashi Mathura baaki ba (Kashi and Mathura are yet to be achieved in their trailer of Ram Rajya),” she also sang.“Mandir masjid, mandir masjid main thanal gai rar ba, arey ka ba, UP mein ka ba. (There has been a dispute of temple and mosque. What is there in UP?),”the song went.Neha Rathore shared the song on her Twitter handle and YouTube channel on Sunday, a day after Ravi Kishan released his song.The Samajwadi Party, too, has come out with campaign songs to reach out to the people of Uttar Pradesh.“Jhan jhanan man baaje man mai, aasha ka o ek tara” (There is a twinkle of hope. UP is calling Samajwadi Party)” are the opening lines of one of the SP’s campaign songs. Another SP campaign song speaks about how the party has never indulged in politics of hatred or caste and instead has worked for the development of Uttar Pradesh.“Besides going door to door, we are coming out with campaign songs focusing on the Samajwadi Party’s work. The people of UP are liking our campaign that includes the Vijay Yatras and other such yatras led by SP chief Akhilesh Yadav,” said Samajwadi Party spokesman Rajendra Chaudhary.The Congress, too, has come out with a campaign song to support its slogan “Ladki Hoon, Lad Sakti Hoon (I am a girl, I can fight).”“The Congress campaign song is being considered an instant hit,” said Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) vice-president Pankaj Srivastava.The campaign song that begins with “stuti” (hymn) of Goddess Durga speaks about how the women who have been running their home and working in fields are also at ease fighting on the borders.“This idea for the campaign song came from Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and we worked on the song,” said Tejendra, who goes by one name.“It is campaign time and every party is trying to influence voters. This is an interesting way to reach out to the people. This is just the beginning and film actors may also hold meetings to campaign in favour of political parties if the EC so permits. This kind of campaign catches the attention of voters and, to some extent, may also influence them. By and large such songs may make the campaigns of political parties interesting but may not influence voters to a large extent,” said Professor SK Dwivedi, former head of the department of political science, Lucknow University.
18-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi HC restrains websites from using HT Media’s ‘Shine’ trademark||The Delhi high court has restrained several rogue websites from infringing the trademark and copyright of Hindustan Times (HT) Media’s brand name “Shine” as well as its website.The company had moved the high court seeking permanent injunction and damages for infringement against such rogue websites, which were duping members of the general public by portraying that they were associated with the brand “Shine” and its website, and using the brand name in an unauthorised manner.HT Media, under the brand name Shine/shine.com, provides new opportunities for job seekers.The company’s petition said that rogue websites have been advertising themselves as HT Media’s Shine, specifically by mirroring the website of HT Media’s www.shine.com, and offering paid jobs/job interviews to unsuspecting members of the public, thereby inducing them to part with their hard-earned money.“HT Media’s Shine began to receive several complaints from members of the public after they had parted with such monies to the rogue websites who have been portraying themselves as representatives of HT Media’s Shine and have accepted monies for arranging fake jobs/job interviews on behalf of the HT Media,” the plea read.On January 13, Justice Yogesh Khanna, in an interim order, restrained eight rogue websites from infringing in any manner the plaintiff’s registered trademarks and/or copyrights, and other intellectual property rights (IPR).The court directed internet and telecom service providers to block access to the websites while also directing the Department of Telecommunication and the Union ministry of electronics and information technology (Meity) to issue notifications to the internet and telecom service providers to this effect.The court also asked the Delhi Police’s cyber cell and economic offences wing to investigate the illicit activities of the rogue websites and obtain information pertaining to their true identities and submit its report.HT Media Limited was represented by law firm Saikrishna & Associates and the company’s in-house team before the Delhi High Court.HT Media Limited is the publisher of the Hindustan Times newspaper.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-restrains-websites-from-using-ht-media-s-shine-trademark-101642442201051.html
18-01-2022||Delhi||Weekend curfew helping reduce Covid caseload, no lockdown in Delhi: Jain||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said that the Covid-19 has been consisting on a decline over the last few days and this was an indication that the weekend curfew imposed by the government was working.“The weekend curfew is proving to be beneficial, as fewer and fewer people are venturing outside, limiting the spread of coronavirus. The number of reported cases is decreasing, but the government is keeping an eye on the trend,” Jain said on Monday.The minister said, “The cases in Delhi have been declining for the past four days. On January 14, Delhi recorded 24,383 cases, while on January 15, Delhi recorded 20,178 new cases, and on January 16, Delhi logged 18,286 cases. Weekend curfews have played a significant role in this decline.”Jain also said that Delhi was focusing on vaccinating maximum people.Delhi over the last year has administered over 28 million vaccine doses. Out of all eligible people, 100% have received their first dose and around 80% have received their second dose. The government has also administered 127,000 precautionary doses.“The vaccination process is running smoothly in Delhi, and the Delhi government has an adequate supply of vaccines. No prescription is required to get yourself tested if you have any symptoms. The health system in Delhi is in a good shape and we are fully prepared to deal with even the most serious of situations,” he said.Jain also hit back at his Haryana counterpart Anil Vij, who on Sunday claimed that three Haryana districts situated close to Delhi were behind the surge in Covid cases in the state.“This is a political gimmick. Delhi everyday reports over 1000 cases of patients who are not local residents. This is the time to focus on managing Covid and its spread and not point fingers at each other,” he said.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also rubbished the allegations levelled by Vij, and said they do not deserve a response. “Blaming each other won’t kill the virus. I won’t get involved in this mess. The virus is there all across the country. It’s there in Haryana as well as in Delhi and other states. We should just work towards eradicating the pandemic. Blaming each other is not going to help,” he told reporters on Monday.On Sunday, Vij said Haryana was “adversely affected” due to its vicinity to Delhi, and claimed that “more than half” of the around 9,000 new Covid-19 cases in Haryana were coming from Gurugram, Faridabad and Sonepat districts.“Haryana reports around 9,000 Covid-19 cases every day, of which over 50% are from Gurugram, Faridabad and Sonepat. Delhi’s infection rate is having an impact on the state,” Vij said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/weekend-curfew-helping-reduce-covid-caseload-no-lockdown-in-delhijain-101642441901161.html
18-01-2022||Delhi||Most of Capital’s forest cover loss was in N-W, S-W Delhi: ISFR 2021||Delhi lost just about 0.44 sq km of forest cover in the past two years, findings of the latest India State of Forest Report 2021 revealed, much of it in the northwest and southwest parts of the city. An expert, however, said data using satellite imagery could sometimes be misleading. While 0.51 sq km of forest was lost in northwest Delhi, southwest Delhi lost 0.38 sq km of forest, the report said. There was an increase of 0.15 sq km of forest in northeast Delhi, followed by 0.13 sq km in north Delhi.While “necessary” construction projects led to a slight decline in the two districts, saplings planted in the past are likely to have matured in both east and northeast Delhi, adding to overall forest cover, a Delhi forest department official said.Among the districts, New Delhi had the most forest cover, with 47.06% (16.47sq km) of its 35 sq km area under some form of canopy. This included 1.69 sq km of very dense forest. The other two districts to have very dense forests were south Delhi (2.59 sq km) and southwest Delhi (2.35 sq km). The south Delhi district had a total forest cover of 34.27% at 84.64 of its 247 sq km area. Tree canopy density is more than 70% in a very dense forest, according to the Forest Survey of India.“If permission has to be given to fell trees for a construction project, for example Phase-4 of the Delhi metro, it will sometimes pass through a deemed forest, or a notified forest,” the forest official said, requesting anonymity. “In such cases, permission was given where the project was beneficial to the city and compensatory saplings were planted elsewhere.” Delhi gained 18 sq km of tree cover in the last two years, according to the report. “Over the last 4 to 6 years, large-scale plantation has taken place and a number of trees have matured now, adding to the existing forest cover,” the forest official said. However, prosopis juliflora (vilayati kikar), an invasive species, was the most dominant tree within Delhi’s reserved forests, the report found, followed by acacia lenticularis (babool). Outside Delhi’s forest areas, one in every 10 tree was found to be a neem (azadirachta indica) in urban Delhi, while vilayati kikar (29.52%) was the most dominant tree in Delhi’s rural areas. Using satellite imagery may be misleading at times because the report, for instance, classified an area between the Safdarjung Tomb and Rajghat to have both a moderately dense forest and an open forest, pointed out Raj Bhagat, senior program manager, Geo Analytics for Sustainable Cities & Transport program at World Resources Institute India, a research organisation.“Based on the density of the plantation, the area has a forest as per the definition, when in reality, this stretch of land does not have a forest,” bhagat said. “This leads to a fundamental question as to what constitutes a forest and whether ornamental and plantation trees can be called forests.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/most-of-capital-s-forest-cover-loss-was-in-n-w-s-w-delhi-isfr-2021-101642441481574.html
18-01-2022||Delhi||Unusual winter trend: Delhi sees 7 dengue cases last week||Delhi reported seven more dengue cases over the past week, taking the number of the vector borne disease in the Capital to 15 this year. This has sparked fears that the aedes aegypti mosquito -- which spreads the dengue virus -- may be adapting to cold conditions.No dengue cases were reported in the first 15 days of January in 2021, 2020 and 2019.Public health experts said the corporations should ensure anti-mosquito drives are not limited to the post monsoon period.Noting that dengue cases used to flatten out during extreme summer and peak winters till a few years ago, Dr BK Tripathi, professor in the department of medicine at Safdarjung Hospital, said that mosquitoes are now adapting to harsh climatic conditions. “The civic bodies need to ensure that preparations and drives against controlling mosquito population should be carried out all through the year,” Dr Tripathi said.A senior municipal official from public health department said changes in the behaviour of adult mosquitoes needs to be studied more, but added that the increase in reportage may also be due to the disease being notified as notifiable disease in October last year. “The 36 hospitals under the ‘sentinel surveillance system’ used to share weekly data with us but now, corporations are getting data from 180 health care facilities of the city,” the official said.Delhi recorded 9,613 dengue cases and 23 fatalities in 2021, making it the second worst annual outbreak on record.Of the 15 cases reported in January so far, three each have been reported in areas under the north corporation and two in East Delhi, while addresses of the remaining seven could not be traced, the report said. Additionally, seven other cases showed that the infections were acquired from other states.A report by civic bodies shows that 187 cases of mosquito breeding have been detected in this period, as against 46 and 44 in the corresponding periods of 2021 and 2020 respectively.A senior municipal official from public health official said that 210 legal notices have been issued to property owners for negligence leading to mosquitogenic conditions and prosecution has been launched in 17 cases.On Friday last week, while hearing a case on the dengue outbreak in the city, the Delhi high court said mosquito infestation and spread of vector-borne diseases are not merely seasonal.“No doubt they may get heightened during the monsoon period. However, that does not mean other factors are not responsible for mosquito breeding and the spread of vector-borne diseases… It is for the municipal authorities to undertake a campaign to deal with such situations on a daily basis and the menace cannot be addressed only by addressing the problem in particular months of the year,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/unusual-winter-trend-delhi-sees-7-dengue-cases-last-week-101642441240947.html
18-01-2022||Delhi||Excessive groundwater extraction causing parts of Delhi-NCR to sink: Study||The alarming rate of groundwater depletion in the capital may be leading to a different kind of slow evolving crisis – parts of the surface in the city is sinking, a phenomenon known as land subsidence, potentially affecting the international airport.Around 100 sq km of area in the national capital region has high risk of ground displacement, with the largest of these, of around 12.5 sq km, is in southwest Delhi’s Kapashera, barely 800m away from the airport, researchers have found using satellite data.The rate of “sinking of land” in the neighbourhood near the airport is accelerating and the subsidence feature is rapidly expanding towards the airport, potentially threatening it, the researchers from IIT Bombay, German Research Centre for Geosciences, Cambridge and the Southern Methodist University, US said in a study titled Tracking hidden crisis in India’s capital from space: implications of unsustainable groundwater use, which was published in the peer-reviewed Nature journal.“During the years 2014–2016, the subsidence velocity was found to be approximately 11 cm/year which rose significantly by almost 50% over the next two years to around 17 cm/year. The trend remained almost same during 2018–2019,” the study said.Of all the areas that are under threat, Kapashera near the airport was the most vulnerable because the subsidence rate is extremely high, said Shagun Garg, a doctoral researcher from the University of Cambridge, who was part of the team that studied these land deformations.“Airport requires stable ground because of the risk of major disruption if there’s significant ground movement,” Garg said. “Kuala Lumpur airport is an example to understand the implications of land subsidence where cracks on taxiways, and waterlogging emerged due to soil settlement. Continuous monitoring of IGI IIndira Gandhi International) airport and its connecting roads is therefore crucial.”The study found another deformation in Mahipalpur, just 500m away from the airport where deformation of 15mm per year were observed in 2014-16, 30mm a year in 2016-18 and 50mm per year in 2018-19.A widespread global problem, land subsidence occurs when large amounts of groundwater are withdrawn from some types of rocks and underground soil. When water is extracted from aquifers, the clay between pockets of water collapse gradually, leading to deflation of the land beneath. It isn’t like a sinkhole or a cave in, whose impacts are sudden, but occurs over a very large area in a gradual manner.With a projected demand of 1,236 million gallons per day (MGD ), water-stressed Delhi has a 300 MGD demand-supply gap. According to the draft Master Plan 2041 , this demand is likely to increase to 1,746 MGD by 2031.A large part of unmet demands are met through groundwater extraction. At certain locations in southwest Delhi, the water table is available at a depth of 80 m and this continues to deplete at the rate of 3-4 m a year. More than 80% of land subsidence across the world is caused due to excessive groundwater extraction, according to the US Geological Survey.The study has found that an area of approximately 100 sq km in the national capital region is under “high risk of ground displacement.” The areas that require immediate attention include Bijwasan, Samalkha, Kapashera, Sadh Nagar, Bindapur, and Mahavir enclave in Delhi; Dundahera, Sector 22A, and Block C in Gurgaon; and pocket A, B, C of Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Nagar in Faridabad.Despite its slow pace, land subsidence is known to cause losses worth billions of dollars all over world due to damage to infrastructure, roads, pavements, and underground utilities such as drainage system. The sinking also leads to aggravated flood risk and more frequent waterlogging.The researchers also suspect that land subsidence may be responsible for poor condition of the 7.5 km stretch of the Delhi-Gurgaon road, which has subsided by more than 70 cm in the past five years.All precautions were taken before construction of the airport, a Delhi airport official said.“Studies have been done before carrying out construction work in and around the airport premises, with no impact of any land subsidence noted,” the official said, requesting anonymity. “All due checks are carried out before any construction work and, at the airport in particular, no impact of the groundwater table reducing has been seen.”The Central Ground Water Board is studying the impact of land subsidence, an official of the agency said. “We have been looking at the land subsidence aspect and have also initiated a project on land subsidence with IIRS Dehradun,” he said, declining to be named. “Once the findings are clearer, we can comment on the ground reality.” IIRS is short for Indian Institute of Remote Sensing.The matter needs further investigation, according to Shashank Shekhar, water expert and professor of geology at Delhi University.“The research correlates minor land subsidence with water level decline. It may be that water level decline have triggered minor adjustments in the surface topography, and if so, then it should be visible in other similar localities,” Shekhar said. “However, in geology there is continuous landscape evolution, mostly linked to tectonic activity. As the area mentioned are on flanks of the Delhi ridge, which is also a fault zone, it will be good to additionally factor in the neo-tectonic activity for accounting the minor adjustments in the land surface.”Land sinking is possible due to excessive groundwater extraction, said Vikram Soni, conservationist and emeritus professor at Jawaharlal Nehru University, who has been working on issues related to water sector in Delhi.The study also highlights an “uplift trend” in Dwarka which has been attributed to a rise in the groundwater table and the consequent reduction of effective stress in the soil.“The sub-city region was undergoing subsidence with an approximate rate of 3.5 cm/year in 2014-16 which changed to uplift of 0.5cm/year in 2016-18 and 1.2cm/year in 2018-20,” the study said. “The main reason for this change in the behaviour of subsidence pattern can be associated with the swelling behaviour of soil. Delhi government introduced several strict policies to improve the groundwater condition in the area.”Can subsidence be reversed? Garg said that a detailed hydro-geological study is required to understand aquifer properties, and available data are limited.“The Central Ground Water Board, the Geological Survey of India, and the Ministry of Urban Affairs need to investigate whether these trends are reversible,” he said. “We suggest the government and policymakers should have a detailed understanding of the geophysical properties of the areas undergoing subsidence, and incentivize rainwater harvesting while ensuring strict implementation of laws against illegal mining of groundwater. The building conditions in hazard zones should be evaluated and proper measures should be taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/excessive-groundwater-extraction-causing-parts-of-delhi-ncr-to-sink-study-101642441000326.html
18-01-2022||Pune||Tundra Bean Goose, a new winged visitor at Bhigwan||PUNE It’s that time of year when migratory birds stop over in the city on their southward journey. This year, however, the turnout of the number of winged visitors has been good according to bird watchers and Ornithologist from the city. Tundra bean goose, a new visitor was sighted at Bhigwan this year which is popular for its migratory bird visitors.Ornithologist Dharmaraj Patil said that over 60 species of birds were sighted in January. “This year we spotted a new specie, the Tundra Bean Goose. This bird does not usually take this route; however, some birds lose their way and land here.Usually, there is a 10 per cent deviation in the path of the birds. In this case, the birds can survive. But if they deviate more, they can die. This is a common phenomenon,” said Patil.“We also sighted Black-winged stilt,Red-wattled lapwing, Little ringed plover and many other species. However, the Tundra Bean goose was sighted at one end of the wetland. Tourists were seen clicking photographs of this new specie. This resulted in scaring the bird, which may affect the number of this bird being sighted,” added Patil.Speaking about the overall turnout of birds, Girish Jathar, an Ornithologist with the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) said that at least 370 species come to India for migration. “In Maharashtra, three types of bird species visit. First are the birds from the coastline like gulls, sand pipers. Second are the type of birds which visit the wetlands like ducks, crane and the third type of birds are the landbirds. The numbers usually go up in November and December and they disperse in January. And again, in March and April when the birds are going back to the breeding spots,” said Jathar.He added that Tundra Bean Goose is not a regular visitor. “The bird might have deviated from its path.Usually, the trend is that as there is more rainfall, there are more wetlands, and the number of birds seen are less. However, if the rainfall is scanty, the wetlands are limited and the birds can be seen in flocks at one wetland itself thus increasing their numbers,” added Jathar.Birds that were sightedNorthern shoveler, Greater flamingo, Rock pigeon, Laughing dove, Black-winged stilt, Red-wattled lapwing, Little ringed plover, Common sandpiper, Wood sandpiper, Brown-headed gull, Whiskered tern, River tern, Painted stork, Little cormorant, Indian cormorant, Gray heron, Great egret, Indian pond-heron, Glossy ibis, Black-headed ibis, Eurasian marsh-harrier, Black kite, Eurasian hoopoe, White-throated kingfisher, Green bee-eater, Black drongo, Long-tailed shrike, House crow, Ashy prinia, Red-vented bulbul, Indian robin, Pied bushchat, Purple-rumped Sunbird, Western yellow wagtail||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/tundra-bean-goose-a-new-winged-visitor-at-bhigwan-101642440405410.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Welfare Trust launched to help city regain old glory||Chandigarh University chancellor Satnam Singh Sandhu on Monday launched a non-government organisation (NGO) — Chandigarh Welfare Trust — dedicated to the development and welfare of the city in alignment with the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), including education, gender equality, health and well-being, economic growth, peace, justice, strong institutions, poverty and climate action.Besides Sandhu, who is the Trust founder, Chandigarh Group of Colleges chairman Rashpal Singh Dhaliwal and chartered accountants and Trust’s governing body members Sunil Kumar and Rampal Dhiman were also present.Sandhu said that Chandigarh was the first modern city of the country and is among very few such cities across the world to have succeeded in terms of combining monumental architecture, cultural growth, and modernisation. “However, with passing times, things have changed, with growing population and considerable stagnancy in corresponding resources. This NGO is an attempt to restore and promote its glory, and to restitute Chandigarh as a model of development for other cities in India and elevating its standing among the cities of the world,” he said.Sandhu said the Trust aims to work for community well-being and sustainable welfare, besides making the Chandigarh city a leader in all aspects, including sanitation, education, cleanliness, quality of life and health, and will bring together 127 NGOs in the Union Territory, thousands of individual social workers, UT administration and municipal corporation in this mission.He said the Trust has identified two projects that required immediate attention and has started working on these already. These are improving the ranking of Chandigarh in Swachh Bharat survey and establishing it as the cleanest city of the country, and improving the positioning of Chandigarh in Ease of Living Index.“With such diverse population and culture, Chandigarh is a contemporary metropolis. With 86% literacy rate and 53% of its population working and 38% young, the people of Chandigarh will play a deciding role in providing the impetus in making this City Beautiful recognised at the global map.”It was also informed that Chandigarh Welfare Trust is exploring the possibility of associating with the QS World Merit Charity, and start its own QS World Merit Chapter. This will enable the Trust to gain the support of the prestigious philanthropic organisation in raising awareness, energy and capacity of young people to take local actions that tackle the most pressing community-specific issues of the 21st Century, with UN’s SDGs at its core.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-welfare-trust-launched-aims-to-re-establish-city-as-model-of-development-101642423899099.html
18-01-2022||Lucknow||JD (U) to contest UP polls on Bihar model of social justice: Tyagi||The Janata Dal (United), any ally of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), has decided to go solo in the Uttar Pradesh assembly election. The party will contest the election on Bihar model of governance—social justice as well as share of the OBC and Dalits in governance.Addressing a press conference in the party state unit office here on Tuesday, JD (U) national general secretary and party’s Uttar Pradesh in-charge KC Tyagi said, “Recently several ministers and MLAs deserted the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and resigned from the government over sidelining of the weaker section in the society. Whereas the Bihar government is working with social justice and development motto. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar belongs to OBC community whereas two deputy CMs Renu Devi and Tarkishore Prasad belong to extremely backward community. All the sections have representation in the government in Bihar.”The JD (U) will raise the demand of caste census in Uttar Pradesh. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar had led an all-party delegation to Delhi in August last year to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi to demand a caste-based census, he said. JD (U) is an allay of the NDA in Bihar as well as in the central government. Playing the eastern UP card, Tyagi said, “The eastern region of Uttar Pradesh is the most backward area in UP as there is no industry in the region. The JD (U) will demand the central government to set up a special economic zone the region and give limited state status to eastern UP.”Tyagi also said senior JD (U) leader and Union steel minister RCP Singh had held several rounds of talks with Union home minister Amit Shah; defence minister Rajnath Singh; BJP national president JP Nadda and BJP UP incharge Dharmendra Pradhan but there was no positive response from the BJP leadership. “JD (U) central leadership will meet at Delhi on Wednesday to finalise the candidates for UP assembly election,” he said. The JD (U) will contest the assembly election over the legal guarantee for minimum support price (MSP) of the crop, withdrawal of the cases lodged against farmers during agitation, ban on the sale of profit-making public sector units, ban on hate speeches during election campaign, he said added the party will call upon other parties to not field candidates against Unnao rape victim’s mother. “Mauryan Emperor Ashoka is pride of the country and the government should withdraw Padma Shri awarded Daya Prakash Sinha for making a controversial statement. JD (U) will not field candidate against UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath and deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya,” he said.
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Kidney scam: HC stays sentence of two Amritsar doctors||The Punjab and Haryana high court has stayed sentencing of two Amritsar doctors, Bhupinder Singh and Bhushan Aggarwal, in two different FIRs related to the infamous 2002 kidney scam. One FIR pertained to allegations that the duo along with Dr PK Sareen and his colleagues at Kakkar Hospital, Amritsar, were managing the donations of kidneys illegally and performing the operations. In one case, a woman had died. They were awarded 10-year jail term by an Amritsar court on December 21, 2021. Their counsel, Bipan Ghai, had told court that during the pendency of the trial, Dr PK Sareen and Dr PK Jain, who both were surgeons and had performed the surgeries, have died. But the applicants were held guilty for offence under Section 19 of the Transplantation of Human Organs Act with Section 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) even as they were not surgeons and merely associated for pre- and post-operative care. It was also argued that, at the maximum, the charge could have been framed under Section 304A of the IPC with regard to criminal medical negligence due to a donor’s death, but there is no evidence on record to substantiate the charge under Section 304 IPC Part II (there is knowledge that death may be caused by the act) for which the appellants stand convicted. It was also argued that they had no role in granting permission by the authorisation committee to Dr Jain and Dr Sareen, who performed operation of the donor and recipient and were the responsible doctors. The bench of justice Arvind Sangwan considering the facts that both the appellants are first offenders and they are qualified doctors, allowed the application for suspension of sentence during the pendency of the appeal before the high court and admitted their appeals for the hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kidney-scam-hc-stays-sentence-of-two-amritsar-doctors-101642523811722.html
18-01-2022||Mumbai||CR fines 58.3k passengers for travelling without tickets in local and outstation trains||MUMBAI: In a bid to control unauthorised travel and allow only fully vaccinated passengers to commute by the local trains in Mumbai, Central Railway (CR) held 58,300 passengers traveling without valid tickets in local and outstation trains. CR collected a fine of ₹2.94 crore from passengers between January 1 and January 15. As many as 715 passengers were also detained for travelling without masks on the suburban railway stations and ₹1.43 lakh was fined. Passengers are mandated by the state government to wear facial masks while travelling by local trains. Maximum passengers were penalised in three major stations of CR including Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) where 3997 passengers were fined, 2564 passengers at Dadar and 1133 passengers at Kalyan railway station.The zonal railway has formed special teams to check people travelling without tickets and facial masks on the local train network. 3529 cases of people travelling without facial masks were penalised between April 2021 and January 2021. “Between April 1, 2021 and January 15, 2022 a total of 10.12 lakh passengers were caught travelling without tickets and ₹51.31 crore as penalty was realised. We appeal to the passengers to travel with proper and valid railway tickets in order to avoid inconvenience and travel with dignity and follow all norms mandated for coronavirus,” shared Anil Kumar Jain, senior public relations officer, Central Railway. Further, the zonal railway also registered 188 cases on 23 male hawkers for travelling in women’s compartments of local trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cr-fines-58-3k-passengers-for-travelling-without-tickets-in-local-trains-101642515230176.html
18-01-2022||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh to give 2 rescued tigers, 4 leopard cubs to Jamnagar’s new zoo||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh’s forest department has decided to send two tigers and four leopards rescued from forest to a zoological park in Jamnagar, Gujarat, officials said, even though the state has two centres to keep the rescued animals.On January 13, the state forest department sought approval of the Central Zoo Authority to translocate the big cats to Greens Zoological Rescue and Rehabilitation Kingdom in Jamnagar, one of Gujarat’s 13 zoos.The Central Zoo Authority under environment ministry is the regulatory body for zoos in the country. According to MP forest department officials, the decision of give cats was taken on the request of Jamnagar Zoo.In the letter to PCCF, wildlife, MP, the Jamnagar Zoological Centre wrote, “The satellite rescue centre is now operational in Jamnagar and it is housing presently more than 130 leopards received from the state of Gujarat, Maharashtra, Himachal Pradesh and Nagaland. The centre has rescued lguanas, Siamese crocodiles, Asiatic black bears, sloth beras, jungle cats, slow loris, hornbills, malay porcupines, muggers and various species of turtles and tortoises.” “The centre is willing to acquire rescued animals from MP to house them in the centre which will have a large naturalistic enclosure, said the letter. In a letter to the authority, Madhya Pradesh’s principal chief conservator of forest (PCCF) Alok Kumar said, “Greens Zoological, Rescue and Rehabilitation centre in Jamnagar district of Gujarat showed a willingness to keep rescued wild animals of MP. As of now, MP have two facilities- Van Vihar in Bhopal and Mukundpur Tiger Safari in Satna where rescued animals have been kept on a temporary and permanent basis as per requirement. But recently, the rescue cases of wild animals have increased and in future, we will require the support of this organisation” The forest department sought permission from Central Zoo Authority to send tigers and leopards from Van Vihar National Park and Mukundpur Zoo to Jamnagar. “Further action will be taken after getting permission of authority, said Alok Kumar. Mukundpur Zoo director Sanjay Raykhere said, “We have limited space to keep rescue animals or treat them at the centre. We can shift those animals which can’t live in the wild and are fit for travel to Jamnagar.”However, a senior forest officer, who didn’t wish to be named, said, “Gujarat government is not ready to give us lion but they want tigers from us. MP forest department shouldn’t have agreed to it especially when two tiger safaris are going to start in MP in Shivpuri and Panchmarhi. This decision was taken under pressure because the PCCF himself wrote that as of now there is no dearth of space but in future, there will be.”Officials also said that there is already a proposal to translocate tigers to proposed Madhav National Park, which the government wants to convert into a tiger reserve. Many of the rescued tigers and leopards can be sent there also, an official said.A wildlife activist from MP, Ajay Dubey said, “It is strange that the MP forest department has taken this decision in just 15 days. Everything is looking fixed. The forest department should evaluate the condition and habitat for tiger before taking this decision.” Another environmentalist Kartikeya Singh said, “If both states follow all the guidelines of NTCA, this exchange programme is good for conservation. The forest departments should go for it for the animals which can’t live in wild.”
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Panjab University students protest closure of reading halls at AC Joshi library||A number of Panjab University (PU) students on Monday held a protest march from the AC Joshi library to the vice-chancellor’s office, demanding reopening of the library’s reading halls.The reading halls on the first and third floors were closed by the varsity last week from January 13 to 16 amid the surge in Covid-19 cases in the city. However, students said on Monday another notice was put up, announcing that the reading halls were closed till further orders. Only the outer reading hall is open and is to be used at 50% capacity.The protesting students and research scholars said closure of the reading halls and 50% seating limit in the outer reading hall was affecting their studies.“It is exam time and students need to access the library. Students are following the safety protocols. When we reached the V-C office, no university official came to receive our memorandum, so we just hung it on the barricade,” said Aman of Punjab Students’ Union (PSU-Lalkaar).Shopkeepers’ protest enters Day 4Meanwhile, the Panjab University Traders’ Welfare Association kept shops closed for the fourth consecutive day in protest. They are demanding that in case of lease deed transfer, rent should remain as per the deed. The shopkeepers are also demanding that as classes are suspended at the varsity amid the pandemic, they should get at least 50% rebate on the lines of other universities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-students-protest-closure-of-reading-halls-at-ac-joshi-library-101642448447130.html
18-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Miffed SAD leaders give ultimatum over Mohali ticket allocation||Upset over the decision to allot the assembly election ticket from Mohali to Parvinder Singh Sohana, around 25 local leaders of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Monday gave a two-day ultimatum to party president Sukhbir Singh Badal to either change the candidate or face “severe consequences”. The assembly elections are scheduled for February 20, while nominations are to be filed by February 2. The disgruntled Akali leaders, who include zila parishad members, block samiti members and sarpanches, addressed mediapersons after holding a meeting at a hotel in Sohana.Avtar Singh Mauli, who is a block samiti member from Mauli Baidwan, said: “There are around 25 local leaders, who are opposing Sohana’s candidature. We have given a two-day ultimatum to party president Sukhbir Singh Badal to change the candidate, failing which we will campaign against him.”Another SAD leader, Kanwaljit Singh Badi, who was also eyeing the party ticket from Mohali, said: “How could the party give the ticket to a person who ditched it twice? It seems, there are some people who have misguided the party president and we strongly oppose this.”“The party should have consulted the local leadership before declaring the candidate. There are more leaders who are unhappy, but they are not coming upfront. We will not be leaving the party, but will oppose Sohana’s candidature,” said former Mohali truck union president Sukhwinder Singh Shindi.Will sort out issues with disgruntled leaders: SohanaMeanwhile, Parvinder Singh Sohana said that he would soon hold a meeting with disgruntled leaders, and “we will sort out all issues”. “They all are hard-core members of the party, and all will work unitedly to win the seat,” he said. A former Labourfed chairman, Sohana, who was holding the post of Youth Akali Dal (Mohali) president, left the SAD in January last year before the municipal corporation elections, owing to differences with former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra.He joined hands with the Azad group, led by former mayor Kulwant Singh, following which the SAD expelled him from the party. In the elections, the Azad group won 11 seats, with Sohana’s wife Harjinder Kaur being one of the winning candidates. While 37 seats went to the Congress, the SAD drew a blank.Later in October, Sohana, along with his wife and supporters, returned to the SAD fold in the presence of Sukhbir Singh Badal, who assured him and his team members due honour and recognition in the party.
18-01-2022||Noida||Covid cases see another spike in Noida with over 2000 fresh cases||Noida: Noida on Monday recorded 2,158 fresh Covid-19 cases -- the fourth highest single-day spike since the beginning of the pandemic in March 2020 -- pushing the tally of active cases to 12,347. The district reported 12,705 Covid cases on Monday. According to official records of the district health department, the highest single-day spike was 2,230 cases on January 12 this year, the second highest was 1,873 on January 15 this year, and the third highest was 1,822 cases on May 5, 2021. The total number of Covid cases reported in January 2022 alone is 18,400, nearly as much as the tally in May 2021 -- 18,729 -- which was the highest ever.The positivity rate on Monday stood at 20%, the same as the past few days, despite a continuous rise in the number of Covid cases.The district has recorded nearly 2,500 recoveries till Monday, with no hospitalisation in the past 24 hours.This is for the first time in nearly a month that the active Covid cases recorded on Monday are less than the previous day, and more than 2,000 people recovered within 24 hours.“It seems like there is a decline in the number of cases. Additionally, another relief is that we still don’t have critical Covid patients who need hospitalisation. Most of the hospitalised patients have comorbidities... People can continue with their daily work along with following Covid-appropriate behaviour,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate. So far, a total of 82,323 cases have been reported in the district and 1,841,317 tests have been conducted. Also, 3,545,000 vaccination doses have been administered to the beneficiaries in Noida so far, including 2,081,000 first doses, 1,451,000 second doses and 12,710 precautionary doses. BJP campaign in Noida hits Covid roadblockSitting MLA and BJP’s candidate for the Noida assembly elections, Pankaj Singh, tested positive for Covid on Sunday. Singh said he has mild symptoms and has isolated himself. “I request all those who have come in contact with me to isolate themselves and get tested. I will constantly be in touch with the people and party workers online and hope to come back soon in the field,” he tweeted. According to party sources, there were no rallies or road shows, but Singh conducted public interactions through meetings at his home, small gatherings at housing complexes and various sectors in Noida, and online meetings with the residents.The Uttar Pradesh assembly polls is scheduled to be held from February 10 to March 7 in seven phases. Polls are to be conducted in the first phase on February 10 in Gautam Budh Nagar’s three assembly constituencies -- Noida, Jewar and Dadri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid-cases-see-another-spike-in-noida-with-over-2000-fresh-cases-101642444481475.html
18-01-2022||Lucknow||SP gave tickets to criminal elements: Yogi||GHAZIABAD Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday accused Samajwadi Party (SP) leaders of giving tickets to “criminal elements” on different seats of western Uttar Pradesh and slammed the party for not announcing its candidate list publicly. Lashing out at the SP for its candidates from Kairana, Bulandshahr, and Loni, Adityanath said, “By announcing criminals responsible for the exodus of traders from Kairana, the criminals of the Muzaffarnagar riots and professional history-sheeters as its candidates, the Samajwadi Party has once again shown its true character.”“The SP has proved that it is trying to project people who are against social justice, Dalits, poor, backward classes, traders and common man. They have not strayed from their actual habits and such habits don’t improve easily,” said the CM who was in Ghaziabad to review the Covid situation and was likely to flag off the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) election campaign vehicles on Tuesday. As many as 58 Assembly segments in 11 districts, including Ghaziabad and Gautam Buddh Nagar, will go to polls in the first phase of UP elections scheduled to begin on February 10. The CM highlighted the works of his government during the pandemic situation, but later lashed out at the SP in reply to a question from the media. “We all know that during five years, our government cracked down hard and instilled fear among goonda elements and gave a secure environment to the people,” the CM said during a media briefing held at Santosh Medical College, a Covid facility. During the 2017 Assembly elections, the BJP banked heavily on the issue of rising crime in UP and promised that it would crack down on criminal elements. The UP CM also took pot shots at the Samajwadi Party for not announcing its candidate list publicly and alleged that the party was “giving symbols under the table” for the UP polls. “They are abstaining from making their candidate list public and have again started practices of doing things ‘under the table.’ But I wish to assure people of UP that with their blessings, we will form the majority government on March 10 and bring all criminals to justice,” added the CM. Adityanath’s attack on SP comes after recent developments where several OBC faces from the BJP switched sides to the SP. The names included former minister Swami Prasad Maurya, Dharam Singh Saini and Dara Singh Chauhan among others. The BJP assumed power in UP while contesting on 384 seats in 2017 Assembly elections and emerged winner from 312 seats. This led to the ouster of the government of Samajwadi Party, which contested on 311 seats and secured win only on 47. Office-bearers of the SP, however, accused the UP CM of allegedly violating the code of conduct, which is already in place. “The CM was on an official visit to Ghaziabad and should not have made political comments. It amounts to election campaign. There are lot of people in the BJP with criminal records and the actual standing of the party will come to fore after the first phase of the elections. The SP will win the elections in a thumping manner,” said Rashid Malik, district president of Samajwadi Party. In Ghaziabad, the BJP as well as the SP, along with its ally - the Rashtriya Lok Dal, have fielded five candidates on as many assembly seats so far. The district has five assembly segments of Loni, Muradnagar, Sahibabad, Ghaziabad and Modinagar with all five seats won by BJP candidates. Last week, the BJP announced their list and fielded all the five sitting MLAs from their respective seats in Ghaziabad while they also gave tickets to all the three sitting MLAs from three seats of Noida, Jewar and Dadri in Gautam Buddh Nagar.
18-01-2022||World||Four people killed, 10 hurt in suicide blast in Somali capital||At least four people were killed and 10 others injured on Tuesday in Somalia's capital Mogadishu in a suicide bombing at a tea-shop near a military base, state-run SONNA news agency said, and Islamist group al Shabaab claimed responsibility.Patrons, who included both soldiers and civilians, were sipping tea when the bomber blew himself up, local residents told Reuters.One resident, Ahmed Ismail, said he heard the blast but that when he ran towards the scene to find out what had happened he was blocked by soldiers.The Nacnac base outside which the blast occurred is located near a Turkish military garrison which helps to train Somali troops."A mujahid bomber targeted the tea shop in which there were Somali soldiers trained by Turkey," al Shabaab's military operations spokesman Abdiasis Abu Musab told Reuters, adding that the number of victims both dead and injured were 20.Al Shabaab frequently carries out bombings and gun assaults in Mogadishu and elsewhere in Somalia.The group wants to topple Somalia's central government and establish its own rule based on its own strict interpretation of Islamic Sharia law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/four-people-killed-10-hurt-in-suicide-blast-in-somali-capital-101642528060552.html
18-01-2022||World||Endemic Covid would not mean end of danger: WHO||The World Health Organization on Tuesday warned against the notion that the Covid-19 pandemic becoming endemic would mean the disease was no longer dangerous."People talk about pandemic versus endemic," the WHO's emergencies director Michael Ryan told a virtual session of the World Economic Forum."Endemic malaria kills hundreds of thousands of people; endemic HIV; endemic violence in our inner cities."Endemic in itself does not mean good -- endemic just means it's here forever," Ryan told the Davos Agenda roundtable on vaccine equity.The rapidly-spreading Omicron variant of Covid-19 is much more contagious than previous strains but seems to cause less serious disease for vaccinated people.That has triggered a debate on the virus passing from being a pandemic to becoming endemic -- with the implication that the danger will have passed."What we need to do is get to low levels of disease incidence with maximum vaccination of our populations, so nobody has to die," said Ryan."That's the end of the emergency, in my view. That's the end of the pandemic."Ryan added that it was possible to end the waves of death and hospitalisations by the end of 2022 through vaccine-led public health measures.But, he added: "We won't end the virus this year. We may never end the virus. Pandemic viruses end up becoming part of the ecosystem."What we can do is end is the public health emergency."With the exception of the one-shot Janssen product, all the Covid-19 vaccines given emergency approval by the WHO require two injections.Ryan raised the prospect of three to four doses at some point being considered the full course of vaccination for enduring protection against severe Covid disease."As knowledge develops, and as we see the way the immune system matures and responds to either re-exposure or to an extra dose of vaccine, we may end up in a future where the primary course of vaccination for a vulnerable person might be three or four doses," he said."They won't be called boosters. It will be seen that you need three to four doses to develop that long-lasting, robust immunity that protects you from hospitalisation and death over a prolonged period."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/endemic-covid-would-not-mean-end-of-danger-who-101642525486569.html
18-01-2022||World||Omicron, Delta pose dual threat to Beijing||The Chinese capital Beijing on Tuesday reported two more Covid-19 cases of both the Omicron and Delta variants, taking the total to three, as the government said city officials must “operate under the state of emergency” during the three weeks remaining before the Winter Olympic Games begin.Health authorities have urged citizens not to order goods from overseas after the first case of Omicron infection in Beijing was linked to an international parcel from Canada.That patient has passed the virus to at least two close contacts.Separately, a person in a different part of the capital tested positive for the Delta variant, city spokesperson Xu Hejian said at a briefing on Tuesday.In the face of the twin challenges of preventing the coronavirus from entering the country and stemming its domestic resurgence, government bodies of all levels in Beijing must operate under the “state of emergency and beef up measures to curb the spread of Covid-19 in the capital during Beijing 2022”, Xu said earlier.Following the three cases, several Chinese schools in Beijing - a city of nearly 22 million people - were ordered shut ahead of their Lunar New Year holidays while most international schools will move online from WednesdayHealth authorities said parcels from abroad could be potentially contaminated with the virus, a new warning issued days ahead of the Winter Olympics scheduled to begin from February 4 in Beijing and neighbouring Hebei province.Residents are being urged to wear masks and gloves when opening parcels from abroad.The US’ Centres for Disease Control and Prevention said last year that the relative risk of coronavirus infections through contact with contaminated surfaces or objects is considered low.Samples taken from the package and some documents inside the mail and handled by the first patient tested positive for the virus.Beijing health authorities said the findings mean they cannot rule out the possibility of the person getting infected through overseas parcels.“Virologists warned of the high risk of packages from overseas causing domestic Covid-19 flare-ups, when the epidemic overseas is running high, as contaminated packages from epidemic-rampant countries may spread the virus to people with weak immunity through viral particles floating in the air, or people without proper protective gear,” the state-run Global Times reported.The report added that a patient from Shenzhen in southern China, confirmed to be infected with Omicron on Sunday, is likely to have contracted it after being exposed to contaminated goods from overseas.The Chinese mainland on Monday reported 127 new locally transmitted Covid-19 cases, the NHC said in its daily report on Tuesday.Of the new local cases, 102 were reported in Henan, 18 in Tianjin, five in Guangdong, and one each in Beijing and Shaanxi, the commission said.The total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases on the mainland had reached 105,258 by Monday while the death toll stood 4,636.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/omicron-delta-pose-dual-threat-to-beijing-101642522191993.html
18-01-2022||World||Desperate Afghans queue for free bread as poverty crisis deepens||In the early hours of each morning, Muhajira rushes in freezing temperatures to a modest bakery in the Afghan capital to wait for warm naan bread to be distributed.On some days, it is all her family, and the others who have joined the queue, will eat for the day."If I don't bring bread from here, we will go to bed hungry," mother of two Muhajira Amanallah told AFP on Tuesday."I even thought of selling my daughters, but I backed down and relied on God alone."Afghanistan is in the grip of a humanitarian disaster, worsened by the Taliban takeover in August -- when Western countries froze international aid and access to assets held abroad.Jobs have dried up and many government workers have not been paid for months in the country, which was almost entirely dependent on foreign donations under the previous US-backed government.The United Nations has warned that half the country is threatened with food shortages.The bread distribution launched on Saturday is part of the Save Afghans From Hunger campaign organised by a Kabul university professor.At least 75 families in seven districts of the capital, currently blanketed in snow, will receive daily naan rations for a month.In the queue, Nouriya stands alongside five other women, all in the blue burqa that the Taliban encourages women in the country to wear.After the death of her husband she got handouts from friends, but that has ended."We eat rice or soup made with carrots and turnips... and we put pieces of bread in it instead of meat," said Nouriya, a mother of five.While men and women wait for their share of bread, children play, some wearing tattered shoes too big for them.As the last person left the bakery, owner Makram El-Din said: "People have lost their jobs, and they no longer have any income. We used to use four sacks of flour a day, now we only use one and a half."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/desperate-afghans-queue-for-free-bread-as-poverty-crisis-deepens-101642521553731.html
18-01-2022||World||Antony Blinken to visit Ukraine as US-Russia tensions escalate||Secretary of State Antony Blinken will visit Ukraine this week and meet with President Volodymyr Zelenskyy as tensions between the US and Russia escalate over a possible Russian invasion of its neighbor, the State Department said Tuesday.Blinken will be in Kyiv on the hastily arranged trip to show US support following inconclusive diplomatic talks between Moscow and the West in Europe last week that failed to resolve stark disagreements over Ukraine and other security matters.Instead, those meetings appear to have increased fears of a Russian invasion, and the Biden administration has accused Russia of preparing a “false flag operation" to use as a pretext for intervention. Russia has angrily denied the charge.Blinken’s “travel and consultations are part of the diplomatic efforts to de-escalate the tension caused by Russia’s military build-up and continued aggression against Ukraine,” the State Department said in a statement.From Kyiv, Blinken will travel to Berlin, where he will meet with his German, British and French counterparts to discuss a possible response to any Russian military action. Russia has massed some 100,000 troops with tanks and other heavy weapons on its own soil near the Ukrainian border in what many observers believe may be preparation for an invasion.Blinken will meet with Zelenskyy and Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba on Wednesday “to reinforce the United States’ commitment to Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity,” the State Department said.“The trip follows extensive diplomacy with our European Allies and partners about a united approach to address the threat Russia poses to Ukraine and our joint efforts to encourage it to choose diplomacy and de-escalation in the interests of security and stability,” the department said.On Monday, Russia’s top diplomat rejected the US allegations that it was preparing a pretext to invade Ukraine. Speaking to reporters, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov dismissed the US claim as “total disinformation.”Lavrov reaffirmed that Russia expects a written response this week from the US and its allies to Moscow’s request for binding guarantees that NATO will not embrace Ukraine or any other ex-Soviet nations or station its forces and weapons there.Washington and its allies firmly rejected Moscow’s demands during last week's Russia-US negotiations in Geneva and a related NATO-Russia meeting in Brussels.The White House said Friday that US intelligence officials had concluded that Russia had already deployed operatives to rebel-controlled eastern Ukraine to carry out acts of sabotage there and blame them on Ukraine to create a pretext for possible invasion.Ahead of Blinken's visit to Kyiv, a delegation of US senators was visiting Ukraine to emphasize congressional support for the country.“Our bipartisan congressional delegation sends a clear message to the global community: the United States stands in unwavering support of our Ukrainian partners to defend their sovereignty and in the face of persistent Russian aggression,” Sen. Jeanne Shaheen, a New Hampshire Democrat, said in a statement.Speaking Monday on a visit to Kyiv, German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock warned that “any further escalation would carry a high price for the Russian regime — economic, political and strategic," and she emphasized the need to continue negotiations.“We are prepared to have a serious dialogue with Russia, because diplomacy is the only way to defuse this highly dangerous situation at the moment,” she said.Russia seized the Crimean Peninsula after the ouster of Ukraine’s Moscow-friendly leader and in 2014 also threw its weight behind a separatist insurgency in eastern Ukraine. More than 14,000 people have been killed in nearly eight years of fighting between the Russia-backed rebels and Ukrainian forces in the country’s industrial heartland called Donbas.Russian President Vladimir Putin has warned that Moscow will take unspecified “military-technical measures” if the West stonewalls its demands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/antony-blinken-to-visit-ukraine-as-us-russia-tensions-escalate-101642510011417.html
18-01-2022||World||Extremely rare 555.55-carat black diamond, ‘The Enigma’, to be auctioned||Auction house Sotheby's Dubai has unveiled a diamond that's literally from out of this world.Sotheby's calls the 555.55-carat black diamond — believed to have come from outer space — “The Enigma.”The rare gem was shown off on Monday to journalists as part of a tour in Dubai and Los Angeles before it is due to be auctioned off in February in London.Sotheby's expects the diamond to be sold for at least 5 million British pounds (USD 6.8 million). The auction house plans to accept cryptocurrency as a possible payment as well.Sophie Stevens, a jewelry specialist at Sotheby's Dubai, told The Associated Press that the number five bears an importance significance to the diamond, which has 55 facets as well.“The shape of the diamond is based on the Middle-Eastern palm symbol of the Khamsa, which stands for strength and it stands for protection,” she said. Khamsa in Arabic means five.“So there's a nice theme of the number five running throughout the diamond," she added.Stevens also said the black diamond is likely from outer space.“With the carbonado diamonds, we believe that they were formed through extraterrestrial origins, with meteorites colliding with the Earth and either forming chemical vapor disposition or indeed coming from the meteorites themselves,” she said.Black diamonds, also known as carbonado, are extremely rare, and are found naturally only in Brazil and Central Africa.The cosmic origin theory is based on their carbon isotopes and high hydrogen content.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/extremely-rare-555-55-carat-black-diamond-the-enigma-to-be-auctioned-101642509469680.html
18-01-2022||World||British PM Boris Johnson lied about lockdown party, ex-aide claims||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson lied to parliament when he claimed he did not know of his staff's plans to hold a drinks party during lockdown, his former aide Dominic Cummings has said.Johnson is already battling damaging "Partygate" allegations that he and staff attended boozy events during lockdowns and a senior civil servant is investigating the claims.The prime minister has apologised for a May 20, 2020, party in the garden of Downing Street, but said he did not know about it in advance and thought he was attending a work event.Cummings, who himself has been accused of breaking lockdown rules in spring 2020, made the claim on social media on Monday evening. He has repeatedly attacked his former boss since resigning in November 2020.Johnson's former chief adviser wrote that the party was arranged by the prime minister's principal private secretary, who was told by two senior officials to cancel it and would have checked this with Johnson.Cummings said he himself warned the prime minister over the party, saying Downing Street was becoming a "madhouse", but Johnson "waved it aside"."The events of 20 May alone, never mind the string of other events, mean the PM lied to Parliament about parties," said Cummings."The suggestion that the PM was warned (about the party) is not true," deputy prime minister Dominic Raab insisted to BBC Radio 4, after a presenter said Cummings "threw a grenade in the direction of his former boss".Raab told Sky News that "the prime minister has been very clear that's not true, accurate".Johnson is facing calls to stand down from several senior MPs over allegations of illegal parties during national lockdown measures.Downing Street has apologised to Queen Elizabeth II after it emerged that his staff held leaving parties during a period of national mourning for her husband, Prince Philip, in April 2021.The Times wrote Tuesday that Johnson has "sustained immense damage" from the revelations.Cummings said in his blog that a May 15, 2020 gathering in the Downing Street garden that he himself is pictured attending along with Johnson and his now-wife Carrie, was not a party, however.He said staff were encouraged to hold meetings outside at the time and while there was wine at the table, they were discussing work issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/british-pm-boris-johnson-lied-about-lockdown-party-ex-aide-claims-101642498731918.html
18-01-2022||World||Flying to Abu Dhabi? UAE to allow only those who have taken booster shots||Facing a nationwide surge in coronavirus cases fueled by the spread of the highly transmissible omicron variant, Abu Dhabi is requiring people entering the city to show proof of booster shots.The government's health app said earlier this week that people entering the capital of the United Arab Emirates must show a “green pass," confirming their vaccination status. The app says that visitors are no longer considered fully vaccinated unless they have received a booster at least six months after their second dose.Those wishing to enter Abu Dhabi also must have have tested negative for the virus within the last two weeks to maintain their “green” status.The emirate has taken a stricter approach to the virus than neighboring Dubai, the freewheeling tourism-dependent hub. Abu Dhabi requires that residents show their green pass before entering public places or government buildings.The UAE boasts among the world's highest vaccination rates per capita. The country has fully vaccinated more than 90% of its population, health authorities have said. Although infections had plummeted in December, cases recently have skyrocketed to heights unseen in months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/flying-to-abu-dhabi-uae-to-allow-only-those-who-have-taken-booster-shots-101642495614576.html
18-01-2022||World||Explained: Scientists struggle to monitor Tonga volcano after massive eruption||Scientists are struggling to monitor an active volcano that erupted off the South Pacific island of Tonga at the weekend, after the explosion destroyed its sea-level crater and drowned its mass, obscuring it from satellites.The eruption of Hunga-Tonga-Hunga-Ha'apai volcano, which sits on the seismically active Pacific Ring of Fire, sent tsunami waves across the Pacific Ocean and was heard some 2,300 kms (1,430 miles) away in New Zealand."The concern at the moment is how little information we have and that's scary," said Janine Krippner, a New Zealand-based volcanologist with the Smithsonian Global Volcanism Program."When the vent is below water, nothing can tell us what will happen next."Krippner said on-site instruments were likely destroyed in the eruption and the volcanology community was pooling together the best available data and expertise to review the explosion and predict anticipated future activity.Saturday's eruption was so powerful that space satellites captured not only huge clouds of ash but also an atmospheric shockwave that radiated out from the volcano at close to the speed of sound.Photographs and videos showed grey ash clouds billowing over the South Pacific and metre-high waves surging onto the coast of Tonga.There are no official reports of injuries or deaths in Tonga yet but internet and telephone communications are extremely limited and outlying coastal areas remain cut off.'India felt shockwaves too,' reveals IMD: Why Tonga’s volcanic eruption was a big event | ExplainedExperts said the volcano, which last erupted in 2014, had been puffing away for about a month before rising magma, superheated to around 1,000 degrees Celsius, met with 20-degree seawater on Saturday, causing an instantaneous and massive explosion.The unusual "astounding" speed and force of the eruption indicated a greater force at play than simply magma meeting water, scientists said.As the superheated magma rose quickly and met the cool seawater, so did a huge volume of volcanic gases, intensifying the explosion, said Raymond Cas, a professor of volcanology at Australia's Monash University.Some volcanologists are likening the eruption to the 1991 Pinatubo eruption in the Philippines, the second-largest volcanic eruption of the 20th century, which killed around 800 people.The Tonga Geological Services agency, which was monitoring the volcano, was unreachable on Monday. Most communications to Tonga have been cut after the main undersea communications cable lost power.LIGHTNING STRIKESAmerican meteorologist, Chris Vagasky, studied lightning around the volcano and found it increasing to about 30,000 strikes in the days leading up to the eruption. On the day of the eruption, he detected 400,000 lightning events in just three hours, which comes down to 100 lightning events per second.That compared with 8,000 strikes per hour during the Anak Krakatau eruption in 2018, caused part of the crater to collapse into the Sunda Strait and send a tsunami crashing into western Java, which killed hundreds of people.Cas said it is difficult to predict follow-up activity and that the volcano's vents could continue to release gases and other material for weeks or months."It wouldn't be unusual to get a few more eruptions, though maybe not as big as Saturday," he said. "Once the volcano is de-gassed, it will settle down."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/explained-scientists-struggle-to-monitor-tonga-volcano-after-massive-eruption-101642494315228.html
18-01-2022||World||China suspects Covid-19 might arrive in overseas mail||China is urging people to wear masks and gloves when opening mail, especially from abroad, after authorities suggested the first case of the Omicron coronavirus virus variant found in Beijing could have arrived via a package from Canada.Authorities vowed to step up disinfection of overseas mail and are insisting postal staff handling it are fully vaccinated.The precautions come less than three weeks before the capital opens the Winter Olympic Games and as several cities work to stamp out new outbreaks of coronavirus infections."Minimize purchases of overseas goods or receiving mail from abroad," state broadcaster CCTV said late on Monday in a social media post."Be sure to protect yourself during face-to-face handovers and wear masks and gloves; try to open the package outdoors."Health officials said the person found infected with the Omicron variant opened a package from Canada that had been routed through the United States and Hong Kong and transmission via the package "could not be ruled out".The case highlighted the importance of "personal defence", CCTV said.Similar suggestions on how to handle parcels, not just those from overseas, were made by the National Health Commission on its official WeChat account and reposted by authorities in the cities of Shanghai and Nanjing.China has been an outlier in asserting that Covid-19 can be transmitted via cold-chain imports such as frozen meat and fish, even though the World Health Organization has played down the risk, and has been pushing a narrative via state media that the virus existed abroad before it was discovered in late 2019 in the central city of Wuhan.In recent weeks, China has been battling a resurgence in cases in several cities, some of them of the highly transmissible Omicron variant. On Tuesday, it reported 127 new local cases with confirmed symptoms.The State Post Bureau issued a notice on Monday stating that international mail must be disinfected after reaching China, and staffers who process and deliver international mail must have received Covid-19 vaccinations and a booster.China Post has also been reminding recipients of overseas mail to disinfect the contents "in a timely manner" with stickers pasted on parcels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-suspects-covid-19-might-arrive-in-overseas-mail-101642492848270.html
18-01-2022||World||Big blow to BBC as UK govt freezes network's funding for two years||The UK government on Monday announced a freeze of the BBC licence fee, arguing a new funding model was needed to ease cost of living pressures and reflect a transformed media landscape.Culture Secretary Nadine Dorries told parliament the £159 ($217, 190 euros) annual fee, paid by every television set owner in the country, would be fixed for the next two years.After that it will rise in line with inflation for four years, she said, saying the rising annual cost of the compulsory charge was hurting cash-strapped families.The long-term future of the corporation should not depend on a system which criminalises non-payers, she added.But opposition parties linked the move to efforts to keep Prime Minister Boris Johnson in a job, by offering "red meat" to BBC critics, due to anger at lockdown-breaking parties at Downing Street.Labour media spokeswoman Lucy Powell said monthly payments for the licence fee were small change compared to proposed Tory annual tax increases and soaring energy bills totalling thousands of pounds."Is the licence fee really at the heart of the cost of living crisis or is this really about their long-term vendetta against the BBC?" she asked"It's at the heart of Operation Red Meat to stop the prime minister becoming dead meat," she added, referring to a proposed government fight-back plan of populist measures to boost Johnson's standing.The BBC has come under increasing criticism from right-wingers since Britain's divisive Brexit referendum in 2016 for alleged political bias, and pushing a "woke", London-centric liberal agenda.But the public service broadcaster, which this year marks its 100th anniversary and has editorial independence from government, has faced similar accusations from the political left.Critics accused Johnson loyalist Dorries, who leaked details of the plan on Twitter on Sunday night after a torrid week for the prime minister, of "cultural vandalism", wrecking a world-renowned British institution.The licence fee funds television, radio and online services, including its popular iPlayer on-demand platform, as well as programming, many of which are exported commercially worldwide.Dorries said discussions about the future of the funding model from 2028 will start "shortly" but change was needed because of evolving media consumption and technological advances."This is 2022, not 1922. We need a BBC that is ready to take the challenges of modern broadcasting, a BBC that will continue to engage the British public and that commands support from across the breadth of the UK, not just the London bubble, a BBC that can thrive alongside Netflix and Amazon Prime and all of its other challenges which attract younger viewers."BBC chairman Richard Sharp and director-general Tim Davie said they were disappointed at the move, warning it would hit British cultural industries and "necessitate tougher choices which will impact licence fee payers".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/big-blow-to-bbc-as-uk-govt-freezes-network-s-funding-for-two-years-101642492383806.html
18-01-2022||World||Omicron scare: Do not order items from abroad, China warns citizens||Chinese health authorities have urged citizens not to order items from overseas after the first case of Omicron infection in Beijing, and a secondary case related to the first, were linked to a parcel from Canada.Health authorities said parcels from abroad could be potentially contaminated with the virus, a new warning issued days ahead of the Winter Olympics scheduled to begin from February 4 in Beijing and neighbouring Hebei province.Residents are being urged to wear masks and gloves when opening parcels from abroad.The person hadn’t left Beijing two weeks before testing positive last week but occasionally handled international mail at work, the Beijing Municipal Health Commission said.Samples taken from the package and some documents inside the mail and handled by the first patient tested positive for the virus.Genetic sequencing shows the variant detected in the patient is different from Omicron-infected patients elsewhere in China but bears “high similarity” to infected travellers from North America and Singapore.Beijing health authorities said the findings mean they cannot rule out the possibility of the person getting infected through overseas parcels.On Tuesday, Beijing reported another new locally-transmitted Covid-19 case for Monday; the second case is confirmed to be a close contact of the first Omicron case in Beijing, the national health commission (NHC) said.The new patient was under medical observation in quarantine on Saturday and tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday.“Virologists warned of the high risk of packages from overseas causing domestic Covid-19 flare-ups, when the epidemic overseas is running high, as contaminated packages from epidemic-rampant countries may spread the virus to people with weak immunity through viral particles floating in the air, or people without proper protective gear,” the state-run Global Times reported.The report added that a patient from Shenzhen in southern China, confirmed to be infected with Omicron on Sunday, is likely to have contracted it after being exposed to contaminated goods from overseas.The Chinese mainland on Monday reported 127 new locally transmitted Covid-19 cases, the NHC said in its daily report on Tuesday.Of the new local cases, 102 were reported in Henan, 18 in Tianjin, five in Guangdong, and one each in Beijing and Shaanxi, the commission said.The total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases on the mainland had reached 105,258 by Monday since the pandemic began while the death toll stood 4,636.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/omicron-scare-do-not-order-items-from-abroad-china-warns-citizens-101642492364878.html
18-01-2022||World||One in 10 Covid-19 patients may still infect after quarantine period: Study||One in ten people may still be infectious for SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19, after the 10 day quarantine period, according to a study.The research, published recently in the International Journal of Infectious Diseases, used a newly adapted test which can detect whether the virus was potentially still active.The test was applied to samples from 176 people in Exeter, UK, who had tested positive on standard PCR tests.The team led by researchers at the University of Exeter found that 13 per cent of people still exhibited clinically-relevant levels of virus after 10 days, meaning they could potentially still be infectious.Some people retained these levels for up to 68 days, the researchers found.They believe this new test should be applied in settings where people are vulnerable, to stop the spread of COVID-19."While this is a relatively small study, our results suggest that potentially active virus may sometimes persist beyond a 10 day period, and could pose a potential risk of onward transmission," said Professor Lorna Harries, of the University of Exeter Medical School, who oversaw the study."Furthermore, there was nothing clinically remarkable about these people, which means we wouldn't be able to predict who they are," Harries said.Conventional PCR tests work by testing for the presence of viral fragments.While these tests can tell if someone has recently had the virus, they cannot detect whether it is still active, and the person is infectious.However, the test used in the latest study gives a positive result only when the virus is active and potentially capable of onward transmission."In some settings, such as people returning to care homes after illness, people continuing to be infectious after ten days could pose a serious public health risk," said study lead author Merlin Davies, of the University of Exeter Medical School."We may need to ensure people in those setting have a negative active virus test to ensure people are no longer infectious," Davies added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/one-in-10-covid-19-patients-may-still-infect-after-quarantine-period-study-101642489440760.html
18-01-2022||World||Earthquake of 5.3 magnitude jolts western Afghanistan, at least 26 killed||At least 26 people have been killed after an earthquake struck western Afghanistan, media reports said.Hundreds of homes were damaged in the western Badghis province, bordering Turkmenistan, after the 5.3-magnitude earthquake on Monday, Al Jazeera reported.A spokesperson for the province told news agencies the victims died when roofs of their houses collapsed in the Qadis district of the province."Five women and four children are among the 26 people killed in the earthquake," the spokesperson said.Media reports said that the second quake of magnitude 4.9 hit the region two hours after the first.A senior official of the Ministry of State for Emergency Affairs confirmed the death toll and added that more than 700 houses had been damaged, Al Jazeera reported.The earthquake also inflicted damage on the residents of Muqr district in the province but details were still unavailable, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/earthquake-of-5-3-magnitude-jolts-western-afghanistan-at-least-26-killed-101642486587321.html
18-01-2022||World||Health authorities dismiss Canada-link to 1st Omicron case in Beijing||Canadian health authorities have dismissed the Chinese claim that a Covid-19 infection of the Omicron variant detected in Beijing may have been caused by a package received from Canada.While that claim was made by the Beijing Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, it was rejected in Canada.Canada’s health minister Jean-Yves Duclos described that contention as an “extraordinary view”, according to the outlet CBC News.He added that the Chinese accusation was “not in accordance with what we have done both internationally and domestically”.Canada’s chief medical advisor Dr Supriya Sharma told the channel CTV that this was “highly improbable” as the virus on the package would have to survive through international transport. “It would be highly unlikely that that could ever transmit Covid-19,” she said.Similar concerns over mail have been voiced since the Covid-19 pandemic started and been largely rejected. Canada Post has addressed the matter in its section on the coronavirus, saying, “The World Health Organization (WHO) and Public Health Agency of Canada (PHAC) have made public assurances that the risk when handling mail, including international mail, is low”.“In general, because of poor survivability of coronaviruses on surfaces, there is a low risk of spread from products or packaging shipped over a period of days or weeks. Currently, there is no evidence of Covid-19 being transmitted by imported goods or packages,” it noted.The leader of the opposition in Canada Erin O’Toole described the Chinese version as “comical”.The case was detected in a young resident of Beijing who received a parcel from Canada that reached her on January 10, three days after it was posted, and travelled there via the United States and Hong Kong.China has adopted a zero Covid policy as it prepares to host the Winter Olympics in Beijing and an outbreak could disrupt its plans, especially due to high transmissibility of the Omicron variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/health-authorities-dismiss-canada-link-to-1st-omicron-case-in-beijing-101642485768393.html
18-01-2022||World||North Korean missile tests signal return to brinkmanship||Grappling with pandemic difficulties and U.S.-led sanctions over his nuclear ambitions, North Korean leader Kim Jong Un could be reviving his 2017 playbook of nuclear and missile brinkmanship to wrest concessions from Washington and his neighbors.North Korea’s short-range missile launches on Monday were its fourth round of missile tests this month and signaled a refusal to be ignored by the Biden administration, which has focused more on confronting bigger adversaries such as China and Russia.The tests could also reflect a growing urgency in its need for outside relief after its economy decayed further under the severe sanctions and two years of pandemic border closures, experts say.The two missiles launched Monday near the capital, Pyongyang, followed a resumption of railroad freight traffic with China that had been suspended over pandemic concerns, in what is likely an attempt to revive the desperate economy.Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said Monday that trade between Dandong in China and Sinuiju in North Korea will be maintained while pandemic controls stay in place.While North Korea is likely to continue showcasing its weapons in the coming weeks, it could keep things relatively quiet before the opening of the February Winter Olympics in China, its main ally and economic lifeline, launching known short-range missiles rather than more provocative systems.But it could dramatically raise the ante once the Beijing Games end. Du Hyeogn Cha, an analyst at Seoul’s Asan Institute for Policy Studies, said Kim could resume testing nuclear explosives and intercontinental ballistic missiles.Kim suspended nuclear and ICBM tests in 2018 while engaging in talks with former U.S. President Donald Trump. But the diplomacy remains derailed since their second summit in 2019, when the Americans rejected North Korea’s demand for major sanctions relief in exchange for a partial surrender of its nuclear capabilities.North Korea in recent months has ramped up tests of short-range missiles designed to defeat missile defenses in the region.Its leaders may think it needs to stage more provocative tests to move the needle with the Biden administration, which has offered open-ended talks but has shown no willingness to ease sanctions unless Kim takes real steps to abandon his nuclear weapons program.It’s unclear whether nuclear or ICBM tests would extract a compromise from Washington, which is more likely to respond with further sanctions and military pressure, possibly including a resumption of major military drills with South Korea, Cha said.Nam Sung-wook, a North Korea expert at Seoul’s Korea University, said a nuclear test is more likely than an ICBM test because it would send a greater level of shock. The North may use that test to claim it has acquired an ability to produce a nuclear warhead small enough to fit on its purported hypersonic missile, which it first tested in September.Nam said North Korea would time the test to maximize its political effect, with South Korean presidential elections scheduled in March and President Joe Biden facing crucial midterm elections in November. North Korea conducted its sixth and last test of a nuclear explosive device in September 2017.“In Pyongyang’s mind, there is no other way to grab Washington’s attention than a major provocation,” Nam said.North Korea strengthened efforts to expand its weapons capabilities following Kim’s 2021 announcement of a new five-year plan to develop his military forces, with an ambitious wish list that included hypersonic missiles, solid-fuel ICBMs, spy satellites and submarine-launched nuclear missiles.However, the frequency of tests since then exceeds usual technological timelines and apparently reflects Kim’s desire to break out of the country’s current deepening economic problems and international isolation — what appears to be the toughest period of his decade-long rule.“Externally, North Korea is trying to make a statement that it will continue to go its own way regardless of sanctions. Internally, the leadership is trying to tell its people that the supreme leader’s promises will be realized no matter what, whether they be weapons development or overcoming sanctions through a self-reliant economy,” Cha said.“But they are proceeding with the tests at a very fast pace, and this reveals a sense of alarm within Pyongyang’s leadership, that they must get something done with the United States in 2022 or there could be trouble.”According to South Korean estimates, North Korea’s trade with China shrank by about 80% in 2020 before plunging again by two-thirds in the first nine months of 2021. The contraction in 2020 was the biggest since 1997 as grain production dropped to the lowest level since Kim took power in 2011.Describing its anti-coronavirus campaign as a matter of “national existence,” North Korea has severely restricted cross-border traffic and trade for the past two years and is even believed to have ordered troops to shoot on sight any trespassers who cross its borders.Experts say a major COVID-19 outbreak would have devastating consequences because of North Korea’s poor health care system, and could even trigger instability.Its resumption of the train route with China indicates how hard it has become for its leadership to withstand the economic strain caused by border closures, said Park Won Gon, a professor of North Korea studies at Seoul’s Ewha Womans University.For decades, North Korea has mastered the art of brinkmanship, manufacturing diplomatic crises with weapons tests and threats before offering negotiations aimed at extracting concessions. Kim sped up the process in 2017 with a highly provocative run of nuclear and ICBM tests while exchanging threats of nuclear annihilation with Trump before beginning their diplomacy in 2018.North Korea began 2022 with what it claimed were two successful tests of a hypersonic missile, which Kim said would significantly enhance his “war deterrent.” After the Biden administration imposed new sanctions over those launches, North Korea vowed stronger and more explicit action and fired two missiles from a train on Friday.State media photos of Monday’s launch suggest the North tested a weapon that looks similar in appearance with the U.S. MGM-140 Army Tactical Missile System. The missiles, which North Korea first tested in 2019, are part of the country's expanding short-range weaponry designed to be maneuverable and fly at low altitudes, which potentially improves their chances of evading missile defense systems in South Korea and Japan.Park said North Korea’s push to develop and mass-produce such missiles is a key part of its efforts to cement its status as a nuclear power. Its pressure campaign is not only aimed at winning economic benefits but also to negotiate with Washington from a position of power and convert the nuclear diplomacy into talks for mutual arms reduction, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korean-missile-tests-signal-return-to-brinkmanship-101642480122284.html
18-01-2022||World||Imran Khan batted for Afia Siddiqui in his PTI manifesto so did Pak Senate||The involvement of a Pakistani-origin UK national Malik Faisal Akram in the siege at a synagogue in the US state of Texas shows the deep-seated religious radicalisation within Pakistan and UK among Muslim community. If Akram was the spearhead, the Pakistan government has been instrumental in radicalising their own towards pan-Islamic jihadi causes since President Zia-ul-Haq days.The siege at the Congregation Beth Israel in Colleyville was led by Akram, who demanded the release of convicted Pakistani neuroscientist Afia Siddiqui, suspected of ties with Al Qaeda and currently serving an 86-year sentence in the Fort Worth prison after being convicted in 2010 of trying to kill US military officers while in custody in Afghanistan.In the past, the Pakistani government too has tried to free ‘Lady al Qaeda’ - as she is known in the counterterrorism circles. A few years ago, when Barack Obama was the President of the United States, the Pakistan officials had sent a proposal to release the woman in exchange of Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl.In 2018, the Pakistani Senate unanimously passed a resolution to take up the matter of Siddiqui’s release with the US, referring to her as the “daughter of the nation”.Imran Khan, who is now the Prime Minister of Pakistan, competed with other Islamist political parties and jihadist groups to spearhead the campaign to free Siddiqui.The manifesto of Khan-led Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaaf (PTI) grouped Siddiqui among the Overseas Pakistanis and said their “patriotic spirit” is valued by the party.“Overseas Pakistanis are one of our biggest assets, who have consistently been denied access to their citizens' rights and to the opportunity to contribute to Pakistan's economy due to inefficient and incomplete processes along with poor quality infrastructure and services by previous governments. We will ensure voting rights for overseas Pakistanis,” the PTI manifesto said.“We will provide consular and legal services to all Pakistanis jailed abroad. We make best efforts to bring prisoners like Dr. Afia Siddiqui and others back to Pakistan,” it further said.Even the Taliban, which now rules Afghanistan, had shown their keen interest in Siddiqui’s release in exchange of Warren Weinstein, an American aid worker who was kidnapped by al Qaeda in Pakistan in 2011. Weinstein was killed in a US drone strike after being captive for four years.Siddiqui comes from a well-educated Pakistan family with strong religious convictions. She graduated from the prestigious Massachusetts Information of Technology (MIT), and also received a doctorate degree in neurology from Brandeis University.According to US intelligence officials, she appeared to be radicalised after the 9/11 attacks. She was connected to Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the alleged mastermind of the 9/11 attacks and believed to be acting as Al Qaeda’s courier to facilitate the shipping process of ammunition and weapons for a planned attack.US officials say she disappeared in 2003 and re-appeared in 2008 in Afghanistan with the detailed information about American targets.The family of 44-year-old Malik Faisal Akram, the latest to demand Siddiqui’s release, belongs to Jhelum district in Punjab and emigrated to the UK nearly 50 years ago. Malik was a member of Tabligh Jamaat and had travelled abroad earlier on work related to it, according to intelligence officials. He was married to a Gujrati Muslim lady and has five sons and a daughter.His father is a known member of Muslim community in London and the family has political links through Malik Irfan, a Councillor linked to Labor Party, the officials further said.Before carrying out the attack on the synagogue in Texas, he posted a Facebook Live video where Akram talked about his plans.US President Joe Biden called the hostage-taking an "act of terror", with the UK condemning the attack soon after.
18-01-2022||World||Omicron: With 74 fatalities, Australia suffers deadliest day of Covid pandemic||Australia on Tuesday suffered its deadliest day of the pandemic as a fast-moving Omicron outbreak continued to push up hospitalisation rates to record levels, even as daily infections eased slightly.Australia is dealing with its worst COVID-19 outbreak, fuelled by the Omicron variant of the coronavirus that has put more people in hospitals and intensive care than at any time during the pandemic.A total of 74 deaths were registered by late morning between New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland, Australia's three most populous states, exceeding the previous national high of 57 last Thursday, official data showed."Today, is a very difficult day for our state," New South Wales Premier Dominic Perrottet said during a media briefing as the state reported 36 deaths, a new pandemic high.Perrottet, who has consistently ruled out any tough curbs due to high vaccination levels, said hospitals can still cope with the rising number of admissions. "Despite the challenges, they are not unique to the rest of the world," he said.Amid rising hospitalisations, Victoria on Tuesday declared a "code brown" in hospitals, typically reserved for shorter-term emergencies, that would give hospitals the power to cancel non-urgent health services and cancel staff leave.Authorities have said unvaccinated younger people form a "significant number" of the country's hospital admissions.Even as states look to avoid lockdowns and keep businesses open, Australian consumer confidence took a battering last week, an ANZ survey out on Tuesday showed, as the Omicron surge triggered self-imposed lockdowns and stifled spending.Omicron has also dented Prime Minister Scott Morrison's approval ratings, according to a widely watched poll on Tuesday, putting opposition Labor into a leading position months out from a federal election.Just over 67,000 new infections were reported in New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland and Tasmania, down from a national high of 150,000 last Thursday. Other states are due to report later.Australia has reported about 1.6 million infections since the pandemic began, of which around 1.3 million were in the last two weeks. Total deaths stood at 2,757. (Reporting by Renju Jose; editing by Richard Pullin)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/omicron-with-74-fatalities-australia-suffers-deadliest-day-of-covid-pandemic-101642470307073.html
18-01-2022||World||China virus cases at highest level in nearly two years||The number of Covid-19 cases in China reached its highest level since March 2020 on Monday, as Beijing races to smother outbreaks just three weeks before hosting the Winter Olympics and ahead of the Lunar New Year holiday.China, where the virus first emerged in late 2019, has stuck to a strict policy of targeting zero Covid cases. But its approach has come under pressure in recent weeks. On Monday there were 223 more cases reported, including another 80 in the virus-hit port city of Tianjin, and nine more - including cases of the highly transmissible Omicron variant - in the southern manufacturing hub of Guangdong.Another 68 cases were reported across central Henan province, where partial lockdowns and mass testing have been rolled out for millions of residents.Zhuhai, the mainland city bordering the gambling hub of Macau, has told residents to avoid leaving the city after detecting a handful of Omicron cases and started testing the whole city from Monday.China on Monday cancelled plans to sell tickets to the public for the Winter Olympics in Beijing, allowing only invitees to view the action as part of strict virus control measures.Pakistani health authorities on Monday announced the completion of a successful clinical trial of Chinese traditional herbal medicine for treating Covid-19. The Chinese medicine, Jinhua Qinggan Granules manufactured by Juxiechang (Beijing) pharmaceutical, is already being used in treatment of Covid-19 patients in China.Top US general tests +veUS joint chiefs chairman General Mark Milley tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday and is experiencing very minor symptoms while isolating and working remotely, a spokesman said on Monday.US Covid adviser Anthony Fauci said it’s too soon to know whether the rapid spread of the Omicron variant will hasten the end of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-virus-cases-at-highest-level-in-nearly-two-years-101642467043791.html
18-01-2022||World||Asteroid twice the size of Burj Khalifa to fly past Earth on January 18||A huge asteroid bigger than the size of Burj Khalifa is set to fly past Earth at a 1,230,000-mile distance on January 18. The asteroid 7482, also known as 1994 PC1, is about 1.6 km wide and has been categorised by US space agency Nasa as a “potentially hazardous object” due to its relative proximity to the Earth while shooting past.Nasa identifies asteroids as potentially hazardous if the asteroids are more than about 140 meters in size with orbits that bring them as close as within 4.6 million miles of Earth’s orbit around the Sun. It is also a Near-Earth Object since it is closer than 1.3au astronomical units, little over the distance between the Earth and the Sun. One au is the equivalent of 93 million miles.While an asteroid of such size can cause huge damage on Earth, Nasa assured that 1994 PC1 will safely fly past the planet 1.2 million miles away. Near-Earth #asteroid 1994 PC1 (~1 km wide) is very well known and has been studied for decades by our #PlanetaryDefense experts. Rest assured, 1994 PC1 will safely fly past our planet 1.2 million miles away next Tues., Jan. 18.Track it yourself here: https://t.co/JMAPWiirZh pic.twitter.com/35pgUb1anqThe closest approach of the potentially dangerous asteroid to Earth will occur at 4.51pm EST on January 18 (3.21am IST on January 19). It will be the closest for this asteroid for at least the next 200 years for which astronomers have calculated its orbit, according to EarthSky.The most recent asteroid to hit the planet was eight years ago in Russia which exploded in the atmosphere.Nasa recently launched a mission to deliberately smash a spacecraft into an asteroid as a test run to stop a giant space rock from wiping out life on Earth. The spacecraft is expected to hit the asteroid in the fall of 2022, when the binary asteroid system of Dimorphos and Didymos is 11 million kilometres from Earth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/asteroid-twice-the-size-of-burj-khalifa-fly-past-earth-on-january-18-101642465214654.html
18-01-2022||World||4th vaccine dose provides limited defence against Omicron, shows Israel study||An Israeli hospital on Monday said preliminary research indicates a fourth dose of the coronavirus vaccine provides only limited defense against the omicron variant that is raging around the world.Sheba Hospital last month began administering a fourth vaccine to more than 270 medical workers — 154 who received a Pfizer-BioNtech vaccine and 120 others who received Moderna's. All had previously been vaccinated three times with the Pfizer-BioNtech vaccine.The clinical trial found that both groups showed increases in antibodies “slightly higher” than following the third vaccine last year. But it said the increased antibodies did not prevent the spread of omicron.“Despite increased antibody levels, the fourth vaccine only offers a partial defense against the virus,” said Dr. Gili Regev-Yochay, director of the hospital's infection disease unit. “The vaccines, which were more effective against previous variants, offer less protection versus omicron."The preliminary results raised questions about Israel's decision to offer a second booster shot — and fourth overall — to its over-60 population. The government says over 500,000 people have received the second booster in recent weeks.Dr. Nahman Ash, director of Israel's Health Ministry, said the research did not mean the fourth vaccine effort was a mistake. “It returns the level of antibodies to what it was at the beginning of the third booster. That has great importance, especially among the older population,” he told Channel 13 TV.But he said the research would be taken into account as authorities debate whether to expand the additional booster campaign to the broader population.Israel was one of the first countries last year to widely vaccinate its population and last summer became the first to offer a booster shot. The latest booster campaign for older Israelis also is believed to be the first of its kind in the world.Israel's aggressive vaccination efforts have not been able to stop an omicron outbreak in recent weeks. The variant has caused record-setting infection levels and sent a growing number of people to the hospital, though the numbers of seriously ill remain below previous waves.It has also forced large numbers of Israelis into quarantine, straining schools and businesses.Omicron is already dominant in many countries and can also infect those who have been vaccinated or had previously been infected by prior versions of the virus. Early studies, however, show it is less likely to cause severe illness than the previous delta variant. Vaccination and a booster still offer strong protection from serious illness, hospitalization and death.On Tuesday, the Israeli government said it was shortening the mandatory quarantine period from seven days to five days in order to help keep the economy running."This decision will enable us to continue safeguarding public health on the one hand and to keep the economy going at this time on the other, even though it is difficult, so that we can get through this wave safely,” said Prime Minister Naftali Bennett.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/4th-vaccine-dose-provides-limited-defence-against-omicron-shows-israel-study-101642463092019.html
18-01-2022||World||US airlines warn of 'calamity' if 5G deployed near airports||The chief executives of America's largest airlines warned of a "catastrophic disruption" to travel and shipping operations if telecommunication firms roll out their 5G technology as planned Wednesday without limiting the technology near US airports.Verizon and AT&T have already twice delayed the launch of their new C-Band 5G service, due to warnings from airlines and aircraft manufacturers concerned that the new system might interfere with the devices planes use to measure altitude."We are writing with urgency to request that 5G be implemented everywhere in the country except within the approximate two miles of airport runways as defined by the FAA on January 19, 2022," the CEOs said in a Monday letter obtained by AFP.The executives, writing to Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg and other US government officials, highlighted the risk of "economic calamity" should Verizon and AT&T proceed with deploying the new technology before the necessary upgrades and changes have been made to aviation equipment."To be blunt, the nation's commerce will grind to a halt," they said.The Federal Aviation Administration said Sunday it had approved some transponders to be safely operated within areas where 5G will be deployed, clearing "as many as 48 of the 88 airports most directly affected by 5G C-Band interference."But the airlines are worried that remaining limitations at those airports, as well as a large amount of equipment still uncertified, could trigger a crisis including the grounding of thousands of flights.In addition to the transport secretary, their letter was addressed to the head of the FAA, the head of the Federal Communications Commission and the White House's National Economic Council.US airlines also have protested against the potential costs incurred.The executives called on authorities to "take whatever action necessary to ensure that 5G is deployed except when towers are too close to airport runways until the FAA can determine how that can be safely accomplished without catastrophic disruption."The letter was signed by CEOs of major airlines including American, United, Delta and Southwest, as well as the leaders of shipping giants FedEx and UPS."Immediate intervention is needed to avoid significant operational disruption to air passengers, shippers, supply chain and delivery of needed medical supplies," they wrote."In addition to the chaos caused domestically," the letter continues, the lack of certified planes "could potentially strand tens of thousands of Americans overseas."Verizon and AT&T won contracts worth tens of billions of dollars last February to operate 5G in the 3.7-3.98 GHz frequency bands, and the rollout of the service was due to begin on December 5.Unless the major telecommunications companies are blocked by federal regulators or reach an agreement with the airlines, they are now scheduled to turn on their 5G service nationwide on January 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-airlines-warn-of-calamity-if-5g-deployed-near-airports-101642462671046.html
18-01-2022||World||Boris Johnson’s ex-aide accuses him of lying to UK Parliament||Boris Johnson’s former top aide Dominic Cummings accused the premier of lying to Parliament, saying he would “swear under oath” that the premier both was aware of and allowed a drinks party at Downing Street at the height of lockdown during the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.It’s the latest tirade by Cummings against his former boss since he was forced from his position 14 months ago. His Jan. 7 post about a Downing Street party on May 20, 2020 attended by Johnson forced the prime minister to apologize in the House of Commons and left him fighting to save his career.Now Cummings is again upping the ante, by saying Johnson misled lawmakers.In his statement last week, Johnson said he thought he was attending a “work” gathering and that he only stayed for 25 minutes. His office has also repeatedly said the prime minister was not aware of the event beforehand, and did not receive the widely reported “bring your own booze” email invitation from his principal private secretary, Martin Reynolds. After several newspapers reported over the weekend Johnson had been urged not to let party go ahead, his spokesman Max Blain reiterated it was “not accurate” to suggest he knew about the May 20 event. “It’s untrue to say that the prime minister was told or warned ahead of that,” he said.Yet hours later, Cummings wrote on his blog that Johnson not only knew about the party but agreed with Reynolds it should go ahead after “at least two” people raised concerns. “Not only me but other eyewitnesses who discussed this at the time would swear under oath this is what happened.”“The events of 20 May alone, never mind the string of other events, mean the PM lied to Parliament about parties,” Cummings said.The charge is especially sensitive because many Tory MPs have said they are waiting for the result of a government probe into the party -- as well as other allegations of pandemic rule-breaking in Downing Street -- before deciding whether Johnson has misled them and whether they still back his leadership.Rules banning social gatherings were still in place in May 2020 as the U.K., which suffered one of the world’s biggest death tolls from coronavirus, battled to contain the first wave of the pandemic. Johnson’s administration has been dogged by reports of other parties that broke regulations. In December, the prime minister told the House of Commons he had been “furious” to see a clip of Downing Street aides joking about a Christmas party during the second lockdown -- but said he had been “repeatedly assured” there was “no party and no Covid rules were broken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boris-johnson-s-ex-aide-accuses-him-of-lying-to-uk-parliament-101642462650956.html
18-01-2022||World||Seven killed in crackdown on rallies in Sudan's capital: Report||Organisers of anti-military rallies in Sudan's capital Khartoum announced an escalation of protests after security forces used gunfire and teargas on Monday to disperse demonstrations against a coup and medics said seven people had been killed.Security forces fired volleys of tear gas as they blocked thousands of protesters from advancing on Khartoum's presidential palace, and several injured civilians could be seen bleeding heavily in the street, a Reuters witness said.They also fired live ammunition and stun grenades, said the Central Committee of Sudanese Doctors, a group of medics aligned with the protest movement, which reported seven deaths.Medics told Reuters that many others were being treated for injuries at Khartoum hospitals."The military prepared a massacre for us today, and all we've done is ask for civilian rule and democracy," said Mohamed Babaker, a 19-year-old student.A police spokesman said a statement would be released later. Government sources put the death toll from Monday at three.Huge crowds have regularly taken to the streets demanding a return to civilian rule since the military coup on Oct. 25 ended a power-sharing arrangement agreed after Islamist autocrat Omar al-Bashir fell during a popular uprising in 2019.Medics say at least 70 people have died in clashes with security forces since the coup.A security and defence committee formed under the ruling council commended security services on Monday for their "restraint" and protection of civilians, paying tribute to a police officer killed in protests on Thursday.It said in a statement that it would establish an anti-terrorism force to counter "potential threats", but did not elaborate. State Department spokesman Ned Price said on Twitter the United States is "concerned by reports of escalating violence against protesters in Sudan."He noted Assistant Secretary of State Molly Phee and new Special Envoy David Satterfield "are headed to Khartoum and will reiterate our call for security forces to end violence and respect freedom of expression and peaceful assembly."On Monday, protesters had gathered some two km (1.25 mile) from the palace, blocking a main road in the Al Diyum neighbourhood and burning tires before starting their march.Civilian political parties announced two days of civil disobedience in protest against Monday's violence. Resistance committees organising protests in Khartoum and in its twin city of Omdurman across the Nile called on people to blockade local streets.Last week the United Nations began consultations to try to break a deadlock between military leaders and pro-democracy civilian groups and avert the risk of further instability.After the coup military leaders reinstated Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok in an attempt to safeguard economic reforms, but he resigned earlier this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/seven-killed-in-crackdown-on-rallies-in-sudan-s-capital-report-101642452945735.html
18-01-2022||World||US condemns Houthi attack on Abu Dhabi, UAE says reserves right to respond||Yemen's Iran-aligned Houthi group attacked the United Arab Emirates, setting off explosions in fuel trucks that killed three people on Monday and caused a fire near the airport of Abu Dhabi, drawing condemnation from the United States.The strike on a leading Gulf Arab ally of the United States takes the war between the Houthi group and a Saudi-led coalition to a new level, and may hinder efforts to contain regional tensions as Washington and Tehran work to rescue a nuclear deal."The UAE condemns this terrorist attack by the Houthi militia on areas and civilian facilities on Emirati soil...(It) will not go unpunished," the foreign ministry said in a statement. "The UAE reserves the right to respond to these terrorist attacks and criminal escalation."National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan in a statement said "The United States strongly condemns today’s terrorist attack in Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates, which killed three innocent civilians. The Houthis have claimed responsibility for this attack, and we will work with the UAE and international partners to hold them accountable."The Houthi group said that missiles and drones carried out the strike.The UAE, a member of the Saudi-led coalition, has armed and trained local Yemeni forces that recently joined fighting against the Houthis in Yemen's energy-producing Shabwa and Marib regions."With (nuclear) negotiators running out of time, the risk of a deterioration in the region's security climate is rising," said Torbjorn Soltvedt, principal MENA analyst at risk intelligence company Verisk Maplecroft.The Houthi movement has frequently launched cross-border missile and drone attacks on Saudi Arabia, but has claimed few such attacks on the UAE, mostly denied by Emirati authorities.Houthi military spokesman Yahya Sarea said the group launched five ballistic missiles and "a large number" of drones at Dubai and Abu Dhabi airports, an oil refinery in Musaffah and several "sensitive and important" sites in the UAE. Abu Dhabi police said three people were killed and six wounded when three fuel tanker trucks exploded in the industrial Musaffah area near storage facilities of oil firm ADNOC. State media said those killed were two Indians and a Pakistani.Abu Dhabi police said initial investigations found parts of small planes that could possibly be drones at the sites in Musaffah and Abu Dhabi airport, but they made no mention of missiles.ADNOC said an incident at its Mussafah Fuel Depot at 10 a.m. local time had resulted in a fire. Police closed the road leading to the area, where unverified footage on social media had shown thick black smoke."ADNOC is deeply saddened to confirm that three colleagues have died. A further six colleagues were injured and received immediate specialist medical care," it said.An Etihad Airways spokesperson said a small number of flights were briefly disrupted at Abu Dhabi airport due to "precautionary measures", but normal operations quickly resumed.The Houthi military spokesman warned the group could target "more important" facilities in the UAE next.PROXY FIGHTUnited Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres condemned Monday's attack and called "upon all parties to exercise maximum restraint and prevent any escalation amid heightened tensions in the region," his spokesperson said.Riyadh and Abu Dhabi had moved to engage directly with Iran in recent months to avoid any wider conflict that could hurt regional economic ambitions. The Yemen war is widely seen as a proxy war between Sunni Muslim Saudi Arabia and Shi'ite Iran.The Houthi strike could derail UAE and wider Gulf dialogue with Iran, said UAE political analyst Abdulkhaleq Abdulla."The UAE is not going to take this very lightly," he said.The attack coincided with a visit to the UAE by South Korean President Moon Jae-in. A Blue House official said a summit between Moon and Abu Dhabi's crown prince was cancelled.Given the range of Houthi attacks against Saudi Arabia it was not "technically surprising" the group would be able to hit UAE targets, said Jean-Loup Samaan, senior research fellow at the National University of Singapore's Middle East Institute.Other Gulf Arab states condemned the attack. There was no immediate comment from Iranian officials, but Iran's Tasnim news agency reported it as an "important operation".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-condemns-houthi-attack-on-abu-dhabi-uae-says-reserves-right-to-respond-101642450029757.html
18-01-2022||World||At least 26 dead after magnitude-5.3 earthquake hits western Afghanistan||At least 26 people were killed after an earthquake hit western Afghanistan on Monday, an official said.The victims died when roofs of their houses collapsed in Qadis district in the western province of Badghis, spokesman for the province Baz Mohammad Sarwary told AFP.The shallow quake was magnitude 5.3, according to the US Geological Survey."Five women and four children are among the 26 people killed in the earthquake," said Sarwary, adding that four more were injured.The quake also inflicted damage on the residents of Muqr district in the province but details including of casualties were still unavailable, he said.Afghanistan is already in the grip of a humanitarian disaster, worsened by the Taliban takeover of the country in August when Western countries froze international aid and access to assets held abroad.Qadis is one of the areas worst affected by a devastating drought, benefiting little from international aid in the past 20 years.The country is frequently hit by earthquakes, especially in the Hindu Kush mountain range, which lies near the junction of the Eurasian and Indian tectonic plates.Earthquakes can cause significant damage to poorly built homes and buildings in impoverished Afghanistan.In 2015, nearly 280 people were killed when a powerful 7.5-magnitude earthquake centred in the mountain range ripped across South Asia, with the bulk of the deaths in Pakistan.In that disaster, 12 young Afghan girls were crushed to death in a stampede as they tried to flee their shaking school building.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-least-12-dead-after-magnitude-5-3-earthquake-hits-western-afghanistan-101642439780260.html
18-01-2022||World||2 Indians killed in fires triggered by suspected Houthi drone attack in Abu Dhabi||Two Indian nationals were among three people killed in explosions and fires that followed a suspected drone attack by Yemen’s Houthi rebels on Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates (UAE).Abu Dhabi Police were cited by state-run Emirates News Agency WAM as saying that two Indians and a Pakistani national were killed and six more injured in a fire that triggered an explosion in three petroleum transport tankers near ADNOC’s storage tanks at the Industrial City of Abu Dhabi.Another fire broke out in a new construction area of Abu Dhabi international airport. Police said both fires had been brought under control by afternoon.“Preliminary investigations suggest that the cause of the fires are small flying objects, possibly belonging to drones that fell in the two areas” WAM reported without giving details.Also Read | Abu Dhabi fire: Embassy in touch with UAE officials over 2 Indians' deathThe Indian embassy in Abu Dhabi said UAE authorities had informed the Indian side of the death of two Indian nationals.“UAE authorities have informed that the explosion at Mussafah, near ADNOC’s storage tanks, has led to 3 casualties, which includes 2 Indian nationals. The Mission @IndembAbuDhabi is in close touch with concerned UAE authorities for further details,” the embassy said in a tweet.Houthi military spokesman Yahia Sarei said the group had launched an attack deep inside the UAE. He didn’t provide details and said a statement would be released.The Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC) storage facility, where the three tankers caught fire, is some 1,800 km northeast of Saada, the Houthi stronghold in Yemen.The attack in Abu Dhabi comes about a fortnight after Houthi rebels seized the UAE-flagged vessel Rwabee with 11 crew members, including seven Indian nationals, in the Red Sea. India and the UAE have demanded the immediate release of the crew members on January 11.Yemen has witnessed intense fighting since Houthi rebels seized the capital Sanaa in 2014. The UAE is part of the Saudi-led coalition that intervened in support of the government in 2015.The coalition has carried out attacks against the Iran-backed Houthi rebels. Though the UAE has decreased the number of troops it has on the ground, it continues to support militias fighting the Houthis and cooperates with the US in counter-terrorism efforts in Yemen.
18-01-2022||World||Media, journalists lost independence after Taliban takeover last yr: Report||Since the Taliban took control of Afghanistan in mid-August, media and journalists have lost their independence in the crisis-torn country, local media reported.On Monday, the Home of Freedom of Speech, in a statement, expressed concern about the situation of media, Afghan journalists, freedom of speech, and freedom of media after the Taliban takeover, Khaama Press reported.The statement said that media and journalists in Afghanistan have lost their independence and they have systematically been censored by de facto authorities in Kabul.Censorship has different roots and that most of the roots belong to the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan (IEA), the statement said."Afghan media and journalists have been pressurized by the intelligence of the IEA unprecedentedly and they want to turn the media into their propaganda platforms. The intelligence has succeeded to do so to a certain extent because they are using different methods as a threat, force, and pressures," Khaama Press quoted the statement.The Home of Freedom of Speech has claimed that the Taliban go to the newsrooms of media and tell the journalists to cover stories in their favor as they live under their rule, Khaama Press reported.It further stated that most of the prominent journalists have left jobs because they did not want to be used for propaganda for the Taliban.The Home of Freedom of Speech has asked the IEA to stop censoring media and putting pressure on Afghan journalists and also asked international media advocates so that the lives of journalists are protected and the gain of past two decades are preserved.The Taliban took over control of Kabul on August 15 and following this the country has been battered by deepening economic, humanitarian and security crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/media-journalists-lost-independence-after-taliban-takeover-last-yr-report-101642481053820.html
18-01-2022||India||In Odisha, over 10,000 villages are now free from child-marriage||Even as the debate over a hike in the age of marriage for girls from 18 years to 21 years rages in the country following the introduction of the Prohibition of Child Marriage(Amendment) Bill 2021, over 10,000 villages in Odisha in more than two years have declared themselves to be free from the bane of child marriage.Officials in the state women and child development department said after unveiling of the Strategic Action Plan in 2019 to completely stop the marriage of girls below 18 years and boys below 21 years, the department has managed to make over 10,000 villages child-marriage free.“Through the action plan, we developed a robust management information system for proper monitoring of such marriages at village level and involved Anganwadi workers, Panchayati Raj institution functionaries as well as village elders. Though we have a long way to go we hope to succeed,” said Bhaskar Jyoti Sarma, secretary in the women and child development department.In the National Family Health Survey-4 conducted in 2015-16, the rate of child marriage among girls in Odisha was 21.3, lower than the national average of 26.8. In the National Family Health Survey-5 conducted in 2019-21, the results of which were revealed in November last year, the child marriage rates among girls had dropped to 20.5, indicating that Odisha was doing well in preventing marriages among girls below the age of 18 years.However, the same survey revealed that half of the 30 districts of Odisha had a child marriage prevalence rate of more than 20%. At 39.4%, Nabarangpur reported the highest child marriage incidents followed by Nayagarh (35.7%), Koraput (35.5%), Malkangiri (32.4%), Rayagada (33.2%) and Mayurbhanj (31.2%). Other 7 districts reporting more than 20% are Balasore, Boudh, Dhenkanal, Gajapati, Dhenkanal, Angul and Ganjam. NGO workers on the ground said poverty is one of the main reasons for families to opt for child marriage. “Girls from poor households are more likely to marry as it would lead to reduction in the size of the family while boys under the age of 21 years are married as it would lead to adding one more working hand in the family,” said Ghasiram Panda, national manager for NGO Action Aid India’s Ending Child Marriage Programme.Officials said the 10,000 villages claiming that they were child-marriage free over the last 2 years was a result of several innovative practices adopted by the respective district administration.In Ganjam district which is among the 15 districts where child marriage is quite prevalent, the district collector started a programme called Nirbhaya Kadhi which translates to Fearless Bud. “The campaign was initiated in 2019 from the village level in which all stakeholders including the adolescent girls, Anganwadi workers, ASHA workers and PRI members were made member of a committee that keeps an eye on such marriages. We asked heads of all schools to inform the administration if any girl aged between 12 and 18 remains absent from school for five days and then follow up with the families of the girls through teachers and other grassroots workers,” said Ganjam district collector Vijaya Amrita Kulange. The district administration also raised the reward for any tip-off about child marriages from ₹5,000 to ₹50,000. The administration also made the production of Aadhaar card mandatory for any marriages to take place. “As part of the campaign, every 3rd Saturday of the month was called Nirbhaya Kadhi day for effective engagement and awareness against child marriages,” he said. The Ganjam district administration was able to stop 450 child marriages and video-record 48,383 marriages in 2020 and 2021.In Boudh, another district which sees a high percentage of girls under the age of 18 years getting married, the district officials have formed village-level child marriage prevention committees that meet once a month to see which families would have marriage functions. “Marriage registers are maintained in each village and in the event of any family found to be marrying off their daughter under the age of 18 years and son under the age of 21 years then they are counselled and prevailed upon. If counselling is not successful, then the girl is rescued and rehabilitated till she turns 18 years,” said Rahul Pradhan, district child protection officer of Boudh.The efforts taken have led to over half of the 700-odd villages in the district being child marriage free.In the western Odisha district of Sonepur, the district authorities are running a Sankalp campaign in every village through formation of child marriage prevention committees in villages. Every Thursday, meetings are organised in villages to raise awareness against child marriage. The villages too maintain marriage registers to keep a check on any family trying to get underage boys and girls married off. “So far 767 of the 960 villages have been made child marriage free due to the efforts of the administration and villagers,” said Rakesh Pradhan, district coordinator of Action Aid.In Deogarh district, the village committee has made it mandatory for families to provide a copy of Aadhar of the bride and groom before any marriage can happen.Though there are no particular parameters for any village to be declared as child marriage free, the standard guideline is it should have a functioning task force, a database of all adolescents, no instance of child marriages for the last two years, a duly maintained register of the task force and submission of the villagers to declare the village ‘child marriage free’.“All these things are then sent to the district collector and finally the women and child development department in Bhubaneswar. Once the chief child marriage prohibition officer in Bhubaneswar approves of it then the village is declared child marriage free,” said Ghasiram Panda of Action Aid.Officials said the NFHS-5 may not have managed to reflect the actual drop in child marriages. “We have managed to prevent around 2000 marriages in the last 2 years and managed to impress a large number of people about the criminal part of the action through sustained campaign. The next round of NFHS would surely show that Odisha’s child marriage rates have dropped drastically,” said a senior officer of the department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-odisha-over-10-000-villages-are-now-free-from-childmarriage-101642529396116.html
18-01-2022||India||Odisha to open 5000 playschools near Anganwadi centres to build foundation for primary classes||The Odisha school and mass education department plans to start playschools in 5000 elementary schools near Anganwadi centres in the state from the coming academic year of 2022-23. The playschools will be on the lines of similar ventures by schools following the NCERT syllabus to develop a strong foundation in children for literacy and numeracy and to prepare them for classes 1 to 3 as well as improve the quality of education.A meeting chaired by chief secretary Suresh Mohapatra recently decided that children upto the age of 5 will attend the Anganwadi centres for supplementary nutrition programmes from 9 am to 10 am, and then participate in the academic activities near such elementary schools under the guidance of the school from 10 am to 12.30 pm. After that the children will take the mid-day meal from the Anganwadi centre.A senior official who attended the meeting said the academic matter of the Play Class (any other name can be given) will be the responsibility of the government school. The CRCCs and DIETs will monitor and provide academic support to the teachers. “Opening of the Play Class in the primary schools located at AWCs will help to ensure maximum enrolment of children in the Government Schools in the Urban and semi-urban areas and develop a strong readiness of children for Foundational Literacy and Numeracy in grades 1 to 3 to improve quality education,” he indicated.Initially the Anganwadi workers will remain present in the class for some portion of the day with the school teachers and provide support to the children/teacher. Gradually, once the children are acquainted with the school teacher, the Anganwadi workers will be withdrawn.The official added that Odisha would be following the pre-school curriculum released by the National Council of Educational Research and Training in 2019 and all pre-schoolers will be taught in their mother tongue or home language.The school and mass education department will give training to 2 teachers (preferably female) from each school on handling small children, ensuring proper transition from play class to Grade l, creating child friendly learning situations etc.Officials said an activity-based curriculum, guided nature study, use of fun activities and use of flip books would be adopted in the Play Class. The activities of the Play Class will be in the light of the NCERT curriculum with exposure to common English words and rhymes etc will be followed in the Play Class.The medium of instruction in the tribal dominated areas will be in the tribal language. The Chief Secretary has instructed officials to ensure development of materials in tribal languages. A concept paper of the initiative and action plan along with the responsibilities of each government department for obtaining government approval is being prepared.The Odisha government last year launched Mission Ek, Dui, Teen from the 2021-22 academic session to improve the foundational literacy and numeracy skills of students through innovative pedagogies as part of the National Initiative for Proficiency in Reading with Understanding and Numeracy (NIPUN Bharat) to cover the learning needs of children in the age group of 3 to 9 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-to-open-5000-playschools-near-anganwadi-centres-to-build-foundation-for-primary-classes-101642527412552.html
18-01-2022||India||After Delhi snub, Stalin says Tamil Nadu’s tableau to be part of R-Day celebrations in Chennai||Tamil Nadu’s tableau that was rejected by a Central panel for the Republic Day parade in Delhi this year will now be a part of the state’s celebrations on January 26 in Chennai. The same will also be displayed in other major cities across the state, chief minister MK Stalin said on Tuesday.Stalin’s statement came hours after Union defence minister Rajnath Singh wrote to him saying that the state’s tableau did not make it to the final list of 12 tableaux selected for the parade at Rajpath in Delhi.“Tamil Nadu’s tableau designed to celebrate the contributions of those from the state in the freedom struggle has been denied permission to participate in the Republic Day parade in Delhi. To exhibit Tamil Nadu’s contributions to the freedom fight and the state’s patriotism, the tableau will be a part of the state’s Republic Day celebrations. It will also be sent to all major cities in TN for public viewing,” the CM said in a statement.Also read | Rajnath writes to Stalin, Mamata amid row over R-Day parade tableaux snubHe said efforts will be made towards holding a photo exhibition, titled “Tamil Nadu in freedom fight”, which was recently displayed in Chennai.A day ago, Stalin had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking his urgent intervention in the exclusion of the tableau that he said would hurt the sentiments of the people of the state. He said the expert committee concerned had not invited the state representatives for the fourth round of discussions after being selected in the first three rounds.He added that all designs proposed by the state with the theme “Tamil Nadu in Freedom Struggle” had been ignored and rejected by the committee. The tableau was proposed to depict those who fought against the British Raj in the front row and those who fought against the East India Company at the back, the CM had said.The contribution of Tamil Nadu for 250 years in the country’s freedom struggle is equally important as every other state, Stalin said. He said that the Vellore Mutiny, in 1806, half a decade before the Sepoy Mutiny in 1857 was an important starting point to the country’s resistance against the British.He also referred to Velu Nachiyar who lived nearly 75 years before Jhansi Rani and fought and won against the British. Besides, he said the tableau would have featured Poolithevan, Veerapandiya Kattabomman, Veeran Sundaralingam, Marudhupandiyar brothers, Dheeran Chinnamalai, VO Chidambaranar and Subramania Bharathi, who were all part of the freedom struggle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-delhi-snub-stalin-says-tamil-nadu-s-tableau-to-be-part-of-r-day-celebrations-in-chennai-101642525560503.html
18-01-2022||India||Proposed amendment to IAS service rules against spirit of federalism: Mamata to PM||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to roll back the proposed amendment in the existing service rules to ensure the availability of a sufficient number of IAS officers for central deputation.According to a latest proposal from the Union ministry of personnel, the Centre wants each state government to make available for deputation to the central government such a number of eligible officers of various levels to the extent of the Central Deputation Reserve prescribed under existing regulations, adjusted proportionately by the number of officers available with the state government concerned vis-à-vis the total authorised strength of the state cadre at a given point of time.Officials said the proposal will give greater say to the Centre as various state/joint cadres were found to be not sponsoring an adequate number of Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers as part of the central deputation reserve even though the ministry had flagged the issue several times.In her letter, Banerjee said, "I express my strong reservations to the approach followed by the central government in proposing such an amendment to the Cadre Rules which unilaterally mandates the state government to make such a number of officers available for deputation as prescribed under (the) central deputation reserve."West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee writes to PM Modi to withdraw/ not give effect to the proposed amendment on IAS cadre rule 1954. https://t.co/e6G64EC2EuShe said the proposed amendment is "against the spirit of cooperative federalism and it upsets harmonious arrangement between Centre and States in the matter of posting of IAS and IPS officers".If the proposed amendment is implemented, the actual number of officers to be deputed to the central government shall be decided by the Centre government in consultation with the state government concerned.In case of any disagreement, the matter shall be decided by the central government and the state government or state governments concerned shall give effect to the decision of the central government “within a specified time”, it has proposed.Existing rules did not mention any time limit for deciding on such disagreement.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-proposed-amendment-to-ias-service-rules-against-spirit-of-federalism-101642526702456.html
18-01-2022||India||Chhattisgarh court rejects IPS officer GP Singh’s bail plea in DA case||RAIPUR: A special court in Raipur on Tuesday rejected the bail application of suspended Indian Police Service (IPS) officer GP Singh, who was arrested in connection with a disproportionate assets case, and remanded him in judicial remand for 14 days.“The bail plea of Singh was rejected by the court and he has been sent to 14 days judicial remand. We sought bail on the grounds that the case lodged against my client under the sections of 13 1 (b), 13 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, has not been investigated properly before the FIR was registered,” defence lawyer Kamlesh Pandey said.He claimed that as per the rules, there should be an initial investigation before registering an FIR and the accused should have been given a chance to give his statement.“The public prosecutor said that my applicant can influence the witnesses,” Pandey added.Singh, a 1994-batch IPS officer, served as additional director general of ACB and EOW before he was transferred to the state police academy in June last year.The Economic Offence Wing (EOW) produced Singh in the court on Tuesday after his police remand ended. Singh was detained on January 10 by EOW and produced before a special court.EOW carried out searches at around 15 locations linked to Singh between July 1 and 3. Investigators claimed to have discovered documents related to movable and immovable assets worth over ₹10 crore during the raids.An ACB statement on July 3 said documents seized during searches at Singh’s premises suggested that he allegedly amassed assets disproportionate to his known sources of income and indulged in a “massive exchange of money”.“Singh also allegedly tried to commit money laundering by investing in shell companies,” the statement said.
18-01-2022||India||CM Nitish Kumar among 40 new Omicron cases recorded in Bihar||Omicron has emerged as the predominant strain of coronavirus in Bihar after all 40 Covid-19 samples, including that of Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, tested positive for the ‘variant of concern’ during the second round of genome sequencing test at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) on Tuesday. Bihar reported, 4,551 new Covid-19 cases, down from 5,410 on Sunday, taking the total count of active cases to 33,883, officials said. The total number of Omicron cases in the state has now gone up to 67 after the strain was detected in 27 (85%) of the 32 Covid-19 samples tested on January 9. Four samples (12%) were then found to have the Delta variant while one was of an insignificant variant, which remained unknown, IGIMS director Dr NR Biswas had then said. Patna accounted for 55% (22) of the 40 cases of Omicron on Tuesday. Muzaffarpur reported five, followed by Gaya three; Jamui, Khagaria and Munger two each. Samastipur, Saran, Sitamarhi and Bhagalpur had one each, said officials aware of the development. Omicron was detected in the samples of a Patna high court judge, an additional chief secretary rank officer, director of an autonomous medical college hospital as well as its principal, among others, said a second official. The samples were collected between January 1 and 11, the last being of the chief minister after his office tweeted on January 10 that Kumar had tested positive for Covid-19. Prior to testing positive, Kumar had attended the national conference of the Indian Medical Association, attended by nearly 5,000 guests in Patna on December 28. He also undertook inter-district tours as part of his Samaj Sudhar Abhiyan and attended his weekly janata durbars to hear public grievances, which were subsequently put on hold. “Omicron has emerged as the predominant strain of Covid-19 in Bihar. There is definitely a declining trend in the number of new Covid-19 cases, but it is too early to conclude anything at this stage. We are keeping a close watch on the situation. Vaccination and following Covid-appropriate behaviour are the key to slowing down the spread of the virus,” said Pratyaya Amrit, Bihar’s additional chief secretary, health, while addressing a presser later in the evening. The state had logged over 6,300 daily new infections between January 11 and 15. Cases in Patna had also come down from 2,275 on January 12 to 1,218 on Tuesday. “The state’s test positivity rate has also declined from 3.67 on January 14 to 2.94% on Tuesday,” said Amrit. He said the R (reproductive) factor, which was the number of people being infected by a Covid-19 positive patient, had also come down from 4 to less than 2 in the country. “Testing is being done as per government of India guidelines. The test positivity rate is always a better indicator than the number of tests being done,” said Amrit in response to a query on the decrease in the number of tests to around 1.55 lakh a day.
18-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Centre directs states to increase Covid-19 testing, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Centre pulls up states/UTs on drop in Covid testing, cites positivity trendIn a letter, additional secretary in the ministry Arti Ahuja said this was required keeping in view the trend of case positivity in specific geographies within the states and UTs. Read moreKashmir Press Club closure worst kind of state heavy handedness: Editors GuildThe Editors Guild said the move to take back the premises allotted to the largest journalists’ body in the Valley was the "latest act in a sequence of disturbing events". Read morePunjab polls: Eyeing Baba Bakala ticket, Youth Congress leader revolts against party nomineeYouth Congress leader Satinder Singh Chhajjalwaddi on Tuesday gave the party a 24-hour ultimatum to withdraw the candidature of sitting MLA Santokh Singh Bhalaipur from Baba Bakala seat in Amritsar district. Read more'Virat will definitely score a 100': South Africa legend makes big claim about Kohli, predicts outcome of IND vs SA ODIsAfter reliving himself from the captaincy duties, India's premier batter Virat Kohli will look to go full throttle in the three-match 50-over series against South Africa starting from Wednesday. Read moreAndrew Garfield lied to Emma Stone as well about Spider-Man: No Way Home, she called him 'jerk' upon finding outActor Andrew Garfield has revealed his ex-girlfriend and The Amazing Spider-Man co-star Emma Stone did not know about him being a part of Spider-Man: No Way Home either. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-centre-directs-states-to-increase-covid-19-testing-and-all-the-latest-news-101642516288306.html
18-01-2022||India||Kashmir Press Club closure worst kind of state heavy handedness: Editors Guild||The Editors Guild of India on Tuesday expressed its deep anguish at the shutting down of the Kashmir Press Club (KPC) in Jammu and Kashmir, a region, it said, that has seen the “worst kind of state heavy handedness against any independent media".Issuing its second statement in three days since the Jammu and Kashmir administration said the KPC had “ceased to exist” and took back the premises allotted to the largest journalists’ body in the Valley, the Guild said the move was the "latest act in a sequence of disturbing events".The administration's move was preceded by a "shocking breach of institutional norms when a group of people, with the active support of state police and CRPF, took over the office and management of the Club" last Saturday, the Guild said.“The shutting down of the club is the latest act in a sequence of disturbing events, wherein the 're-registration' of the Club was first arbitrarily put ‘in abeyance’ by the Registrar of Societies on January 14th, followed by the shocking breach of institutional norms when a group of people, with the active support of state police and CRPF, took over the office and management of the Club on January 15th,” it said.The Guild added that with the closure of the KPC, an important journalistic institution in a region that has seen the worst kind "state heavy handedness against any independent media has been effectively dismantled".Established in 2018, the Kashmir Press Club has more than 300 members, making it the largest journalists' association in the region."Space for media freedom and active civil society has been steadily eroding in the region. Journalists frequently face intimidation from terror groups as well as the state. They are also charged under heavy penal laws, and are routinely detained by security forces for reporting or for their editorials," read the statement.It also highlighted the killing of Shujaat Bukhari, the editor of Rising Kashmir, by "unknown people" besides the spate of cases filed by the police against journalists and photographers who were even charged with the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA).(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-press-club-closure-worst-kind-of-state-heavy-handedness-editors-guild-101642517383083.html
18-01-2022||India||New in NE | An internet shutdown, a curfew, a walkathon, and a police uniform||Internet shutdown and arrests in Itanagar
18-01-2022||India||Telangana urges Centre to reduce gap between 2nd and 3rd Covid shots, consider boosters for all||The Telangana government on Tuesday wrote to the Centre urging that the gap between the second dose of vaccine against Covid-19 and the precautionary shot be reduced from nine to six months.The state also asked the Union health ministry to examine the feasibility of further decreasing the interval between the second and precautionary dose to three months for health care workers.In a letter to Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, his Telangana counterpart T Harish Rao said the vaccination drive has helped reduce the overall infections and its severity, adding that his state has started administering the precautionary dose to eligible groups, as defined by the Centre.Also read | Centre pulls up states/UTs on drop in Covid testing, cites positivity trendHe further urged Mandaviya to consider expanding the booster programme for all beneficiaries above the age of 18.“It is to mention that, data of Covid infections and hospitalisations has beyond doubt proved that vaccines are highly effective and are preventing severe morbidity, hospitalization and mortality,” Rao said.He listed four demands regarding the third dose based on his observations of policies in countries like the United States and the United Kingdom.At present, only healthcare and frontline workers, along with citizens above 60 years of age having comorbid conditions, are eligible for a third shot after completing nine months from taking their second one.Rao said all senior citizens above 60 years of age must be given a third dose.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced in a televised address late last year that a third dose will be administered to select groups, besides throwing open the inoculation drive for all above 15 years of age.The country started the drive to vaccinate children in the 15-17 age group from January 3, while third doses have been administered since January 10.Earlier in the day, Mandaviya said more than 50 lakh beneficiaries have received the third dose and urged all who are eligible to get inoculated at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-urges-centre-to-reduce-gap-between-2nd-and-3rd-covid-shots-consider-boosters-for-all-101642517111843.html
18-01-2022||India||Bharat Biotech again urges health workers to be ‘highly vigilant’ while jabbing teenagers||Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited on Tuesday urged healthcare workers to be ‘highly vigilant’ while administering jabs to teenagers aged 15 to 18, citing what it said were ‘additional reports’ stating that beneficiaries in the said age group were being jabbed with ‘unapproved Covid-19 vaccines.’ #covaxin #COVID19Vaccine #covaxinapproval #COVID19 #BharatBiotech #vaccination #healthcareworkers #covidwarriors #covaxinforchildren #pandemic pic.twitter.com/wbGwnBoo0N“We humbly request healthcare workers to ensure that only Covaxin is administered to individuals in the 15-18 years age group. Covaxin received approval based on thorough clinical trial evaluation for safety and immunogenicity in the 2-18 years age group. Currently, it is the only Covid-19 vaccine in India approved for children,” the firm behind the country's first indigenous vaccine against Covid-19 noted in its statement.Also Read | DCGI needs more safety data for Covaxin nod for under 12This is for the second time when the company has issued such a statement; on January 7, it had, for the first time, urged hospital staff to ensure only Covaxin is being administered to teenagers, vaccination for whom kicked off on January 3, as announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in an address to the nation on December 25 last year.At present, only Covaxin and Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila's ZyCoV-D have been approved for age groups below 18. Of these, only the former is being used to inoculate beneficiaries in the 15-18 age group. However, ZyCoV-D was authorised first by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), being cleared for everyone aged 12 and above, on August 20 last year.Also Read | Covaxin booster shot neutralises Omicron, says Bharat BiotechCovaxin, on the other hand, received DCGI's nod on December 25, just hours before PM Modi's impromptu national address.Union health minister Dr Mansukh Mandaviya tweeted on Tuesday that more than 50 per cent youngsters in the 15-18 age group have received their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-again-urges-health-workers-to-be-vigilant-while-jabbing-teenagers-101642515537836.html
18-01-2022||India||One killed, 5 injured in explosion while making crude bombs in Bengal village||A man died and five others sustained injuries when some crude bombs which they were allegedly making went off on Monday night at Rameswarpur-Dakshinpara village in the Beldanga area of Bengal’s Murshidabad district, police said. The deceased was identified as 45-year-old Yashuddin Sheikh. Local villagers told the police that Sheikh, a resident of Benadaha village, went to Rameswarpur with his associates on Monday to make what is locally known as ‘socket bomb’. After the explosion, Sheikh’s associates left him at the spot and fled. “They were later found by the police and taken to hospital,” an officer from the Beldanga police station said on condition of anonymity. Sankharab Sarkar, president of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Murshidabad south organisational district unit, said, “Trinamool Congress has turned bomb making into a cottage industry in the district. We have information that the deceased worked for the ruling party.” TMC legislator from Beldanga, Hasanuzzaman Sheikh, denied the charge. “It is being alleged that the deceased was known to a TMC worker named Anaj Sheikh. This man does not hold any portfolio in our party,” said the legislator. The Beldanga police station officer said, “We have started a probe but no arrest has been made yet.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-killed-5-injured-in-explosion-while-making-crude-bombs-in-bengal-village-101642516790430.html
18-01-2022||India||Ahead of UP polls, Mamata to virtually campaign for Samajwadi Party in Lucknow, Varanasi||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee will virtually campaign for the Samajwadi Party in Lucknow on February 8 and later, also at Varanasi, SP national vice-president Kiranmay Nanda said in Kolkata on Tuesday afternoon after meeting the Trinamool Congress (TMC) chairperson at her south Kolkata residence. SP chief Akhilesh Yadav will also take part in these campaigns, said Nanda who met Banerjee with Yadav’s message. The meeting went on for around 30 minutes. Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh will be held in seven phases between February 10 and March 10. “Akhilesh Yadav wants Mamata Banerjee to campaign for us because she is the face of the anti-Bharatiya Janata Party force at the national level. The BJP has stopped all physical campaigns by the opposition in UP, citing the Covid-19 pandemic. It is using the election commission. No more than five people are being allowed at any meeting. Under these circumstances, a virtual campaign is the only solution. Banerjee has agreed to this,” said Nanda. The heads of the two parties will also jointly address a press conference on February 8, Nanda said. “The SP will surely form the government. The BJP has realized that its defeat is inevitable. People are coming in large numbers when Akhilesh Yadav is visiting any place. In contrast, few are attending BJP meetings. The SP wants anti-BJP votes to consolidate. That’s why we did not contest any seat in Bengal last year. Likewise, Banerjee, too, does not want to contest any seat in UP,” Nanda added. Yadav had sent Nanda and SP Rajya Sabha member Jaya Bachchan to campaign for the TMC in Bengal in the March-April polls. Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury took a swipe at the TMC. “Mamata Banerjee is not the only face against the BJP. Nanda said that to please her. Leaders like Akhilesh Yadav and Arvind Kejriwal are also anti-BJP faces. Banerjee has at least shown some good gesture by not trying to purchase the BJP leaders who are abandoning their party in UP to join Akhilesh. In Meghalaya and Goa, she used these tactics to weaken the Congress,” said Chowdhury. The Bengal BJP also tried to ridicule Banerjee. “We wish Banerjee a happy journey. She claims to be a religious person. We are sure she will enjoy the Ganga Aarti at Varanasi,” said Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya. Banerjee has said several times in recent months that she wants to consolidate anti-BJP forces and contest polls in other states with a target to win. Her nephew and TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee is seen as the driving force behind this expansion plan. He announced on June 8 last year that TMC will set up units in other states. Abhishek Banerjee reached Goa on Monday evening on a three-day trip to finalise the list of candidates the party wants to field in the coming state elections. The TMC will contest with the Maharashtawadi Gomanthak Party as its ally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-up-polls-mamata-to-virtually-campaign-for-samajwadi-party-in-lucknow-varanasi-101642515231696.html
18-01-2022||India||Covid-19: Why Delhi traders fear losing business to neighbouring states||New Delhi: Ashwani Marwah, general secretary of Traders Association, Lajpat Nagar, says that business in the market has dropped below 60% since the weekend curfew, in addition to the imposition of the odd-even opening of shops in markets, by the Delhi government in a bid to contain the spread of Covid-19. Traders’ organisations are planning to write to the Delhi government to relax these norms.
18-01-2022||India||‘ED BJP’s Election Department’: Cong slams raids on premises of Punjab CM’s nephew||The Congress on Tuesday lashed out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over raids carried out by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi's nephew.In a video posted on Twitter, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, “Modiji, remember one thing, you have used ED, CBI, Income Tax department and the CBDT against several Congress leaders. But we will neither be afraid nor bow down.”Also Read| Illegal sand mining: ED raids Punjab CM’s nephew among six contractorsCiting Channi’s identity, Surjewala said the BJP is insulting a Dalit who became the state's CM and that those belonging to backward communities will not forgive the saffron party.Surjewala also accused the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) of working in an alliance with the BJP as Arvind Kejriwal was the first one to attack the Punjab CM over Tuesday's raids.“The BJP and Arvind Kejriwal are unable to digest the fact how a Dalit took over as the chief minister of Punjab. The ED is not the enforcement directorate but the BJP's election department,” Surjewala said.“Today we saw the limit of vindictiveness. To seek revenge on a Dalit chief minister, the ED has been unleashed in Punjab, with which the chief minister and his family have nothing to do,” he added.Also Read| Punjab CM Channi slams ED raids on nephew, reminds agency of Bengal episodeEarlier in the day, the ED raided at least 10-12 locations in Punjab as part of a money-laundering probe against the 'sand mafia' and companies linked to alleged illegal sand mining.Among the raids, the ED covered the premises linked to Bhupinder Singh alias Honey, who is the nephew of the chief minister.Later, Channi said these raids were a way of putting pressure on him ahead of the assembly elections in Punjab. "Raids are being conducted on the premises of my nephew. They are targeting me and are trying to put pressure on me in view of upcoming Assembly polls. This is not good for democracy. We're ready to fight this," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-bjp-s-election-department-cong-slams-raids-on-punjab-cm-s-nephew-101642511160371.html
18-01-2022||India||China uses heavy machinery for Pangong bridge that will let PLA deploy faster||NEW DELHI: A bridge being built by China across the Pangong lake in an area claimed by India is expected to be completed in a few months and will give the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) an edge in speedily moving troops between several locations.High-resolution satellite imagery of the bridge from January 16, acquired from US space technology company Maxar by NDTV, shows the bridge is eight metres wide and more than 400 metres long, and Chinese workers are using a heavy crane to place concrete slabs between pillars before laying the tarmac.The first satellite images showing the bridge, being built across the narrowest section of the 134-km long strategic lake, emerged earlier this month. On January 6, the external affairs ministry accused China of building the bridge in an area occupied illegally for 60 years.The bridge is located south of a key PLA position on the north bank of Pangong lake. It is being built at a spot where the two banks of the lake are about 500 metres apart.Once completed, the bridge will cut the distance frp, Chinese troop positions on the north bank to a key PLA base at Rutog by around 150 km. Chinese forces currently take almost 10 hours to traverse about 200 km to get from the north bank to Rutog, driving around the lake.China is also working on new roads to connect the end of the bridge on the south bank to Rutog.When the Indian Army blocked an effort by the PLA to unilaterally alter the status quo on the south bank of Pangong lake in August 2020 by taking control of the Kailash heights, the Chinese side had to redeploy troops from other sites through the time-consuming action of driving around the lake.Both countries withdrew front line forces and armoured units from the two banks of the lake in February 2021, though the area has for long been a flashpoint between Indian and Chinese forces.The construction of the bridge “appears to strengthen the idea of permanency being established by Beijing in the region”, said Damien Symon, a geospatial intelligence researcher at the Intel Lab. He noted that the Chinese side is using heavy machinery to continue construction amid a harsh winter.After being stymied by the Indian Army’s efforts in August 2020, the Chinese began building several roads to prevent PLA troops from “being pinched by Indian deployments atop the ridges”, Symon said on Twitter. These roads “have branched towards the bridge since, but are yet to be connected”, he said.With the standoff on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) well into its second year, the construction of the bridge “appears to be a lesson learnt by PLA planners looking to provide seamless connectivity (and) rapid mobility for elements responding...to the frontline with India”, Symon added.The construction of the bridge was raised by the Indian side at the 14th round of talks between Indian and Chinese military commanders on January 12. The talks failed to yield any positive outcome, though both sides agreed to work for the resolution of the remaining issues in the Ladakh sector at the earliest.Earlier on January 6, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the government was closely monitoring the construction of the bridge on Pangong lake. “This bridge is being constructed in areas that have been under illegal occupation by China for around 60 years now. As you are well aware, India has never accepted such illegal occupation,” he said.The government was taking “all necessary steps to ensure that our security interests are fully protected”, and has significantly increased funding for developing border infrastructure and “completed more roads and bridges than ever before”, he added. 
18-01-2022||India||Rajnath writes to Bengal, TN CMs on tableaux row, says selection process transparent||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday wrote letters to the chief ministers of West Bengal and Tamil Nadu, assuring them the selection of tableaux for the Republic Day parade was based on a transparent process. The minister’s letter came after Mamata Banerjee and MK Stalin expressed disappointment over the Centre rejecting the tableaux of their respective states for the Republic Day celebrations, and sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s immediate intervention in the matter. In his letter, Singh wrote that the tableaux proposed by different states and union territories are selected after several rounds of evaluation by a committee consisting of experts from the fields of arts, culture, music and dance. “The tableaux of West Bengal were selected for the Republic Day parade following the same process in 2016, 2017, 2019 and 2021,” Singh wrote to the West Bengal CM. In his letter, Singh said that he respected the CM’s sentiments and it was for this reason he wanted to personally inform her about the selection process. Singh said of the tableaux proposals submitted by 29 states and UTs, 12 were finally approved. West Bengal’s proposed tableau was to commemorate Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and Indian National Army on Bose’s 125th birth anniversary. The tableau would have carried portraits of Vidyasagar, Rabindranath Tagore, Vivekananda, Chittaranjan Das, Sri Aurobindo, Matangini Hazra, Birsa Munda, Nazrul Islam, Mamata had earlier written. “Bengal was at the forefront of the Indian freedom struggle and paid heaviest price for the country’s Independence through the partition. People of West Bengal are deeply pained by this attitude of the central government,” Mamata added. A central government spokesperson on Monday said, “This year’s tableau of CPWD includes Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, so the question of his insult does not arise.” In his letter to Mamata, Singh highlighted the contribution of Bose to the freedom struggle and said that from this year, Republic Day celebrations will begin on January 23, the birth anniversary of the iconic freedom fighter, instead of January 24, and culminate on January 30. In his letter to Stalin, the defence minister wrote, “This is also to bring to your kind information that during the last few years, the tableaux from Tamil Nadu has been selected for participation in the Republic Day Parade during 2017, 2019, 2020 and 2021…You would appreciate that the selection of tableaux is as per the prescribed guidelines on the matter.” The minister wrote that the expert committee examines the tableaux proposals on the basis of theme, concept, design and its visual impact before making its recommendations. In a letter to the PM, Stalin earlier said, “Excluding the tableau will deeply hurt the sentiments and patriotic feelings of the people of Tamil Nadu…That the expert committee chooses to ignore and reject all the seven designs shown to it as per the modifications suggested by its members is unacceptable.” Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan on January 13 had also sought PM’s intervention after the state’s proposal for the tableau of social reformer Sree Narayana Guru and Jatayu Park monument was rejected and the Centre instead changed it to Adi Shankara, which the state rejected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-writes-to-bengal-tn-cms-on-tableaux-row-says-selection-process-transparent-101642512649899.html
18-01-2022||India||Centre pulls up states/UTs on drop in Covid testing, cites positivity trend||The Union ministry of health and family welfare on Tuesday said Covid-19 testing in many states and Union territories (UT) was on a decline and asked the authorities concerned to “pay immediate attention” to the issue and increase testing in a “strategic manner”.In a letter, additional secretary in the ministry Arti Ahuja said this was required keeping in view the trend of case positivity in specific geographies within the states and UTS.The official said that testing remained a crucial component in the pandemic management framework across the country. “However, it is seen from the data available on the ICMR portal that testing has declined in many states and Union territories,” she said.Also read | Karnataka warns medical practitioners against spreading misinformation on Covid-19“Please note that in all advisories on testing issued by ICMR, including the latest advisory dated 10 January, 2022, the basic objective remains early detection of cases for quick isolation and care,” she added.The letter said testing remained a “key strategy” for pandemic management due to two reasons, the first being identification of new clusters and new hotspots of cases that could facilitate action to be taken such as setting up of containment zones, contact tracing, quarantining, isolation and following up.“This can enable the state and district administration to curb the spread of infection,” the letter said.The other reason was to ensure reduction in mortality and morbidity, the ministry said. “Progression of disease to a severe category can be averted by strategic testing of those who are at high risk and more vulnerable, as well as in areas where the spread is likely to be higher,” it said.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), in its latest advisory on January 10 regarding Covid testing, said all symptomatic individuals and the ‘at-risk’ contacts of those who had tested Covid positive must be tested for the disease. Cough, fever, sore throat, loss of taste and/or smell, breathlessness and/or other respiratory issues were some of the symptoms listed by the council. This advisory was reiterated by the ministry in its letter.The ministry also highlighted its previous advisories in which it had recommended that “strategic and focused testing should be done of people who are vulnerable, living in closed surroundings, in densely populated areas in emerging new clusters and new hot spots of positive cases etc”.“In order to ensure that an effective track of the spread of the pandemic is kept and also immediate citizen centric action is initiated, it is incumbent upon all states/UTs to enhance testing,” the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-pulls-up-states-uts-on-drop-in-covid-testing-cites-positivity-trend-101642510332895.html
18-01-2022||India||Covid-19 forces massive cut in R-Day parade spectator count||The spectator count at India’s biggest ceremonial event, the Republic Day parade, will be massively curtailed this year due to Covid-related restrictions with only 5,000 to 8,000 people to be allowed entry to Rajpath to witness the spectacular display of the country’s military might and cultural heritage, top officials familiar with the matter said on Tuesday. “We do not want the parade to become a superspreader event in the midst of the third Covid-19 wave. The number of spectators has been significantly curtailed. We are still working on the final numbers but it’s going to be between 5,000 and 8,000 people,” said one of the officials cited above. Only double vaccinated adults and single vaccinated children of age 15 and above will be allowed entry. The January 26 parade was attended by around 25,000 spectators amid the ebbing first wave, compared to around 125,000 people who pitched up at Rajpath to watch the event in the pre-pandemic era. A new show with 1,000 drones is expected to add sparkle to the Beating Retreat ceremony on January 29, which marks the culmination of the Republic Day celebrations. “This ‘Make in India’ initiative (drone show) has been organised by a startup, Botlab Dynamics, supported by the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi and the department of science and technology. Only the US, Russia and China have the capability for a show with 1,000 drones,” the official said. The duration of the show will be 10 minutes. The Republic Day parade will begin at 10.30 am, instead of the traditional timing of 10 am, for better visibility to the parade and the fly past --- the highlight of the event. The fly past, consisting of 75 aircraft in India’s 75th year of Independence, will feature flying formations to commemorate some glorious moments of India’s decisive victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war, including the historic Tangail airdrop and the Meghna heli-borne operation. The defence ministry has conceptualised a raft of new events to mark the Republic Day celebrations as the country is also observing the 75th year of its Independence, a second official said. This year onwards, Republic Day celebrations will begin on January 23, the birth anniversary of the iconic freedom fighter Subhas Chandra Bose, instead of January 24, and culminate on January 30, Mahatma Gandhi’s death anniversary. This year marks Bose’s 125th birth anniversary. On January 23, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will present the Subhas Chandra Bose Aapda Prabandhan Puraskar for outstanding work in disaster management at a ceremony to be held at India Gate, said a third official. On January 26, the National Cadet Corps (NCC) will launch a programme called Shaheedon ko Shat Shat Naman, as part of the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav, to honour the sacrifices of fallen heroes. “The next of kin (NOK) of around 5,000 fallen heroes will be presented the ‘Plaque of Gratitude,’ by NCC cadets. Each plaque signed by the PM. This activity will be carried out around the same time when the PM pays homage at the National War Memorial in New Delhi,” the first official said. This will mark the beginning of the programme, which will carry on till August 15, 2022 by when the cadets would have felicitated the NOKs of all 26,466 fallen heroes whose names are inscribed on the memorial. Huge scrolls, measuring 75 metres by 15 feet each, will serve as view cutters in the spectator stands along Rajpath. “Ten scrolls were prepared taking inspiration from the unsung heroes of the freedom struggle,” the official said. For the first time, dancers taking part in the cultural segment of the parade have been selected through a nation-wide competition called ‘Vande Bharatam,’ which ended with the selection of 600 dancers. The aim of the competition was to hunt dancing talent from across the country and provide equal opportunity to all to perform at the parade, the officials said. Ten large LED screens, five on either side of Rajpath, will be installed for a better viewing experience. The invitation cards for the parade will be different too this year. The seeds of medicinal plants such as ashwagandha, aloe vera and amla will be embedded in the invites for people to plant them later. This year, the government has also reserved seats for people who usually do not get an opportunity to witness the parade. Seats have been earmarked for autorickshaw drivers, construction workers, safai workers and frontline health workers at both the parade and the Beating Retreat ceremony.
18-01-2022||India||Five Maoists killed in two separate encounters in Telangana, Chhattisgarh||Five members of the Communist Party of India (Maoist), including two women, were killed in two separate encounters with security personnel in the forests spread over Telangana and Chhattisgarh on Tuesday morning, the police said.In Telangana, four Maoists, including a woman, were killed in exchange of fire with a team of Greyhounds (the elite police force of Telangana engaged in anti-Maoist operations) at Karregutta forests near Penugolu village in Mulugu district, which is close to Semaldoddi village of Elmidi police station in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district. According to a top police official of Mulugu district, the Greyhounds, along with teams of District Reserve Guard (DRG) and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) from Bijapur were on a combing operation in Peruru, Ilmidi and Usur forest areas bordering Telangana and Chhattisgarh, following information that about 40-50 armed Maoists, including senior Maoist leader Sudhakar, divisional committee member of Venkatapuram were camping in the area.“At around 7 am on Tuesday, the security forces met the Maoists, resulting in exchange of fire between the two sides. During the search of the incident site after the encounter, bodies of four Maoists including a woman, were recovered,” the police official said, adding that the bodies of the slain Maoists were yet to be identified.The encounter was also confirmed by Inspector General of Police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P in a statement issued to media.“A jawan belonging to Telangana Greyhounds was injured in the encounter and he was airlifted to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial government hospital at Warangal for treatment. Presently a search is being carried out by the police in the vicinity of the incident site,” he said.A woman Maoist cadre was gunned down in a separate encounter at Marjum area of Sukma district. “The woman killed in the encounter in Sukma was identified as Munni, and was an area committee member of Maoists, carrying a reward of ₹5 lakh on her head,” the IG (Bastar) said in his statement.A senior Telangana police official said the joint operation comprising police forces from Mulugu and Bhadradri Kothagudem districts and those from Chhattisgarh had been going on for quite some time following a tip off about the movement of top Maoists heading Vajedu, Venkatapuram, Charla and Dummugudem area committees.“We have specific inputs about the movement of the top leaders. Our operation will continue till they are neutralised,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-maoists-killed-in-two-separate-encounters-in-telangana-chhattisgarh-101642507965692.html
18-01-2022||India||UAE drone attack: Jaishankar assures of 'fullest support' to families of victims from India||External affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Tuesday he received a phone call from his United Arab Emirates (UAE) counterpart, Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan, condoling the loss of Indian lives in Monday's drone attack near the international airport in the kingdom's capital city of Abu Dhabi.Also Read | 2 Indians killed in drone attack in Abu Dhabi identified: Indian embassy in UAE“Deeply appreciate receiving a call from UAE FM @ABZayed. He expressed condolences for the Indian lives lost in the terror attack in UAE yesterday. Conveyed our strong solidarity with UAE in face of such unacceptable acts,” Jaishankar informed on Twitter.Also Read | US condemns Houthi attack on Abu Dhabi, UAE says reserves right to respondThe minister added that the Indian embassy in Abu Dhabi is working with the authorities in the UAE to provide the ‘fullest support’ to the victims' families. Our Embassy is working with UAE authorities to provide the fullest support to families of the deceased.As many as three people--two Indians and a Pakistani national--were killed, while six others, including another two Indians, were injured in the strike, claimed by the Yemen-based Houthi rebels. The Indian embassy informed earlier today that the identities of the two deceased Indians had been established.
18-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Arrest Clubhouse members discussing Muslim women, says DCW and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.DCW demands arrest of Clubhouse app members ‘discussing’ Muslim womenThe Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on Tuesday issued a notice to the cybercrime cell of the Delhi Police, seeking action against people making derogatory remarks towrads Muslim women on the social audio application ‘Clubhouse’. Read moreDeath sentence for sisters convicted of murdering 9 children in 1990s commutedThe Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday commuted the death sentence of sisters Renuka Shinde and Seema Gavit to life imprisonment after the state delayed in having their mercy petition reviewed for seven years and 10 months. Read moreAllowance didn’t improve attendance at parliamentary panel meets, reveals reportA special allowance for attending parliamentary standing committee meetings, which was discontinued in 2018, did not improve the attendance of lawmakers at such meets, according to a report Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu sought last month. Read moreBritish PM Boris Johnson lied about lockdown party, ex-aide claimsBritish Prime Minister Boris Johnson lied to parliament when he claimed he did not know of his staff's plans to hold a drinks party during lockdown, his former aide Dominic Cummings has said. Read moreArmaan Malik says he was told ‘don’t try to be Justin Bieber’ when he started singing songs in EnglishSinger Armaan Malik said that many believe that Indians are not good at singing in English and ‘we always sound like we are trying too hard’. He talked about the comments he got, dissuading him and how he takes them with a pinch of salt. Read moreHonda Shine becomes first 125 cc bike to hit one-crore customers milestoneHonda Motorcycle and Scooter India on Tuesday announced that it has managed to sell one crore Shine motorcycles in the country since the launch of the motorcycle in 2006. Read moreDo you have diabetes? This is the best time to have fruitsPeople with diabetes often struggle to make the right food choices. Picking foods that do not play havoc with their blood glucose levels is essential for diabetes management. Read more‘If he's your no.1 player in all formats, what is the problem?’: Azharuddin names his pick for India's next Test captainLegendary India batter Mohammad Azharuddin believes that there is no harm in making star opener Rohit Sharma the captain of the Test team as he is currently the best player in the country across formats. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-arrest-clubhouse-members-discussing-muslim-women-says-dcw-101642503053494.html
18-01-2022||India||BSF finds 82 drivers with fake licences plying trucks across Indo-Bangla border||In a surprise check at Petrapole Integrated Check Post (ICP) in West Bengal, the largest land port at the Indo-Bangladesh border, the Border Security Force (BSF) in the last two days has found that at least 82 truck drivers were using fake driving licences to ply trucks to and from Bangladesh, a trend which has major security implications. The Customs and Land Port Authority of India have been informed that drivers operating on fake licences cannot be allowed and a police case is being registered by the force to investigate the larger conspiracy. The border guarding force had received inputs that a few drivers were involved in trans-border crimes such as smuggling of gold, silver, phensedyl syrup, drugs etc, while engaged in export and import of goods between India and Bangladesh, following which surprise checks were carried out at the Petrapole ICP on January 16 and 17. While checking the authenticity of drivers’ licences, it found 52 fake licences on the first day and then 30 such fake licences in 30 more trucks the next day. BSF spokesperson Krishna Rao said all 82 fake driving licences have been handed over to the Customs. “The concerned authorities of Customs and Land Port Authority of India were conveyed that BSF cannot allow those trucks to go to Bangladesh whose drivers are found in the possession of a fake driving licence,” he said. He further said – “No driver with a fake driving licence can be allowed to ply trucks to Bangladesh at any cost because such drivers obtain fake Car Passes from the Customs Department on the basis of driving licences upon which BSF allows the trucks to enter Bangladesh.” To ensure smooth running of trade between India and Bangladesh, BSF has also informed Bangaon Transport Association across the border to follow the Standing Operating Procedures (SOPs) so that the security and interests of the nations are not compromised. Petrapole ICP is the largest land port in South Asia, located along the international border between India and Bangladesh, at a distance of about 80 km from Kolkata. Petrapole (India)-Benapole (Bangladesh) is an important land border crossing for both the countries in terms of trade and passenger movement and nearly 30 per cent of land-based trade between India and Bangladesh takes place through here. Since it was operationalised in February 2016, the Petrapole ICP has witnessed an increasing number of passenger movement with an average of 22 lakh people crossing the border post on either side each year. Detailing the reasons why the BSF has decided to beef up security at Petrapole, a BSF spokesperson said the force seized smuggled gold worth around ₹1,44,22,356 from a transporter while he was trying to escape on a bike on January 4. The gold was smuggled from Bangladesh by concealing it inside an import bound truck. Similarly, on July 19 last year, gold worth ₹1.71 crore was seized from an Indian driver coming from Bangladesh. On August 21, 2021, Saudi Riyal worth ₹1,68,38,500 were recovered from an empty Indian truck returning from Bangladesh after unloading export goods. Acting on an intelligence input, the BSF seized 50 kg Marijuana from an Indian truck on January 9 this year apart from several seizures of illegal items including narcotics in the last few months. Rao said that “in all these illegal activities, roles of Indian transporters, labourers, drivers, helpers and different agents and sub-agents have been established”. “It is also worth mentioning here that sometimes, drivers with fake driving licences tend to meet road accidents. Even BSF lost one of its jawans when he was overrun by a truck driver in the month of October 2021. Therefore, it is necessary that BSF must check the validity of the driving licence,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-finds-82-drivers-with-fake-licences-plying-trucks-across-indo-bangla-border-101642503945525.html
18-01-2022||India||Assam CM Sarma says roadmap to settle border row with Meghalaya prepared||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Tuesday said a roadmap for amicable settlement of the border issues with Meghalaya has been prepared based on recommendations of three regional committees with representatives from both states.In a series of tweets, Sarma said an all-party meeting was held during the day wherein the representatives of the parties were briefed on the progress made so far on the issue. Assam ministers Ranoj Pegu and Ashok Singhal and leader of Opposition in Assembly Debabrata Saikia were among those present in the meeting held at the State Guest House  Koinadhara.Sarma said the authorities have reached this stage after several rounds of talks at the chief ministerial level on the matter.We've reached this stage after several rounds of CM-level talks on the matter.My Cabinet colleagues Dr @ranojpeguassam & Shri @TheAshokSinghal, LOP Shri @DsaikiaOfficial, several MLAs, CS Shri Jishnu Barua, senior govt officials & representatives of all parties were present.“Our efforts to resolve the Assam-Meghalaya border row have started bearing fruits as six of the 12 areas of difference have been identified for resolution in the first phase… the areas of differences taken up for final settlement are - Hahim, Gizang, Tarabari, Boklapara, Khanapara-Pillingkata and Ratacherra,” he wrote.In a bid to resolve the long-standing inter-state boundary disputes, chief ministers of the two states had met on December 23 last year and decided to resolve the issues over six of the 12 areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cm-sarma-says-roadmap-to-settle-border-row-with-meghalaya-prepared-101642502397026.html
18-01-2022||India||Money laundering case: Court rejects Anil Deshmukh's plea for default bail||In a setback to Anil Deshmukh, a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court on Tuesday rejected the former Maharashtra home minister's plea to be granted default bail in connection with a money laundering case registered against him by the Enforcement Directorate (ED).Deshmukh, against whom the money laundering case was registered by the ED after allegations of corruption against him were levelled by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh, approached the special PMLA court for bail on January 4. He argued in his plea that though the agency had filed a charge-sheet against him, the court had not taken cognisance of it, and, therefore, he should be granted default bail.Under Section 167 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), a person who has been arrested can seek default bail if no charge-sheet is filed, and no cognisance is taken within 60 days of the arrest.However, countering his charge, the ED, on January 5, told the special court a charge-sheet was filed within 60 days of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader's arrest. Deshmukh, it said, was arrested on November 2, 2021, under Section 19 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in accordance with the law, under reasonable belief that he was guilty of the offence of money laundering.Also Read | ED opposes Anil Deshmukh’s default bail plea in money laundering caseOn March 20 last year, Param Bir Singh, days after being shunted as Mumbai Police chief in the wake of the Antilia bomb scare episode, wrote to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. In the letter, Singh accused then state home minister Anil Deshmukh of instructing assistant inspector Sachin Vaze, since dismissed from Mumbai police, to collect an amount of Rs100 crore every month from restaurants and bars in the state capital.Also Read | ED files supplementary chargesheet against Anil DeshmukhOn May 11, 2021, the ED registered registered the money-laundering case against the NCP leader on the basis of a First Information Report (FIR) filed against him by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on April 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/money-laundering-case-court-rejects-anil-deshmukh-s-plea-for-default-bail-101642500666021.html
18-01-2022||India||DCW demands arrest of Clubhouse app members ‘discussing’ Muslim women||The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on Tuesday issued a notice to the cybercrime cell of the Delhi Police, seeking action against people making derogatory remarks towrads Muslim women on the social audio application ‘Clubhouse’.Taking to Twitter, DCW chairperson Swati Maliwal wrote, “Sulli bai, then Bulli bai and now indecent sexual remarks against Muslim girls on the Clubhouse app! How long will this last? I have sent a notice to the Delhi Police with regard to the Clubhouse case to arrest criminals soon after filing an FIR.”सुल्ली बाई, फिर बुल्ली बाई और अब क्लब्हाउस ऐप पे मुस्लिम लड़कियों के ख़िलाफ़ अभद्र यौन टिप्पणी! ऐसा कब तक चलेगा? मैंने क्लब्हाउस वाले मामले में दिल्ली पुलिस को नोटिस इशू किया है की जल्द FIR कर अपराधियों को अरेस्ट करें! pic.twitter.com/rGBj5y0QFqA two-minute video of the Clubhouse interaction was shared on Twitter earlier in the day by a user named Tanvir Ansari. In the clip, participants, which include both boys and girls, are heard discussing the topic ‘Muslim Gals are more beautiful than Hindu Gals’.One of the participants in the video said that every Muslim girl is ultimately a Hindu and his response was met with the 'Jai Shri Ram' chant. Another participant said that 70 per cent of Muslims are converts as the religion was founded much later.The participants also said that “having sex with a Muslim girl is equal to building seven temples”, while another said it was even bigger and equal to doing as much good as demolishing the Babri Masjid.#SulliDeals and #BulliDeals are just the tip of the icebergHere a bunch of young híndú girls and boys are discussing on @Clubhouse on how violating a Muslim girl is equal to building 7 temples.I bet such discussion are a regular in drawing rooms and at dining tables of Híndús. pic.twitter.com/xahfiEiiqgAccording to the DCW's notice,"In the said conversation, participants can be clearly heard making obscene, vulgar, and defamatory remarks over women and girls especially from the Muslim community."The DCW said it is a very serious matter and merits strict action. The commission has sought a response from the cybercrime cell of the Delhi Police by January 24.The Clubhouse interaction comes to light days after a massive uproar over Bulli Bai app case that listed Muslim women for auction along with their doctored photographs sourced without their permission. The app is said to be a clone of Sulli Deals application that had come to the notice last year. Creators of both the applications have been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dcw-demands-arrest-of-clubhouse-app-members-discussing-muslim-women-101642495290232.html
18-01-2022||India||Rajnath writes to Stalin, Mamata amid row over R-Day parade tableaux snub||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday wrote to Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin and his West Bengal counterpart Mamata Banerjee over the exclusion of the states' tableaux from the Republic Day parade in New Delhi. In his letter to Stalin, Singh said Tamil Nadu’s tableau could not make it into the final list of 12 tableaux selected for participation in the Republic Day Parade.A day ago, Stalin had sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s immediate intervention in the matter alleging the move was an “insult” by the Centre. Banerjee has also lodged her protest over the non-inclusion of the state’s tableau at the parade on Rajpath in the national capital.“This is also to bring to your kind information that during the last few years, tableau from the state of Tamil Nadu has been selected for participation in R-Day during 2017, 2019, 2020 and 2021,” Singh further wrote to Stalin, an ANI input said. To Banerjee, Singh wrote, "West Bengal's tableau has been selected for participation in R-Day during 2016, 2017, 2019 and 2021."Defence minister Rajnath Singh wrote to West Bengal Chief Minister over exclusion of the state's tableaux for Republic Day celebrationsIn a letter, the defence minister wrote, "West Bengal's tableau has been selected for participation in R-Day during 2016, 2017,2019, & 2021." pic.twitter.com/7KiAcQjpzmMeanwhile, sources in the government have rejected charges of bias or insult towards tableaux from non-BJP-ruled states stressing that the proposals of Kerala, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal were rejected by the subject expert committee after due process and deliberations.In a letter to the PM, Stalin said exclusion of the tableau that would showcase the freedom fighters of the state would deeply hurt the sentiments and patriotic feelings of the people of the state. This came a day after a miffed Banerjee shot off a letter to Modi, while the Kerala government had on Friday protested the exclusion of its tableau depicting social reformer Sree Narayana Guru.Banerjee had expressed shock over the exclusion of Bengal's tableau, which focussed on Subhas Chandra Bose on his 125th birth anniversary year, and said such a move would cause "pain" to the people of her state.She had said that exclusion of the tableau, which also featured other icons like Rabindranath Tagore, Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar, Swami Vivekananda and Sri Aurobindo, "amounts to belittling and undermining the freedom fighters".Kerala education minister V Sivankutty has asked the state BJP unit to clarify whether they agreed with "this insulting attitude towards Kerala’s Guru".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-writes-to-stalin-over-tamil-nadu-s-exclusion-from-r-day-parade-tableaux-101642496256255.html
18-01-2022||India||Allowance didn’t improve attendance at parliamentary panel meets, reveals report||NEW DELHI: A special allowance for attending parliamentary standing committee meetings, which was discontinued in 2018, did not improve the attendance of lawmakers at such meets, according to a report Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu sought last month.Naidu asked the Rajya Sabha secretariat to prepare the report after some lawmakers said at an informal interaction with him that the special allowance was an added incentive for many to attend the meetings regularly. The report analysed attendance at parliamentary standing committee meetings when the lawmakers were entitled to the allowance.Lawmakers get ₹2,000 as a daily allowance for attending Parliament and House panel meetings. They also received the special allowance amounting to 25% of the cost of their air travel to attend the meetings before it was done away with when late Arun Jaitley was the finance minister.The secretariat studied the impact of the withdrawal of the allowance. It found that during the last five years, parliamentary panels have spent more time on meetings even as the Parliament sessions have often faced disruptions or washouts. The report said the attendance of MPs at meetings of the eight parliamentary standing committees under Rajya Sabha has marginally dipped from the 2016-17 level due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “During 2016-17 (mid-September to mid-September), when the allowance was available for the full year, the average attendance at 119 meetings of 8 DRSCS [Department-related Standing Committees] was 47.64% and it increased to 48.79% for 119 meetings during 2019-20 when such allowance was not allowed,” the report said. “During 2017-18, the special allowance was available for 6 months. During 2018-19, all the 8 committees of Rajya Sabha reported low attendance, perhaps, due to the General Elections to Lok Sabha in the first half of 2019. Accordingly, 2016-17 was taken as the reference year for assessing the impact of meeting allowance to MPs on attendance during 2019-20 and 2020-21,” it said. Also Read | Venkaiah Naidu seeks report on attendance at House panel meetingsThe average attendance increased from 47.64% in 2016-17 to 48.79% in 2019-20. It dropped to 44.59% in 2020-21 due to Covid.Naidu asked the secretariat to find out the rate of attendance when this allowance was in place even as there was no plan to revive it. The study was done to see how the attendance of MPs can be improved.Low attendance at parliamentary committee meetings came up during an informal meeting of senior lawmakers with Naidu at his chamber after Parliament’s winter session concluded on December 22.The issue was also discussed on December 21 at a meeting between Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and chairpersons of 16 House standing committees. 
18-01-2022||India||2 Indians killed in drone attack in Abu Dhabi identified: Indian embassy in UAE||NEW DELHI: The Indian embassy in the UAE said on Tuesday the two Indian nationals killed during a drone attack by Yemen’s Houthi rebels on Abu Dhabi had been identified and the mission was in touch with their families. The embassy in Abu Dhabi also said two of the six people injured in Monday’s attack were Indian nationals and were discharged after medical treatment. Saudi Arabia-led coalition forces carried out an airstrike on the Houthi-held Yemeni capital Sanaa in retaliation for the attack on Abu Dhabi. According to initial estimates cited in media reports, the airstrike killed 14 people. The coalition also said it intercepted eight drones launched towards Saudi Arabia on Monday. In an update on Monday’s incident posted on Twitter, the Indian embassy in Abu Dhabi said, “Identities of two deceased Indian nationals established. @IndembAbuDhabi officials are in touch with their family members. The mission is working closely with UAE authorities, including ADNOC, for early repatriation of mortal remains.” The mission did not give details about the two dead Indians.The embassy said, “Of the six injured, two are Indian nationals. After receiving medical treatment, they were discharged yesterday night.” The mission thanked the government and foreign ministry of the UAE and the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC) for their support. ADNOC confirmed on Monday that the three people – two Indians and a Pakistani national – killed in the drone attack were its employees. The three people died in explosions and fires that followed the drone attack by Houthi rebels. The explosions hit three petroleum transport tankers near ADNOC’s storage tanks at the Industrial City of Abu Dhabi. Another fire broke out in a new construction area of Abu Dhabi international airport. Houthi military spokesman Yahia Sarei said his group had launched an attack deep inside the UAE, but didn’t provide details. The ADNOC storage facility, where the tankers caught fire, is 1,800km northeast of Saada, the Houthi stronghold in Yemen. The attack in Abu Dhabi came a fortnight after Houthi rebels seized the UAE-flagged vessel Rwabee with 11 crew members, including seven Indian nationals, in the Red Sea. India and the UAE have demanded the immediate release of the crew members. Yemen has seen intense fighting since Houthi rebels seized the capital Sanaa in 2014. The UAE is part of the Saudi-led coalition that intervened in support of the government in 2015. Though the UAE has decreased the number of troops it has on the ground, it continues to support militias fighting the Houthis and cooperates with the US in counterterrorism efforts in Yemen. 
18-01-2022||India||22,000 signed online petition to postpone GATE exam in view of Covid situation||More than 22,000 candidates have endorsed an online petition demanding that the Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering (GATE), which is scheduled to be held between February 5 to February 13 in offline format, should be postponed in view of the rising cases of Covid-19 across the country.GATE is conducted for admission to various postgraduate courses in science and engineering, and several PSUs also use its score in their recruitment process. It is jointly organised by the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) Bangalore and seven Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) at Bombay, Delhi, Guwahati, Kanpur, Kharagpur, Madras and Roorkee on behalf of National Coordination Board (NCB)-GATE, department of higher education, ministry of education.IIT Kharagpur is the organising body for GATE 2022 and more than eight lakh candidates are expected to take the exam.The online petition that started last week, signed by 22,680 students by Tuesday afternoon, stated, “With the current third wave, Covid-19 due to its new variant Omicron has spread severely in several states, cities. Several studies including one done by IIT Kanpur predict that the peak of the 3rd wave is expected in early February and the wave will end by April. Therefore the peak is most likely to coincide with the usual exam dates of GATE.”“If the exam dates are not postponed, the candidates appearing for GATE 2022 run an imminent risk of getting infected and spreading it thereby getting threat to their life as well as their family member's lives…On behalf of the GATE participants who have signed this petition, I request you to postpone the GATE 2022 exam dates to a safer date in the month of April,” it added.Priyanshu, a candidate from Haryana’s Narnaul district, said that his examination center is at a distance of 140 km from his place. “If I travel during this third wave, I will not only risk my safety but my family’s as well. Ironically, IIT-Kharagpur has postponed its upcoming alumni meet in view of the pandemic situation. But the GATE exam will be held putting our safety at risk,” he said.Despite several attempts, IIT-Kharagpur did not respond to the emails sent for a comment. A senior official at the ministry of education said, “There is no talk about postponing the exam. The exam will be held with taking all precautionary measures and a large majority of the population is already vaccinated against Covid-19 infection. Postponing the exam will put the careers of lakhs of students at stake.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7000-signed-online-petition-to-postpone-gate-exam-in-view-of-covid-19-situation-101642491930414.html
18-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: SC to hear PIL on parties hiding criminal records and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Supreme Court to hear petition seeking action on parties hiding criminal recordsThe Supreme Court on Tuesday agreed to hear the petition seeking a direction to the Election Commission to deregister political parties for hiding criminal case records of candidates along with the reason for their selection.People not willing to get vaccinated in Assam should stay at home: CM SarmaThe Assam government has said that vaccination against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is not mandatory for the state's population but people who are not willing to get the jab should stay at home. Read moreHealth authorities dismiss Canada-link to 1st Omicron case in BeijingCanadian health authorities have dismissed the Chinese claim that a Covid-19 infection of the Omicron variant detected in Beijing may have been caused by a package received from Canada. Read moreTata Motors follows Maruti Suzuki in announcing another price hikeTata Motors on Tuesday announced a price hike on its range of passenger vehicles in the country. The increase in prices are effective from Wednesday with the average hike at around 0.9% while referring to customer feedback as a reason for a reduction of around ₹10,000 on certain model variants. Read moreFormer KKR player offered ₹40 lakhs to fix matches - ReportRajagopal Sathish, 40-year-old, lodged a police complaint in Bengaluru, claiming he was offered a sum of ₹40 lakh to fix matches. As per a report in The Indian Express, Satish told the police he was approached by an Instagram user, who goes by the name Bunny Anand. Read moreOmicron positive with mild symptoms? Mental health tips during home isolationOmicron cases in India have been rising rapidly and it's now becoming common to see people around us testing Covid positive and showing flu-like symptoms like cold, cough, headache, fever and sore throat. Read moreRGV calls ‘star divorces’ a warning for youngsters after Dhanush and Aishwaryaa Rajinikanth splitFilmmaker Ram Gopal Varma shared a series of tweets denouncing marriage and celebrating divorce as Dhanush announced his split from Aishwaryaa Rajinikanth. Read moreWatch| How Xi Jinping warned of ‘catastrophic consequences’ of confrontation at Davos||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-sc-to-hear-pil-on-parties-hiding-criminal-records-101642490071102.html
18-01-2022||India||With Devas judgement, Modi government cleans yet another UPA mess||The Narendra Modi government on Monday heaved a sigh of relief after the Supreme Court junked the appeal filed by Devas Multimedia against the decision of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) which in turn had upheld the NCLT decision to wind up the company.Had the Modi government not resorted to timely action by ensuring that ISRO’s commercial arm, Antrix, moved the NCLT for liquidation of Devas on the allegations of fraud, the Union of India case against the arbitration award for Devas, currently under consideration of Netherlands court, would have weakened. The Devas-Antrix deal was signed in 2005 and was cancelled by the Manmohan Singh government in 2011 amidst allegation of corruption but without invoking the national security clause.While India’s case has been bolstered internationally with the SC judgement, it is quite evident that the Narendra Modi government has spent considerable time from sorting out the mess left by the previous UPA regime - be it retrospective tax, oil bonds, defaulting on CST payments to states and ballooning fiscal deficit. Let’s examine these pitfalls one by one.Oil bondsDuring the UPA regime, oil marketing companies had massive under-recoveries as the retail fuel prices did not keep in pace with the global crude oil prices. Instead of compensating the oil companies through fuel subsidies, the government converted under recoveries into long term oil bonds and postponed the payments. It is the Modi government that is now paying through its nose for UPA’s mismanagement as close to ₹10,000 crore have been paid annually as interest on oil bonds worth ₹1.3 lakh crores issued by the previous UPA regime.NPA crisisAnother UPA era legacy that the present NDA regime has to contend with are non-performing assets or bad loans that have wrecked the banking sector. During the previous regime, public sector banks lent thousands of crores to politically connected fat cats often without due diligence. Fact is that in some cases, defaulters managed to get new loans to pay off old loans.Breaking promises to statesThe transition towards value added tax or VAT led to gradual reduction in the central sales tax (CST) distributed among the states. The UPA government, despite repeated assurances to states on compensation for lost share of CST collections failed to fulfill the promise. In 2015, the Modi government approved ₹33000 crore as CST compensation, restoring confidence in Centre-State relations and paving way for the GST implementation. Fact is that the previous regime did not even properly devolve the share of taxes due to states. The CAG has pointed out that for several years between 2004 and 2014, the Centre had devolved less than the due share of taxes to the states as a result of distrust was generated between Centre and States.High fiscal deficitThe high fiscal deficit was yet another landmine left behind. The average fiscal deficit under UPA II was between two to 5.5 per cent of the GDP. This meant that immediate course correction was needed to avoid inflationary pressures and substantial borrowings. Since, 2014, the Modi government has stuck to fiscal prudence without compromising on welfare measures for poor and without imposing additional burden on middle class.Retrospective taxIn 2012, UPA regime retrospectively changed the Income Tax Act to tax transactions involving sale and transfer of shares outside India, where the underlying assets are in India. The controversial retrospective tax amendments adversely impacted India’s image as an investor friendly destination. Further, this amendment caused international embarrassment to India as it caused legal disputes with Vodafone and Cairn, in which the country had to face legal setbacks. It was left to the Modi government to undo this blunder.
18-01-2022||India||‘If cough persists...’: Govt discourages steroid use for Covid treatment||There is no evidence of benefit from injectable steroids in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients who do not require oxygen supplementation or in continuation, after discharge, the government has said in its revised guidelines. The clinical guidance jointly issued by AIIMS, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Covid-19 National Task Force and Joint Monitoring Group warned that anti-inflammatory therapy can lead to a risk of secondary infection like invasive mucormycosis, or ‘black fungus’."There is no evidence for benefit for injectable steroids in those not requiring oxygen supplementation, or on continuation after discharge anti-inflammatory or immunomodulatory therapy (such as steroids) can have a risk of secondary infection such as invasive mucormycosis when used too early, at higher doses or for longer than required," the guidelines stated.Under the anti-inflammatory or immunomodulatory therapy, the guidelines say, “Injection Methylprednisolone 0.5 to 1 mg/kg in two divided doses or equivalent dose of dexamethasone can be given usually for a duration of 5 to 10 days” in Covid-19 patients. The medicine can be administered orally if the condition of the patient is stable and/or improving.Govt warns against overuse, misuse of Covid medicinesAdult Covid-19 patients have been divided into three categories of mild, moderate and severe disease based on upper respiratory tract symptoms and breathlessness. The government-recommended treatments do not include medicines like ivermectin, favipiravir and Doxycycline. Antivirals like Molnupiravir and monoclonal antibodies are also not included in the guidelines.The government has advised people to investigate for tuberculosis and other conditions if cough persists for more than 2-3 weeks after testing positive for Covid-19.According to the guidelines, people aged 60 and above with cardiovascular disease, hypertension, and CAD Diabetes mellitus and other immunocompromised states (such as HIV), active tuberculosis, chronic lung/kidney/liver disease, cerebrovascular disease, and obesity are at high risk for severe disease or mortality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-cough-persists-govt-discourages-steroid-use-for-covid-treatment-101642485016550.html
18-01-2022||India||People not willing to get vaccinated in Assam should stay at home: CM Sarma||The Assam government has said that vaccination against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is not mandatory for the state's population but people who are not willing to get the jab should stay at home.Addressing a press conference in Guwahati on Monday, chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said that those unwilling to get vaccinated against Covid-19 will not be allowed to enter offices, restaurants and attend meetings.Also Read| Assam logs highest-ever daily Covid-19 cases at 6,982; positivity rate crosses 10%“People not willing to get vaccinated can stay back at home. In Assam, if necessary, then the Covid-19 vaccination certificate will have to be shown. We cannot allow anti-public work to happen,” Sarma told reporters.Last week, the Assam chief minister said that people who are not fully vaccinated will not be allowed entry into public places from January 16.Till now, authorities have administered more than 40 million vaccine doses to eligible beneficiaries in Assam of which 203,392 doses were administered on Monday.As many as 767,253 children between the ages of 15-18 have been inoculated and more than 56,000 precautionary doses have been administered to beneficiaries that include health care and frontline workers, people with comorbidities (suffering from many diseases) and those above 60 years of age.Assam has so far recorded 653,717 Covid-19 cases, 6,217 related deaths, 622,205 recoveries and 23,948 active cases.Also Read| Assam: For the unvaccinated, no entry to public places from tomorrowThe state government has revised the timings of the ongoing night curfew from 10pm to 6am. Earlier, the night curfew in Assam was from 11.30am to 6pm.According to the restrictions to ward off the spread of Covid-19, workplaces, business establishments, public and private offices have been asked to close early.Dining in service in restaurants, eateries and dhabas is allowed till 9pm with 50% seating capacity. The takeaway service from these establishments is open till 10pm.Shops selling groceries, fruits and vegetables, animal fodder and dairy and milk booths can also remain open till 9pm in Assam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-not-willing-to-get-vaccinated-in-assam-should-stay-at-home-cm-sarma-101642482301576.html
18-01-2022||India||UGC asks higher education institutions to participate in Surya Namaskar event||NEW DELHI: The University Grants Commission (UGC) has requested higher education institutions to participate in the Surya Namaskar event on Republic Day.The National Sports Federation of India has planned the event as part of the government’s ongoing Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav to commemorate 75 years of India’s independence.“To commemorate the Amrit Mohostav, the federation decided to run a project of 750 million Surya Namaskar in 30 states, involving 30000 institutes and 3 lakh students, from January 1 to February 7 and performing musical Surya Namaskar in front of Tricolour on 26th January... all the higher education institutions and affiliated colleges are requested to participate in the event,” the commission said in a notification.The commission asked the institutions to promote the event by giving wide publicity.In another notification, the commission cited the Standard Operating Procedures (SoPs) for the Republic Day at the universities and colleges and suggested activities such as plays, debates, quiz and class projects on themes such as India’s freedom struggle, gallantry awards, and victories of armed forces.The events can be organised both in the physical or virtual format based on the Covid-19 situation, the UGC said.“All higher education institutions and their affiliated colleges are requested to follow SoPs as formulated by the ministry of defence in order to inculcate our best practices all across the nation while celebrating the forthcoming Republic Day celebration and thereafter,” the commission said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ugc-asks-higher-education-institutions-to-participate-in-surya-namaskar-event-101642482344804.html
18-01-2022||India||Ripudaman Singh Malik thanks PM Modi for taking positive steps for Sikhs||Canada-based Sikh leader Ripudaman Singh Malik has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for a number of steps his government has taken for the Sikh community. He expressed his “deep heartfelt gratitude” for the unprecedented positive steps taken by the Modi government.“I am writing you this to express my deer heartfelt gratitude for the unprecedented positive steps taken by yourself to redress long-reading Sikh demands and grievances including elimination of blacklists that restricted visit to India of thousands of Sikhs living abroad, grant of passports and visas to asylees and their families, reopening of hundreds of 1984-riots closed cases leading to conviction and jail term for some, declaring 1984-riots as ‘genocide’ by then Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh on the floor of the House, giving compensation or Rs. 5.00 lakh per family of the anti-Sikh genocide victims, opening of Sri Kartarpur Saheb Corridor facilitating pilgrims from India to visit the revered place of our first Master Guru Nanak Dev Ji,” he said in the letter.He also expressed happiness on declaration of December 26 - the martyrdom of Guru Gobind Singh’s sons - as ‘Veer Baal Diwas’.At the same time, Singh showed concerns at an “orchestrated campaign” by some misguided members of the Sikh community against the Modi government and India. This, he said, is being done at the behest of some foreign powers which are interested in destabilising India and challenge its national integrity.Singh promised to work with the government of India for redressal of pending issues.In a separate letter to the Sikh community, Singh urged them to desist from the vicious and motivated campaign.“Violence in Punjab only ends up hurting the interests of the Sikh community in Punjab and throughout India and around the world. I do my daily Ardaas for world peace as I do not like seeing my community or any community suffer due to violence,” he said in the letter.“I do not believe it is right to unfairly criticise the Prime Minister given his many positive gestures towards the Sikh community. Instead of criticising we should be appreciating and engaging meaningfully with the government of India under his leadership towards a positive partnership for the future,” Singh furthers said in the letter.Malik runs Khalsa schools in Canada and was acquitted in 1985 Air India Kanishka bombing by Canadian judiciary in 2005.Apart from the Vancouver Education Board curriculum, the Khalsa school also teaches Punjabi language and culture. During summer vacations, students take classes in the Sikh religion, including kirtan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ripudaman-singh-malik-thanks-pm-modi-for-positive-steps-taken-for-sikhs-101642480899235.html
18-01-2022||India||India logs 238,018 fresh Covid-19 cases, daily active count drops below 1 lakh mark||India recorded 238,018 fresh Covid-19 infections in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry data showed on Tuesday. The daily active count rose by 80,287, dropping below 1 lakh cases for the first time in nearly two weeks. The daily infections dropped by 20,071 since yesterday's tally, while the daily positivity rate stood at 14.43 per cent, as opposed to 14.41 per cent yesterday.As many as 310 fatalities were registered in the last 24 hours, taking the country's death toll to 486,761. The new fatalities included 72 from Kerala and 33 from West Bengal.The active cases now stand at 17,36,628, while recoveries climbed to over 35 million with 157,421 people getting better in the past 24 hours, the bulletin showed. The recovery rate has touched 94.09 per cent.The total count rose to 37,180,271, including 8,891 new Omicron cases, which has been pushing more people around the country into self isolation.India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. Among worst-hit cities, Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata appear to have plateaued the Covid-19 curve, while several other cities continue to record a surge. A total of 705 million Covid tests have been conducted so far, including 16,49,143 tests in the last 24 hours.The government also stated that it has provided more than 1.5 billion (1,58,16,75,635) vaccine doses free-of-cost to states and union territories so far. More than 132 million (13,25,29,901) vaccine doses remain unutilized and yet to be administered.Also Read | Revised Covid treatment guidelines: All you want to knowEarlier on Monday, the Centre released revised guidelines issued by AIIMS, ICMR - COVID 19 National Task Force and Joint Monitoring Group (DGHS) wherein it asked doctors to avoid giving injectable steroids to patients not requiring oxygen supplementation or in continuation, after discharge, because that can lead to a risk of secondary infection like mucormycosis or ‘black fungus’.For “mild, moderate and severe” cases of Covid-19 infection, the government said home isolation and care is sufficient, along with regular monitoring of body temperature and oxygen saturation.In case of breathlessness with a fluctuating oxygen saturation between 90-93 per cent, the patient can get admitted. They will be considered moderate cases and should be given oxygen support, the guidelines stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-238-018-fresh-covid-19-cases-daily-active-count-drops-below-1-lakh-mark-101642476626682.html
18-01-2022||India||Republic Day parade: Scrolls to depict valour of heroes of freedom struggle||NEW DELHI: Ten scrolls, each measuring 750 metres, depicting valour of heroes of India’s freedom movement, will be put at the Rajpath for the Republic Day parade. Over 500 artists from Odisha and Chandigarh have painted the scrolls reflecting traditional art forms such as Madhubani, Pattachitra, Talapatra Chitra, Manjusha, and Patua.National Gallery of Modern Art director-general Adwaita Garanayak said they organised workshops for amalgamating varied forms of visual and performing arts of the country to represent the essence of unity and diversity in India. “I believe that the gigantic scrolls when displayed at Rajpath will garner the interest of each individual to delve deep into the history of the unsung heroes of India’s freedom struggle and would also draw attention towards the unified visual aspects of modern, indigenous, and contemporary arts of India,” Garanayak said in a statement.The scrolls will be put up behind the seating area for the public, said a Central Public Works Department (CPWD) official.CPWD is also planning to install 10 large LED screens along the Rajpath and is in the process of completing the work at the site, said a second official.With less than 10 days left for the event, the CPWD is giving final touches to the redevelopment work at Central Vista Avenue. This will be the first Republic Day parade at the revamped avenue.Arrangements for seating and the parade were being made at the site. Also Read | Netaji’s birth anniversary to now be part of Republic Day celebrationsAnother CPWD official said major work at the avenue for the parade is over and final touches are being given. “This time, 10 huge LED screens, including four near the presidential dais, for the public (will be put up). Live visuals of the parade will be telecasted.”The agency is in the process of completing the construction work at the parking lots, where space for close to 4,000 vehicles will be provided. A Delhi traffic police officer said parking space for around 7,000 vehicles will be needed. “The parking space at the venue has slightly been reduced due to the construction of amenity blocks and underpasses. We have been provided alternate parking sites at Jawahar Bhawan (on Raisina Road) and Vanijya Bhawan (on Akbar road). This is for the first time we have been provided parking sites at these locations.”Due to the Covid situation, the parade will terminate at the National Stadium while the tableaux will be taken to Red Fort.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-day-parade-scrolls-to-depict-valour-of-heroes-of-freedom-struggle-101642478624213.html
18-01-2022||India||IMD predicts rain, dense fog, hail storm in these states, UTs||A Western Disturbance lying over North India will cause rain in Delhi NCR from Friday night and continue till Sunday morning, according to a senior scientist at the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD). Overcast conditions will prevail due to the Western Disturbance, increasing the minimum temperature to 13 degrees Celsius.RK Jenamani of IMD told news agency ANI that the Western Disturbance, however, is weaker compared to the earlier one that caused intense rainfall in the national capital region, adding that there will be light to very light rainfall. Jenamani said there is also a possibility of hail storms in Punjab Haryana."Day temperature to remain low due to rain throughout North India, Rajasthan, Haryana," Jenamani informed.IMD said that a "fresh active Western Disturbance is likely to affect Northwest India from 21st January onwards."Cold day conditions likely to abate in Delhi todayThe Met department has also predicted isolated light/moderate rainfall over Coastal Andhra Pradesh, Rayalaseema, interior Tamilnadu, Kerala for the next 2 days.IMD weather forecast suggested dense to very dense fog in isolated parts in the night and morning hours over Rajasthan, East Uttar Pradesh, West Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha and West Bengal during the next two days.“Cold Day to Severe Cold Day Conditions in some/isolated pockets very likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh & Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan during next 2 days and abate thereafter,” IMD added.On Tuesday morning, IMD reported dense fog with 50-metre visibility in Bareilly, Bahraich, Sultanpur, Varanasi and Allahabad. Agra, Lucknow and Gorakhpur reported visibility of 200-metre each. Isolated pockets of Bihar and Sub-Himalayan West Bengal witnessed dense fog, with 50-metre visibility in Gaya and 200-metre in Purnea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-predicts-rain-dense-fog-hail-storm-in-these-states-uts-101642477875080.html
18-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: PM to interact with BJP workers virtually in UP, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Uttar Pradesh assembly election 2022: PM Modi to interact with BJP workers virtually todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Tuesday interact with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers of Varanasi, in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh. The interaction will take place virtually since the Election Commission of India (ECI) has suspended all physical rallies till January 22 due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Read more…On cam: Leopard roams in Mumbai's Goregaon East, residents urged not to panicCCTV cameras captured a leopard roaming freely in Gokuldham area in Mumbai's Goregaon East. The radio-collared leopard was identified by forest department officials. Goregaon East is near Aarey forest & Sanjay gandhi national park. This isn't the first leopard sighting in the area. Leopards often come to these Mumbai areas, looking to prey on street dogs. Following the leopard sighting, residents of the Gokuldham area (Goregaon east) have been urged not to panic. Watch the full video for moreRobert Lewandowski wins FIFA Best Men's player, Erik Lamela gets Puskas AwardBayern Munich's Polish striker Robert Lewandowski won the FIFA Best Men's Player award for 2021 with Barcelona's Spanish midfielder Alexia Putellas winning the FIFA Best Women's Player prize at Monday's ceremony. Read more…Vicky Kaushal relives ‘good old acting school days’ with Shireen Mirza. WatchVicky Kaushal is reliving his “good old acting school days” with friend Shireen Mirza, who shared a throwback video from their time together. Shireen is an actor too and has appeared in the TV show Ye Hai Mohabbatein as Simran ‘Simmi’ Bhalla Khurana. Read more…Barack Obama kisses his 'love, partner, best friend' Michelle Obama in her 58th birthday wish: Read post hereThe former First Lady of the United States of America, Michelle Obama, turned 58 on January 17 and took to Twitter today (IST) to share a video of herself enjoying her birthday cake. Her husband and former US President Barack Obama also posted an endearing wish on social media. Read more…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-to-interact-with-bjp-workers-virtually-in-up-and-all-the-latest-news-101642474438781.html
18-01-2022||India||Cold day conditions to persist in northwest India||NEW DELHI: A western disturbance was likely to bring scattered rain to most parts of northwest India this week, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said as cold day conditions with significantly low day temperatures were likely to persist on Tuesday.Cold to severe cold day conditions in parts of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, and Rajasthan will continue for two days and abate thereafter. IMD said minimum temperatures were likely to rise by 2-4 degrees Celsius in the region over the next five days. It added dense to very dense fog was likely in isolated parts in the night and morning hours in Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha, and West Bengal.IMD said a cyclonic circulation was lying over Kerala and neighbourhood and a fresh western disturbance was likely to hit the western Himalayan region from January 18. Another fresh active western disturbance was likely over northwest India from January 21 and an induced cyclonic circulation in Rajasthan on January 22.Isolated light to moderate rainfall was expected in north coastal Andhra Pradesh, Rayalaseema, interior Tamil Nadu, Kerala, and Mahe during the next two to three days. Light to moderate rainfall at a few places with isolated heavy rainfall was likely in north coastal Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, and adjoining south coastal Andhra Pradesh.Scattered to widespread rainfall or snowfall was likely in western Himalayan till January 23 while rainfall was expected in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, and Rajasthan this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cold-day-conditions-to-persist-in-northwest-india-101642475443939.html
18-01-2022||India||Al Qaeda affiliate's claim of Ghazipur Mandi bomb scare bogus: Delhi police||Delhi police on Monday said that they have found the claims of terror outfit Ansar Ghazwat-ul-Hind, an Al-Qaeda affiliated Islamist militant group, regarding the Ghazipur Mandi bomb scare, as bogus.Senior officials from the special cell, the Delhi Police's Anti-Terror Squad, said they are still probing whether the group is responsible for the terror attack attempt.It was on Friday, that a bag full of explosives was recovered from Ghazipur flower market around 10.30 am, after which the entire market was vacated and the IED defused by the National Security Guard (NSG).On Monday, NSG confirmed that it was a mixture of RDX and ammonia nitrate attached to a sophisticated device to cause the explosion.Group linked to Al Qaeda says it planted bomb in Ghazipur market: PoliceThe Delhi Police which had registered a case under the explosive act to probe the incident, however, said they are yet to zero down on any terror outfit responsible for the attempt."During social media monitoring, we have come across a letter with Ansar Ghazwat-ul-Hind claiming responsibility for the attempted attack. This group is relatively a newer outfit. We haven't found any authentic source to the note so far," said a senior police officer.The letter doing rounds on social media also mentioned that it was due to some technical error that the device did not explode. But it does not mean that the same will happen even the next time, it said.Police have said it could be an attempt to mislead the probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/al-qaeda-affiliate-s-claim-of-ghazipur-mandi-bomb-scare-bogus-delhi-police-101642473885087.html
18-01-2022||India||Facial recognition systems, anti-drone teams deployed for Republic Day celebration||After the improvised explosive device (IED) was found at Ghazipur Flower Market ahead of Republic Day and later diffused, the Delhi Police have fortified areas in and around Rajpath with multi-layer security cover, installed facial recognition systems (FRS) and over 300 CCTVs.Deepak Yadav, DCP, New Delhi, said that apart from the terror threat, the rise in cases of Covid-19 is also a major challenge for the force.He has briefed the police personnel about the necessary precautions that need to be followed and has tightened the security arrangements in New Delhi."We have intensified the process of verification of tenants and visitors in hotels in and around the New Delhi area. A quick reaction team (QRT) will be deployed to respond to any untoward situation. We are also deploying an anti-drone team to keep a watch on any flying object breaching security cordon," he said.He added that around 300 cameras with FRS-enabled facilities have been deployed in and around Rajpath. The systems have a database of 50,000 suspected criminals."Due to Covid-19-related restrictions only 4,000 tickets will be available and a total of 24,000 people will be allowed to attend the event," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facial-recognition-systems-anti-drone-teams-deployed-for-republic-day-celebration-101642471702285.html
18-01-2022||India||4.9-magnitude earthquake hits Arunachal Pradesh's Basar||An earthquake of magnitude 4.9 shook Basar in Arunachal Pradesh's Lepa Rada district in the early hours of Tuesday, according to the National Center for Seismology (NCS).The epicentre of the earthquake, which occurred at 4.30am, was at the depth of 10 kilometres and at 148 km north-northwest of Basar.“Earthquake of Magnitude:4.9, Occurred on 18-01-2022, 04:29:30 IST, Lat: 29.16 & Long: 93.97, Depth: 10 Km, Location: 148km NNW of Basar, Arunachal Pradesh, India," NCS tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/49magnitude-earthquake-hits-arunachal-pradesh-s-basar-101642470727527.html
18-01-2022||NA||Breaking highlights: 3 sailors killed in explosion onboard INS Ranvir at Mumbai’s Naval Dockyard||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Delhi govt to deploy senior nursing officers as nodal officers in private hospitalsDelhi govt to deploy its senior nursing officers as nodal officers in private hospitals to monitor the management of Covid-19 patients along with monitoring Covid vaccination pic.twitter.com/yfJcFENEYJDelhi government will deploy its senior nursing officers as nodal officers in private hospitals to monitor the management of Covid-19 patients and vaccination, reports ANI. 3 sailors killed in explosion onboard INS Ranvir at Mumbai’s Naval DockyardThree sailors died and several others were injured in a blast that occurred onboard Indian Navy destroyer INS Ranvir, in Mumbai harbour.Maharashtra logs 39,207 Covid-19 cases, 53 deaths in last 24 hoursMaharashtra saw 39,207 new Covid-19 cases and 53 deaths in the last 24 hours, higher than 31,111 cases and 24 fatalities reported a day before. The total caseload in the state reached 7,282,128 and the death toll mounted to 141,885. TN's tableau, rejected from R-Day parade, to be displayed at Chennai: CM StalinTamil Nadu CM MK Stalin said that the state's tableau which was excluded from the Republic Day parade this year will be displayed at Chennai and other major cities of the state for the public. Ensure 15 to 18 age group jabbed with Covaxin: Bharat Biotech tells healthcare workers Bharat Biotech: "Healthcare workers are requested to ensure that only COVAXIN is administered to individuals in 15-18 age group," following reports of unapproved COVID vaccines being given to 15-18 year age group pic.twitter.com/GpboR1nFeVBharat Biotech, makers of the Covaxin Covid-19 vaccine, have asked healthcare workers to ensure that beneficiaries 15 and 18 years of age are administered only their shot, which has been approved.Mumbai’s daily Covid cases rise marginally to 6149; city sees 7 more deathsCOVID-19 | Mumbai reports 6,149 new cases - 193 more than yesterday, January 17, and 7 deaths today; Active cases 44,084 pic.twitter.com/pHus9NLG4nMumbai saw a slight spike in its daily Covid tally with 6,149 new cases which took the total caseload to 1,011,967. Also, seven more people died on the day and the death toll mounted to 16,476. Delhi's daily Covid cases fall to 11,684The national capital continued a downward trend it its daily Covid-19 tally with 11,684 infections reported in the last 24 hours, pushing the caseload to 17,34,181.  Kerala sees 28,481 new Covid-19 cases, 39 deathsKerala reported 28,481 new Covid-19 cases and 39 related deaths. The state's active caseload stood at 142,512, reports ANI. On the day, 83 total deaths were added as per the new guidelines of the central government and the death toll reached 51,026.UP assembly polls: BJP releases names of 2 more candidatesThe BJP has relased the names of two more candidates for the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly elections. Chhatrapal Gangwar will contest from the Baheri legislative constituencey and Bahoranlal Maurya from Bhojipura.Delhi shopkeepers protest odd-even rule to check Covid surgeDelhi | Odd-even is now imposed on shops, we were already suffering due to weekend lockdown. Due to this, our shops are open only 10 days a month: Rakesh Kumar, President, Sadar Bazar traders Association pic.twitter.com/ojZtHlufKbShopkeepers in Delhi protested against the odd-even rule implemented in the city to check the surge in Covid-19 cases. They demanded the government for allowing them to run their businesses on the weekends citing economic loss due to the pandemic.SP MLA Nahid Hasan's bail plea dismissedUttar Pradesh | Kairana fast track court dismisses the bail plea of Samajwadi Party MLA and candidate from Kairana, Nahid Hasan. He was arrested by the Police under the Gangster Act and sent to 14-day judicial custody by a Kairana court on January 15th.(File photo) pic.twitter.com/L7ppqp79dBA fast track court in Kairana rejected the bail plea of Samajwadi Party MLA and its candidate from the Kairana assembly constituency Nahid Hasan, reports ANI. Mamata Banerjee to visit UP on Feb 8, to meet Akhilesh Yadav: SP's Kiranmoy NandaSamajwadi Party vice president Kiranmoy Nanda said that West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee is slated to visit Uttar Pradesh on February 8 and will meet with Akhilesh Yadav for a virtual press conference to be held in Lucknow and Varanasi, reports ANI. “TMC and Mamata Banerjee don't want to contest in UP. All seats will be given to Akhilesh Yadav,” he said. Russia demands US' response on security demands before proceeding with Ukraine talksRussian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov said that Moscow wanted answers from the US on sweeping security demands before continuing Ukraine talks, reports AFP. ‘Fraud of the Congress, for the Congress, by the Congress’: FM on Devas-Antrix issueResponding to questions regarding the Devas-Antrix issue, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that it was a “fraud of the Congress, for the Congress and by the Congress”. 'GoI didn't appoint arbitrator when Devas went to international arbitration': Nirmala SitharamanIn 2011, when the whole thing was cancelled, Devas went to international arbitration, Govt of India never appointed an arbitrator, was reminded to appoint arbitrator within 21 days, but govt didn't appoint: Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman pic.twitter.com/Aly4xZbiz3Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that when Devas went for international arbitration, the then Government of India did not appoint an arbitrator, even after it was reminded to appoint one within 21 days. WATCH | FM Nirmala Sitharaman addresses media on SC order on Antrix-Devas caseUnion finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman addressed the media on the Supreme Court's recent judgement about the Antrix-Devas deal.FM Nirmala Sitharaman talks about SC judgement on Antrix-Devas case, calls it ‘fraud deal’I would like to talk on Supreme Court judgment on Devas-Antrix issue. SC has given a comprehensive order. UPA got cancelled this deal in 2011. It was a fraud deal: Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman pic.twitter.com/DyhcpFchkhFinance minister Nirmala Sitharaman addressed a press conference and spoke about the Supreme Court verdict on the Antrix-Devas case. “UPA got cancelled this deal in 2011. It was a fraud deal,” she said.Centre asks states, UTs to ramp up Covid testing in strategic mannerMinistry of Health & Family Welfare asks all States/UTs "to immediately increase testing in a strategic manner keeping in view the trend of case positivity in specific areas in the States/UTs" pic.twitter.com/oHSf8B0EfyThe Union health ministry has raised concerns about a decline in Covid-19 testing in many states and Union territories and has asked for the testing be enhanced. “Increase the testing in a strategic manner keeping in view the trend of case positivity in specific geographies within in your States/UTs,” the ministry said.India offers $500 million credit line to Sri Lanka for purchase of petroleum productsIndia offered credit line of $500 million to Sri Lanka for the purchase of petroleum products. The support from India followed discussions between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and Sri Lankan finance minister Basil Rajapaksa, the Indian high commission in Colombo said. AAP to announce Goa CM candidate on Jan 19 in PanajiAam Aadmi Party's national convenor and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal will announce the party's chief minister candidate for the upcoming Goa assembly polls in a press conference in Panaji on January 19, reports ANI. PMLA court rejects former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh’s bail plea in alleged money laundering caseA Special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) Court rejected the bail plea of former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh.Deshmukh argued that, though the Enforcement Directorate (ED) filed a charge-sheet against him, the court had not taken cognisance of it and so he should be granted default bail.Congress releases 3rd list of candidates for Goa pollsCongress releases the third list of candidates for the upcoming #GoaElections2022Michael Lobo, former state minister who recently quit BJP to join the party, will contest from Calangute. pic.twitter.com/QGs2zZnVpjCongress released its third list of candidates for the upcoming state assembly elections in Goa. Michael Lobo, who recently quit the BJP and joined the Congress has been given the Calangute seat.‘We will win by 2/3rd margin’: AAP's Punjab CM candidate MannAam Aadmi Party's CM candidate for the upcoming Punjab polls Bhagwant Mann said that his party will win with two-thirds majority, reports ANI. “Have to deal with several problems in Punjab. Focus will be on providing jobs to youth. 'Mafia raj' will be abolished. I belong to a middle-class family, never thought of reaching here. Will win seats by 2/3 margin,” he said. Rajnath Singh's writes to TN CM Stalin on exclusion of tableau in R-Day paradeThis is also to bring to your kind info that during the last few years, tableaux from the State govt of Tamil Nadu has been selected for participation in R-Day during 2017, 2019,2020, & 2021, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh further added in the letter to Tamil Nadu CM MK StalinUnion defence minister Rajnath Singh wrote to Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin, replying to the CM's letter regarding the exclusion of the state's tableau from the Republic Day parade this year. Click here to read moreKerala reports 63 new Omicron cases, state tally reaches 59163 more Omicron confirmed in Kerala today, taking the case tally to 591. Of 591 cases, 401 persons arrived from 'low-risk' countries, 101 persons from 'high-risk' countries, 70 persons were contacts of patients and 19 reached from other States, announced Kerala health minister's office.Akhilesh Yadav promises free electricity up to 300 units to domestic usersSamajwadi Party national president Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday announced a major subsidy scheme and promised up to 300 units of electricity free to domestic consumers in Uttar Pradesh if voted to power. Read more3% voters named Navjot Sidhu as Punjab CM face of AAP, says KejriwalMaking the announcement, Kejriwal said that 3 per cent of respondents also named Navjot Sidhu as the CM face of AAP in Punjab.Bhagwant Mann to be AAP's CM candidate for Punjab assembly elections, announces KejriwalArvind Kejriwal announces Bhagwant Mann as AAP's chief ministerial candidate for Punjab assembly elections."21 lakh plus responses received. Besides Mann, LOP Harpal Cheema, State in-charge Jarnail Singh and co-incharge Raghav Chadha present. "Wherever I went, everyone asked me dulha kaun hoga. We decided to ask 3 crore people of Punjab," says Kejriwal.WATCH: Arvind Kejriwal set to announce AAP CM candidate for Punjabਪੰਜਾਬੀਆਂ ਨੇ ਚੁਣਿਆ ਆਮ ਆਦਮੀ ਪਾਰਟੀ ਦਾ CM ਚਿਹਰਾ! https://t.co/xe3h4zo4qpAam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal addresses press conference to announce the party's chief minister candidate for Punjab.PM Modi interacts with BJP workers in Varanasi ahead of UP pollsPM Modi begins interaction with BJP workers of his parliamentary constituency, Varanasi. Modi asks about poll atmosphere in Kashi.Noted cartoonist Narayan Debnath, Padma Shri awardee, dies at 98Prominent cartoonist Narayan Debnath, who received the prestigious Padma Shri in 2021, died at the age of 98 in Kolkata on Tuesday. India's cumulative Covid-19 vaccination exceeds 158.04 croreIndia’s cumulative #COVID19 vaccination coverage exceeds 158.04 crores, as nearly 80 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the last 24 hours: Union Health MinistryThe Union health ministry said on Tuesday that the total number of vaccinations in India against Covid-19 have exceeded 158.04 crore, adding, nearly 80 lakh doses were administered to eligible beneficiaries in the last 24 hours. ED conducts multi raids in Punjab, residence of CM Channi’s nephew being searchedEnforcement Directorate is conducting a raid at Punjab chief minster Charanjit Channi’s nephew Honey’s residence in Homeland Heights. The ED raids are underway at 10 location across Punjab in illegal sand mining case.India reports 2,38,018 new Covid cases, 310 deaths in 24 hours; daily positivity rate at 14.43%India reported 2,38,018 COVID cases (20,071 less than yesterday), 310 deaths, and 1,57,421 recoveries in the last 24 hours.North Korea says it was testing “tactical guided missiles” North Korea says it conducted a test of “tactical guided missiles” in its fourth round of missile launches this month. The announcement comes a day after South Korea’s military detected the North launching two ballistic missiles into the sea.Delhi AQI deteriorates to 'very poor' category with AQI at 312The air quality in the national capital on Tuesday deteriorated to 'very poor' from 'poor' category with an overall Air Quality Index (AQI) at 312, according to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR).Earthquake of 4.3 magnitude strikes ManipurAn earthquake of magnitude 4.3 occurred around 7:52am at Churachandpur, Manipur, 46km East-Northeast of Ngopa, Mizoram, stated National Center for Seismology.TDP chief N Chandrababu Naidu tests positive for Covid-19I've tested positive for COVID with mild symptoms. I have quarantined myself at home and taking all the necessary precautions. I would request those who came in contact with me to get themselves tested at the earliest. Please be safe and take care.Al-Qaeda outfit Ansar Ghazwat-ul-Hind's claim of Delhi bomb scare bogus: Delhi policeAl-Qaeda outfit Ansar Ghazwat-ul-Hind's claim of Delhi bomb scare bogus, says Delhi police. An unidentified bag carrying an IED was recovered from Ghazipur Flower Market area last week.J&K govt takes control of Kashmir Press Club, says it has ‘ceased to exist’The Kashmir Press Club has “ceased to exist”, the Jammu and Kashmir administration said on Monday as it took back the premises allotted to the largest journalists’ body in the Valley following “dissensions” between two factions, one of which had tacit support from the government.Pulwama gets first RT-PCR testing lab amidst 3rd wave of Covid pandemicPulwama received its first RT-PCR testing lab amidst the third wave of COVID pandemic."Earlier, we had to send samples to Srinagar and reports would come after two days. Now, people can get their test report within a day," an official of the health department said on Monday.Multi-layer security cover, facial recognition systems in place across Delhi for R-Day celebrationAfter the improvised explosive device (IED) was found at Ghazipur Flower Market ahead of the Republic Day and later diffused, the Delhi Police have fortified areas in and around Rajpath with multi-layer security cover, installed facial recognition systems (FRS) and over 300 CCTVs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-january-18-2022-101642465785753.html
18-01-2022||India||No one can be forced to get inoculated: Govt||Vaccination against Covid-19 is of larger public interest amid the ongoing pandemic and no person can be forced to be inoculated against their wishes, the Centre has informed the Supreme Court.“The directions and guidelines released by the government of India and ministry of health and family welfare do not envisage any forcible vaccination without consent of the concerned individual,” the Union government said in an affidavit submitted in the top court.The affidavit was in response to a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by NGO Evara Foundation seeking measures, such as door-to-door vaccinations, for disabled people. Among the suggestions made by the NGO was prior consent of disabled persons, which included those suffering from mental and intellectual disabilities. “Vaccination should not be made mandatory for persons with disabilities and obtaining consent of all the persons with disabilities before the vaccination should be compulsory,” the plea filed through counsel Pankaj Sinha and Shashank Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-one-can-be-forced-to-get-inoculated-govt-101642460782961.html
18-01-2022||India||200 security personnel infected with coronavirus in Maoist-affected Bastar||RAIPUR: At least 200 security personnel have been infected with the coronavirus disease in four districts of Maoist-affected Bastar division, officials said on Monday. Senior officials said that attempts are being taken to contain the spread of the infection and there are no serious concerns in the security camps of the division. “In the last couple of weeks, there has been spike in Covid cases throughout the state. Similarly, around 200 security personnel have been so far identified with Covid-19 infection. Even after strict adherence to Covid-19 protocol, there has been spread of the infection in camps because the security personnel have to come out to perform their duties, commute for administrative/operational/personal reasons,” inspector general of police, Bastar range, Sunderaj P said.Sukma district, where 160 security personnel are infected with the virus, has reported the highest number of cases , followed by Narayanpur where 30 cases were recorded. “Since all security personnel are double vaccinated, there are no serious concerns in the camps. All the infected personnel are recovering ...But still we would ensure strict adherence to the protocol like isolation and observation of personnel returning back from leave or out station visits,” the I-G added. Chhattisgarh added 3,963 cases to its tally of active cases on Sunday. The state’s positivity rate, the number of positive cases detected per 100 tests, stood at 12.17% . The state has a total of 32,792 active cases. 
18-01-2022||India||SC dismissal of Devas plea to help India in global arbitration||The Supreme Court’s dismissal on Monday of the appeal filed by Devas Multimedia against the decision of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT), which had upheld the National Company Law Tribunal’s decision to wind up the company, has significant political and economic ramifications -- and it is likely India will use it while fighting against an international arbitration award won by Devas, whose enforcement the company has been pushing for in some geographies.Recently, a Canadian court ordered the attachments of assets owned in that country by Air India as part of this. The judgment, delivered by a bench comprising justices Hemant Gupta and V Ramasubramanian dismissed Devas’s and its minority shareholder Devas Employees Mauritius Private Ltd’s appeal, upholding the order passed by NCLAT, which stated that Devas was incorporated with a fraudulent motive to collude and connive with some officials of Antrix Corporation, the commercial arm of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO).The judgment is the latest chapter in a controversial deal during the previous UPA regime, when, in 2005, Devas entered into an agreement with Antrix, the private sector arm of ISRO to provide high-speed data services using S-band satellite spectrum from Antrix.The deal was terminated amid allegations of corruption by the Manmohan Singh government in 2011.This resulted in commercial arbitration before an ICC Tribunal in the Netherlands and investment arbitration under the India-Mauritius and India-Germany bilateral investment treaty. Each of these proceedings have led to adverse awards against the Union of India.Today’s judgment in favour of the Union of India bolsters its case against Devas internationally, especially against the arbitration award for Devas that is under consideration with the judiciary of the Netherlands. This may also help the Modi government in limiting the enforcement proceedings globally on grounds of fraud. The apex court’s order also embarrasses the previous regime ahead of state elections in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Manipur and Punjab.The decision to file a petition seeing the winding up of Devas Multimedia Ltd on grounds of fraudulent conduct of affairs was taken in January 2021, and a decision provisionally approving it was passed by NCLT the same month. Shareholders of Devas approached NCLAT seeking to prevent the winding-up petition in February, but the appellate tribunal dismissed their suit.The shareholders later impleaded themselves as part of the winding up petition. In March, they challenged the constitutionality of the winding up petition in the Karnataka high court, but this suit too was dismissed.On May 25, NCLT approved the winding up of Devas Multimedia. This order was challenged by Devas shareholders and the company’s former directors before NCLAT, which dismissed their appeal on September 8.The shareholders and the former directors appealed to the Supreme Court, which delivered its decision on Monday.“If the seeds of the commercial relationship, between Antrix and Devas were a product of the fraud perpetrated by Devas, every part of the plant that grew out of these seeds, such as the agreement, the disputes, arbitral awards, etc are infected with the poison of fraud,” the Supreme Court said in its judgement.The order further added that “allowing Devas and its shareholders to reap the benefit of their fraudulent action, may nevertheless send the wrong message...”It is very likely that India will be using these points while challenging the arbitral awards.Interestingly, Antrix’s deal with Devas in 2005 was signed without the Space Commission , which is the apex policymaking body on all matters related to space.The deal was cancelled in 2011, when inconvenient questions were asked about it, and in the wake of the 2G scam. The government did not even invoke the national security clause.Still, two questions remain unanswered: one, why was the agreement with Devas executed without any due diligence? And two, if the winding up was on grounds of fraudulent conduct, why did the then government use that reason to scrap the deal?After all, by 2009, questions were already being asked about the deal.In 2015, the Narendra Modi government asked the Central Bureau of Investigation to look into the agreement. The Enforcement Directorate is also involved in the investigations that are still on.Analysts also point to three missteps by the UPA that went against India in the arbitration proceedings: one, not invoking the national security issue while scrapping the deal; two, not focusing on the fraud; and three, being lax in responding to the arbitration panel.Nor did it do anything to ring-fence the S-band spectrum (which has military use) till 2013.While the UPA government at the time claimed that no decision was taken to allocate space segments using S-Band spectrum to Antrix or Devas, the 2005 agreement clearly states the contrary.It reads: “…agreed to the request of Devas and has decided to make available to Devas, on lease basis, part of a space segment capacity on Primary Satellite 1 or PS1 and an option to gain additional capacity on Primary Satellite 2 or PS2 to be manufactured for similar services without any immediate back-up in the S-band, for such purpose under appropriate terms and conditions.”There is documentary evidence to indicate that the UPA government was advised to annul the agreement in July 2010, but for inexplicable reasons waited for nearly a year to scrap the deal.
18-01-2022||India||Russia starts manufacturing reactor for Kudankulam nuclear power plant||NEW DELHI: Russia’s state atomic energy corporation has started manufacturing the nuclear reactor and steam generators for the sixth unit of Tamil Nadu’s Kudankulam nuclear power plant.Rosatom is currently building the 6,000-MW project at Kudankulam, which will have six VVER-1000 nuclear reactors, and is in talks with India to construct six more reactors at a new site that is yet to be identified.The reactor and steam generator shells for the sixth unit have passed an incoming inspection and are currently in the “initial operations of the manufacturing cycle”, Rosatom said on Monday.As part of a framework agreement signed by the Indian government and Rosatom in 2017 for the fifth and sixth power units at Kudankulam, JSC AEM-Technologies – a part of the machine-building division of Rosatom – will manufacture and supply two nuclear reactors, two sets of steam generators, reactor coolant pump set bodies, the main circulation piping, emergency core cooling system tanks, passive core flooding system tanks and two pressurisers.The total weight of the items is almost 6,000 tonnes. “The reactor is an item of first safety class. It is a vertical cylindrical body with an elliptical bottom. The core and internals are located inside the vessel,” Rosatom said.The steam generators are heat exchangers and part of a steam generating unit. Each steam generator has a diameter of more than four metres, its length is about 14 metres, and the weight is 340 tonnes. The first power unit of the Kudankulam plant has been steadily operating at the design capacity level of 1,000 MW since February 2016. The second was included in India’s national electricity grid in August 2016.The master framework agreement with Rosatom for the construction of the third and fourth units was signed in 2014, while the engineering division of Rosatom and India’s Atomic Energy Corporation signed the pact for the third stage with the fifth and sixth power units in June 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/russia-starts-manufacturing-reactor-for-kudankulam-nuclear-power-plant-101642458342733.html
18-01-2022||India||J&K govt cancels building, land allotted to Srinagar’s Kashmir Press Club||The Jammu and Kashmir government on Monday cancelled the allotment of building and land which housed Srinagar’s Kashmir Press Club, two days after it was taken over by a small group of journalists flanked by the police. The government said that it wanted to avoid a law and order situation after “rival groups levelled various allegations against each other”. The premises have been handed over back to the estates department.The government had faced criticism after the forcible takeover of the KPC premises by a group of journalists led by M Salim Pandit and accompanied by armed policemen on Saturday. The Editors Guild of India termed the forcible takeover by the group a ‘coup’ while former chief ministers Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti went on to tag it as a “state-sponsored coup”.“…The rival groups have been levelling various allegations against each other also with regard to the use of the premises belonging to the estates department that was being used for the legitimate use of the members of the journalistic fraternity. In view of this aspect of the dispute and in view of the reports in social media and other sources indicating a potential law and order situation, including a threat of breach of peace and the safety of bona fide journalists, the intervention has become necessary,” the government said in a statement issued through the information department.Although the two-year term of the 11-member executive and management body of the 300-member strong club, which was elected in 2019, had ended last year in July, they said they could not conduct fresh elections immediately owing to mandatory re-registration of the club which was asked by the authorities.The takeover by the ‘disgruntled’ group, alleged to be supported by the local administration, had come a day after the administration suspended the KPC’s re-registration certificate - which had been issued by the authorities after seven months on December 29. Nine journalists’ bodies of Kashmir, including the elected Kashmir Press Club body, had termed the takeover as “illegal and arbitrary”. The government statement said the KPC as a registered body has ceased to exist and its managing body, too, has come to a legal closure on July 14, 2021, the date on which its tenure came to an end. It said in view of the “dissensions between various groups of journalists, it has been decided that the allotment of the premises at Polo View in view of the now deregistered Kashmir Press Club be cancelled and control of land and buildings situated at Polo View, Srinagar, which belongs to the estates department be reverted to the said department”.“The government is committed to a free and fair press…and also hopes that a duly registered bona fide society of all journalists shall be constituted as soon as possible and the same shall be able to approach the government for reallocation of the premises,” the statement said.PDP president Mehbooba Mufti said in a tweet: “It seems that the coup and its aftermath was entirely orchestrated to shut down another outlet that served as a medium for journalists to debate and discuss their opinions freely. With every passing day, all the safety valves to express dissent are being muzzled.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-government-cancels-building-land-allotted-to-srinagar-s-kashmir-press-club-101642448862019.html
18-01-2022||India||Punjab elections: AAP to name CM face today, says Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister and AAP’s national convenor Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said his party’s chief ministerial candidate for the Punjab Assembly polls will be announced on Tuesday. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has received around 22 lakh responses under its campaign to elect its CM face for the Assembly polls, a party leader said. Kejriwal had on January 13 asked the people of Punjab to suggest names of their preferred chief ministerial candidates and launched a mobile number for the purpose. Kejriwal then said though he had wanted party’s state unit chief Bhagwant Mann’s name to be declared as the chief ministerial candidate, the Sangrur MP insisted that people should make the decision. Kejriwal had also ruled himself out of the race. “The name of the party’s chief ministerial candidate for Punjab Assembly elections will be announced tomorrow at 12 noon,” Kejriwal told reporters on the sidelines of an event in Delhi. Later in the day, AAP leader and Leader of Opposition in the Punjab Assembly Harpal Singh Cheema said, “Till 5 pm on January 17, around 22 lakh people expressed their opinion and named their favourite chief minister on the number released by the party.” AAP leader Raghav Chadha in Chandigarh said the party received responses through SMS, voice calls, WhatsApp messages. AAP’s IT team is scrutinising each message and tomorrow Kejriwal will disclose the results, he said. Chadha said it will be only AAP which will go to the state Assembly polls with the chief ministerial face. He said none of the other political parties, including the ruling Congress, announced the name of their chief ministerial candidate. Replying to a question, Chadha said the next list of candidates will be announced soon. So far, the party has announced 112 candidates. Voting for Punjab’s 117 Assembly seats is scheduled for February 20 and the counting will take place on March 10. Accepting the demand of political parties, the Election Commission on Monday decided to hold the single-phase Assembly polls in Punjab on February 20 instead of February 14 in view of Guru Ravidas Jayanti. Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and political parties in the state had urged the poll panel to postpone the date of voting as lakhs of followers of Guru Ravidas travel to Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh to celebrate his birth anniversary on February 16. Channi had said as members of the Scheduled Castes community are likely to visit Varanasi from February 10 to 16, they won’t be able to vote in the elections. PTI PK VIT CHS VSD SMN RDK RDK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-elections-aap-to-name-cm-face-today-says-kejriwal-101642447841991.html
18-01-2022||India||Uttarakhand elections: BJP core committee discusses candidates||After releasing the candidate list for 105 Assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday held discussions on all 70 seats of the Uttarakhand assembly polls.Union Home Minister Amit Shah, BJP president JP Nadda, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami, Uttarakhand BJP president Madan Kaushik, election in-charge Prahlad Joshi, in-charge Dushyant Gautam, co-in-charges RP Singh and Locket Chatterjee were present in the meeting.The meeting, which started at 6 pm in the BJP office went on till 10 pm.A panel of three names was sent to Delhi, which was discussed in the core group meeting today. The 70 seats which have been discussed today would be taken forward in the CEC meeting to be held on January 19. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will also be part of the meeting.As per sources, by January 20 to 21 the list of 70 candidates will be released for Uttarakhand.At present, the BJP has 57 assembly constituencies in Uttarakhand’s 70-seated assembly. This time the party has given the slogan ‘Abki Baar 60 Paar’.Earlier in the afternoon, the party discussed the 40 seats for the Goa Legislative Assembly. Goa CM Pramod Sawant, election in-charge Devendra Fadnavis, G Kishan Reddy along with organization ministers were present.Sources say that the Bharatiya Janata Party is going to contest 38 out of the 40 assembly seats in Goa this time. The party has decided not to field its candidates in 2 Christian majority seats. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-elections-bjp-core-committee-discusses-candidates-101642447544623.html
18-01-2022||India||Aspirational districts get exemption from new engineering college moratorium||Aspirational districts that have no access to technical education and philanthropic organisations holding credible records in the education sector will be exempted from the extended two-year moratorium on setting up of new engineering colleges across the country, officials said.“It has been decided that only aspirational districts that have no engineering colleges or polytechnics will be exempted from the ban. There are still 30-40 remote districts in the country where there are no engineering colleges and the people there cannot afford to go to big cities for higher education. If the concerned state governments want to start engineering colleges in such districts, then they will be permitted. But we will ask them to focus on job-oriented programmes,” All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) chairperson Anil Sahasrabuddh said.“Besides, if any philanthropic organisation or society, having a proven track record particularly in the field of education, would want to start a technical education institution, then they will be provided the approval with some restrictions,” he added.Sahasrabuddh also said that the council has accepted the recommendation to continue with the ban on setting up new colleges, till 2024, by a committee that was set up to look for ways to overhaul engineering education in the country in 2018.In 2019, the committee, headed by BVR Mohan Reddy, chairman of IIT-Hyderabad, had advised the government to put a moratorium on granting approvals to new engineering colleges for two years, starting 2020. Following a fresh review, the committee in its report to the education ministry in December last year suggested that the ban be extended by another two years.
18-01-2022||India||Debar parties that do not give candidates’ criminal case details: Plea in SC||A petition has been filed before the Supreme Court seeking a direction to the Election Commission of India to deregister political parties that do not disclose details pertaining to criminal cases of election candidates along with the reason for their selection.The plea, filed by advocate and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, referred to a decision of the Samajwadi Party, which is a registered and recognised political party, to field alleged gangster Nahid Hasan from Uttar Pradesh’s Kairana assembly seat for next month’s elections. Upadhyay claimed that Hasan filed his nomination even as the party did not disclose about his criminal antecedents either on its website or through print or social media. Upadhyay referred to a February 13, 2020 order of the top court which made it mandatory for political parties to disclose the list of candidates with criminal antecedents along with the reasons for their selection within 48 hours of fielding them or two weeks prior to the date of filing nomination. In case of non-compliance of the above order, the EC should have the power to denotify the concerned political party, the petitioner said. While the 2020 order allows the poll body to file a contempt petition before the top court, it does not provide deregistration of political parties. “Permitting criminals to become legislator interferes with the purity and integrity of the electoral process; violates the right to choose freely the candidate and therefore, the freedom of expression of the voter under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution, amounts to a subversion of democracy, which is part of the basic structure; and, finally, is antithetical to the rule of law which is at the core of Article 14 (right to equality) of the Constitution,” the petitioner said. The petition is yet to come up for hearing before the top court. “We will follow every direction and norm of the EC. The party has started publishing the criminal antecedents of our candidates on its website,” national spokesperson Abdul Hafiz Gandhi said. Hasan, meanwhile, was on Sunday arrested by the Uttar Pradesh Police under the Gangsters Act and sent to 14-day judicial custody in connection with a case registered against him under Uttar Pradesh Gangsters Act in Kairana police station in February last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/debar-parties-that-do-not-share-election-candidates-criminal-background-plea-in-sc-101642446884272.html
18-01-2022||India||Maharashtra challenges Supreme Court order on OBC quota in local polls||The Supreme Court on Monday agreed to hear on January 19 a plea by the Maharashtra government seeking a recall of its December 15 order that stayed 27 per cent reservation for Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in local body elections.A three-judge bench headed by justice AM Khanwilkar agreed to hear the matter and directed the state government to supply to the state election commission (SEC) a copy of the application, which claimed that its order to notify the reserved seats under the general category was against the constitutional scheme. In its application filed electronically through advocate Sachin Patil, the state government pointed out that elections to 34 out of 37 zilla parishads, 313 out of 351 panchayat samitis and 9,000 village panchayats are due up to March this year. “The OBC candidates will not get representation in the local bodies in the state for the next five years,” it said. The state also suggested the appointment of administrators till the elections to these seats are held. On December 15, the Supreme Court had directed the state poll panel to notify 27 per cent seats in the local bodies, which were earlier reserved for OBCs, as general category seats.Prior to this, on December 6, the apex court had stayed the local body polls in Maharashtra on the seats reserved for the OBCs till further orders and made it clear that the poll process for the other seats would continue.The court also found that the state had not fulfilled the mandatory criteria of the “triple tests” laid down by it before providing such reservation. The “triple tests” guidelines formed by the top court in 2010 seeks the appointment of an independent commission, collection of empirical data on the nature and extent of backwardness of OBCs and application of the data to seats in a manner such that reservation does not exceed 50%, as per the ceiling imposed by the top court in its 1992 landmark Indra Sawhney decision, in such matters. In its plea, the Maharashtra government claimed that the top court’s December order would result in two adverse effects. “The persons belonging to OBC are deprived of an opportunity to be elected to the elected positions through democratic process and fulfill the aspirations of not only the residents of the OBC community but everyone else, which helps in the development of leadership quality in such communities,” the application said.“Second, such inadequate representation or non-representation of OBCs is strictly contrary to the object, intent and purpose of the Constitutional scheme,” it added. The state also claimed that it had already complied with two of the three-fold test guidelines by appointing a commission and gathering data.“The reservation in various districts of Maharashtra is based on the proportion of population of OBCs in the respective districts and is not a blanket reservation of 27% in all the districts in the entire state of Maharashtra,” it said, adding that the quota will not be applicable in the districts of Nandurbar, Palghar and Gadchiroli which have a substantial population of Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes. “As per data available on the Saral portal, the population of OBC of citizens is tentatively available with the state… This data was available for some time but has been recently analyzed to reveal the population of the backward class of citizens,” the application for recall said. As an intermediate measure to justify the 27% OBC quota in local bodies, the state referred to a sample survey, conducted by Gokhale Institute of Politics and Economics, which said that the distribution of OBCs in the sample size was found to be 48.6%.Former state minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule, a senior OBC leader in the Bharatiya Janata Party, said the state should have filed its application earlier. “The recall application made on Monday could have been done earlier. The Maharashtra government is not serious over the issue of reservation to OBCs. The state BJP unit and even the Centre has been supporting the state government’s stand of availing empirical data within three months, but we expect it to be honest in its intention,” he said.Maharashtra is not the only state where OBC reservation in local bodies has been stayed. On December 17, the top court passed a similar order for the Madhya Pradesh government, directing the OBC seats to be notified as general category for failing to comply with the three-test criteria. The Centre has already approached the court, seeking a recall of the order. Likewise, the Madhya Pradesh government has filed a similar application, claiming to have 51% OBC population in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-challenges-supreme-court-order-on-obc-quota-in-local-polls-101642446583466.html
18-01-2022||India||4 Mumbai cops served notice over Param Bir Singh-Sachin Vaze meeting||A show-cause notice has been issued to four police personnel on Monday in connection with the alleged private meeting between former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh and dismissed Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze on November 29, 2021. The four have been given 15 days to reply to the notice, said Bipin Kumar Singh, Navi Mumbai police commissioner.Both Deshmukh and Vaze are in judicial custody in separate cases of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED), respectively.According to the police, Param Bir Singh and Vaze met for about an hour at the Old Secretariat Building in Mumbai from where the justice K U Chandiwal commission is conducting enquiry proceedings. An enquiry was then conducted against a sub-inspector and three constables of Vaze’s escort.“After receiving a report from Mumbai Police, Deputy Commissioner of Police from Head Quarters, Navi Mumbai, was asked to conduct an enquiry. Based on the enquiry report, a show cause notice has been sent to all four, asking them on why an action should not be taken against them for breaking the protocol of allowing Parambir Singh to speak to Sachin Waze. Depending on the reply that they send, further course of action would be decided. It was a technical violation on the part of the staff and it will be dealt with as per the protocol.”Justice KU Chandiwal Committee was formed by the Maharashtra government to investigate Param Bir Singh’s extortion allegation against former home minister Anil Deshmukh. In a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in March last year, Singh had alleged that Deshmukh was involved in several wrongdoings, including asking Vaze to collect ₹100 crore from bars and restaurants in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-mumbai-cops-served-notice-over-param-bir-singh-sachin-vaze-meeting-101642446162215.html
18-01-2022||India||Goa elections: Miffed Congress hesitant to accept TMC’s offer of poll pact||Trinamool Congress (TMC) party’s offer for a poll pact in the Goa assembly elections has found little favour with the Congress, whose high command is miffed with TMC brass for its recent anti-Congress rants that led a war of words on social media.Initial discussions were held between top leaders of the two parties, and Trinamool wanted a seat arrangement with the Congress for the state polls due on February 14, key functionaries from both parties maintained.“We were ready to give the Congress even up to 16-18 seats in Goa,” a senior TMC leader said. “Our poll partner Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) had announced candidates in nine seats, and the Congress told us that it is in a strong position in one of MGP’s seats. We even assured them that we would talk MGP to give up that seat for the Congress.”The talks also involved a possible seat-sharing agreement in which the TMC, keen on a pact to take on the incumbent Bharatiya Janata Party, were ready to give the Congress the majority of seats.“We initially maintained that both Congress and TMC have nearly same tally in Goa assembly and both sides can fight in equal number of seats,” the TMC leader said. “But then we have communicated that given the Congress’ long presence in Goa, we are ready to give more seats. But they didn’t show any further interest.”Two senior Congress leaders underlined several factors behind the party’s unwillingness to do business with TMC in Goa. “We are the principal opposition party in Goa, while TMC as a new entrant doesn’t have much to offer us. We are also not sure about TMC’s equation with the AAP (another new entrant) in Goa,” a Congress leader said.Another pointed out that the Congress brass is miffed with the TMC’s top leadership for its unwarranted attacks on the Congress.A third senior Congress strategist claimed that party president Sonia Gandhi was “extremely upset” to see TMC poaching Congress lawmakers and making anti-Congress statements. “Trinamool’s existence in Goa is based on MLAs poached from our party,” he said. “And it’s strange that they want to do a pact with us.”On Monday, former finance minister P Chidambaram, Congress’ in-charge for the Goa polls, posted a series of tweets explaining the party’s stand vis-à-vis TMC.“My assessment that the AAP (and the TMC) will only fracture the non-BJP vote in Goa has been confirmed by Mr Arvind Kejriwal. The contest in Goa is between Congress and BJP. Those who want a regime change (after 10 years of misrule) will vote for the Congress. Those who want the regime to continue will vote for the BJP,” Chidambaram tweeted.The Congress’ response came two days after TMC’s Goa in-charge Mahua Moitra tweeted: “AITC serious about defeating BJP. Uninformed false bravado no substitute for rational thinking & maturity. Definitive offer between principals on table - waiting for revert. No desire to engage in further Twitter shadow boxing with various INC functionaries.”
18-01-2022||India||Karnataka reports 27,156 new Covid cases, including 287 Omicron||Omicron tally in Karnataka saw a steep spike as 287 new cases were detected in the state. K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education, said: “287 new Omicron cases confirmed in Bengaluru today (Monday) taking the overall tally in the state to 766.” The state on Monday reported 27,156 fresh infections and 14 deaths taking the total caseload and fatalities in the state to 32,47,243 and 38,445 respectively, the health department said in a statement. Bengaluru Urban district led the spike in cases with 15,947 infections. The spike comes at a time when the southern state is experiencing a steady rise in new infections, adding to challenges to contain the impact of the Covid- 19 pandemic, especially on livelihoods over fears of more restrictions. While the Basavaraj Bommai-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government has ruled out the possibility of another lockdown, local TV channels continue to run the probability on loop, adding to apprehensions of the population. Bommai on Monday held a meeting on Covid-19 with members of his cabinet and senior government officials. “Increase home isolation calls. The comorbidities cases should be contacted at least once in a day and enquire about their health to instil a sense of confidence in them,” Bommai instructed officials in the state. He said precautionary measures should be taken to ensure that it does not spread to other members of the family and medicinal kits should be effectively delivered to home isolated cases. He said negative attitudes should be allayed with the help of voluntary service organizations. “Infected children, especially in rural areas should get top priority, parents should be counselled and medical kits should be distributed. Separate medical kits should be prepared for children,” according to the chief minister’s instructions. The state government is trying not to repeat the mistakes it committed in the first and second waves which led to uncertainty, adding to apprehensions and fears. The government has even asked the union government for assistance to set up more hospital beds should the need arise. “Medicines should be procured immediately and they should be reached to hospitals well in time. Spread awareness among the people about Covid appropriate behaviour through the media,” the chief minister said. Bommai had tested positive last week and has since recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-reports-27-156-new-covid-cases-including-287-omicron-101642445861686.html
18-01-2022||India||Bengaluru reports warm evenings in January||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials have said Bengaluru has been witnessing warm January evenings, with one of the warmest days in the last decade reported in this January. IMD officials attribute the increase in temperature to the cloudy sky at night, excess moisture in the wind and increased humidity. As per the climatological table for the city from 1981 to 2010, the average daily maximum temperature for January is 27.9 degrees Celsius, and the minimum 15.8 degrees Celsius. According to IMD officials, the warmest January day was reported on January 31, 2020, at 33.4 degrees Celsius and on Saturday the city recorded 30.2 degrees Celsius, which is one of the highest in the recent past. The temperature on Saturday was 3 degrees above normal for this time of the year and the minimum temperature was 17.4 degree Celsius, 2 degrees above normal. The IMD officials said northerly and north easterly winds bring in winter. But due to a change in the wind patterns, northerly wind has been cut off. The easterly wind is prevailing over the state and is known to pick up moisture and cause rainfall or increase humidity, they added. A study by the Center for Study of Science, Technology and Policy projected that over the next three decades, Karnataka is likely to experience warmer weather and an increase in heavy rainfall events. According to the study, in the past three decades (1991–2019), there has been an increase in maximum temperature by 0.18 degrees Celsius to 0.61 degrees Celsius in summer and the winter minimum temperature by 0.3 degrees Celsius to 0.65 degrees Celsius in Karnataka. “Climate change projections using an ensemble of models for the next 30 years (2021–2050) under moderate emissions and high emissions scenarios indicate a much warmer and wetter future for Karnataka. An increase in summer maximum temperature by 0.5 degrees Celsius to 1.5 degrees Celsius with a majority of the districts projected to warm by 1 degree Celsius to 1.5 degrees Celsius, particularly under the high emissions scenario,” the study reported. Weather change owing has raised concerns over a spike in cases of common cold, cough and fever, which are Covid-19 symptoms as well. Doctors have warned against ignoring them and advised people to get tested. “This is not the time to ignore typical symptoms of Covid unless proven otherwise. One must get tested in such cases and self-isolate first. One should not take the symptoms saying it is due to the weather change,” said Vikas Bhalla, a city-based internal medicine expert. The state government has said with more people reporting symptoms of Covid-19 since January, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) – the civic body - will increase testing. BBMP commissioner Gaurav Gupta said despite the new testing advisory from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the testing pattern in the city will not change. The ICMR on Monday said contacts of Covid-19 patients do not need to be tested unless identified as high-risk based on age or comorbidities. Gupta told HT that the state government had decided to continue with the current testing patterns, and he said in view of the rising cases, testing will be increased in the state. “We will continue to test contacts of Covid-19 patients and all other categories we have been testing so far. In fact, we will increase testing in the coming days. We will also identify high-risk groups such as delivery boys and other professionals and conduct random testing,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-reports-warm-evenings-in-january-101642445742550.html
18-01-2022||India||MBBS student’s photo morphed, police file FIR||A case was registered after morphed photos of a third-year MBBS student in Mangaluru were circulated on social media platforms, said police on Monday.In her police complaint, the student has alleged that the photos were morphed with the intention of causing communal tensions, and to defame her and her family. The complainant had reportedly participated in a college fest on November 27,last year. At the fest, she had taken several pictures with her friends and posted the same on her social media. She told the police that the miscreants had singled out her in a photo and, posted it with a caption indicating that she was involved with a person from a different religion, with an intent to create communal tension. The photo was posted under the name @jjt_bkp, but the account has been deleted now, said police. A case has been registered against unidentified people in the Women’s Police station, Mangaluru, under Sections 354(D) (stalking), 505(2) (statements creating or promoting enmity), 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). This incident comes on the heels of another controversy in the coastal region of the state, where a group of eight students from Udupi’s Government Pre-university College were barred from attending classes for wearing a hijab (headscarf) to class. The college has a designated uniform, however, the students said that they started wearing the hijab in the classroom from December only. Previously, students were using the hijab on campus, outside the classroom. A few students even claimed that their seniors were allowed to wear the hijab inside the classroom, but principal, Rudre Gowda, said that the decision to bar the students was taken to maintain uniformity. This is the second college in Karnataka where such a protest was staged. Previously, a similar protest was held at a government college in Balagadi Chikkamagaluru. 
18-01-2022||India||Centre lists districts vulnerable to climate crisis in India’s first weather hazard atlas||The Sunderbans in West Bengal, neighbouring districts of Odisha, and Ramanathapuram, Pudukkottai and Thanjavur in Tamil Nadu are the most vulnerable to high storm surges of as much as 8.5 to 13.7 metres that are induced by cyclones, according to the Climate Hazards and Vulnerability Atlas of India released by the ministry of earth sciences.The atlas, the first of its kind, will aid in disaster preparedness as extreme weather events rise in the wake of the climate crisis, scientists said. The maximum heights of storm surges in the atlas provides data for all coastal districts in India.Also read | Spectre of child marriage, trafficking looms large in SunderbansPrakasam, Guntur and Krishna districts of Andhra Pradesh, and Kachchh and Bhavnagar in Gujarat, besides all coastal regions of the west coast are also vulnerable to storm surges, but to a lesser degree of 4 to 6 metres, said the atlas released last week.The maximum probable rainfall associated with severe cyclones in the 50-60 cm range is likely over Prakasam, East Godavari, Krishna, West Godavari on the east coast, and Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, south Goa and Uttara Kannada on the west coast.Several districts of Jharkhand, West Bengal, Telangana and Tamil Nadu are vulnerable to extreme rainfall of 35 to 50 cm that cyclones bring with them.Severe cyclones are returning every two to four years for almost all of east coast, starting from Cuddalore in Tamil Nadu to South 24 Parganas in West Bengal. Kannur, Kozhikode, Thrissur and Ernakulam districts in Kerala, north and south Goa, and Kachchh, Devbhoomi, Junagadh and Porbandar in Gujarat see recurring severe cyclones every four to 10 years.“Over the past decade or so, we have started seeing changes in the hazard-prone areas. For example, central India has started recording heavy to extremely heavy rainfall events associated with movement of low pressure areas. This was not the case earlier,” said DS Pai, head of India Meteorological Department’s climate research and services department in Pune.“There is no change in the number of cyclones affecting the west coast, but the severity of cyclones developing over the Arabian Sea has increased,” Pai said. “These have been captured in our maps.”The atlas is expected to mitigate the effects of 13 most hazardous meteorological events – cold wave, heat wave, thunderstorms, flood, drought, fog, wind hazard, dust storm, snowfall, hail storm, lightning, extreme rainfall and cyclone – that can cause extensive damage. There are 640 climate vulnerability maps in the atlas.For a visual display of the climate vulnerability maps, the weather bureau has used geographic information system tools at the office of climate research and services office in Pune.“The atlas will have two uses. First, it will act as a reference for impact-based warnings that we issue for various regions. People can also see the atlas to understand what is the impact of certain extreme weather events in their region,” said M Mohapatra, director general of the Met department. “Second, it can be used to plan climate-resilient infrastructure. For example, if a construction is coming up in a coastal area, the atlas can give crucial information on what kind of disasters are probable in that area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-lists-districts-vulnerable-to-climate-crisis-in-india-s-first-weather-hazard-atlas-101642444901702.html
18-01-2022||India||Karnataka:Curtains down for single-screen theatres||Watching a movie in a single-screen theatre is more than an experience, it is a community event. Unlike the multiplexes where a conversation is frowned upon, at the single screens, it is all about claps and cheers.Whether is a Rajinikanth latest or a new spiderman movie, whistles or loud cheers are mandatory when the hero appears on the screen.A single-screen devotee, Krishne Gowda, who runs a textile store in Gandhi Nagar, is quick to list out his favourites, including Majestic, Tribhuvan, Geetha, Kempegowda, Himalaya, Kalpana, Alankar, Prabhat and Geeta Sagar, Kapali. But all these movie theatres, which were located in Bengaluru’s Majestic area vanished over the years. The Kempe Gowda Road-Gandhi Nagar stretch in the heart of Bengaluru was considered ‘Broadway’ for Kannada movies. The area had over 20 single-screen theatres, only four of them remain now. The latest to shut down is Everest theatre in Frazer Town. Following the second wave of Covid-19, a “for sale” board appeared before the theatre. This landmark was built in the late 1930s by civil contractor Maistry Chowriappa. Thirty years later, it was bought by Madanlal Kshatriya and his family had been running the theatre since. Cooke Town resident Peter Rozario, still has fond memories of the theatre well, particularly the balcony. “It had an enclosure in the balcony area, which means you get some privacy. We used to save to buy the expensive balcony ticket,” he says with a laugh. “I have seen some of the best Tamil, Hindi and English movies of my time in this theatre. It is sad to see the theatre shut down, but its understandable due to the situation of the owners,” he added. The inconspicuous death of the single screen theatres in Bengaluru began way before the pandemic and with the arrival of multiplexes in the late 2000s. In 2002, Galaxy Theatre was shut down to make way for a commercial space, Plaza was razed in 2005 for the metro rail, Symphony is now Fame Shankarnag, a multiplex, and Lido has become INOX.Rex Theatre, which was a landmark on Brigade Road was bought by a business group to build a multiplex. In 2016, Kapali Theatre, the largest single-screen theatre in Asia with 1,400 seats, closed its operations, leaving behind a 49-year-old legacy of entertaining Bengaluru. The theatre was not able to make ends meet with the screening alone and agreed to bring down the building to construct a multiplex in a joint venture. It was a similar story in Mysuru, which had 21 single-screen theatres at one point and now less than eight remain. “They were struggling for 10 years, and corona accelerated the problem. There has been zero income during the lockdown,” said Rajaram, Karnataka Film Exhibitors’ Federation vice-president. With no new movies available, the theatre owners in Bengaluru are a concerned lot despite the state government allowing them to operate at 50% capacity. “The government’s decision to reopen theatres was a relief but we have not received any word from the producers,” said Karnataka Film Exhibitors’ Association president KV Chandrasekhar. “The single-screen theatres here depend a lot on Kannada movies but there has been no movie announcements for next few weeks. So, many theatres still remain shut,” he said. According to the Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce, Karnataka has around 630 single-screen theatres and around 260 multiplex theatres. Over 12 lakh employees work at these establishments. Chandrashekar said most of the theatres have been paying their employees half salaries during the lockdown. “The minimum salary of an employee at a single screen theatre is around ₹13,000 to ₹14,000. With no movies running and without a clear picture about when the big movies will release, these theatre owners are running into losses,” he said. An office-bearer of the Kannada Film Producers Association (KFPA), pleading anonymity, said the film producers were facing their own problems. “We are still unsure if people will come to theatres amid the fear of third wave. From an exhibitor’s view, if people don’t come to theatres, they won’t make any money either,” said the official. 
18-01-2022||India||In Hyderabad, 70 medical staff in state-run hospital test positive for Covid-19||Nearly 70 medical personnel, including doctors, nurses, post-graduate medicos, house surgeons and other staff members of the Telangana government-run Gandhi Hospital in Secunderabad tested positive for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours.Gandhi Hospital superintendent Dr M Raja Rao said all the medical staff were kept under isolation in a special ward and were being treated. Besides, there were 199 other Covid-19 patients, including 35 pregnant women, undergoing treatment at the hospital, he said.In the state-run Institute of Mental Health at Erragadda in Hyderabad, as many as 57 in-patients, apart from nine doctors, tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. “Since the affected are mostly mentally-challenged patients, enough care is being taken for providing treatment to them. Those having serious symptoms have been kept in separate isolation wards,” hospital superintendent Uma Shankar said.On Monday, the state cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, discussed in detail the Covid-19 situation in the state. State health minister T Harish Rao said the situation was under control, though the daily positive cases were still above the 2,000-mark.Telangana on Monday reported 2,447 positive cases in the last 24 hours and the active number of cases in the state climbed to 22,197. There were three deaths during this period.Rao briefed the cabinet that the state had completed more than five crore vaccination doses till date. “The vaccination programme is going on at a rapid pace and we shall cover all eligible persons completely in a short time,” he said.The Telangana state high court directed that the state government conduct one lakh Covid-19 tests and strictly follow all guidelines issued by the Centre.Acting on a batch of public interest litigation petitions, a division bench comprising chief justice Satish Chandra Sharma and justice Abhinand Kumar Shavili asked the government to submit its report on the Covid-19 containing measures on January 24.The bench also announced that all courts in the state would shift to virtual mode of hearing from Tuesday till February 4.In Andhra Pradesh, the Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy government rejected the demand of the opposition parties for closure of all educational institutions till January 30 in view of the increasing Covid-19 positive cases. The institutions reopened on Monday after Sankranti vacations.State education minister Adimulapu Suresh said there was no question of extending holidays for the schools and colleges due to Covid-19. “There is absolutely no connection with the schools and spread of Coronavirus. We are taking all precautions to see that students are not affected by the pandemic,” he said.He reminded that the government could not conduct examinations for the last two years for the students and this year, the government won’t allow such a situation to happen. “We have already conducted classes for 150 days till now and we shall continue this trend for the coming months,” he said.
18-01-2022||India||Stalin orders CB-CID probe into ‘custodial death’ of differently-abled dalit man||Chennai: Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin on Monday ordered a crime branch-criminal investigation department (CB-CID) probe into the alleged custodial death of a 45-year-old differently-abled dalit man, who died on January 12. Three policemen have been suspended in connection with the case. P Hamsala, 32, the wife of the deceased, A Prabhakaran, has alleged that they were picked up on January 8 by the police from their residence in Salem on suspicion of theft. Speaking from her home, Hamsala said that around 3pm on January 8, Prabhakaran and her were working in their house when four plainclothes police officers, including a woman, barged in. “The woman police hit me while the men hit my husband. But at that time, we didn’t even know that they were police officials. My husband kept screaming for help and neighbours began to come,” Hamsala said, adding that their 12-year-son began filming the incident but the police snatched away his phone.Prabhakaran was immobile from the waist down due to recent health complications, she said.According to Hamsala, the couple were them taken in a taxi to the Sendamangalam police quarters in Namakkal district and that’s when they realised that those present were police personnel. “We were neither taken to jail, nor to court. The cops told us that they will buy food for us and take care of us if we do as they say,” said Hamsala. She said they were beaten to accept the theft of 120 sovereigns of gold. “My husband cannot move without my help. For three days, the police have watched me feed him, assist him when he had to use the restroom. How are we capable of any crime,” asked Hamsala. “For three days, they gave us food and continuously beat us. But they were careful that our wounds shouldn’t show so they hit us both in our palms and heels so that there is no swelling and no cuts and blood,” she added. The police produced the couple in a local court on January 11. Hamsala said when the magistrate asked if their families were informed that they are in custody, the police replied in the affirmative and when asked if they were beaten, they had denied it. “They didn’t let us speak. After that they took me to the Salem prison for women. I had no clue about my husband,” Hamsala said.Hamsala said she was chased out of the jail by officials the next day and learnt of Prabhakaran’s death. “Suddenly that morning, they chased me out of the jail and my younger brother was waiting outside for me and he told me,” she said. “I still cannot believe that they did this to us. My husband is fully disabled. How could they torture him like that? And he’s innocent.” Hamsala said. Following news of Prabhakaran’s death, the family and local cadre of DMK ally Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK- formerly known as the Dalit Panthers of India) began protests demanding action against the police. “If the police had suspected the deceased of committing a theft, they should have conducted investigations in a proper manner. How can they be so brutal?” said S Namburajan, general secretary of the Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently Abled and Caregivers (TARATDAC). On January 15, DIG (Salem range) Praveen Kumar Abinapu suspended three police officers– sub-inspector of Sendamangalam, A Chandran, sub-inspector of Puduchatram police station L Poonkodi and a cop named Kulanthaivel from Tiruchengode rural police station. A post-mortem was conducted on Prabhakaran the same day. “We demand that the accused police be booked under provisions of the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act, 1989 and for murder under the IPC,” said Namburajan.On Monday, political leaders from the AIADMK, BJP and CPI (M) hit out at the state government questioning the use of excess force by police. In a statement on Monday, chief minister Stalin said the deceased was being treated in the ICU of the neurology department in Salem where he died on January 12 at 11.40pm. Expressing pain over the death, Stalin said,“I’ve ordered for this case to be probed by the CB-CID.” He also ordered a solatium of ₹10 lakh to be paid to the family. “I still cannot believe this is real,” said Hamsala hoping she gets justice. “My son and I, are the only eyewitnesses,” she said. 
18-01-2022||India||Mumbai reports 5.9k Covid cases, officials say do not lower guard||Mumbai continued to register a drop in daily coronavirus disease cases (Covid-19), recording less than 6,000 cases for the first time in 16 days as it logged 5,956 fresh infections on Monday, with a positivity rate of 12.51%, according to official data. Government officials said they might consider easing the curbs if the Maharashtra capital continued to see a drop in daily infections but advised people against lowering their guard. “There is no doubt that the cases are going down and the hospitalisation rate is also going down, but we will have to monitor the situation till Wednesday. If the trend continues till then, we might put the city in the safe zone. But we will have to remain alert and take all necessary precautions,” BMC additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said. Mumbai reported 12 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the overall toll to 16,469. Experts said that genome sequencing should be scaled up in order to help them ascertain which variant is leading to deaths or critical ailment. Dr Madhav Satthe, former microbiology professor at Nair Hospital said, “We need to find out if it is Delta variant or Omicron variant that is causing deaths in critical patients. Hence, positive samples of patients on ventilators or ICU should be sent for genome sequencing.” According to the state health department data, the city’s recovery rate is 93.04% with 935,302 recoveries and the mortality rate is 1.63%. There are 50,757 active cases in the city and four Omicron variant Covid-19 cases have been reported on Monday. Further, the hospitalisation rate in the city has come down from 21% (10 days ago) to 14.7% (on Monday). Out of the total 38,140 beds in the city, 5,628 are occupied. “We will continue to conduct around 50,000 to 60,000 tests in the coming days to ensure that testing is not falling drastically in the city,” said the BMC additional municipal commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-reports-5-9k-covid-cases-officials-say-do-not-lower-guard-101642444604212.html
18-01-2022||India||Telangana BJP appoints a committee to poach leaders from other parties||HyderabadThe Telangana unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party has constituted a committee exclusively to poach potential leaders from other political parties who can bolster the party’s winning chances in the next assembly elections in 2023, party leaders said.The committee, named ‘Joining and coordination committee”, will be headed by Nallu Indrasena Reddy, former MP and BJP ex-president in combined Andhra Pradesh. Former Telangana state legislative council chairman Swamy Goud, former ministers A Chandrasekhar and D Ravindra Naik, former MLC N Ramachandra Rao, former MLA Rajeshwar Rao and former Mahila Morcha president of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation Bandari Radhika will be its members.BJP state general secretary G Premender Reddy said several MLAs, MPs, former ministers, former MLAs and prominent leaders of various parties at the district and state level were keen on joining the BJP.“Besides, several intellectuals, educated youth and industrialists are also showing enthusiasm on joining the BJP in Telangana. The joining and coordination committee will examine their credentials and commitment towards the party’s ideology and principles, before recommending to the party for admitting them,” Reddy said.The committee would also see that the entry of new leaders would not affect the interests of the existing BJP leaders in their respective constituencies. “It will coordinate with the existing party leaders and the new comers so that the party would be strengthened at all levels,” the BJP general secretary said.Another senior BJP leader, who preferred anonymity, said the committee would primarily focus on attracting strong leaders from other parties, who have the potential to win the next elections.“Though many people are interested in joining the BJP, there is no point in taking all and sundry into the party. We are looking at such candidates, who have a strong cadre base in their respective constituencies and can influence the local electorate,” he said.The coordination committee would identify such leaders belonging to the TRS and the Congress and poach them by offering posts. “As the elections approach, we would be able to find more such leaders,” the BJP leader said.The BJP is also focusing on the assembly and Lok Sabha constituencies reserved for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in Telangana. State BJP president Bandi Sanjay appointed separate coordination committees for constituencies reserved for SCs and STs.While former parliament member A P Jitender Reddy has been appointed as the chairman of the coordination committee for SC-reserved constituencies, former MP Garikapati Mohan Rao would head the coordination committee for ST-reserved constituencies. The two committees comprise former MPs and former MLAs, besides other senior leaders of the party.“The party is concentrating on grabbing all the assembly constituencies reserved for SCs and STs in the next assembly constituencies by adopting innovative strategies. The committees would extensively tour these reserved constituencies, strengthen the party committees from polling booth level to the constituency level, and coordinate their activities at the state level,” the BJP general secretary said.The committees would work out the action plan in these constituencies by studying the issues at the grassroots level and submit a report to the state committee, Reddy added.
18-01-2022||India||States have duty to rehabilitate street kids: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday said states have a constitutional duty to rehabilitate children living on streets after it found efforts lacking on part of states and union territories to identify and rehabilitate children forced to beg on streets to eke out a living.A bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and BV Nagarathna said, “These are marginalized sections of the society. You (states) have a constitutional duty, take it seriously. If states do not act promptly how will relief reach to these children? Imagine these children who have nobody to care for and they are living on the streets. The immediate needs of these children cannot wait any further.” Considering extreme winters in some states, the Court directed the respective states, including Delhi to consider housing such children in shelter homes on an urgent basis. The Court directed the district magistrates in every state to rope in the special juvenile police units, district legal service authorities (DLSA) and other voluntary organization to identify the children who are living on streets either with or without families and those that beg during the day but at night return to the nearby slums. The Court further directed the states to evolve the procedure to be followed for rehabilitating such children upon identification.The Court order came in a suo moto proceeding where the Court had sought data from the national commission for protection of child rights (NCPCR) on the ground situation with regard to children living in street condition (CISS).On Monday, Additional Solicitor General (ASG) KM Nataraj appearing for NCPCR said, “On supplying data of street children on a dedicated portal maintained by NCPCR, all states have failed to act.” He supported his statement with statistics showing details of 9,945 street children uploaded by various states. Although a standard operating procedure in relation to street children, when NCPCR contacted states to report compliance, many states/UTs did not take part in the meeting.The bench noted in its order, “The data of CISS uploaded on Bal Swaraj-CISS portal till January 11 discloses 9,945 CISS. A rough estimate of such children, according to NCPCR will be around 1.5 million. However, only one-tenth of these children have been identified. This shows suitable action is not being taken by states/UTs….It is high time that authorities who have not acted under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection) Act are taken to task. We do not want to exercise such powers at present.”ASG Nataraj said that NCPCR was in the process of framing a uniform policy to be adopted by states/UTs in regard to street children. However, amicus curiae and advocate Gaurav Agrawal suggested that the problem was about lack of a rehabilitation policy to deal with such children. While directing states to keep uploading data on CISS on the NCPCR portal, the bench directed the respective governments to come out with a rehabilitation policy and posted the matter for further hearing after four weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-have-duty-to-rehabilitate-street-kids-sc-101642443881353.html
18-01-2022||India||Centre revises its guidelines for adult Covid patients’ treatment||If cough persists for more than two-three weeks, investigate for tuberculosis and other conditions, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said in its revised clinical guidelines for management of adult Covid-19 patients issued on Monday.TThe guidelines, drafted by experts from the Indian Council of Medical Research-Covid19 Task Force, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), and Directorate General of Health Services under health ministry, continue to not recommend medicines such as antibiotics doxycycline and azithromycin, and antiparasitic Ivermectin for mild cases of Covid-19.Mild diseases are those showing upper respiratory tract symptoms, with or without fever as long as there is no shortness of breath or hypoxia.While such patients showing mild symptoms have been advised to stay in touch with their physician, they are also directed to go for symptom management by including adequate fluids, using anti-pyretics (anti-fever) and anti-tussive (cough suppressants) medicines for relief from sore throat, fever, congestion and cough.Experts recommend monitoring fever and oxygen saturation at regular intervals.“Seek immediate medical attention if: Difficulty in breathing or SpO2 <93%; and high grade fever or severe cough, particularly if lasting for >5 days (a low threshold to be kept for those with any of the high-risk features),” they said.Among therapies at home based on low certainty of evidence, especially for those with high-risk of disease progression, the guidelines recommend inhalational budesonide (given via metered dose inhaler/dry powder inhaler) at a dose of 800 mcg BD (twice a day) for five days if symptoms (fever, and or, cough) persist more than five days.Among those at high risk for developing severe disease or mortality include people aged 60 and above; those suffering from cardiovascular disease, hypertension and coronary artery disease; diabetes and other immunocompromised states such as HIV; chronic lung, liver or kidney disease; active tuberculosis; cerebrovascular disease; or obesity.Among advanced medicines that have been granted emergency use authorisation based on limited available evidence, only injectibles remdesivir and tocilizumab have been included that too for select patients under strict medical supervision.Moderate and severe disease cases are to be treated in a hospital.Experts say in a pandemic, treatment protocols are modified frequently as data continuously evolves.“When the list of drugs is updated it is usually based on the current evidence that is available globally as well as locally. Normally, drug trials take years but in a pandemic situation there is not that much time at our disposal so many drugs are repurposed and used because they show some benefit initially. However, as time passes, more information gets available on the effect of the drug on treatment outcome, many a times it is found that there isn’t much benefit, or risks far outweigh the benefits; therefore treatment protocol is modified accordingly,” said Dr Vikas Maurya, director, respiratory medicine department, Fortis Healthcare.
18-01-2022||India||SC asks Bengal Speaker to decide on Mukul Roy’s disqualification in 2 weeks||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Speaker of the West Bengal Legislative Assembly to decide on the disqualification petition against Trinamool Congress leader Mukul Roy in two weeks after the Speaker informed the top court that the petition filed by leader of opposition Suvendu Adhikari was progressing steadily.A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and BV Nagarathna said, “We will give you (Speaker) two weeks. Ensure that it is completed by then.” The Court posted the matter for hearing in the second week of February.The Speaker represented by senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi submitted an affidavit indicating steps taken pursuant to the Court’s November 22 order where the Court took serious exception to the delay in deciding the petition against Roy. The petition against him was filed by Adhikari in June 2021 within days after Roy left the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and returned to the Trinamool Congress, which he had left in 2017.Singhvi was appearing in an appeal filed by the Speaker challenging an order of the Calcutta high court passed on September 28 asking him to produce the decision taken on Adhikari’s petition. The HC order came on a petition filed by another BJP MLA Ambika Roy who challenged Roy’s nomination as chairman of Public Accounts Committee (PAC) on July 9.Senior advocate Shekhar Naphade appearing for Ambika Roy told the top court that three months as prescribed by a SC judgment in 2020 were over and no further time should be given. Singhvi had requested for an additional week’s time but was refused.In November, the SC expressed dismay over the inordinate delay in disposing the disqualification petition as it asked the Speaker to quickly decide on the plea against Roy. Speaker Biman Banerjee informed the Court that pursuant to SC order, the hearing was preponed from December 21 to December 9, following which the matter was taken up on three subsequent dates.“The petitioner is making all possible efforts to hear and decide the disqualification petition as expeditiously as possible despite the disruption caused by the prevailing third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic,” the affidavit said, adding that Adhikari had concluded argument and now Roy’s arguments remained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-asks-bengal-speaker-to-decide-on-mukul-roy-s-disqualification-in-2-weeks-101642443281201.html
18-01-2022||India||No-vax? What the sceptics get wrong||In Serbian tennis star Novak Djokovic’s 2010 book, Serve to Win, he writes about how he improved his performance by removing gluten from his diet. Indeed, many do not take well to gluten, a chemical common in wheat, and benefit from a diet without it. But it is how Djokovic discovered his gluten intolerance that is of relevance today. He realised the gluten problem when he held a piece of bread to his stomach with one hand, and found that he lost strength in the other arm at the same time, Djokovic wrote in his book. How is this relevant to the pandemic or the Omicron variant? The answer lies in why Djokovic was in the limelight over the past week as he attempted to fight Australia on its mandatory vaccination rule – Djokovic has opposed vaccines and has not disclosed whether he has taken a shot -- to defend his Australian Open title. The bread-and-gluten sensitivity tale in his book is an apt analogy on how vaccine sceptics like him have been wrong, relying on false equivalences instead of scientific process. Such positions were what drove the early phase of vaccine scepticism when the pandemic began. It ebbed to a large degree when the Delta variant became an undeniably serious threat.But now, after the low real-world virulence of the Omicron variant, vaccine scepticism and Covid denial has gained new urgency. The ill-informed premise ranges from seeing Omicron as “the nature’s own vaccine because it will leave everyone with immunity”, to “variant proves vaccines were but a conspiracy by Big Pharma for people to spend money”. These contentions, particularly those that have arisen after the Omicron outbreak, ignore a simple fact: a big, and mostly likely the biggest, reason why the variant is leading to less severe disease is because vaccines have helped people build a wall of immunity. Several papers, including some now peer-reviewed, have shown how the T cell immunity elicited by vaccines has been adequately retained even when the virus has mutated so significantly from the version that first spread in Wuhan in 2019. The protection against death that vaccines continue to offer against Omicron is a testament to their utility, and most starkly visible in how ICU admissions are now soaring in the US, a country with a big hesitancy problem, while remaining nearly flat in the UK, which has one of the widest dose coverages.It is also a folly at this stage to believe the Omicron variant heralds the beginning of what many predict will lead to an eventual endemicity of the coronavirus. The contention among this theory’s believers is that the variant spreads quickly but sickens mildly, thereby leaving people with a baseline immunity that will make future variants no worse than a common cold. Indeed, there is a strong likelihood this may happen someday, but there is no evidence that day is here. This too has been demonstrated by recent scientific evidence. Viruses recombine, and can evolve in hosts of different species. The Sars-CoV-2 virus can evolve or recombine to become as endemic as the OC43, a common cold coronavirus, or it can take the evolutionary crossroads to arrive where Mers is – a coronavirus with a high fatality rate. Only time can tell the evolutionary pathways the coronavirus will follow, but what science tells us today is that vaccines work and they save lives. And behind the development of each of these shots is decades of research, which has made the odds of a vaccine being fatal far smaller than that of being hit by lightning.
18-01-2022||India||Punjab polling date postponed to Feb 20||The Election Commission of India on Monday rescheduled polling in Punjab to February 20 from February 14, following demands from almost all key political parties of Punjab seeking a change on account of Guru Ravi Das Jayanti, which falls on February 16.The results will be announced on March 10 as previously scheduled.Giving details of the fresh plan, chief electoral officer, Punjab, S Karuna Raju said the notification for polls will be issued on January 25, the last date of filing nominations by candidates will be February 1, the date of scrutiny of nominations will be February 2 and the date of withdrawal February 4.Seeking a postponement in the elections, political parties, candidates and different social bodies reasoned that many people from the state, mostly those belonging to the scheduled castes that account for about 31% of the state’s population, visit Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh for weeklong celebrations to mark the birth anniversary of the Bhakti movement saint born near Varanasi.Campaigning, even voting could suffer as a result, the parties said.Reacting to the postponement, political parties in the state welcomed the ECI’s decision, saying that the move will enable Guru Ravi Das’s followers to visit Varanasi.Bahujan Samaj Party’s Punjab chief Jasvir Singh Garhi was the first to demand postponement of the polling, followed by state chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi. Other parties, including the Bharatiya Janata Party, and various regional parties also raised the demand.Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal said, “We urged the ECI to postpone the date and we welcome the decision”. The SAD is contesting next month’s polls in alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party. Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu also welcomed the decision.Union minister and BJP leader Som Prakash said his party urged the poll panel to postpone the voting date and it welcomed the decision.The Aam Aadmi Party’s senior leader Harpal Singh Cheema, who is leader of the Opposition in Punjab, said, “AAP demanded that the election date should be postponed and we are happy that ECI has taken this decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-polling-date-postponed-to-feb-20-101642443041089.html
18-01-2022||India||Man held for raping minor daughter: Rajasthan police||A 37-year-old man was arrested in Udaipur district for allegedly raping his daughter, police said on Monday.The accused was arrested based on a complaint by the victim’s mother on Sunday, the SHO of the police station where the case was filed said. The man was arrested the same day and booked under relevant IPC sections as well as provisions of the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and will be presented before the court, the officer said on Monday.According to the complaint, the victim, a student of class 9, complained of stomach pain and other health issues earlier in the week. On being questioned, the girl then narrated how the father raped her multiple times in the past year.The family has two houses in the village, one in the interior and the other on a main road. According to the complaint, the accused often sent his wife to the house in the interior after fighting with her and stayed at the house on the main road, where he committed the crime.11-year-old raped by relative in Bhilwara: PoliceIn another incident, an 11-year-old was allegedly raped by her relative in Bhilwara district, police said.According to the complaint filed by the girl’s father, the accused took her to the market on the pretext of buying vegetables and raped her at a secluded spot.The SHO of the police station where the case was filed said the matter came to the fore when the minor’s health started deteriorating. The officer said the victim’s medical examination has been conducted and the probe is on.
18-01-2022||India||Now is time to invest in India: Modi at WEF||Declaring that India has given a “bouquet of hope” to the world, Prime Minister Narendra Modi listed a comprehensive set of economic reforms initiated by his government in recent years and called it the “best time” to invest in India.Addressing the annual gathering of the World Economic Forum virtually, on the state of the world today, Modi reiterated the country’s “100% commitment” to fighting the climate crisis despite being responsible for only five per cent of global emissions, and claimed that Indians have “unbreakable trust” in their democracy. The PM also called for a reform in global governance structures to deal with contemporary policy challenges, including developing a uniform view on cryptocurrency.“This bouquet of hope includes the unbreakable trust that Indians have in democracy; it includes technology which will empower the 21st century; it includes our temperament and talent. The multilingual and multicultural environment in which we live is a strength not just of India, but also of the world. This strength teaches us to work for humanity, not just for oneself,” he said.The PM focused on two broad elements in his speech – the steps undertaken by India even during a crisis such as the pandemic to advance its economic growth prospects and contribute to global good; and the need for reforms to make multilateralism more effective, given the interconnected nature of current day crises from supply chain disruptions to inflation to the climate crisis and the need to reflect contemporary realities.Also read | Global throwaway culture to investing in India: Highlights of PM Modi’s Davos addressExperts said that while the PM deserved credit for his reformist commitment, India needed to do more in addressing critical gaps.Stating that India was battling the current wave of Covid-19 infections with “caution and alertness”, the PM focused on India’s contribution during the pandemic in contributing to global needs – be it through provision of vaccines and medicines to other countries, its role as the “pharmacy of the world”, the contribution of its health care professionals whose “sensitivity and expertise” stood out, the role of Indian software developers, in India and elsewhere, in saving lives, and the development of innovative digital platforms such as Aarogya Setu and Cowin which, he said, has drawn the attention of the world. This, the PM said, was a part of India’s vision of “one earth, one health”.The PM, in a clear message to both foreign governments and global investors, who pay close to attention to the annual Davos forum, then turned to how India used this period of distress to focus on “deep economic reforms”. “There was a time when India was associated with license raj. The government controlled many areas. I understand the challenges that existed for businesses in India. We are continuously working towards removing all these obstacles. India is encouraging the ease of doing business and minimising government interference.” In this regard, the PM focused on steps taken to ease the regulatory environment, encourage investment, focus on productivity, and participate in global supply chains.He mentioned the simplification of corporate taxes to make India’s tax regime the “most competitive” in the world; the reduction of 25,000 regulatory compliances in the past year itself; the resolution of issues such as retrospective taxation as a signal to the business community; the deregulation of sectors such as drones, space and geospatial mapping; and reforms in outdated telecom regulations related to information technology and business process outsourcing sectors. The PM also spoke of the modernisation of both physical and digital infrastructure – this includes the effort to connect 600,000 villages with optical fibre network; the planned $1.3 trillion investment in infrastructure; asset monetisation as an innovative financing instrument to raise $80 billion; and the Gatishakti national master plan to ensure seamless integration between planning, development and implementation of infrastructure.Referring to the production-linked incentive scheme of the government in 14 sectors, to the tune of $26 billion, the PM added, “India’s focus is not just in easing processes, but also incentivising production and investment.” He spoke of telecom, insurance, aerospace, and semiconductors as sectors with possibilities in the country. At a time when there has been speculation about India’s future approach to trade, the PM spoke of India’s commitment to being a reliable partner in global supply chains, and its preparation to sign free trade agreements with other countries.“India’s ability to innovate and adapt to technology, and the spirit of entrepreneurship, will give new energy to our global partners. This is why it is the best time to invest in India.” He cited the example of start-ups to point to the entrepreneurship of young Indians, claiming that in 2014, there were a 100-odd start-ups; this number is now 60,000, with more than 80 unicorns, out of which 40 reached that position (a valuation in excess of $1 billion) in 2021 itself.Richard M Rossow of the Centre for Strategic and International Studies in Washington DC said that the government had recommitted to key reforms over the past year. “The government has pursued important domestic de-regulations in areas such as port operations and labor and relaxed foreign investment regulations in sensitive sectors like defence, insurance, and telecommunications. Though the pushback has been strong, as seen with the withdrawn agriculture reforms, and the inability so far to pass the important Electricity Act amendments.”Looking ahead, Rossow said that two things were critical. “One, the government must re-commit to holding Indian states accountable for their business environments. Ultimately, states play the larger role in India’s business environment. And second, the government must continue to improve legal recourse for business disputes. This remains one of the weakest areas of India’s business environment. But promoting digital courts, arbitration, and other such steps can help reduce the backlog and improve business confidence.”But while focusing on India’s growth potential, the PM reiterated the country’s commitment to a net-zero emissions by 2070 – an announcement he first made at COP26 in Glasgow. “Our growth will be green, clean, sustainable, and reliable,” he said, citing the example of how India was well ahead of its timeline in meeting its Paris commitments.The PM concluded his speech by pointing out that amid changes in the global order, the only way to deal with global challenges was through “collective and synchronised action”, mentioning cryptocurrency as an example. “Given the kind of technology associated with it, a decision taken by only one country will be inadequate in meeting the challenges posed by it. We will have to develop a common thinking.” Reiterating a point made by India repeatedly over the years, the PM asked if multilateral organisations had the capability to deal with these challenges without reforms within these organisations to reflect current global realities.
18-01-2022||India||R-Day fly past to bring alive glorious history of ’71 victory||The military fly past at the Republic Day parade will feature formations to commemorate some glorious moments of India’s decisive victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war, including the historic Tangail airdrop and the Meghna operation, apart from showcasing the Indian Air Force’s combat capabilities, officials familiar with the matter said on Monday.As many as 75 different aircraft from the IAF, army and navy will take part in the January 26 flying display, including Rafales, Sukhoi-30s, Jaguars, C-130J special operations aircraft, Mi-35 gunships, MiG-29K maritime fighters and P-8I maritime surveillance aircraft, IAF officials said at a press preview of the fly past.“It will be the largest and grandest display,” an official said. The flying display is the highlight of India’s biggest ceremonial parade. India is celebrating the 75th year of its Independence this year.The indigenous Tejas light combat aircraft and the Mirage 2000 jets are not taking part in the parade as single-engine aircraft are normally not permitted to fly over Rajpath though Tejas made its debut at the 2017 parade.The Tangail formation will feature a vintage Dakota aircraft along with two Dornier 228 aircraft, the officials said. The Tangail airdrop north of Dhaka – the biggest airborne operation mounted by Indian paratroopers – set the stage for surrender by the Pakistani army.The aim of the operation was to capture the Poongli bridge on Jamalpur-Tangail-Dhaka road and the ferry site on Louhajang river to intercept the Pakistani army’s 93 Brigade that was retreating from the north to defend Dhaka. Around 750 men of the 2nd Battalion of the Parachute Regiment were involved in the successful mission.The paratroopers defeated a force three times superior and shattered the will of the Pakistani army to defend Dhaka.The Meghna formation to commemorate a critical heli-borne operation during the 1971 war will involve a CH-47F Chinook helicopter and four Mi-171V choppers, the officials said. IAF helicopters played a critical role in moving troops across the Meghna river in erstwhile East Pakistan.The IAF tableau at the parade will display fighter planes attacking the Governor House in Dhaka and a model of the Gnat fighter that played an important role in the 1971 war.The 1971 war, which ended with the liberation of Bangladesh, gave India a new generation of heroes, including Flying Officer Nirmal Jit Singh Sekhon. Then 26, he is the first and only person in the IAF to be decorated with the Param Vir Chakra, the country’s highest wartime military honour. He was awarded posthumously.His moment of glory came on December 14, 1971, when the Srinagar airfield faced a furious attack by at least six Sabre aircraft of the Pakistan Air Force. In the midst of the strafing of the airfield by the enemy aircraft that presented grave danger to his own safety, Sekhon took off in his Gnat, heroically engaged a pair of Sabres, shot them down and forced the Pakistani fighters to retreat, before his own aircraft was hit and exploded into a fireball.In December, India observed the Swarnim Vijay Parv at India Gate to mark the culmination of yearlong celebrations organised across the country to commemorate the 50th anniversary of victory in the 1971 war.The 13-day war ended on December 16, 1971, with the Indian Army taking 93,000 Pakistanis as prisoners of war.The Republic Day fly past will end with 17 Jaguar fighters flying in a formation to commemorate the 75th year of the country’s Independence.The formations being flown to commemorate the victory in the 1971 war in the 75th year of India’s Independence are extremely significant, former Air Chief Marshal Fali Major said.“The Tangail airdrop and the Meghna heli-borne operation were among the events that changed the course of the war,” the retired air force chief said. “The actions speeded up the capture of Dhaka without any problems and led to the birth of a new nation.”
18-01-2022||India||32-year-old man kills wife’s suspected rapist using explosives: Police||A 32-year-old man was arrested for killing a person with explosives, as part of a plot to avenge the alleged gang rape of his wife in Ratlam district, police said on Monday.Two other villagers, Bhanwar Lal and Dinesh, were also arrested in connection with the gang rape case, police said.Ratlam superintendent of police Gaurav Tiwari said, “On January 4, villager Lal Singh was killed in an explosion which had taken place near a tube well on his agricultural land. The forensic science expert informed that the explosion took place due to gelatin rods and detonator. In the investigation, it was found that a similar kind of explosion took place in August at the tube well of former sarpanch Bhanwar Lal, but he sustained minor injuries in the incident.”“Police found a family missing from the village after the incident (blast that killed Lal Singh). Police detained the man and his family members from Mandsaur on January 7. During interrogation, the man confessed his crime and also informed that he was taking revenge of gang rape of his wife,” he added.In a statement registered with police, the accused said, “In July this year, Lal Singh, Bhawarlal and Dinesh entered his house and raped his wife. He tried to stop them but they beat him up. Later, the accused threatened him with dire consequences. The man didn’t report the matter to the police but decided to take revenge.”According to SP Tiwari, the accused learnt how to assemble the bomb from the internet. “... He first used the technique on the tube well of Bhanwarlal but he sustained minor injuries in the explosion. Later, he used more gelatin rod to attack Lal Singh,” said the accused to the police.Police are also checking the role of the gang-rape victim in the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/32yearold-man-kills-wife-s-suspected-rapist-using-explosives-police-101642442860931.html
18-01-2022||India||TN tableau rejected: Stalin writes to PM, calls it ‘matter of grave concern’||After Kerala and West Bengal, Tamil Nadu chief minister (CM) M K Stalin on Monday expressed disappointment over Centre rejecting the state tableau for the Republic Day celebrations and sought Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi’s immediate intervention in the matter.A central government spokesperson, however, said it is a “wrong precedent” adopted by the chief ministers, who don’t have any “positive” agenda and is aimed at creating “flash point” between the Centre and the states.He said, Kerala, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu’s tableau were selected for previous parades using the same criteria and therefore, the question of discrimination against opposition states, as alleged, does not arise.In a letter to the PM, the chief minister said, “Excluding the tableau will deeply hurt the sentiments and patriotic feelings of the people of Tamil Nadu.”“That the expert committee chooses to ignore and reject all the seven designs shown to it as per the modifications suggested by its members is unacceptable,” the CM said, alleging that Tamil Nadu was not called for the fourth round of meeting.Stating that this was a “matter of grave concern to Tamil Nadu and its people,” he sought the PM’s “urgent intervention to arrange to include the tableau of Tamil Nadu.”Following the Republic Day parade’s theme this year — India@75 — the state had submitted sketches depicting contribution of renowned Tamil Nadu freedom fighters in the freedom struggle. It included renowned freedom fighters, including V O Chidambaranar (VOC); Subramania Bharathi, popularly known as Maha Kavi Bharathiar, and Rani Velu Nachiyar with other women soldiers.Also read | Mamata writes to PM Modi over R-Day tableau rejection, says ‘profoundly shocked’On Sunday, West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee had written to PM Modi urging him to reconsider the decision of excluding the state’s proposed tableau from the parade. “It is even more baffling that the tableau was rejected without any justification,” Mamata wrote, adding, that she was shocked and hurt by the decision.The proposed tableau was to commemorate Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and Indian National Army on Bose’s 125th birth anniversary. The tableau would have carried portraits of Vidyasagar, Rabindranath Tagore, Vivekananda, Chittaranjan Das, Sri Aurobindo, Matangini Hazra, Birsa Munda, Nazrul Islam, Mamata wrote.“Bengal was at the forefront of the Indian freedom struggle and paid heaviest price for the country’s Independence through the partition. People of West Bengal are deeply pained by this attitude of the central government,” Mamata added. However, the central government spokesperson said,“This year’s tableau of CPWD includes Netaji Subhaschandra Bose, so the question of his insult does not arise.”Kerala CM Pinayari Vijayan on January 13 had also sought PM’s intervention after the state’s proposal for the tableau of social reformer Sree Narayana Guru and Jatayu Park monument was rejected and the Centre instead changed it to Adi Shankara, which the state rejected. “We have no idea why the Centre is against the social reformer. The float was avoided at the eleventh hour and the government owes an explanation to the state,” state education minister V Sivankutty had said then.Meanwhile, reacting to the controversy, a central government spokesperson said, “Perhaps the CMs have no positive agenda of their own and have to resort to the same old trick of using misinformation year after year.”The spokesperson said the tableaux proposals are selected by a Subject Expert Committee, comprising of eminent people from different fields. “For the parade, a total of 56 proposals were received. Out of these, 21 were shortlisted. It is natural for more proposals to be rejected than the ones being accepted, given the paucity of time,” he added.Tableaux proposals of Kerala were accepted through the same process in 2018 and 2021. Similarly the tableaux proposals of Tamil Nadu were accepted in 2016, 2017, 2019, 2020 and 2021. For West Bengal, the tableaux proposals were accepted in 2016, 2017, 2019 and 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-tableau-rejected-now-stalin-writes-to-pm-calls-it-matter-of-grave-concern-101642442503011.html
18-01-2022||India||Frame ‘model builder-buyer’ agreement, top court tells govt||The country should have a “national model builder-buyer agreement” to ensure homebuyers are not left at the mercy of whimsical clauses included by real estate developers in their contracts, the Supreme Court said on Monday as it implored the Union government to contemplate framing a standard form housing agreement.A bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and Surya Kant underscored the “helplessness” of the people, especially middle-class homebuyers, while urging the Centre to examine the pertinent provisions of the Real Estate Regulation and Development (RERA) Act to consider framing a model agreement.“This issue is very important. We want a national model builder-buyer agreement to be framed by the Union government. At present, across the states, builders can put any term and exploit unwitting buyers. We want the Union to intervene instead of states having their own regulations,” the bench told solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who represented the central government.The bench added that it is examining the petition filed by advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay in the larger public interest. “Forget what has been said in the petition... we are on larger public interest, especially for the middle-class homebuyers who are fleeced by the builders,” the court told the S-G.It pointed out that the national model agreement should ideally contain certain standard stipulations binding on all builders. “There must be some essential terms which cannot be deviated from... which must be non-negotiable in the interest of the buyers,” the bench added.It emphasised that RERA is a central legislation and therefore, the central advisory committee, appointed under RERA, should consider framing the standard agreement.Mehta, on his part, acknowledged the court’s concerns, saying he would examine the provisions of the RERA and would also have a deliberation with the officials concerned to explore the feasibility of a national model builder-buyer agreement.The court deferred the hearing on Upadhyay’s petition by two weeks to enable the law officer to come back with instructions on the matter. The lead petition in the case has been filed as a public interest litigation (PIL) by lawyer Upadhyay, followed by three other petitions by individual homebuyers challenging inaction by the respective builders in completion of several amenities promised by them in the brochure provided while booking flats.In October 2021, the bench had issued notices to the Centre, states and Union territories and the Law Commission of India on the clutch of petitions. In its order, the court had referred to sections 41 and 42 of RERA, under which the central advisory council has been obligated to make recommendations to the Centre for framing standard rules to subserve public interest in ensuring that buyers of real estate are not exploited.Responding to the court notice, the central government filed its affidavit in November 2021, stating that a draft “agreement for sale” was shared with all the states and Union territories in 2016 itself after the implementation of RERA. The Centre put it on the state governments to enforce the terms of any standard form agreement after notifying the rules.On Monday, Upadhyay and senior advocate Menaka Guruswamy, who was appearing for the homebuyers of a Karnataka residential project, expressed dissatisfaction over the Centre’s response and argued that the Union government must consider invoking its authority under sections 41 and 42 to frame a model builder-buyer agreement and then circulate it to all states and UTs.Upadhyay contended that there should be some uniformity in quality of raw materials to be used in construction of a building, besides ensuring that agreements should also be in Hindi and other regional languages.Guruswamy argued that the S-G should take instructions specifically on the Centre invoking its powers under RERA to frame a model builder-buyer agreement.Upadhyay has highlighted in his plea that in many cases, the amenities promised in the brochure at the time of sale do not form part of the registered plan and residents are left in the lurch to pursue remedies against developers and authorities. This happens as many developers go for “pre-launch” or “soft launch” of a project without securing requisite approvals from authorities, he added.“The petition is seeking direction to all states to enforce model builder-buyer agreement and model agent-buyer agreement to avoid mental, physical and financial injury, ensure accountability, develop mechanism to weed out criminal conspiracy for wrongful gain, criminal breach of trust, and dishonest misappropriation of buyers’ money by promoters, builders and agents,” Upadhyay’s petition stated.Under RERA, the Centre has left it to the states to frame appropriate rules within six months under Section 84 of the Act for implementing the law. Singh said, “In some states, builders get their way and agreements are one-sided. There is no transparency or fair play to restrain builders from indulging in frauds and delays and to protect the flat purchasers from getting duped.”The petition also demanded that homebuyers should be compensated for the losses incurred due to inordinate delays on the part of builders and promoters.
18-01-2022||India||DCGI needs more safety data for Covaxin nod for under 12||Although India’s drugs regulator allowed Covaxin jabs for restricted emergency use in children aged 12-18 years, it did not do so for younger children despite a recommendation of an expert panel because it wanted to be absolutely sure of the safety aspects, according to people familiar with the matter.“Safety data is of paramount importance, and the regulator has to be convinced about the data,” a person aware of the matter said on condition of anonymity. “The safety and other related data that the regulator needed in children, also for a particular time period, he got it in the age group in which the approval was finally granted.”“In this particular age group (children below 12 years) organs are developing and its impact on that has to be considered,” the person pointed out. “The safety data was taken for longer period as compared to adults; at least for two-three months more.”The approval on December 25 from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) came nearly 10 weeks after the subject expert committee of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) recommended Covaxin’s use in children on October 12 last year.The panel’s job is to make recommendations to CDSCO, but the final call is taken by DCGI.“In children and pregnant women, the drugs regulator is taking extreme precaution, which does not mean that in other population groups precaution has not been taken,” the person said. “It is just that when it comes to children, one has to tread even more cautiously. Also, the movement of children is more in this particular age group for which approval has been granted.”Also read | Govt seeks more data for full market clearance to Covishield, CovaxinDays after the government allowed the use of Covaxin among the 15 to 18 age cohort, Covaxin’s maker Bharat Biotech said in a statement that its vaccine was found to be “safe, well-tolerated, and immunogenic” in the age group of 2-18 years in phase II and III studies.Neutralizing antibodies in children on average were found to be 1.7 times higher than in adults, the Hyderabad-based firm said. No serious adverse events were reported during the clinical trials, it added.“Covaxin clinical trial data from the paediatric population is very encouraging. Safety of the vaccine is critical for children, and we are glad to share that Covaxin has now proven data for safety and immunogenicity in children,” Krishna Ella, chairman and managing director, Bharat Biotech, said on December 30. “We have now achieved our goal of developing a safe and efficacious Covid-19 vaccine for adults and children.”As part of the firm’s phase II and III clinical trials and multicentre studies, 374 subjects in the relevant age group were inoculated with two 0.5 ml doses of Covaxin, the same formulation used in adults. The trials in the paediatric population were conducted between June and September last year.Researchers involved in the trial have said that the report presented data obtained up to four weeks after the second of two vaccinations, but the study was ongoing to collect data up to six months after the last vaccination, which will be reported separately.The data was submitted to CDSCO in October, and received emergency use nod for children aged 12-18 from the drugs controller on December 25.
18-01-2022||India||A realpolitik appraisal of the ‘Mandal-Kamandal’ fight in UP||The Uttar Pradesh elections seem to be resurrecting the past memories of Mandal versus Kamandal contest only at the level of polemics. After chief minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Yogi Adityanath’s claim of the polls being an 80% versus 20% (read Hindu versus Muslim) contest, Yogi’s former cabinet colleague Swami Prasad Maurya, who deserted the BJP to join the Samajwadi party (SP), claimed the election was actually a fight between 85% versus 15% (read non-upper caste Hindus and Muslims versus upper castes). The Mandal-Kamandal binary and its various mutations have defined politics in the states of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar for three decades now.The underlying logic, at least at the level of rhetoric, is simple. The votaries of Mandal claim that due to India’s feudal past, upper castes have historically exploited the other backward classes (OBCs), scheduled castes (SCs), scheduled tribes (STs) and the majority of Muslims in India, and the only way to undo this injustice was to capture political power, a project eminently possible thanks to India’s universal franchise system. OBCs, SCs, STs and Muslims together vastly outnumber upper-caste Hindus.The BJP, on the other hand, has always claimed that Mandal-based parties such as the SP have only helped their own causes (for instance, the Yadavs in both Bihar and UP) in the name of social emancipation after capturing power. It is only when the BJP is brought to power that true development, welfare and emancipation takes place, the party argued.But polemics in politics need not always confirm to reality. Does this hold for the Mandal-Kamandal binary as well? Here are three charts that try to answer this question.Only rich contest the elections and the richer manage to winThe average assets of a candidate who contested the 2017 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh was ₹1.9 crore, according to a report by the not-for-profit political party watchdog Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR). Average assets per MLA elected in 2017 was ₹5.9 crore. ADR collects these values from election affidavits filed by the candidates.“Among major parties, the average assets per MLA for 312 BJP MLAs analysed is ₹5.07 crores, 46 SP MLAs have average assets of ₹5.84 crores, 19 BSP MLAs have average assets of ₹17.84 crores and 7 INC MLAs have average assets worth of ₹10.06 crores” the ADR report said. These numbers suggest that among all major parties, only the super rich contest elections. Uttar Pradesh had a per capita income of ₹64,120 in 2017-18 and the average asset holdings of the top 10% of the state’s population were worth ₹97.5 lakh, according to the 2019 All India Debt and Investment Survey of the National Statistical Office.Ticket distribution pattern does not endorse either 80-20 or 85-15 contestPolemics about the elections being an 80-20 or 85-15 contest suggest the larger cohort, which the parties claim to represent, is united behind them. The least one would expect is that the party in question tries to mobilize the groups it is targeting. Data on caste background of candidates, sourced from the database of the Trivedi Centre for Political Data (TCPD), does not support such claims.If the BJP were really serious about consolidating all Hindu votes, it would make an equal distribution of tickets among them. That is not the case. Almost half of the BJP’s candidates in the 2017 elections were upper castes. It was far greater than their share in population. The BJP also fielded a lower share of Yadavs, who are the core support base of the SP in the state. Yadavs and Jatavs, the core support base of the SP and BSP, respectively, have a higher share among the candidates of the parties, but their share is not too disproportionate. Similarly, the SP and BSP fielded a significant share of upper caste candidates, something that goes against the clichéd Mandal rhetoric. In other words, parties are more pragmatic when it comes to distributing tickets on the ground than what their political polemics would suggest.Political power is key to upward mobility of the social eliteIf it is only the super rich who contest elections, and all political parties make social compromises against what their political rhetoric suggests, why do people fall for such rhetoric? The newfound assertion of the non-domiant castes in Indian politics can be thought of as the relatively less privileged social elite leveraging their social group’s electoral strength to make stronger bargains from the socioeconomically dominant communities in the political system.The communities currently enjoying a dominant economic position would not be where they are had they not had political power. This is best seen in a comparison of average asset levels of candidates and MLAs in the 2017 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. It uses a caste-wise database of candidates compiled by TCPD that the centre matched with candidate-wise asset database from ADR at HT’s request.The comparison showed Yadav candidates were not far from the average asset level of upper-caste candidates, whereas SC and ST candidates are almost at the same asset level as non-dominant OBCs. It will not be wrong to say that every community wants to move to the right hand side on the chart, and the ones already on the right cannot retain power unless they do business with the ones on the left.With the Indian economy having lost higher growth momentum of the past decade, and given the shrinking footprint of the state in the economy, it will become even more difficult for the entrenched sociopolitical elite to accommodate the aspirations of their strategic allies from non-dominant social groups. It means that political conflict and perhaps the revolving doors for non-dominant caste allies are unlikely to end anytime soon in India.
18-01-2022||India||Doyen of India’s culture, he left a mark across the world: Tributes pour in for Birju Maharaj||Legendary dancer Birju Maharaj, who popularised the classical Kathak dance form around the world and became its most celebrated exponent by expanding its footprint from international festivals to Bollywood blockbusters, died in New Delhi on Monday. He was 83.Born Brijmohan Nath Mishra in 1938 in Lucknow, Maharaj won a bouquet of national and global accolades, including the Padma Vibhushan in 1986, and became synonymous with Kathak in a career spanning nearly six decades. He is survived by five children, three daughters and two sons, and five grandchildren.Maharaj-ji, as he was popularly known, died in the early hours of Monday in his New Delhi home, surrounded by his family and disciples, his daughter Ragini Maharaj said.“He had his dinner and we were playing antakshari because he loved old music. He was lying down… and suddenly, his breathing became uneven. We think it was a cardiac arrest as he was also a heart patient,” said Ragini, also a Kathak dancer.“This happened between 12.15 am and 12.30 am. We rushed to the hospital, but unfortunately, we could not save him,” she said. Maharaj died just two weeks shy of his 84th birthday.President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi led the country in paying tributes to one of its most famous sons.“Deeply saddened by the demise of Pandit Birju Maharaj ji, who gave Indian dance a special recognition world over,” Modi said.“The demise of legendary Pandit Birju Maharaj marks the end of an era. It leaves a deep void in the Indian music and cultural space,” Kovind tweeted.Maharaj was born in a Hindu Brahmin family with a long line of iconic artists who comprised the Kalka-Bindadin gharana. His grandfather, Bindadin Maharaj, wrote and composed around 5,000 thumris and bhajans, many of which Maharaj later re-documented from the memory of his mother and other students.He trained under his father and guru Acchan Maharaj and gave his first public performance at the age of seven. In a form where artists use dance and facial expressions to tell a story, especially mythological epics, the young Maharaj drew quick praise for his animated facial expressions and lightfooted movements.In later interviews, he repeatedly mentioned how the early years in his ancestral home moulded his craft. “It was like a sea of rhythm and beat, and for seven generations that was the only topic of discussion back home. Laya, swar, taal, bhangima, saundarya, aur nritya (rhythm, tone, beat, pose, beauty, and dance), that was all we talked about,” Maharaj told PTI in his last interview.As a young boy, Maharaj began accompanying his father to places such as Kanpur, Allahabad and Gorakhpur, and then on to far off places, including Kolkata and Mumbai, where he shared the stage with him.Tragedy struck when he was nine. His father died and the young Maharaj moved to Delhi and later started teaching Kathak at the Sangeet Bharti to support his family. He also taught at the Bharatiya Kala Kendra in Delhi, and at the Kathak Kendra (a unit of the Sangeet Natak Akademi), where he was head of faculty and director, retiring in 1998. Birju Maharaj later opened his own dance school Kalashram, also in Delhi.“Although he was a great dancer, not many know that he could sing and play the tabla really well,” said flautist Hariprasad Chaurasia. “I wish God could send back people like Birju, who have spent so much time mastering their craft, to wander the planet for at least two months each year, to teach people what it truly means to learn an art form.”He was a poet – who wrote under the pseudonym Brijshyam – and a masterful thumri singer, who voiced a song for Satyajit Ray’s 1977 classic Shatranj Ke Khiladi, a film for which he also choreographed sequences.He won the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award, Sangam Kala Award, Andra Ratna, Soviet Land Nehru Award and Rajiv Gandhi Sadbhavana Award. In his decades-long career, Maharaj performed and taught Kathak – with images of his grace and poise beamed into millions of homes through televised performances. His abhinaya (expressions) and footwork became the gold standard in Indian classical dance.He was a lifelong guru, said student and Kathak exponent Shovana Narayan, “He was painstakingly detailed. It was the spirit and ethos of dance, of Kathak that he gave me along with the technical skill and virtuosity and everything. He would come to my house for eight long years to teach me in the 1960s and never charged a single penny,” she said.In his personal life, Maharaj also shattered rigid notions held in his family that barred women from dancing in public, and provided equal opportunities to his children as well as his students, without any gender bias.“Even though he was the greatest legend of dance, he was so humble and modest and down to earth, that people would find it hard to imagine he could be so accessible,” said Saswati Sen, a senior disciple of Pandit Birju Maharaj.Later in his life, he taught several top Indian actors, including Madhuri Dixit-Nene and Kamal Haasan. Dixit-Nene, who trained under Maharaj and most memorably performed a song in the 2002 hit Devdas, said the exponent had a childlike innocence who never failed to make his students laugh. “There never was anyone like you guruji and there will never be,” she said.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doyen-of-india-s-culture-he-left-a-mark-across-the-world-tributes-pour-in-for-birju-maharaj-101642440765475.html
18-01-2022||India||3 die, several hurt in explosion onboard INS Ranvir at Mumbai Dockyard, probe ordered||At least three naval personnel died in a blast onboard Indian Navy destroyer INS Ranvir on Tuesday. According to available inputs, several others were injured in the incident that happened at the Naval Dockyard in Mumbai. According to an ANI input, 11 injured sailors are undergoing treatment at the local naval hospital. The explosion reportedly happened in an internal compartment onboard the warship. Responding immediately, the ship's crew brought the situation under control. There is no report of major material damage."In an unfortunate incident today at Naval Dockyard Mumbai, three naval personnel succumbed to injuries caused by an explosion in an internal compartment onboard INS Ranvir," a statement from the Indian Navy read.The warship was on cross-coast operational deployment from the Eastern Naval Command and was due to return to base port shortly, the statement said, adding a board of inquiry has been ordered to investigate into the cause of the explosion.(With inputs from bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-sailors-killed-in-explosion-onboard-ins-ranvir-at-mumbai-s-naval-dockyard-101642521018117.html
18-01-2022||India||Experts object to removal of cap on construction in NCR conservation zones||NEW DELHI: Over 3,000 people, including environmentalists, have objected to the removal of a clause limiting constructions in the natural conservation zones of the National Capital Region (NCR) to 0.5% of the area in the draft NCR Regional Plan 2041.HT on December 28 reported the draft does not mention the Aravalli and tributaries of the Yamuna and Ganga in “natural zones”, triggering concerns among experts, who say that such a move will let states be selective about the areas they want to conserve. The draft says a “natural zone” is an area with features such as mountains, hills, rivers, and water bodies.Experts have also pointed out that the cap on construction in natural conservation zones has also been done away with.The NCR Regional Plan 2021 allowed agriculture, horticulture, pisciculture, social forestry/plantations including afforestation and regional recreational activities with no construction exceeding 0.5% of the area with the permission of the competent authority.“However, in the draft Regional Plan-2041, this zoning regulation has been deleted. We object to this deletion. It may also be pointed out that a similar attempt was made to remove this limit on construction in 2013-14, and was objected to by the MoEFCC [Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change], which stated in their letter dated April 25, 2014, that ‘in the paragraph stipulating permissible activities for part of the Natural Conservation zone (other than Forests and Protected Area), provisions for Regional Recreational Activities may be restored as ‘Regional Recreational Activities with no construction exceeding 0.50% of the area that too with the permission of competent authority under the environmental laws’. This should be adhered to in the RP 2041,” said a document of comments to Drat Regional Plan 2041.Also Read | Experts concerned as NCR draft regional plan 2041 doesn’t mention Aravalli rangeFormer Delhi Urban Arts Commission chairman K T Ravindran, retired Indian Forest Service officer Manoj Misra, Yamuna Jiya Abhiyan convenor Manu Bhatnagar, conservational biologist Neha Sinha, and independent forest analyst Chetan Agarwal have submitted the document.The experts pointed out the area under forests has declined from 4.02% (reported in Regional Plan 2021) to 3.27% (as per the draft Regional Plan 2041). “Despite this drop, the protection for forest has been further diluted. Further, the target of total forest cover proposed to be 10% of the total area of the region in RP2021 has been dropped from the draft RP2041. This is a retrograde step that is contrary to the need to maintain and enhance forest cover so as to maintain quality of life in the NCR,” the document added.Around 3,300 people have sent their objections to the National Capital Region Planning Board (NCRPB) against the dilutions to the natural conservation zones in NCR, which includes the Aravalli.Aravalli Bachao Group, a citizen’s movement, has also sent a mail with comments on several sections of the draft and pointed out that it replaces “natural conservation zone” with only “natural zones”.“The replacement of the ‘Natural Conservation Zone’ under the 2021 Regional Plan with ‘Natural Zone’ in the Draft Regional Plan 2041, by dropping the term Conservation’, is a regressive step as it signals that conservation is no longer important in the NCR Regional Plan,” the group said.The term Aravalli was in Regional Plan 2021 and part of the Natural Conservation Zone but has been excluded from the draft.The group has sought the restoration of the term Aravalli. It added it should be included as an important zone for conservation in the draft. It added the term uncultivable hilly areas must be included in the draft as it is one of the terms that covers Aravalli in the revenue records in Delhi, Haryana, and Rajasthan.NCRPB officials said they will take a call on these objections at the next board meeting. Union urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri will chair the meeting. “These decisions will have to be taken at the highest level,” an NCRPB official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-object-to-removal-of-cap-on-construction-in-ncr-conservation-zones-101642485104692.html
18-01-2022||India||Telangana cabinet decides to make English medium compulsory in all govt schools from coming academic year||The Telangana government will introduce English medium compulsorily in all government schools from the coming academic year 2022-23.A decision to this effect was taken at the state cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday.An official note from the chief minister’s office (CMO) said the cabinet decided that a legislation on making English medium compulsory in all the government schools be enacted in the forthcoming budget session of the state assembly, likely to be held next month.The chief minister constituted a cabinet sub-committee headed by state education minister Sabita Indra Reddy to study the proposal on English medium and work out the modalities on its implementation.The sub-committee would comprise other cabinet colleagues including K T Rama Rao, Koppula Eshwar, Talasani Srinivasa Yadav, S Niranjan Reddy, V Srinivas Goud, G Jagadish Reddy, T Harish Rao, Prashant Reddy, Puvvada Ajay Kumar and Errabelli Dayakar Rao.The sub-committee would go into the legalities of the move, before finalising the draft legislation. It would be discussed in the next cabinet meeting before being introduced in the state assembly.In January 2020, the Andhra Pradesh government headed by Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy also enacted a similar legislation introducing English medium in all the government schools in a phased manner. However, the law was struck down by the state high court in April 2020.The Jagan government moved the Supreme Court in the same month, challenging the high court order, but the apex court refused to grant a stay. The matter is still pending in the Supreme Court.The Telangana cabinet also decided to enact yet another legislation to regulate fixation of tuition fees in schools and colleges in the state. The cabinet sub-committee headed by the education minister would also study this issue and finalise the draft legislation.The cabinet also approved another scheme “Mana Ooru-Mana Badi,” aimed at enhancing the quality of education and improve the basic infrastructure in the government schools. The scheme would be implemented at a cost of ₹7,289 crore in the next one year.The cabinet approved the proposals for setting up an exclusive university for women and also a “forest university” in the state. The chief minister asked chief secretary Somesh Kumar and also the forest department authorities to come up with detailed project reports on the two universities and submit the same to the next cabinet.The cabinet discussed the ongoing procurement of paddy cultivated during the Kharif season. The officials told the cabinet that the procurement exercise was more or less completed, but since paddy was still being harvested in some places, the cabinet directed that the procurement centres be continued till the entire quantity of paddy is procured.
18-01-2022||Today's||Keeping up with UP | Congress’s message in fielding women who overcame violence||The Congress has done the unthinkable. No political party has done it before — it has fielded women candidates who have been, or are related to, victims of heinous crimes.
18-01-2022||Today's||The future of school education lies in learning beyond classrooms||In India, schools were shut in March 2020 due to the coronavirus pandemic. Almost two years later, many states reopened schools but were forced to shut down again due to Omicron. While health care is a priority, we must acknowledge the staggering quantum of learning loss due to the closure of schools. Eighty per cent of children (14-18 years) reported lower levels of learning than when they were physically in school (UNICEF 2021). On average, 92% of children have lost at least one specific language ability from the previous year across all classes. On average, 82% of children have lost at least one specific mathematical ability from the previous year across all classes. (Azim Premji University 2021).
18-01-2022||Today's||Union Budget 2022: India Inc awaits a booster dose to turbocharge growth||As the fourth budget-making exercise of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) 2.0 gets underway, it is a tight rope walk for finance minister (FM) Nirmala Sitharaman between fiscal expansionism and fiscal prudence, while still sustaining the growth momentum. With Omicron raging, we are in for a below-average fourth quarter due to curbs impacting economic intensity, higher sovereign debt-Gross Domestic Product (GDP) ratios, and the bad loans problem that will get further compounded for the contact-intensive services sector and micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) struggling to revive.
18-01-2022||Today's||Six lessons to navigate our chaotic world||One of the scariest roller-coaster rides is The Maverick in Ohio, United States. It is a narrow ribbon of steel, twisting away toward the sky then dropping vertiginously towards the ground. It is three minutes of absolute terror.
