19-01-2022||Lucknow||DRDO Covid facility in Lucknow set to start again||LUCKNOW The Atal Bihari Vajpayee Covid Hospital, a 450-bed makeshift facility set up by Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) here in May last year, is all set to start functioning again. The Covid facility, which was established to help the state government combat corona cases, was later put on standby mode after the Covid cases began to decline. Besides, another 250-bed Covid facility established by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) is also likely to become functional soon. The decision is part of the state government’s anti-Covid 19 exercise that it is carrying out, anticipating rise in Covid cases. “With all mock drills done, we are ready and waiting for the state government’s nod. The hospital is currently on standby mode,” said nodal officer for DRDO hospital AP Singh. The DRDO’s 450 bedded-Covid facility was the initiative of defence minister Rajnath Singh. The facility was the most sought after Covid hospital that was inaugurated by chief minister Yogi Adityanath on May 5, 2021.The hospital is equipped with 150 ICU beds with 24-hours oxygen supply. “Back then, The Indian Armed Forces had deployed 30 medical specialists, 28 medical officers, six officers for administrative support, 51 nursing officers, 110 nursing assistants/technicians and 79 support staff to run the hospital,” said a senior official posted with the hospital. Similarly, the makeshift 250-bed hospital set up by the HAL is likely to re-start soon. Of the total beds, 150 would be ICU beds of L3 category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/drdo-covid-facility-in-lucknow-set-to-start-again-101642616243755.html
19-01-2022||Pune||Pune district reports 12,491 new Covid-19 cases, six deaths||PUNE On Wednesday, as Pune district reported 12,491 new Covid-19 cases, the active case load in the district reached an eight-month high. The last time the district reported close to 68,000 active cases was on May 19 when Pune’s active caseload stood at 67,295 cases, as per the state health department. The active case count has been on a steep rise since January 1, when the active caseload was 2,960. The progressive Covid-19 case count is now at 1.28 million of which 1.19 million have recovered, 20,250 is the deat toll and 68,834 are active cases. Pune also saw 38,745 vaccinations on the day.  As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 2,608 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 391,089. The death toll stood at 7,059 as one more death was reported. Pune city reported 6,513 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 593,628 and the death toll stands at 9,309 as four more deaths were reported. PCMC reported 3,370 new Covid-19 cases and the progressive count went up to 300,281. The toll stands at 3,532 as one more death was reported. Pune district saw 38,745 vaccinations as per CoWin dashboard on Wednesday. Of a total of 16.26 million doses that have been administered, 9.27 million are first doses, 6.92 million are second doses and 65,229 are precautionary doses. A total of 595 sites saw vaccinations of which 437 are government centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-12-491-new-covid-19-cases-six-deaths-101642616063471.html
19-01-2022||Other||{Cong Doaba infighting} Get me expelled or leave party: Rana Gurjeet to detractors||Chandigarh Punjab cabinet minister Rana Gurjeet Singh on Wednesday dared the three sitting MLAs and one ex-MLA from Doaba region, who have sought his expulsion, to get him ousted or leave the party themselves. Responding to the accusation of the four party leaders that he interfered in their constituencies, Rana Gurjeet said he is thankful to them for acknowledging his clout in their assembly segments. “This really means that they themselves lack something, so their constituents are influenced by me and not them,” he said. Three MLAs Navtej Singh Cheema (Sultanpur Lodhi), Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal (Phagwara) and Avtar Singh Junior (Jalandhar North) and former Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira had on Tuesday written to Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi to demand the minister’s expulsion from the party. This is after the latter’s son announced that he will contest as an independent candidate from Sultanpur Lodhi. The cabinet minister said that if they can get him expelled from Congress president Sonia Gandhi, he will sit at home like a true soldier of the party, and not jump ship to another party like Khaira who went party-hopping before joining back five years later. “If she does not throw me out, will they leave the party?” he said, challenging them to come to Kapurthala for campaigning to try and defeat him. The infighting in Doaba has been going on for some time; it escalated after some of the local MLAs joined hands to oppose Rana Gurjeet’s re-induction into the state cabinet four months ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cong-doaba-infighting-get-me-expelled-or-leave-party-rana-gurjeet-to-detractors-101642615943079.html
19-01-2022||Pune||Covid epidemiological curve to depend on population density, vaccination: state official||Pune: As per the state health department report, only five out of the 36 districts in the state report a higher than state average weekly positivity rate. These districts include Pune, Akola, Nashik, Raigad and Thane with 29.4%. The state has reported a positivity rate of 22.9%. Despite Mumbai reporting the highest number of Covid cases in the week between January 10 and January 16 — more than 88,000 new cases of the 0.3 million cases reported in the state — Pune has reported about 64,000 and Thane 53,000. State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said that sudden rise and fall in Covid cases reported in Mumbai might not be applicable to all the districts in the state. He said, “The positivity rate of a district informs what percentage of the population which has been tested is infected. In the first wave, the average state positivity peaked at 24.86% which then in the second wave peaked at 26% and then in the third wave peaked at 32% which means that three out of every 10 people tested will report to be positive and then the curve will begin to decline. We have seen in Mumbai that the positivity rate peaked at around 35%-36% and it is declining now. Multiple factors have to be considered like Omicron is the most transmissible variant, breakthrough infections, herd immunity and others.” On underreporting of coronavirus cases, Awate said the administration has appealed to the people to voluntarily upload their Covid-19 reports on the website so that the local health authorities can help them in case of any need. “We have also asked chemists to keep a record of all the home test kits which they have sold by noting down the details of purchaser,” he said. Awate said, “We have to also remember that after two Covid waves, the uninfected population is very low. The epidemiological curve will depend on multiple local factors like population density and vaccination. If a region has seen a much milder second or first wave then it is likely that the virus may linger on for a while before it starts declining which we saw in the second wave and previous waves when Kolhapur and Sangli saw a much slow decline. Multiple factors will influence the epidemiological curves in the areas.” In the past one week between January 10 January and January 16, the state reported a weekly average positivity rate of 22.9% as the state reported over 1,345,494 cases of the 308,376 samples that were tested. The highest positivity rate was reported from Nashik with about 35.4% followed by Pune (34.2%) with about 64,807 new cases. This is as high as the city reported during the second wave peak. Thane reported a positivity rate of 29.4%, Raigad 28.3% and Akola 27.7%. Mumbai which saw a drastic surge in new Covid cases in the past two weeks has reported a drop in the positivity rate of lower than the state average at 21.8% as 407,123 samples were tested of which 88,610 positive cases were reported. The above districts are reporting a drastic surge in active cases, however, the number of mortalities is not surging much as of yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-epidemiological-curve-to-depend-on-population-density-vaccination-state-official-101642615822925.html
19-01-2022||Pune||Covid surge: Flight count drops by half, passenger traffic hit at Pune airport||Pune: The reported rise in Covid cases in the state has seen a drastic fall in air traffic at Pune airport in the last one month. The daily operation of 76 flights on January 3 has dropped to 37 as on January 19. While airline companies have either cancelled or reduced their flights by half, passenger footfall has dropped from 20,000 plus in December last year to below 10,000 in January 2022. Airlines authorities said that many passengers have cancelled their trips after testing Covid positive. “The load factor of airline companies has reduced. Around 15 days prior, our arrival and departure passenger count was around 8,000 each. And the number had touched 18,000-20,000 last month, before dropping to 3,500 passengers each for arrival and departure. People are avoiding travel as a precautionary measure with reported rise in coronavirus cases,” said Santosh Doke, Pune airport director. “Airlines cancel a flight if it gets only 10-15 confirmed passengers and try to club it with other flights on the same routes. For example, if there are four flights from Delhi to Pune after one hour interval then passengers of these four flights are clubbed into one or else it incurs huge expenditure,” he said. While the winter schedule (October-March) is usually booked across the country with heavy air traffic, cases of Omicron variant of Covid reported since last month has left passengers to rethink their travel plans. “I had booked a ticket for January 12 to travel to Delhi for some work, but as Covid cases were on rise I cancelled the ticket. We don’t want to take any risk and many restrictions are also in place,” said Shilpa Gandhi, a chartered accountant. Another city-based businessman Atul Khode said, “We had a business conference organised at Chennai for last weekend and our group of 10 people was supposed to travel. Only two attended the conference and the rest cancelled with plans to hold another at a later date.” Covid surge sees drop in flights Daily flight operations and passenger count at Pune airport January 1, 2022 Flight operations: 52 Arrived passengers: 7,089 Departed passengers: 6,167 January 2, 2022 Flight operations: 70 Arrived passengers: 10,764 Departed passengers: 9,413 January 4, 2022 Flight operations: 66 Arrived passengers: 8,409 Departed passengers: 7,380 January 5, 2022 Flight operations: 68 Arrived passengers: 7,380 Departed passengers: 7,169 January 8, 2022 Flight operations: 53 Arrived passengers: 6,044 Departed passengers: 6,466 January 9, 2022 Flight operations: 61 Arrived passengers: 7,085 Departed passengers: 7,502 January 11, 2022 Flight operations: 48 Arrived passengers: 4,609 Departed passengers: 5,280 January 12, 2022 Flight operations: 45 Arrived passengers: 4,756 Departed passengers: 5,040 January 13, 2022 Flight operations: 50 Arrived passengers: 4,542 Departed passengers: 5,358 January 14, 2022 Flight operations: 51 Arrived passengers: 4,085 Departed passengers: 4,762 January 16, 2022 Flight operations: 50 Arrived passengers: 5,206 Departed passengers: 5,587 January 17, 2022 Flight operations: 46 Arrived passengers: 4,369 Departed passengers: 4,536||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-surge-flight-count-drops-by-half-passenger-traffic-hit-at-pune-airport-101642615645126.html
19-01-2022||Pune||State government mulls establishment of an online university||PUNE Maharashtra state government is mulling to establish an ‘Online university’. The department of Higher and Technical Education has appointed a committee to prepare a report on the feasibility of such a university, its administrative structure, required resources, courses to be taught, and functioning of such universities abroad and in other Indian states. According to the government resolution issued by the administration, the idea behind such an online university is to facilitate higher education for the students who live in remote areas or far away from their education institutions in this pandemic era. The ten-member committee consists of several senior higher education experts. RK Shevgaonkar former vice-chancellor of Savitribai Phule Pune University has been appointed as the chairman of this committee. Shrivarmangai Ramanujam, IT head at Mumbai University will function as a coordinator for the committee. State government has asked the committee to submit a report in six months.“Because of the Covid-19 pandemic colleges, universities in the state are teaching students through various online portals and applications. Students who live far away from their educational institutions cannot be present there regularly. Because of the online university students will not have to be physically present and they will not have to spend on accommodations, travelling.This option is viable for those students who want to take online education. It will also help to continue the uninterrupted education in this pandemic situation,” stated the government resolution issued by the Higher and Technical Education Department. The ten-member committee constituted to study and define the feasibility of such a university had been tasked to prepare a detailed and a comprehensive report within six months. The committee has been asked to study the online universities in developed countries and to form the policy based on that for Maharashtra. Also, it will have to check the legalities related to its establishment. The recommendations related to the basic facilities, Human Resource, and other equipment are expected to be included in this report. The committee will also have to finalise the eligibility criteria of the teachers, staffers to be hired by this university. With such basic and essential points the committee has been asked to prepare a comprehensive report related to the formation of such a university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/state-government-mulls-establishment-of-an-online-university-101642614082853.html
19-01-2022||Pune||Hospital OPDs in Pune record surge in children with symptoms like fever, cold||PUNE As per the Maharashtra Education and Drugs Department (MEDD) data for the past one week, the state has reported over 32,000 new Covid-19 cases among the population aged less than 20 years. This is about 10% of the overall infected population in the week between January 11 and 19 as over 3.24 lakh people were reported infected. Although this is the same as per the last week of December, on ground city doctors say that the OPD patients among the paediatric age group has rapidly increased. Doctors also say that the most common symptom among kids is fever and cough which is usually mild.In the week between January 11 and 19 , the MEDD report states that the state saw a total of 324,867 new Covid-19 cases out of which 32,981 were reported in the age group under 20 years of age. However, the highest share of Covid-19 cases continue to be reported from the age group between 31 to 40 years of age, followed by 21 to 30 years of age and 41 to 50 years of age. The number of new cases among the senior citizens, those aged above 60 years of age is 49,590 new Covid-19 cases which in total account for 15% of the total number of cases reported. However, as anticipated earlier that the third wave might affect children the most is coming out to be true, said city doctors as the number of OPD patients in the paediatric ward complaining of symptoms like fever, cold and cough has risen drastically. Dr Pradeep Suryavanshi, city-based paediatrician said, “The number of children coming to OPD complaining of fever and cold and cough which is the most common symptoms among kids has increased drastically. We are treating all febrile kids as Covid-19 patients now. But the good thing is that in most cases the fever subsides in just 2-3 days and coughing is also treated in just a week. The numbers may not actually reflect the ground reality in the case of paediatric Covid-19 patients because we test most kids only if the fever stays for more than two days and most parents get the kids tested through the rapid antigen tests which may go unreported. The good thing is that the number of admissions among paediatric Covid-19 patients is very low unless the fever is high grade or if the kids report convulsions.”Another paediatrician from the city, Dr Sagar Lad however suggests that it is better to get the child tested as it helps in isolating the kids at an earlier stage. Dr Lad said, “Despite no vaccination, the rate of hospitalisation if infected with Covid19 remains nominal. Admissions take place only in case of high fever, above 102-103 degrees, and the child develops convulsions. However there is a hesitancy among parents to get their children tested for Covid-19. The common presentations which were not present last time include shivering, headache, cough and runny nose. Most cases are reported in the age group less than five and those aged between 10-11 years of age.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/hospital-opds-in-pune-record-surge-in-children-with-symptoms-like-fever-cold-101642613783036.html
19-01-2022||Pune||Yerawada jail officials seek for more space as Covid cases rise||PUNE: The Yerawada prison authorities seek new space for a temporary prison or isolation facility to accommodate the rising number of new inmate admissions who are testing Covid positive. As on Tuesday (January 18) night, the number of virus infected patients in the prison was 85, highest among patients in state prisons, according to prison statistics. The infected are held at the temporary prison facility in a hostel for Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes by Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Research and Training Institute (Barti). Along with the inmates, four jail officials of Yerawada and three officials working in the additional director general of police and inspector general of police of state prison department located in Pune have also tested positive. “We have three buildings occupied right now. One has water connection issue so cannot be used. One of the three is a Covid centre, one is for men, and another for women. Almost all prisoners coming from outside are positive and prisoners who are taken for court hearings or medical reasons also contract the virus,” said Rani Bhosale, superintendent of Yerawada Central Jail. The new admissions are tested and kept in isolation before being let into the main jail. The hospital and Covid centre are filled to their strength with patients, according to prison officials. “Sassoon General Hospital does not admit asymptomatic patients, so it is not an option for us. The capacity of temporary prison is around 400, but there are new admissions every single day,” said Bhosale. According to an official of the prison department, the daily admission to the temporary prison scales to around 80 every day. The jail officials are requesting the district authority to let them use the Sant Dnyaneshwar quarantine centre located at a hostel in Vishrantwadi, according to Bhosale. The facility will ease pressure on the temporary jail. However, the security at both the places is of concern. The city police have been given the responsibility of securing the temporary jails as per the original order of the district collector. There have been multiple incidents of undertrials escaping the temporary facility since its inception in 2020. To get a new space, the prison department will require security support from the city police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/yerawada-jail-officials-seek-for-more-space-as-covid-cases-rise-101642613485779.html
19-01-2022||Mumbai||21-year-old arrested from Rajasthan with 10kg stolen gold||MUMBAI: The Mumbai police on Monday arrested an employee, 21, of a jewellery shop in south Mumbai from his native place in Rajasthan where he allegedly fled last week with 17.5 kilogramme of stolen gold ornaments worth Rs8.50 crore and Rs8 lakh in cash.The police claim to have recovered 10kg of the stolen ornaments worth Rs5 crore from the arrested accused, Ganesh Kumar, even as his five associates are still at large with the rest of the booty. A police team from L T Marg police station is still in Rajasthan, on the lookout for the remaining accused with the help of the local police, a police officer said.According to the police, the complainant in the case runs a jewellery making unit in the Goregaon area and also has an office in Bhuleshwar in south Mumbai. He had brought jewellery with new designs for a jewellery exhibition but owing to the Covid pandemic, the exposition was cancelled and he ended up keeping the gold ornaments in his office.Ganesh Kumar, a resident of Sirohi in Rajasthan, was working with the jewellery unit since a few months. He was assigned to take new orders and show new designs to customers. He used to sleep in the office as his employer trusted him, the officer said. Ganesh along with his associate, Ramesh Prajapati, 22, purportedly fled with the gold in the early hours of January 14.The incident came to light when the victim came to office in the morning at around 9am and found the office lock open. Upon stepping inside, he found all the gold and Rs8 lakh in cash missing. He then approached the L T Marg police station and registered a case of theft. Several police teams were formed to track the accused, who also took away the CCTV footage from the office. The officer said that during the investigation, they learned that Ganesh Kumar sought help from his associate Prajapati, to steal the jewellery and both were captured in the CCTV camera in the vicinity while fleeing with the bags. A police team then rushed to Ganesh Kumar’s native place and managed to nab him and recover more than half of the stolen booty. As per the investigation, five more suspects are involved in the theft. Police teams are still in Rajasthan and will nab the remaining accused soon, the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/21yearold-arrested-from-rajasthan-with-10kg-stolen-gold-101642612702743.html
19-01-2022||Pune||State government constitutes task force to increase organ donations in Maharashtra||PUNE The public health department under Maharashtra government has constituted a task force to coordinate the process of organ donation and transplantation. In the government resolution (GR) issued on Tuesday, the administration has explained the necessity of forming such a task force in order to increase organ donations in the state. The health department has set targets of 260 organ donations in 2022 and 500 in 2023 to the task force. The task force is assigned the job to increase the deceased organ donation and also give approval to private and government hospitals with ICU and operations theatres (OTs) as organ retrieval centres. The task force has also been mandated with the job of creating separate ICUs in all medical colleges and hospitals. “Task force has been mandated with ensuring increase in deceased organ donation and approving the government and private hospitals equipped ICU and OT as organ retrieval centres,” stated the GR. The 15-member task force will be headed by the health minister Rajesh Tope and it also has top doctors as members, according to the GR. The other members of the task force are the public health department, additional chief secretary, and medical education department secretary. The health department has pointed out that the cities like Mumbai and Pune top the organ donation chart whereas, the response from the rest of the state is very low. The regional organ transplant organisation along with its associated NGOs and the four Zonal Transplant Coordination Centres (ZTCC) in Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur and Aurangabad, have been actively conducting awareness programmes to prepare the ground for counselling relatives by transplant coordinators for organ donation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/state-government-constitutes-task-force-to-increase-organ-donations-in-maharashtra-101642612582864.html
19-01-2022||Mumbai||Is third Covid-19 wave ebbing in Mumbai? Here’s what experts say||Mumbai The city has reported under 10,000 Covid-19 cases each day for the last four days, marking the flattening of the third wave that began on December 21, civic authorities said on Wednesday. Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has, however, said that it is too early to declare that Mumbai is now in the safe zone. The authorities have termed the forthcoming week as a ‘wait and watch’ period. Experts have also maintained that the decline in fresh cases is a good sign, but citizens must remain alert and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour.On Wednesday, Mumbai reported 6,032 Covid-19 cases, taking the caseload to 1,017,347. The city also recorded 3 deaths, pushing the death toll to 16,488. The positivity rate in the city dropped to 10 percent on Wednesday, after hovering around 13 percent over the past three days. Mumbai tested 60,291 samples on Wednesday, much higher than the daily average of 47,000 over the past four days.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in charge of BMC’s public health department, said, “The figures are declining by the day, and this is a very good sign for Mumbai. However, this is not the time to let our guards down. Citizens must continue to maintain Covid-19-appropriate behaviour, and mask up in public. We will monitor the situation closely for one more week.”At the peak of the third wave, Mumbai had a positivity rate of around 28 percent. On January 7, when Mumbai reported its highest-ever single-day spike of 20,971 cases, it had a positivity rate of 28.9 percent.Experts said that Mumbai is now in the safe zone with cases receding but it is too early to take a call on easing of restrictions in the city.Dr Harish Chafle, senior consultant (pulmonology and critical care) Global Hospital, said, “It is a good thing that fresh cases are coming down constantly. If this continues, we will be in a good position by the end of the week. However, we should not be in a hurry to ease restrictions and let our guards down.”Similarly, Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the state’s Covid-19 task force, said, “The numbers are very encouraging but we need to wait and watch. We should not hurry in concluding that Mumbai is in the safe zone. The end of the week should give us a clearer picture.”Out of the 6,032 cases reported on Wednesday, 84 percent or 5,067 patients were asymptomatic; 538 patients needed to be hospitalised, out of which 103 needed oxygen beds.Bed occupancy across covid hospitals in the city at present is at 12.3 percent, with 5,058 beds out of the total 38,109 beds occupied as of Wednesday. As many as 18,241 patients recovered from covid-19 on Wednesday, according to the civic body.Dr Sonam Solanki, consultant pulmonologist and bronchoscopist from Masina hospital, said that this is a crucial period for the city, even though Covid-19 cases are declining.“If you compare to where we were in the first week of January, we are in a better place. This looks like we are flattening the curve. But we have seen it in the past where it takes hardly 4-5 days for numbers to rise. We are not yet at the end of the third wave, and any super spreader public event can give us a spike in cases very easily. Smaller spikes in cases are likely over the next few days,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/is-third-covid-19-wave-ebbing-in-mumbai-here-s-what-experts-say-101642612287046.html
19-01-2022||Pune||Shivane-Kharadi road pending for 10 years, PMC claims to complete construction in 6 months||PUNE The Shivane to Kharadi road which was proposed in 2011 has not yet been completed, however, the Pune Municipal Corporation on Wednesday claimed that it will complete the work in the next six months. The land acquisition for this project is pending.Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) spokesperson Sandeep Khardekar, who has been following the progress of this project has raised several questions and also blamed the administration for delaying the project.According to Khardekar, the PMC road department in a letter to him claimed that the work will be completed in the next six months. The civic body however, kept mum on the land acquisition. “The DP road which is passing from Rajaram Bridge to Mhatre Bridge is encroached. Despite filing a complaint, the PMC has not taken any action.”PMC road department head V J Kulkarni mentioned in the letter that the administration has taken a six-month extension for completing this road. Considering this, the civic body did not allow any work at the properties falling on this road’s allignment.This road was planned in 2011. Earlier it was elevated and along the riverside. According to officials, the road is being constructed to reduce the distance between Ahmednagar road and Kothrud.Even the length of the road at some places has been marked as 24 metre and at some sections it is 36 metres blamed Khardekar.BOX-Out of the total 17.10km road length, the PMC needs to acquire land for more than 2km so while the original deadline has been extended once till December 2021, it will have to be extended again in view of the current situation.-The project cost was ₹363 crore, with the corporation having paid ₹228 crore to the contractor till September 2021. However, the project cost has escalated by ₹41.50 crore because of land acquisition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/shivanekharadi-road-pending-for-10-years-pmc-claims-to-complete-construction-in-6-months-101642612229274.html
19-01-2022||Lucknow||Information commission imposes fine of ₹1.12 crore on PIOs||The state information commission has imposed a fine of ₹1.12 crore on government departments for failing to provide information under RTI. The commission has dealt sternly with those obstructing the flow of information, causing a deliberate delay in providing information and defying the orders of the information commission.In this connection, the state information commissioner of Court no 6, Ajaya Kumar Uprety, has imposed a penalty of ₹1.12 crore on various Public Information Officers (PIOs) of different departments. The penalty has been imposed on 536 PIOs, while hearing the RTI applications from January 2021 to Dec 2021.During this period, Uprety heard more than 8,000 cases seeking information under the RTI Act 2005, of which about 4,600 cases have been disposed of.The PIOs which have been penalised for not providing information under the act belonged to the offices of principal secretaries to lower-rung like Gram Vikas Adhikari (Village Development Officer).During this period, three special hearings were conducted in which 675 RTI applications were taken up. Out of which, 594 were disposed of, which accounts for approximately 88%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/information-commission-imposes-fine-of-1-12-crore-on-pios-101642612042608.html
19-01-2022||Pune||Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad among 11 winners of govt’s ‘Streets for People Challenge’||PUNE The Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry on Tuesday said 11 cities, including Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad , have been selected as the winners of the ‘Streets for People Challenge’ for their pilot projects to make roads more pedestrian-friendlyIn a statement, the ministry said that under the challenge, 38 cites had piloted re-imaginations of an important street each by prioritising them for pedestrians.Pune city constructed smart roads on JM road, FC road, Baner and Aundh areas which were appreciated at the national level. Pune won the accolades for reclaiming space along several roads to create safe and exciting ‘experience zones’ for all citizens. The city activated these edges by painting the spaces, conducting laughter yoga sessions, music sessions and introducing kids play areas. Going ahead, the city plans to build wider footpaths and install street furniture at different locations, said officials.Pimpri-Chinchwad was hailed as the walking and cycling champion for reclaiming space from carriageway for segregated cycle lanes and footpaths. The city worked closely with their street design consultants to further their city-wide Harit Setu Masterplan, connecting green spaces across the city.Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “For the past many years we are taking efforts to make roads pedestrian friendly. It has now been appreciated at the national level and other cities in Maharashtra are following Pune’s road construction plan. We are planning to extend these schemes on various roads in the city and improve it by considering local needs.”“Recently, PMC celebrated pedestrian day which is an innovative concept. Even other cities are trying to celebrate pedestrain day after Pune. As the central government has appreciated our work, it proves that we are going in the right direction. Pune has given direction to the nation in various social and political movement, now iit has taken a lead in urban planning as well,” added Mohol.In a competition that was open to 113 smart cities, 38 cities piloted re-imagination of an important street each by prioritising them for pedestrians. The Streets for People Challenge required cities redesign their streets as public spaces through low-cost innovative measures making them safe for citizens, more particularly senior citizens and children.Of the 38 cities who submitted their proposal 11 cities – Aurangabad, Bengaluru, Gurugram, Kochi, Kohima, Nagpur, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Pune, Udaipur, Ujjain and Vijayawada were selected as pioneers for showcasing creative on ground transformation and extensive collaboration with citizens.The 11 cities that have won the Statge I of the Streets for People Challenge will receive cash award of ₹50 lakhs. In Stage 2, these cities will use their learnings and continue to work towards a vision for “Healthy Streets”—integrating walking, cycling, and public transport to make streets safe and convenient for all, said officials.Meanwhile, the centre has announced Season Two of the Streets for People Challenge. Any smart city, capital city or a city with a population above 5 lakhs, other than the 11 already selected, can take part in the competition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-pimpri-chinchwad-among-11-winners-of-govt-s-streets-for-people-challenge-101642611982683.html
19-01-2022||Mumbai||Six forts in Mumbai to be turned into tourist spots, venue for cultural events||Mumbai: Six medieval and British era forts in Mumbai will soon be developed as tourist spots, venues for cultural events and a numismatic museum by the state government.This project will cover the forts in Bandra, Worli, Shivdi, Mahim, Dharavi, and Saint George. “The forts will be developed as sites where cultural and other events can be held. This will generate resources for their conservation, make the project financially self-sustaining, and develop these sites as cultural venues,” said Tejas Garge, director, Museums and Archaeology, government of Maharashtra, adding that a final proposal for the same would be sent to the government soon.The forts will get a sound-and-light show detailing the history of Mumbai, which can be accessed using a mobile app to prevent any noise pollution in the vicinity. An architect has been appointed to draw up a plan for the conservation and protection of these forts and the development of a fort circuit. Garge added that the project was being driven by the departments of tourism and culture after a meeting between Aaditya Thackeray, tourism minister and the guardian minister for the Mumbai suburban district, and cultural affairs minister Amit Deshmukh.Last week, Deshmukh convened a meeting where it was directed that apart from government funding, options like corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds and similar collaborations be explored for works other than those related to conservation. Committees under the district collectors of Mumbai city, and the suburban district will monitor works other than those related to archaeological conservation.The Sewri fort, which was originally constructed by the Portuguese on the island of Sewri, and later strengthened by the British to protect the eastern sea-front, will see spaces being developed in its halls for exhibitions, live events and cultural programmes. Similarly, the Worli fort will see the wall being strengthened, a stage being built for events and the existing jetty will be strengthened for those visiting the site by sea. The Dharavi fort or Kala Killa, which too dates to the colonial era, and marked the northern end of the British dominion of Mumbai, can be integrated with the slum tourism circuits that cover Asia’s largest slum-turned-industrial powerhouse.The Saint George Fort was built by the British, but was dismantled later with the fort of Bombay, after the threat to the British from the Marathas and Napoleon subsided. Today, parts of the gunpowder magazine survive and house the office of the directorate of museums and archaeology. The directorate plans to conserve and strengthen the site and also develop a numismatic museum, which will house its coin collection, noted Garge.The Bandra fort will get an information centre, security, and restoration of some portions of the original fort. At Mahim, which is alternatively believed to be the fort and capital of king Bimba, who ruled over Mumbai in the 13th century, from Mahikavati or present-day Mahim or a structure dating to the Gujarat sultanate era, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will shift the around 600 shanties in and around the site. Garge added that the project would cost around ₹50 crore, including the rehabilitation of the Mahim fort shanties.Bharat Gothoskar, founder of the heritage and experimental tourism initiative ‘Khaki Tours,’ said though some forts in South Mumbai like the Bombay Fort and the Dongri fort had been lost, seven others survived. The Bombay Castle was now an Indian Navy establishment and hence, out of bounds for citizens, and the Dharavi fort has slums on all sides.“However, the five other forts have huge tourism potential,” said Gothoskar, adding that while the Worli fort could be used for water sports, the ones at Bandra and Worli could be developed for entertainment, music and sound and light shows. The Sion fort, which is under the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), can be a rock climbing and young adults’ activity site, while a children’s activity-cum-nature centre can be developed in the Shivdi fort. In addition, the two small watchtowers at Sion and Wadala can be conserved and added to the circuit, with these forts being linked with a bus service.HighlightThe project will cover forts in Bandra, Worli, Shivdi, Mahim, Dharavi, and Saint George.These will be developed as tourism and activity centres.Tourist infrastructure will be developed with lighting, light and sound shows.A numismatic museum at Saint George fort behind CSMT station will house an enviable collection of coins.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/six-forts-in-mumbai-to-be-turned-into-tourist-spots-venue-for-cultural-events-101642611562695.html
19-01-2022||Lucknow||41 convicted of human trafficking in Prayagraj||The sessions court has convicted as many as 41 persons, who were found to be involved in the flesh trade and human trafficking. The accused were arrested from a brothel located in Meerganj area of Prayagraj district.The additional sessions judge (ASJ), who passed the order of conviction, will pronounce the sentence on January 25, 2022.The ASJ convicted these persons on the basis of facts and evidence available against the accused persons.Allegations against the convicts were that taking advantage of poverty and other compulsions of the girl children, they used to entice them away from their native places. Thereafter, they used to sell the girls in the red light area of Meerganj, where they were ultimately forced to join the flesh trade.Earlier in 2016, some social organisations and activists had filed public interest litigation (PIL) before the high court, which directed the authorities concerned to take appropriate steps to stop the illegal flesh trade and human trafficking going on in the heart of the city.Acting on the direction of the high court, the police launched a massive ‘operation freedom’ on Labour Day on May 1, 2016, to cleanse the Meerganj area. As a result, several girls, many of whom were minors, were rescued from the brothel.During the operation, as many as 48 persons were arrested, and a criminal case was registered against them. After the conclusion of the trial, the court, in its decision dated January 18, convicted as many as 41 accused persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/41-convicted-of-human-trafficking-in-prayagraj-101642611442715.html
19-01-2022||Lucknow||UP assembly polls: Samajwadi Chatra Sabha discusses modalities for door-to-door campaign||The national committee of Samajwadi Chatra Sabha met on Wednesday to apprise its office bearers of the COVID protocols to be followed during campaigning in the upcoming UP assembly polls, said Neha Yadav, national president of the chatra sabha.“The office-bearers of the committee were made aware of the COVID protocols to be followed during campaigning. Thereafter, the members were trained for the groundwork during the upcoming assembly elections. The main focus was on strengthening every booth by the committee,” Neha said.She appealed to all the office bearers to inform the voters about the schemes and manifesto of the Samajwadi Party through a door-to-door campaign and make an appeal to vote for the party.Office bearers were asked to spread the message of various welfare schemes rolled out by former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav during his regime from 2012-2017.“Also, everyone was made aware of BJP’s false propaganda style to befool common people,” she added.Among the attendees were Mohd Fahad, national president, Samajwadi Yuvjan Sabha, Vikas Yadav, ex-national president, Samajwadi Yuvjan Sabha, Sarvesh Yadav, national vice-president and others, said Arpit Sachan, national spokesperson of the student wing of the Samajwadi Party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-assembly-polls-samajwadi-chatra-sabha-discusses-modalities-for-door-to-door-campaign-101642610902838.html
19-01-2022||Lucknow||Poll campaign in Uttar Pradesh set for tech-tonic shift||The major political parties in Uttar Pradesh are bracing themselves up for the real challenge of a virtual campaign in the seven-phase state assembly elections.Among them, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) seems all primed for the information technology. The party leaders have been all smiles since the election commission announced that the poll campaign would be either door-to-door or virtual. To be sure, other parties are also trying to get their act together for a digital connect with the voters while being keenly aware of the need for virtual campaigns, probably separate ones for urban and remote rural areas as reaching out to people in villages may be far more difficult than doing so in the urban areas.This need arises as the election commission (EC) has urged all political parties and candidates to use digital/virtual media platforms, banning any physical rallies at least up to January 15, 2022 for now in view of Covid-19 concerns.As for the BJP, its smiles aren’t without reason. It was in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections that the party had first unveiled its then PM face Narendra Modi’s virtual avatar by holding 3D rallies. Those were political events in which Modi would appear simultaneously at different places to address rallies. “I think as of now, this 3D version is ruled out because till January 15, all political events that violate social distancing are banned by the election commission. So as of now, our campaigns would largely be amplified through WhatsApp groups, social media pages,” a party leader said. The BJP’s 24-member election panel for UP that includes chief minister Yogi Adityanath is mulling over ways to expand its reach to the people in villages and a door-to-door campaign will be rolled out from Tuesday. But party leaders also admit that since the first wave of Covid itself, the party had begun providing muscle to its plan for virtual rallies and campaign. “Virtual rallies are being talked about now, but few remember that during the Covid-19 second wave itself, three of our party leaders, including party chief JP Nadda, Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Smriti Irani, had addressed virtual rallies,” said UP BJP’s social media head Ankit Singh Chandel. “We have about 10,000 social media functionaries itself. The number of cadres with the social media and IT cells, which previously worked as one, but now are separate entities this time. During the Covid peak, as part of our ‘seva hi sangthan campaign’ we had used digital connectivity to connect with the cadre,” Chandel said, adding that the technology that the party has in place would be used to adhere to EC’s directives too during UP polls. The party has already held around 18 training sessions for its social media teams so far. So, what would a typical virtual rally be like? Picture this. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, whose proposed January 9 rally in Lucknow couldn’t take place due to a fresh rise in Covid cases, begins addressing a virtual rally from Delhi. At the same time, the party’s 150 odd Facebook pages and its Twitter handle start beaming the PM’s virtual outreach, which is further amplified through an estimated about 2 lakh plus WhatsApp groups that are reportedly active. “I am a member of a WhatsApp group and surely, as soon as the BJP social media teams provide me the link to the PM’s virtual rally, I would share it with all 256 people who are on my list. They will pass it on to others. So, in fact all those who have a smartphone, and these days most have one, would have instant access to the rally live. This is besides the live beaming of rallies on Doordarshan or several news channels,” a BJP member, who is part of these WhatsApp groups, explained. Such BJP karyakartas (workers) spread across the state are actively involved in what one of them described as “content monitoring and dissemination.” The BJP has little over 27,000 shakti kendras (booth clusters) in UP and the cadres of all these booths. There are an estimated 1.74 lakh booths where the BJP has presence. Each booth has at least 8 to 10 people, mostly youths. Plus, the party has created a team of about two lakh health workers, mostly in the rural areas.“These people, mostly connected with us or drawn to our party because of leadership and policies, have been trained to remain connected with the people through their respective booths or shakti kendras. All of them have a smartphone. So even in case someone has missed catching a top leader live, we can always play it back for him or send important clips to him,” said a BJP booth level cadre based out of Gonda in eastern UP.“All ministers, party functionaries and others who have an impressive list of followers, too, would host the rallies on their social media handles,” a party leader said.“During door-to-door campaigns too, the party would connect with the masses, sharing codes and links ahead of an important rally,” another party leader said. “It is not just about rallies alone. Rallies are just one way. For target messaging and to counter negative publicity, exposing the opposition through previous videos or clips or statements, too, are there,” another leader said.In October, union home minister Amit Shah had launched the party’s membership campaign through which the party sought to add 1.5 crore new members in addition to its existing 2.5 crore cadres. “Now, these four crore (40 million) people who are our party members all have a smartphone. Naturally, being connected to us, they will all have access to at least one basic WhatsApp party group about party programmes, rallies or campaigns. That would mean at least four crore BJP karyakartas automatically become our social media campaigners. So, our virtual programmes would definitely have more reach than ever before. Since no other party has as many active volunteers and karyakartas, we have an edge,” a BJP leader said. The Opposition, too, says it is ready. Samajwadi Party’s social media national coordinator Manish Jagan Agarwal said, “We are ready. The BJP has its information technology cell that is known to be having large number of computers, teams of workers and social trollers. The Samajwadi Party, however, has a dedicated team of workers to run the SP’s campaigns and counter the BJP’s propaganda on their personal social media accounts. Our job will be to counter their campaign based on lies.”A few hours before the ECI announced a ban on physical rallies, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was having a virtual connect with the people on Facebook Live on Saturday (January 8).“Following directives from Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, the party has been fighting for the cause of common man on various issues. About 18,000 Congress workers were sent to jail while fighting for the cause of people and partymen worked to distribute relief. The Congress has connected with 30 million people through 1,50,000 WhatsApp groups. An additional number of 40,000 to 50,000 people have been added as Congress members in every constituency through digital campaigns. The Congress organised more than 1800 training camps to train over 0.2 million workers for campaigning on social media. These workers have been trained to work at booth levels. We are going to deploy 4000 LED vans and this will mean 10 LED vans in every assembly constituency,” said Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee’s digital media incharge Anshu Awasthi.According to a report of TRAI (Telecom Regulatory Authority of India) published in 2020, Uttar Pradesh has a tele-density of only 67.8%. This includes tele-density of 48.12% in the rural areas and 131.70% in the urban areas. A considerable number of vendors are already offering LED walls on rent for the polls. It is probably keeping in view this aspect that the EC has decided to increase the election expenditure limit from ₹28 lakh to ₹40 lakh in the state.As smaller groups of workers may be allowed for door-to-door campaigns, face mask printed with logo or election symbol of the political parties along with a kit carrying sanitisers may be among various options for no-contact campaigns. Vendors are already marketing such products online, emphasising how distribution of these items among workers can be effective for promotion of political parties during the pandemic. Besides asking the political parties to get ready for virtual campaigns, ECI has asked the official machinery, political parties and voters for Covid appropriate behaviour.“It is expected that all stakeholders namely political parties, candidates, campaigners, voters and authorities engaged in the election process shall be conscious of their prime duty towards public health, safety and therefore shall abide by general instructions and norms of Covid appropriate behaviour as mandated by the respective authorities prescribed,” said EC, adding, “In view of Covid concerns polling time has been increased by one hour…”“The commission has decided to double free equitable time allotted to recognized political parties on Doordarshan and AIR during these elections.”“Yes, political parties face a major challenge of reaching out to voters at this point of time. This is not the time for holding elections. If there is a peak, as predicted by medical expert next month, the voters will not turn up,” said Professor SK Dwivedi, former head of the department of political science, Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/poll-campaign-in-uttar-pradesh-set-for-tech-tonic-shift-101642610362833.html
19-01-2022||Lucknow||UP can expect relief from biting cold in 72 hrs; rain likely||LUCKNOW The cold wave and heavy fog in Uttar Pradesh will make way for rainfall around the weekend, as per the forecast issued by the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) on Wednesday.“Cold wave conditions, caused by a mix of western disturbances and a fall in atmospheric pressure across Uttar Pradesh, are expected to subside in the next 72 hours. The situation will result in conditions conducive for rains,” reads the forecast.Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh experienced the fourth consecutive day of chilly weather as the maximum and minimum temperatures stayed around 12 and 7 degrees Celsius, respectively, on Wednesday.In the state capital, day temperature was recorded at 14.6 degrees, which was 7 degrees below normal while the minimum was recorded at 8.1 degrees, one degree above normal.Lucknow is expected to have similar weather conditions on Thursday with expected maximum and minimum temperatures of 16 and 9 degrees respectively. The state Meteorological Department has issued alert of dense fog during morning hours in Lucknow and nearby districts.“Dense fog is likely over Saharanpur, Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, Bijnor, Moradabad, Rampur, Amroha, Meerut, Baghpat, Hapur, Ghaziabad, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Bulandshahr, Aligarh, Hathras, Mathura, Agra, Firozabad, Sambhal, Badaun, Bareilly, Pilibhit, Shahjahanpur, Lucknow, Rae Bareli , Farrukhabad, Barabanki, Ayodhya, Ambedkarnagar, Sultanpur, Gonda, Basti, Sant Kabirnagar, Gorakhpur, Deoria, Azamgarh, Mau, Ballia, Jaunpur, Ghazipur, Etah, Kasganj, Amethi and adjoining areas,” according to the IMD prediction for Thursday.Considering the forecast, the state MeT department has alerted district authorities about the adverse weather conditions, suggesting them to make appropriate arrangements to fight the cold.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-can-expect-relief-from-biting-cold-in-72-hrs-rain-likely-101642610302514.html
19-01-2022||Pune||Woman refuses to break 22-hr journey after giving birth on train at Loni station||PUNE A 25-year-old woman gave birth to a baby in a train coach on the morning of Tuesday, January 18, at Loni railway station. The incident happened on the CST Mumbai – Chennai (train no. 22157) special express train, which stopped at the Loni railway station in Pune division at around 2am on Tuesday. After the birth of the baby, the woman along with her family members continued on the 22-hout journey to Chennai, refusing to disembark and go to hospital.“A medical team was kept ready at Loni railway station to take the woman to a nearby hospital, but before they would reach the station the normal delivery of a baby girl happened inside the train,” said Manoj Jhawar, Pune railway division spokesperson. The pregnant woman was traveling along with her husband and sister from Mumbai to Perambur railway station in Chennai. They were traveling in sleeper coach of S8 coach no. when the incident happened. “As the woman started having pain in the stomach she immediately informed her husband and they rushed to the train staff for help,” said Jhawar.On board ticket checker Shailesh Kumar informed to the control room and a team of doctors and medical staff along with an ambulance was rushed to Loni station before the train’s arrival. “Doctors checked both the woman and baby and provided them necessary medications in the train itself. The woman and her family insisted on traveling further in the same train and gave a written undertaking to the Railways, who had no choice but to let them do so,” added Jhawar. Dr Avinash Bhondwe said, “There are many such incidents of deliveries happened in running trains, cars or buses in the past. And if the delivery was normal and woman’s consent was given to travel further after a medical checkup no one can stop them. At the same time we should consider the current weather conditions, and more importantly health of the baby. It would have been better if baby and woman didn’t travel further.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/woman-refuses-to-break-22-hr-journey-after-giving-birth-on-train-at-loni-station-101642610182567.html
19-01-2022||Other||No concrete steps taken to resolve sacrilege issue: Justice (retd) Ranjit||Chandigarh With the sacrilege incidents of 2015 and the subsequent events playing an important role in the state’s political history, a book ‘The Sacrilege’, written by Justice (retd) Ranjit Singh, was launched on Wednesday. Justice (retd) Ranjit headed the one-man commission formed to submit a report on the series of sacrilege incidents of holy manuscripts, including the Guru Granth Sahib, of 2015. In the 400-page book with 14 chapters, he has presented the events in a chronological narration. On assuming charge as Punjab chief minister (CM) in 2017, Captain Amarinder Singh had constituted the commission. Justice (retd) Ranjit also documents the events before and after the sacrilege incidents, terming it as a failure of the government machinery. Justice (retd) SS Sodhi launched the book with retired justices Nawab Singh and Mahesh Grover also in attendance. In his report on sacrilege submitted to the Punjab government in 2018, he had pinned the blame on former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal and ex-DGP Sumedh Singh Saini for their mishandling of the issue. The Badals, however, consistently rejected the findings as ‘politically motivated’ and refused to take part in the proceedings, under protest. Referring to police firing on protesters, who were seeking action in sacrilege cases in Kotkapura, Justice (retd) Ranjit, on Wednesday, again blamed the then CM and the then DGP. On the timing of the release, just ahead of the state polls he said, “It’s a coincidence.” On the role of the Punjab and Haryana high court into the matter, he said, “Its interference was more than extraordinary.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-concrete-steps-taken-to-resolve-sacrilege-issue-justice-retd-ranjit-101642610062507.html
19-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi records 18% spike with 13,785 new Covid-19 cases, 35 deaths||Delhi on Wednesday reported 13,785 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), marking an increase of about 18 per cent from Tuesday's daily case tally.This also marks the first rise in the daily Covid-19 caseload of the national capital since last Thursday, after which the numbers fell for five consecutive days.With this, the cumulative coronavirus infection tally in Delhi now stood at 17,47,966. Daily fatalities, however, witnessed a fall, as 35 people succumbed to the viral illness, down from 38 on Tuesday, pushing the overall death toll to 25,460, according to the bulletin.In the last 24 hours, as many as 57,776 Covid-19 tests were conducted in Delhi, a marked increase from the 52,002 samples that were tested a day ago and 44,762 on Monday.The national capital's case positivity rate now reached 23.86 per cent, an increase from Tuesday's 22.47 per cent, yet well below the 30-percentile mark, where it was hovering last week.With this, the total number of tests conducted in Delhi since the beginning of the pandemic rose to 3,42,14,603.From January 14 to 18, the national capital logged 24,383; 20,718; 18,286; 12,527 and 11,684 fresh infections, respectively. Meanwhile, the daily toll on each of these dates was recorded at 34, 30, 28, 24, 28, and 35, respectively.Wednesday's numbers on the Delhi state health bulletin further showed that 16,580 patients were discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 16,47,224. The capital's active case count stood at 75,282, a fall from 78,112 on Monday.The number of patients admitted to hospitals due to the viral disease climbed to 2,734 on Wednesday. Barring the 2,624 patients who have confirmed Covid-19 infections and are currently hospitalised in Delhi, as many as 110 are suspected cases of the virus.On the vaccination front, health officials inoculated 1,25,611 beneficiaries in the last 24 hours, among whom 70,314 received their first dose, while 39,784 received their second.Delhi is currently under a night curfew between 11pm and 5am along with a weekend curfew. Schools, colleges, gyms, cinemas, and restaurants are also shut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-18-spike-with-13-785-new-covid-19-cases-35-deaths-101642607746400.html
19-01-2022||Pune||Baner abduction case: CCTVs in area fail to deliver footage to cops; most not functional||PUNE For nine days, a team of Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad police were desperately trying to trace the whereabouts of a 4-year-old boy allegedly abducted by an unidentified two-wheeler-borne man. One of the clues probe officials were looking at was to gather footage through the network of over 400 CCTV cameras installed by the civic body under Smart City mission across the city. However, most CCTV of the cameras are non-operational. According to police officials, they could gather footage from only one CCTV near Baner, where the alleged kidnapper is seen riding the two-wheeler with the child. The alleged kidnapper is then caught on another camera when he dropped the child off at Punavle.“In some CCTV cameras, there was no footage available as they were non-functional, while at some locations cameras were not installed,” said a senior officer from the Pune police. According to the officer, many private establishments had CCTV cameras working. “When it came to shops cameras were pointed towards their entrance not towards the streets,” the officer quoted above said. Local residents said Smart City has failed to deliver on its promise to keep the city safe. The local police probing the kidnapping case also tried to scan through CCTVs installed by private establishments including housing societies. They had limited success as only a few CCTVs – one near his residence and another at Chikhali - captured the image of the kidnapper. “The installation is still ongoing and has not been handed over to Smart City. It may not be true to say that all CCTV cameras don’t work, as we were informed almost 70% of them are working. The last survey after installation was seven months ago,” said Anirudha Shahapure, chief knowledge officer, PSCDCL. According to Shahapure, Smart City had awarded the tenders of 400 CCTV cameras to be installed in Aundh, Baner and Balewadi to a private firm at the end of 2019. “However immediately after that Covid-19 hit us and we were in lockdown, even though infrastructure was put in place. We are investigating with the firm as to why not all CCTVs are operational.” A major project of offering extra protection under Smart City was worked upon between PSCDCL, PMC and the Pune Police, where each location in the Aund, Baner Balewadi area was surveyed. It seems CCTV cameras placed in the area don’t really work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/baner-abduction-case-cctvs-in-area-fail-to-deliver-footage-to-cops-most-not-functional-101642610002412.html
19-01-2022||Ranchi||J’khand Cabinet clears petrol subsidy scheme||RANCHI The Jharkhand cabinet on Wednesday approved the petrol subsidy scheme aimed at providing ₹250 every month through direct benefit transfer (DBT) to each of the eligible ration card holders in the state who own an on-road two-wheeler. In order to roll out the scheme on Republic Day from Dumka, chief minister Hemant Soren also launched CMSUPPORTS App for registration and verification of all beneficiaries under the scheme. “All beneficiaries registered under the national food security Act and the state food security Act who have an on-road two wheeler would be eligible for ₹250 as petrol subsidy every month. The money would be transferred through DBT in their bank account. The scheme is estimated to cost the state government ₹901.86 crore annually. A provision of ₹100.49 crore has been made for the remaining months of the current financial year 2021-22,” said cabinet secretary Vandana Dadel. Though the exact number of beneficiaries are yet to be ascertained, there are around 59 lakh beneficiaries under the NFSA in the state. The petrol subsidy scheme would be rolled by chief minister from Dumka on January 26. To avail the scheme, beneficiaries ought to be a ration card holder of the state and their card needs to be linked with Aadhar. “The bank account of the applicant should be linked with Aadhar and updated mobile number. The two-wheeler should be registered in name of the applicant. The vehicle needs to be registered in Jharkhand and the applicant should have a driving licence,” an official said. The applicant would have to feed in his/her ration card and Aadhar details on the app, which would further function on an OTP-based system for further verifications. “While the office of district supply officer would verify ration card details, the district transport department would very the vehicle registration authenticity. Once approved, the applicant would be eligible for the monthly subsidy,” an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jkhand-cabinet-clears-petrol-subsidy-scheme-101642609765037.html
19-01-2022||Lucknow||Prayaraj’s elusive serial fake bomb planter gets active again||The elusive serial fake bomb planter, who has placed several fake IEDs (improvised explosive device) in trans-Yamuna area of Prayagraj from time to time in the past six years, has become active once again, police said.The accused had placed fake IEDs at different places in trans-Yamuna and once even at Minto Park in the city area between 2016 and 2017. The man apparently went dormant for around four years and become active again when he placed fake bombs in Naini, Meja and Manda area during the last one week, SP trans-Yamuna Saurabh Dixit said.Dixit said the person leaves a letter in poor English with each fake bomb.While most of the fake bombs were placed at railway stations, railway under bridges or foot over bridge in Meja and Karchhana in one such incident the device was found near a temple in Khiri area. Police had rounded up some suspects for questioning but none of them were found involved. Police took a sigh of relief after such incidents stopped all of a sudden following which the search was called off.But the man became active once again in the last one week during which he placed fake bombs under railway underpass resulting in delay of trains on the concerned routes. The person makes fake bombs using bottles, plastic boxes, wires, red tapes, clocks and has even used wooden sticks and even a corn. Police said in the letter the man issues threats to railway officials and demands hefty cash. However, in two letters found in Naini and Minto Park, he had also issued threats to authorities of ALSTOM company in Naini area and demanded large amounts from them.Based on the letters, police suspect that the person may be related to railways and ALSTOM company in some or the other way and has some old grudge with the authorities there. Dixit said a list of suspects has been prepared and they were being questioned. Ruling out possibility of the culprit’s alignment with any organisation or any particular ideology, Dixit said the man might be suffering from some kind of mental disorder. “Police teams are working continuously to identify the man and are taking help of surveillance and available CCTV footages. Once caught, strict action will be ensured against him,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prayarajs-elusive-serial-fake-bomb-planter-gets-active-again-101642609763637.html
19-01-2022||Ranchi||15 pressure cooker bombs recovered in J’khand forest||Security forces Wednesday recovered 15 pressure cooker bombs allegedly planted by outlawed CPI (Maoists) from Karemango Pahar area in Saraikela-Kharsawan district, police said. “Based on intelligence inputs, a joint team of the district police and members of 57 CRPF battalion conducted a search operation in the area and found 15 pressure cooker bombs planted on a forested track around 1.5 km west of Karemango Pahar area,” said an official. Police said all bombs were defused by the bomb disposal squad at the location itself. On January 5 this year, two policemen guarding a former BJP legislator were killed by Maoists and another injured in neighbouring West Singhbhum district. The former legislator, though, escaped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/15-pressure-cooker-bombs-recovered-in-j-khand-forest-101642609762367.html
19-01-2022||Patna||1 dead, 4 missing after tractor on boat topples into Gandak river||BETTIAH A woman died and four others were missing after tractor trolley, carrying 14 people, toppled off a boat and fell into the Gandak river in Bihar’s West Champaran district on Wednesday, officials said.Confirming one death, West Champaran superintendent of police (SP) Upendra Nath Verma said the incident occurred at Bhagawanpur. “Four people are still missing. Search and rescue operation is underway,” he said. Police identified the deceased as Rajni Devi, a resident of Yadavpur in Gopalganj district. Those missing have been identified as Inderjeet Prasad, Uma Devi, residents of Gopalganj, and Punita Kumari and Saroj Kumari, residents of Bhagwanpur, West Champaran. Gopalganj and West Champaran districts are situated on either side of the Gandak river.Ram Dular Yadav, an eyewitness, said the incident occurred after the driver of the tractor trolley, while speaking to somebody over his cellphone, inadvertently revved up the engine. “As a result, the tractor trolley toppled off the boat and fell into Gandak river,” said Yadav, a resident of Bhagwanpur, adding the incident occurred as he was about to load his motorcycle in the boat, which was yet to set sail. Soon after the incident, local fishermen and divers managed to rescue two persons. Later, officials from Bettiah rushed to the site of accident. West Champaran district magistrate Kundan Kumar said, “The two recused persons have been taken to a nearby hospital for treatment,” he said. A team of state disaster relief force (SDRF) has been pressed for search and rescue operation, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/1-dead-4-missing-after-tractor-on-boat-topples-into-gandak-river-101642609705434.html
19-01-2022||Patna||SC rejects Rajgir landowners’ claims for revised compensation||PATNA The Supreme Court has dismissed the appeals filed by land owners against the Patna High Court order of April 22, 2019, related to their claim of higher compensation for the land acquired in Rajgir for construction of the ordinance factory.“The Bihar Land Acquisition Rehabilitation and Resettlement Authority/ Tribunal, Patna, headed by a district judge, had passed an award in 2018 for payment of more than four times the value of land with interest for around more than one thousand acres of land and started recovery proceedings against the state government and central government, under which more than ₹3000 crore was required to be paid,” said SD Sanjay, who was then additional solicitor general (ASG) of India .Sanjay then advised the defence ministry to file an appeal before the division bench of the Patna High Court even though there was more than three years of delay. “I was convinced that since the acquisition was completed before the new land acquisition Act came into force, the award by the tribunal suffered from error of law,” he said.The division bench of the Patna High Court, presided by the then Chief Justice AP Sahi and Justice Anjana Mishra, vide its judgment on April 22, 2019, allowed the appeal and set aside the award.“Thereafter the land owners preferred appeal before the Supreme Court, which was heard by a bench presided over by Justice AN Khanwilkar and Justice CT Ravi Kumar, which after considering the judgment of Patna High Court, dismissed the appeal on merits,” Sanjay said.
19-01-2022||Patna||Latest hooch tragedy brings infamy for a place with rich Buddhist history||The latest hooch tragedy in Bihar’s Nalanda district, which has claimed 13 lives so far, has also brought infamy for a place that has a rich history associated with Lord Buddha — Hiranya Parvat in Biharsharif town — which now has at least 2,000 illegally constructed houses and is considered to be a den of manufacturing spurious liquor, according to local officials.Hiranya Parvat, situated close to the Buddhist site of Odantpuri, has been known for to its scenic beauty. But all that his history. The place has now been divided by illegal settlers into Badi Pahadi, Chhoti Pahadi, Sringar Haat Pahar etc., which together have over 2,000 houses constructed illegally. The Chhoti Pahadi is a den of liquor manufacturing and smuggling, said a police officer. In the ensuing crackdown after hooch deaths, the district administration has identified more than 150 houses constructed illegally at Hiranya Parvat and eviction notices have been pasted on 64 houses. Nalanda district magistrate Shashank Shubhankar said action against encroachment of government property had been initiated against those who resisted demolishing the illegally constructed structures within 15 days. “The district administration has engaged seven revenue officers under the supervision of local circle officer (CO) Dharmendra Pandit to examine their papers for further action. Residents have been asked to submit their house/land papers before the CO within 15 days,” Subhankar told HT. The DM said the police have registered six separate FIRs (first information report) against and arrested seven persons, including one Karoo Paswan, a wanted liquor supplier. 
19-01-2022||Pune||4-year old abducted from Baner 9 days ago, ‘dropped off’ at PCMC||A four-year-old boy, abducted from Baner on January 11 by an unidentified two-wheeler rider, was found in Pimpri-Chinchwad on Wednesday. The child was found unhurt, albeit covered in dirt, officials said. Svarnav Chavan, son of a doctor couple, Satish and Prachi Chavan, was with his 12-year-old close relative, around 9:45am on January 11 when he was believed to have been kidnapped. The older child was walking the younger one to a daycare from their house in Ram Indu Park, Baner, when it happened. The parents had left for work at their private practice. “We have found the child. And now the investigation is on to look for the kidnapper. We will continue this investigation till this man is found. Until then, we cannot reveal any more details,” said Amitabh Gupta, commissioner of police, Pune. Senior police officers including Ravindra Shisve, joint commissioner of police, Pune, visited the child at his house in Baner on Wednesday evening. After the boy went missing, social media platforms were flooded with posts praying for his safe return. He was later taken to paediatric doctor for a medical check-up. The return of the boy was as dramatic as his abduction. “The kidnapper gave the child to a group of labourers in Punavale under the water tank near Lotus Business School. He told them that he will return in 10 minutes, but did not. The child started crying and the labourers checked his bag. They found his father’s number in the bag and called him,” said Rohidas Pawar, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 4 of Pune police. The police are now on the lookout for the two-wheeler rider who dropped the child near the water tank. The same person is believed to be the kidnapper. A police team has been posted at the house of the child to keep a watch on him. “I thank the police department, commissioner, joint commissioner, additional commissioner, and deputy commissioner of crime and other for co-operating with us. I thank everyone who helped and prayed directly and indirectly. The police worked tirelessly even though a number of them had tested Covid-19 positive. There have been days when police officials have taken saline, recovered and immediately come back to work,” said the child’s uncle, who asked to remain anonymous. The parents and relatives of the child spread the information with regular updates on various social media platforms looking for their child. “The man (kidnapper) was standing outside our building when we came out of the building. He had opened the storage of the two-wheeler (suspected to be a dark-coloured Honda Activa) and was looking inside. We walked to the end of the lane near the garden (PMC’s Sopandada Saykar garden) where I saw them waiting again. He asked me to check if there was a puncture in the back tyre. As I bent slightly to look at the rear tyre, he grabbed Svarnav and started moving. I tried to catch on to him but they dragged me with the vehicle for some distance. I ran behind them but they were gone,” the 12-year-old relative, who was accompanying Svarnav said while narrating the incident to the police. The man was believed to be on a charcoal, black, or blue coloured Activa on which they passed from the gate of the Paathshala daycare and then from the gate of Baner-Balewadi police outpost office, before fleeing. Their movements were caught on CCTV cameras. The police have formed multiple teams of hundreds of police officials. “This happened at a long distance away from the school. He was a quiet child who had become comfortable with the children in the daycare. Either his parents would drop him in a car or the other child would walk him to the daycare. Our caretaker had opened the gate for another child to come in when she saw the old child running,” said Aboli Ruikar, owner of the daycare. The police have registered a case under Sections 363 (kidnapping) and 364(a) (kidnapping or abduction for ransom) of the Indian Penal Code at Chaturshringi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/4year-old-abducted-from-baner-9-days-ago-dropped-off-at-pcmc-101642609644178.html
19-01-2022||Other||₹11.5 lakh looted from Amritsar village bank||Amritsar Four unidentified men decamped with ₹11.5 lakh after looting the Nanoke Sudhar village branch of a Cooperative Bank on Wednesday; the area in under Ramdas police station. The incident took place at around 3:30pm when the bank staff was dealing with customers; eyewitnesses say the robbers had arrived at the bank in an Hyundai i-20 car. Before leaving the bank, the robbers snatched the rifle of the bank’s guard, Gurdev Singh. Soon after the incident, station house officer (SHO) Ramdas Major Singh, along with other police officials, reached the spot and started investigation.The guard said that two of the robbers entered the bank, posing as customers. “These two men started filling forms near the cash counter, while the other miscreants entered the bank and hit me on my head. They snatched my rifle and pointed their guns towards the cashier.” The accused also took away the digital video recorder of the CCTVs in the bank. Police have registered a case of robbery at the Ramdas police station against unidentified persons and are scouring the footage of CCTVs in the area adjoining the bank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rs-11-5-lakh-looted-from-amritsar-village-bank-101642609642298.html
19-01-2022||Lucknow||Cold winds, cloud cover makes Prayagraj shiver||Thick cloud cover and cool Westerlies on Wednesday continued to torment people of Prayagraj, who are reeling under intense cold spell, forcing many to stay indoors and posing a major challenge for the devout visiting the annual Magh Mela on the banks of Sangam. To note, on Tuesday Prayagraj with a minimum temperature of 4 degrees Celsius was even colder than Shimla (5.1 degrees Celsius).On Wednesday, though the minimum temperature stood at 8.2 degrees Celsius but it was the low day temperature (13.4 degrees Celsius) that made things worse.Adding to the problem, was dense fog in the morning. The brief sunshine in the afternoon failed to provide any respite. According to weather expert and head of the department of Geography, Allahabad University, Prof AR Siddiqui, “The cold will remain dominant for now and there is a possibility of thunderstorms by the end of the week. The condition would improve on Thursday and Friday followed by rain or overcast condition on Sunday and the day after.” To beat the cold, common man was seen lighting bonfires, even during the day time. Although there was some movement in the markets and localities during noon, but in the evening, the roads and markets witnessed only essential movement as people avoided going out in the open and remained confined to their houses. Situation at the Magh Mela was no different wherein groups of devotees and visitors were seen huddled around bonfires trying to keep themselves warm. “We are observing Kalpwas and following all the religious practice but because of the intense cold conditions, these are testing times as heaters or blowers are not allowed in the tents,” said Kusum Tripathi, a resident of Ballia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cold-winds-cloud-cover-makes-prayagraj-shiver-101642609343795.html
19-01-2022||Lucknow||AKTU’s faculty of architecture and planning to get autonomous status soon||The faculty of architecture and planning of Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University, Lucknow will soon be granted autonomous status and renamed as School of Architecture and Planning.AKTU vice chancellor prof PK Mishra made this announcement during a meeting with all the deans and co-deans of the varsity. Mishra said along with this, the International School of Pharmacy will soon be established by the university. “It was decided in the meeting that a dean (affiliation and enrollment) would be posted in the university so that the affiliation related matters could be completed within a stipulated time period with complete transparency,” he said. Mishra said pending promotion of teachers under Career Advancement Scheme (CAS) would be resolved at the earliest and the number of lectures being broadcast on Swayamprabha channel will also be increased.The university is committed to work exclusively on teaching, research and innovation, Mishra said. “The VC also urged directors of the institutes affiliated to the university to convey their ideas and suggestions to make the varsity work better,” said Asheesh Misra, media incharge, AKTU.Welcoming the move, Vandana Sehgal, principal and dean of faculty of architecture and planning, said: “It will be a great step in the direction of National Education Policy (NEP) where many compatible streams can co-exist and touch new heights.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/aktus-faculty-of-architecture-and-planning-to-get-autonomous-status-soon-101642608982635.html
19-01-2022||Mumbai||Elderly couple killed as auto crushed by reversing truck in Ambernath||In a major accident in Ambernath (E), two senior citizens died after an auto rickshaw in which they were commuting was crushed under a truck carrying bags filled with sulphur powder on Wednesday afternoon.The truck broke down and was trying to reverse when it crushed the auto. The gas tank of the auto rickshaw exploded, while the truck caught fire due to the presence of sulphur. The accident, which occurred at around 3.30pm, also led to traffic jams in the area. The deceased, Vasudev Bhoir, 68 and his wife Gulabbai, 60, resided in Barku Pada, Ambernath, and were commuting in the auto. The driver managed to jump out of the auto and escaped with minor injuries. A nearby car also caught fire in the accident but its passengers were unhurt. The Bhoir couple was travelling from Ambernath to Dombivli for some work. According to Ambernath police officials, the incident occurred on Karjat Katai Road, near Pritam Hotel, on Waldhuni Bridge. The truck, which was going to Netivali with the chemical powder, was stuck on the steep slope of the road towards Katai lane.Ambernath senior police inspector, Madhukar Bhoge, said, “The truck, which was carrying sulphur bags, was climbing the slope of the road when some bags fell from it. The driver was trying to reverse and lost control of the vehicle. The truck crushed the rickshaw behind. The impact led to the explosion of the CNG tank in the rickshaw while a car passing by also caught fire. The senior citizens were charred to death. Fire brigade immediately reached the spot and controlled the fire in half-an-hour.” One side lane towards Katai was completely closed for an hour and commuters faced traffic congestion for some time. Later, the lane was cleared. Police are yet to file any case in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/elderly-couple-killed-as-auto-crushed-by-reversing-truck-in-ambernath-101642608263684.html
19-01-2022||Lucknow||UP sees more Covid recoveries than fresh cases||LUCKNOW After a dip in the fresh case count for two days, Uttar Pradesh again witnessed a surge with 17,776 fresh Covid cases on Wednesday. Seven deaths were also reported, including one each in Lucknow, Pratapgarh, Farrukhabad, Etawah, Baghpat, Meerut and Agra.There were 17,185 fresh Covid cases on Sunday, 15,622 on Monday and 14,803 new cases on Tuesday. The downward trend in the state was broken on Wednesday, according to the data from state health department. With 20,532 patients recovering from the infection, active cases in the state came below the 1-lakh mark. Now, there were 98,238 active cases under treatment. “The positivity rate in the past 24 hours was 7.7%. Infection rate is high hence we all should avoid gatherings outside homes and even avoid functions at home that need gathering,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health, in a press conference on Wednesday. Lucknow reported maximum 3,517 fresh Covid cases, Gautam Buddha Nagar 1,403, Ghaziabad 2003, Varanasi 570, Agra 361, Prayagraj 502 and Meerut 958 cases, according to the state health department. The recovery rate in state was 93.6%. BOX UP’s milestone: 9 cr 2nd doses of Covid vaxLUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh crossed the 9-crore mark in administering the second dose of Covid vaccine. “UP is the first state in the country to have administered over 9 crore second doses of the Covid vaccine,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health, in a press conference. Till 9pm, the state had administered 23,96,77,531 doses including 14,77,92,542 first doses and 9,13,00,520 second doses. “We shall soon cross the 24-crore mark in total doses and that will be the first in the country among all the states,” said Prasad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-sees-more-covid-recoveries-than-fresh-cases-101642608022214.html
19-01-2022||Mumbai||BMC to set up vaccination camps in schools and jr colleges to inoculate max adolescents||Mumbai: The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday said that in order to inoculate maximum number of adolescents between the age group of 15-18 years, vaccination camps will be set up in private and public schools along with some junior colleges in the city. Inoculation of 15–18-year-old adolescents started from January 3, 2022 and till January 18, a total of 1,90,237 adolescents have been vaccinated. On Tuesday, the BMC said that as many as 9.18 lakh adolescents in this age bracket living in Mumbai are eligible to take the doses.“So far, we have been able to vaccinate 20% of the target population and to expedite the process, vaccination camps will be held within the premises of every school in the city. This will be compulsory for private institutions also so they can get their students registered and vaccinated at the earliest,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner and in-charge of public health in the BMC.Kakani said that junior colleges that have a significant proportion of students between 15-18 years will also have to arrange their own camps.On Tuesday, a Covid-19 review meeting was held at the BMC that was also attended by state minister of environment, Aaditya Thackeray. The key agenda of the meeting was ramping up the drive for adolescents in Mumbai.Kakani said that so far, 125 plus private schools have been finalised and camps in these schools will begin soon. “We are starting this in a phased manner. Some of the schools in Mumbai have already started to have their own vaccination camps through private hospitals. Tomorrow (Thursday) we have a meeting with the school authorities following which we will prepare SOPs for this and by the end of this week or early next week camps in these schools will be started,” Kakani said.He also added that in case a school doesn’t have adequate student strength then it can arrange joint vaccination camps with nearby schools and junior colleges in their wards.According to the rules laid out by the government of India, only Covaxin doses are being administered to the adolescent beneficiaries. The BMC has set up dedicated vaccination booths in nine of its jumbo centres where doses are being administered exclusively to the adolescent beneficiaries.Kakani on Tuesday said that to avoid mixing up of doses the beneficiaries will be allotted time slots at vaccination booths.“Besides adolescents, all other eligible students are also coming for their doses in jumbo centres and they are preferring Covishield over Covaxin. So to avoid mixing up doses we will divide our staffers in shifts and allocate time slots to them. For example, 15-18 years will get their doses only in the afternoon while the rest of the eligible beneficiaries will get their doses in the morning,” said Kakani.The BMC on Tuesday also hinted that reopening of schools can happen anytime soon. Kakani said that during the meeting possibilities of reopening schools were discussed as well.“We want to open schools at the earliest which is why we are working towards vaccinating as many adolescents as we can at the earliest. We have conveyed this to the task force during the meeting and they will take up this matter to the state government following which a decision could be taken,” Kakani said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-to-set-up-vaccination-camps-in-schools-and-jr-colleges-to-inoculate-max-adolescents-101642607902318.html
19-01-2022||Mumbai||Court refuses pre-arrest bail to CMD, 2 directors booked in abetment to suicide case||Mumbai Mumbai sessions court on Tuesday rejected anticipatory bail applications filed by Dr Surendra Manjrekar, Chairman and Managing Director of Sunanda Speciality Coatings Pvt. Ltd. and two other directors of the Lower Parel-based company -- Sourabh Manjrekar and Ishita Manjrekar.All three were booked in abetment to suicide case after an engineer died by suicide.The court observed that prima facie, the involvement of accused persons was patent from the available material and needed thorough investigation, which is not possible without custodial interrogation of the accused.Additional Sessions Judge MG Deshpande, however, allowed the anticipatory bail plea of another director Ruchira Manjrekar, wife of Dr Surendra Manjrekar.According to Dadar police, the deceased, Nikhil Joshi, was working with Sunanda Speciality Coatings, which supplies construction chemicals, since 2001. He was a trusted employee of Dr Surendra Manjrekar. However, after 2011, Dr Manjrekar’s son Sourabh and daughter Ishita joined the company and they did not get along with Joshi.Police said that Joshi was insulted in meetings in the presence of juniors, his targets were hiked and he was asked to give reports in writing every day. Besides, Joshi was not allowed to quit the job, nor was he granted leave, police said.Josi ended his life on September 30. His wife later learnt that Joshi had met with Surendra Manjrekar and Sourabh Manjrekar in the pantry before committing suicide.The prosecution argued that Joshi had noted in his diary about the situation and how it was adversely affecting his life.The applicants’ advocated. however, argued that the deceased was unable to cope with work pressure and was blaming the management. “He was undergoing medical treatment, a fact that can’t be overlooked. He could have resigned and joined other services as per his wish. What has happened is due to his own responsibility and the accused are in no way linked to it,” they said, adding that there was a delay in lodging FIR.FIR was lodged in December to extract compensation from the accused, they said.Judge Deshpande observed that after Joshi committed suicide none of the employees nor the applicants helped him or took him to hospital and the act prima-facie speaks volumes. “The pantry meeting cannot be overlooked at this stage and needs further investigation. The diary notings indicated he was mentally harassed and became helpless,” the court noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/court-refuses-pre-arrest-bail-to-cmd-2-directors-booked-in-abetment-to-suicide-case-101642607422841.html
19-01-2022||Lucknow||UP polls: Akhilesh Yadav hints he’s open to contesting assembly seat for first time||Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday hinted he was open to contesting his first-ever election to an assembly seat in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh polls.“If I decide to contest, I will contest (2022 assembly election) with the permission of the people of Azamgarh. I will need permission of the people of Azamgarh who got me elected to the Lok Sabha,” Akhilesh Yadav said to the media at the Samajwadi Party headquarters here.Asked about contesting from a seat in Azamgarh, Akhilesh Yadav said the seat from where he may contest should go to polls before the Gorakhpur seat.“I will request the people of Azamgarh (for permission) and contest the poll from where the party decides. The election to seat (from where I contest) should be held before Gorakhpur so that I contest the poll before Yogi Ji,” said Akhilesh Yadav.Azamgarh will go to polls in seventh phase (March 7) and the Gorakhpur seat in the sixth phase (March 3).Chief minister Yogi Adityanath will contest the election to the state assembly from Gorakhpur (urban), where the Gorakhnath Math is located. Yogi is also the chief priest of the Math. After having won the Gorakhpur Lok Sabha seat five times, Yogi is now an MLC.Akhilesh Yadav is the Samajwadi Party MP from Azamgarh. He had earlier indicated he would not contest the 2022 assembly elections. If Akhilesh Yadav contests the assembly polls, he will be doing so for the first time. As chief minister from 2012 to 2017, Akhilesh Yadav opted to be a member of the state legislative council. Yadav’s move to contest the state assembly elections is bound to make the fight for power in 2022 UP polls more interesting.With Yogi Adityanath himself in the fray, it will be after a gap of nearly 15 years that any serving chief minister will be contesting the election to lower house of state legislature.As chief minister, Mulayam Singh Yadav had won the by-election from the Gunnaur assembly seat in 2004. Mulayam Singh Yadav also won the Gunnaur seat in the 2007 assembly elections but the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) got a majority and formed the government.Uttar Pradesh BJP spokesman Avnish Tyagi said, “By saying that he (Akhilesh Yadav) needs permission of the people of Azamgarh, Akhilesh Yadav is trying to evade contesting the assembly elections. He does not have faith in people and thus making efforts not to contest assembly elections.”FEELERS TO BJP MLA AGARWALReplying to a question, Akhilesh Yadav used the occasion to send feelers to BJP MLA Radha Mohan Das Agarwal to get in touch with the SP as he may be feeling disgruntled after being denied a BJP ticket. “If he (Agarwal) is in touch with you, meet me separately,” Akhilesh Yadav said in a lighter vein while responding to a question from the media. Agarwal is the MLA from Gorakhpur (urban) seat from where chief minister Yogi Adityanath will contest the 2022 UP assembly election.SAMAJWADI PENSION SCHEME TO BE RELAUNCHEDAkhilesh Yadav used the occasion to announce his party’s plan to relaunch the Samajwadi Pension Scheme if voted to power.“We launched Samajwadi Pension Scheme for the poor when in government. We will relaunch the Samajwadi Pension Scheme and give them a sum of ₹18,000 per annum in place of ₹6000 per annum paid earlier. This scheme was providing financial support to 50 lakh families,” Akhilesh Yadav said, while recollecting a number of instances of how the scheme, along with Samajwadi Lohia Awas, benefited the people.Akhilesh Yadav also referred to families of snake charmers living near SGPGI, whose land was taken away and how his government decided to link them to Samajwadi Pension Yojana. He said a village of snake charmers would be set up near Kannauj adjacent to the Agra-Lucknow expressway as announced earlier.“We decided to set up a village of snake charmers and land was identified near the expressway. We will set up this village for snake charmers when in power,” said Yadav.He also announced that the people of all the castes having a large number of poor people would also be linked to the Samajwadi Pension Scheme.Akhilesh Yadav accused the BJP of speaking bundles of lies and said it was during the tenure of his government that the maximum number of bank accounts were opened, along with the maximum number of bank branches.WILL CONVEY GOOD WISHES TO APARNA: SP CHIEFAbout Aparna Yadav’s decision to join the BJP Yadav said he would convey his good wishes to her. He said SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav made efforts to convince her to stay back. “First of all, I will congratulate and extend my good wishes. I am happy it’s expansion of the Samajwadi Party’s ideology. I hope our ideology will help save democratic institutions. Netaji Mulayam Singh Yadav made all efforts to convince her to stay back… I am happy they are giving ticket to the ones who are not able to get a ticket from the Samajwadi Party.”PLIGHT OF COWSAkhilesh Yadav also targeted chief minister Yogi Adityanath and his government for what he called failure to feed the cows.“One of his favourite works was feeding animals. Mother cow is hungry now. They will have to face the curse of mother cow’s hunger,” Akhilesh Yadav. He said the Samajwadi Party manifesto, when released, would have schemes for women. The BJP government had decided to bring down to 50 percent the power bills of tube wells after four-and- a-half years, he observed.“Will they refund half of the double amount charged in past four-and-a-half year?” he asked. On this occasion Bhanu Pratap Singh of the Rashtriya Janhit Sangharsh Party announced unconditional support to the Samajwadi Party led alliance along with many others.
19-01-2022||Kolkata||TMC trade union chief in Haldia arrested for armtwisting industries, suspended||KOLKATA: The Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Wednesday announced a ‘zero tolerance’ policy for high-handed trade unionism and suspended the president of the party’s trade union front in the port and industrial township of Haldia shortly after his arrest on charges of pressurising major industrial units to hire contractors and workers of his choice.The case was filed on the basis of a complaint lodged by Exide Industries Ltd. which manufactures batteries in Haldia, TMC leaders said.The accused Indian National Trinamool Trade Union Congress (INTTUC) Haldia unit president, Tapas Maity, was arrested along with three others. They were also charged with extortion. Bengal law minister Moloy Ghatak and INTTUC state president Ritabrata Banerjee rushed to Haldia and suspended Maity and the party’s special observer for Haldia, Sanjay Banerjee. The post of special observer, which the TMC does not have in other districts, was also summarily abolished. Maity was replaced by Shibnath Sarkar, a veteran trade union leader.“The charges against Sanjay Banerjee were serious in nature. He crossed his brief and interfered in internal matters of local industries,” said a senior state TMC leader who did not want to be named.The action has been taken months before the TMC government hosts the Bengal Global Business Summit scheduled to be held in Kolkata in April. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has invited Prime Minister Narendra Modi and captains of the industry, including founder chairman of the Adani Group, Gautam Adani, to the event.Ghatak and Ritabrata Banerjee have held a three-hour-long meeting with the managements of all 34 big companies operating in Haldia, such as Tata Steel, Indian Oil Corporation, Hindustan Unilever and Haldia Petrochemicals Ltd.“The only work of the trade union is to look after the interests of workers, to see if they are getting their salaries and perks on time. Trade unions cannot interfere in managerial matters,” Ghatak said.“The actions have been taken as part of the zero tolerance policy that has been adopted,” said Ritabrata Banerjee. “The law minister and Banerjee assured us that there will be no interference from now on,” an Exide Industries official in Haldia said on condition of anonymity. Gautam Adani met Mamata Banerjee at Nabanna, the state secretariat, on December 2 and held discussions on investments for around 90 minutes. State officials said Banerjee assured Adani that her administration will provide businesses a trouble-free environment. The discussions also included the sea port project that the government is developing with help from the Centre.Adani tweeted after his meeting that he will attend the summit, which Banerjee projects as the signature of her achievement. “Delighted to meet @MamataOfficial, Hon’ble Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. Discussed different investment scenarios and the tremendous potential of West Bengal. I look forward to attending the Bengal Global Business Summit (BGBS) in April 2022,” Adani tweeted after meeting the chief minister. Reliance Industries chairman Mukesh Ambani has attended the summit in the past and has been invited again.Banerjee invited Prime Minister Modi to inaugurate the Bengal Global Business Summit in Kolkata on April 20 during her visit to Delhi on November 24. In recent years, the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has accused the TMC government of ruining the state’s economy and failing to draw investments despite the chief minister’s foreign trips. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, too, has demanded a white paper from the government on actual investments made after previous business summits.Reacting to the arrest of the INTTUC leaders on Wednesday, Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said, “The action must have been taken because the TMC’s interests were hampered. This has nothing to do with safeguarding industries.” Leader of the opposition in the Bengal assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, said the disciplinary action and arrests were an eyewash. “All this is an eyewash. After coming to power in the assembly polls last year, the TMC started making all efforts to control the industries in Haldia. There is constant tussle among local TMC leaders,” said Adhikari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tmc-trade-union-chief-in-haldia-arrested-for-armtwisting-industries-suspended-101642605561850.html
19-01-2022||Mumbai||10-year-old boy found dead in pit at construction site in Dombivli||The body of a 10-year-old boy was found in a pit of an under-construction site, which was dug up for a building lift, in Dombivli Manpada area.The boy who resided nearby went out to play with his friends on Tuesday afternoon and was missing since. Three hours later, his mother tried to look for him and inquired with his friends. In the evening, his body was found in the pit. While the Manpada police have registered an Accidental Death Report, his family has demanded an inquiry and to register a case of negligence against those responsible.The deceased was identified as Satyam Maurya, 10, a resident of Sagaon, Dombivli (E). His father, Rajkumar Maurya, works as a scrap dealer in Sagaon. On Tuesday afternoon, Maurya’s wife called him and informed that their child was missing and she couldn’t find him.An officer from Dombivli Manpada police station said, “After looking at several places, the family members and their neighbours went to a nearby construction site, where one of them had found a boy in a pit full of water. His body was floating and he was declared dead before admission in a nearby hospital. We questioned every labourer on the site but none had seen the boy playing near the pit. We are also waiting for the post-mortem report to get the cause of the death. Meanwhile, we have filed an accidental death report in the case.”The Manpada police have informed that the construction was illegal and that they have asked the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation to take action against it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/10yearold-boy-found-dead-in-pit-at-construction-site-in-dombivli-101642604721870.html
19-01-2022||Mumbai||Flamingoes are fast disappearing from Navi Mumbai, claim environmental activists||Navi Mumbai environmentalists have complained against the blocking of tidal water to the 35ha Talawe wetlands that they claim is leading to the disappearance of flamingoes from Navi Mumbai.The inter-tidal water is being repeatedly blocked, making the stagnant water at Talawe wetlands unsuitable for these birds, they claimed.The State CM Uddhav Thackeray, upon receiving an email, has asked the Urban Development and Environment departments to look into the greens’ complaints. The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has plans to get the ‘Flamingo City’ tag for the city, which the activists claimed would be difficult as these birds have begun to vanish from the strategic wetlands. “The CM has marked the mail specifically to Environment Principal Secretary, Manisha Mhaiskar, and Urban Development Secretary, Mahesh Pathak,” NatConnect Foundation director, BN Kumar, said. Meanwhile, the Union Environment Ministry has again asked the Maharashtra Wetland Authority as well as its State counterpart to look into the green activists’ complaints of destruction of the two wetlands, Talawe (or NRI) and TS Chanakya, and asked them to file an Action Taken Report.The State Mangrove Cell, too, evinced interest to conserve the two wetlands along with Belpada, Bhendkhal and Panje wetlands of Uran, as per a BNHS plan, to maintain them under the Thane Creek Flamingo Satellite Sanctuary Project. “It is highly disturbing that artificial bunds are blocking the tidal water flow into the NRI and TS Chanakya wetlands in a déjà vu of the sabotage of Uran’s Panje wetland,” Kumar said. “We have not seen any semblance of flamingoes in recent times at these wetlands,” said Dharmesh Barai, who pointed out that mangroves are being chopped and thrown into the wetlands. The greens alleged that instead of preserving these wetlands, CIDCO was planning developmental activities here. Dismissing the allegations of blocking tidal water, CIDCO PRO, Priya Ratambe, said, “CIDCO is committed to preserving the environment. All steps taken by CIDCO are in accordance with the due process of the law.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/flamingoes-are-fast-disappearing-from-navi-mumbai-claim-environmental-activists-101642604301811.html
19-01-2022||Other||Mann visits Punjab native village to warm reception||Sangrur A day after Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convener Arvind Kejriwal declared Sangrur MP and the party’s state unit chief, Bhagwant Mann, as the chief minister face for the assembly elections, Mann reached his native village Satoj to a warm reception. Accompanied by Dirba MLA Harpal Singh Cheema and Sunam MLA Aman Arora, Mann addressed the locals claiming he wanted to stay connected with his roots and decided to meet people of the village who ‘always supported’ him.“Our aunts and mothers have been hoping that the government would give jobs to their sons and daughters, but successive governments have disappointed them. If the AAP is voted to power, we will make such schools and colleges which will make our youths eligible for jobs. Then, our youth will end the poverty of families,” Mann said, adding that AAP must be supported to ensure it can work for people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mann-visits-punjab-native-village-to-warm-reception-101642604243307.html
19-01-2022||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees a spike over 4,000 Covid-19 cases, Mumbai records marginal dip||Maharashtra on Wednesday recorded a rise over 4,000 cases in its fresh Covid tally with 43,697 new infections being registered in the last 24 hours. The state had seen 39,207 cases on Tuesday.As many as 49 patients lost their battle to the virus during the day that took the overall fatalities to 1,41,934. Also, 46,951 people were cured of the viral disease in the last 24 hours pushing the overall recoveries to 69,15,407. The state reported 214 new cases of the fast-spreading Omicron variant of coronavirus, pushing the total tally to 2,074. Of these, 1,091 patients have been discharged following a negative RT-PCR test.Among the new cases, 158 were from Pune city, 31 from Mumbai, 10 from rural Pune, four each from Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), two from Parbhani and one each Nashik, Vasai-Virar, Aurangabad, Jalgaon and other state.In Mumbai, however, there was a slight drop with 6,032 new cases being registered during the day. A day ago, the Maharashtra capital recorded 6,149 infections.The latest figures pushed the active case count to 31,856 and the cumulative tally to 10,17,999. The city also registered 12 related deaths and 18,241 recoveries. This pushed the cumulative fatalities to 16,488 and recoveries to 9,66,985. The number of deceased has gone up marginally for last day's count when seven people had lost their battle to the virus.According to the latest updated bulletin released by the health department of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, the country’s financial capital now has 5,058 patients in hospital of whom 538 were admitted during the day.The current doubling rate of coronavirus cases in the city stood at 66 days. The state government has imposed a number of restrictions to contain the latest resurgence in cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-marginal-dip-in-covid-tally-with-6-032-new-cases-12-deaths-101642602293814.html
19-01-2022||Mumbai||38 fishermen get ₹5.35 lakh compensation for releasing protected species into sea||Mumbai The state forest department has paid ₹5.35 lakh to 38 fishermen from Thane and Palghar districts in compensation for releasing protected marine species back into the sea. The pending claims were resolved last week during a meeting between the forest department’s mangrove cell and the fisheries department.As many as 26 Olive Ridley turtles, six whale sharks, two guitarfish, one green sea turtle, one Hawksbill turtle and one finless porpoise were released into the sea after being inadvertently caught in fishing nets. The fresh addition takes total compensation claims during the current financial year (2021-22) to 86 cases, pushing the amount to ₹11,52,500.The scheme, jointly launched by the forest and fisheries department in December 2018, seeks to compensate fisherfolk for a loss of fishing nets and encourage them to release protected species caught inadvertently. Since its inception, 264 compensation claims have been received by the state government and ₹40,78,050 has been disbursed to 253 fishermen.Sea turtles are the most commonly affected species, with 138 Olive Ridleys having been caught-and-released in just over three years, followed by 67 green sea turtles, five hawksbill turtles and two leatherback turtles. At least ₹30 lakh has been paid in compensation for the release of turtles alone. This is followed by 37 whale sharks, whose release was compensated with ₹8,54,700, followed by six giant guitarfish, one Indian Ocean humpback dolphin and one Indo-Pacific finless porpoise.A similar scheme in Gujarat offers compensation for the release of whale sharks, but Maharashtra is the only state at present that compensates fishers for the loss of all protected marine species. As per the compensation scheme, if any fisherman finds a protected marine animal caught in their nets, they are entitled to compensation of up to ₹25,000 if they release the animal and their fishing gear is damaged in the process.All applicants have to submit video graphic and photographic evidence of the incident, along with the GPS coordinates of where the animal was caught and released along with details of their boat license. In January this year, the state government revised the compensation structure of the scheme, and fisherfolk are now reimbursed based on the size and degree of protection according to the animal under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/38-fishermen-get-rs-5-35-lakh-compensation-for-releasing-protected-species-into-sea-101642601844790.html
19-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi woman, her 4 kids die after choking on toxic fumes from stove||A 30-year-old woman and her four children died in Delhi on Wednesday after inhaling smoke from an ‘angithi’ (stove) in their room. The incident occurred shortly post-noon on the fifth floor of a house in the Old Seemapuri area at Shahdara in the national capital.A PTI report, quoting police officers, said a PCR call was received at their office around 1:30pm wherein it was reported that four to five persons were lying unconscious inside a room of the Old Seemapuri building.After police hurried to the spot, they found a woman and three of her children lying dead, while the fourth and youngest son was alive but in a critical condition. The child was rushed to the hospital but was declared dead on arrival by the doctors.Police said preliminary inquiry suggested all of them died of suffocation. A stove kept inside the small unventilated room due to the severe cold is likely to have caused a build-up of toxic fumes inside the chamber and suffocate its occupants.According to a senior police officer, the place where the incident occurred was a rented accommodation inhabited by one Mohit Kalia (35), his wife Radha, and their four children – two daughters and two sons.The flat belongs to Amarpal Singh, a 60-year-old resident of Shalimar Garden, said deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-woman-her-4-kids-after-choking-on-toxic-fumes-from-stove-101642599384589.html
19-01-2022||Pune||Pune civic body gears up to free roads of dumped vehicles, 212 vehicles confiscated||The civic body has swung into action to remove vehicles abandoned on roads across the city.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has since the beginning of 2022 put up notices on 1,296 vehicles and have confiscated 212 vehicles.Anti-encroachment department head Madhav Jagtap said, “We will seek details related to the owners from the Regional Transport Office (RTO). The owners responding to the notices will be given a chance to claim them by paying a certain amount as fine. However, the vehicles without any claimant will be scrapped. Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar in a meeting instructed the civic body to confiscate abandoned vehicles parked on city roads and public spaces. These vehicles had become a den for illegal activities and also a garbage dumping area.”“Till Tuesday, January 18, a total of 212 vehicles were confiscates. PMC put the notices on 1,296 vehicles. The drive will be continued for the next few days,” said officials of the anti-encroachment department.The PMC instructed all the 15 ward offices to identify the abandoned vehicles and confiscate them. Two and three -wheelers were confiscated by using trucks and heavy vehicles like trucks and tempos would be lifted using cranes, said a civic official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-civic-body-gears-up-to-free-roads-of-dumped-vehicles-212-vehicles-confiscated-101642600641384.html
19-01-2022||Mumbai||No reason to panic, Covid under control in Mumbai: BMC to Bombay HC||Mumbai: As the number of Covid-19 positive cases dipped to 7,000 on Tuesday from 20,000 ten days ago in the city, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday informed the Bombay high court (HC) that the pandemic is under control in the city and its surrounding areas, and therefore, there is no need to panic.The civic body was responding to a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed during the second wave of Covid wherein the petitioner had alleged improper management of Covid-19 treatment in Maharashtra.The court has now directed the state government to update it about the Covid situation across the state up to January 25. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Makarand Karnik while hearing the PIL filed by Sneha Marjadi was informed by senior advocate Anil Sakhare appearing for the BMC that following the January 10 direction of the court to update it on the Covid preparedness, a note had been prepared on the number of Covid positive cases in the city. Referring to the note Sakhare submitted that sufficient measures had been taken regarding vaccination, bed and ambulance management, oxygen supply and so on. “Although the number of positive cases were rising between January 6 and 9, there has been a gradual decline thereafter so much so that as on January 18, the number of positive cases reduced to 7000,” said Sakhare while referring to the note. The bench was informed that as on January 15, out of total 84, 352 active Covid-19 cases, 7 percent patients were admitted in hospital, 3 % were on oxygen beds, 1 % in ICU and 0.7 % of them on ventilators. Sakhare added that BMC is taking appropriate steps to contain the third wave of pandemic and to attend to patients who tested positive. Referring to the situation as prevailing in Mumbai and adjoining regions, Sakhare said that the situation was under control of BMC and there was no reason to panic. After hearing the submissions, the court directed the government pleader to prepare a note similar to the one prepared by the BMC about the situation across the state and submit it by January 25 and posted hearing of the PIL to January 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-reason-to-panic-covid-under-control-in-mumbai-bmc-to-bombay-hc-101642599201426.html
19-01-2022||Lucknow||‘SP chief will win from whichever seat he contests in Azamgarh’||VARANASI People of Azamgarh want Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav to contest assembly election from Azamgarh, and he will win by a huge margin from whichever seat he decides to contest here, said SP’s district unit president Hawaldar Yadav on Wednesday.There are 10 Assembly constituencies in Azamgarh district. These include Gopalpur, Sagari, Mubarkpur, Azamgarh, Menhnagar (reserve SC), Atraulia, Nizamabad, Phoolpur-Pawai, Didarganj and Lalganj (SC). There is a buzz that Akhilesh may contest from the Gopalpur seat, which the SP won in 2012. In 2019, the SP chief won the parliamentary election from Azamgarh – considered to be stronghold of the party. Earlier in the day, Akhilesh Yadav said that he will contest elections after taking permission from the people of Azamgarh. He is currently an MP from Azamgarh.“Of the 10 assembly constituencies in Azamgarh district, two are reserved for Scheduled Castes. SP president Akhilesh Yadav will win with a huge margin from any of the other eight seats in Azamgarh district,” he said. The SP district unit chief said, “Azamgarh people want SP chief Akhilesh Yadav to contest election from Azamgarh as carried out a lot of development work in Azamgarh as UP chief minister (2012 to March 2017). The people of Azamgarh will welcome Akhileshji wholeheartedly.” “He is our MP, he may contest whichever seat he wishes,” added Hawaldar Yadav. Meanwhile, SP state unit spokesperson Manoj Rai Dhoopchandi said the people of Purvanchal want Akhilesh to contest election from Azamgarh. “It will have a positive effect on the Assembly seats in Ballia, Mau, Ghazipur, Jaunpur districts and the entire Purvanchal,” he stated. In 2012, the SP won nine seats in Azamgarh alone while the party bagged bagged five assembly seats here in 2017. Kashi region BJP leader Somnath Vishwakarma said he won’t comment on the issue as it is an internal matter of the SP. Elections for the 403 Assembly constituencies in Uttar Pradesh will be held in seven phases starting February 10. The polling will be held on February 10, 14, 20, 23, 27 and March 3 and 7 in seven phases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sp-chief-will-win-from-whichever-seat-he-contests-in-azamgarh-101642598601039.html
19-01-2022||Bangalore||Tragedy averted in Bengaluru's skies as 2 IndiGo flights nearly collide mid-air||A major tragedy was averted in Bengaluru's skies earlier this month, as two passenger flights of the same airline, the Gurguram-based IndiGo, nearly collided after taking off from the city's Kempegowda International Airport, senior officials of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said on Wednesday.Also Read | Major collision between two India-bound flights averted in Dubai, probe ordered: ReportsDetailing the incident, DGCA officials said the near-mishap happened on the morning of January 7. “Two IndiGo planes, headed to Bengaluru and Bhubaneswar, were involved in breach of separation at the Bengaluru airport. The Kolkata-bound flight was numbered 6E455, while the one departing for Bhubaneswar was numbered 6E426,” officials of the aviation regulator said.A ‘breach of separation’ takes place when two aircraft breach the minimum mandatory vertical or horizontal distance in an airspace. In this case, according to DGCA, there was an interval of approximately 5 minutes between each flight taking off. “After departure, both planes were moving towards each other. The collision was avoided after an approach radar controller gave a diverging heading,” it added.The aviation controller also claimed the incident was not logged in any logbook, nor reported to it by the Airports Authority of India (AAII). Arun Kumar, the DGCA chief, said the body is probing how the error took place, assuring ‘strictest action’ against those found responsible.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/tragedy-averted-in-bengaluru-s-skies-as-2-indigo-flights-come-close-to-collision-101642597471763.html
19-01-2022||Lucknow||Over 95% of UP’s population given first dose against Covid-19: CM Yogi||More than 95 per cent eligible population in Uttar Pradesh has been inoculated with the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19, while around 62 per cent citizens have received both the shots, said chief minister Yogi Adityanath.Speaking to reporters in Gautam Buddh Nagar district on Wednesday, Adityanath said, “Today, I am happy to inform you that 23.75 crore doses have been provided to the people in Uttar Pradesh and the state fairs better than the national average at present. The first dose has been administered to over 95 per cent of people and the second dose to 62 per cent of beneficiaries.”The chief minister said 62.83 lakh vaccine doses have been administered to children between the ages of 15 and 17 years."Separately, 5.29 lakh precaution doses (booster dose) have been made available to people, including senior citizens and frontline workers," Adityanath said.While urging the state's population to be cautious about the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and the fast-spreading Omicron variant, the CM said there is no need to panic.Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday saw a reduction in its daily tally for the second straight day with 14,803 cases, which pushed the caseload to 1,01,114. The total number of deaths in the state is nearing 23,000 with 12 more patients succumbing to the virus on Tuesday. The worst-hit regions in the state are Lucknow, Gautam Budh Nagar, Varanasi and Meerut.A night curfew has been imposed in Uttar Pradesh from 10pm to 6am. Public places like gyms, spas, cinema halls, banquet halls and restaurants have been allowed to operate at 50 per cent capacity.On January 16, the state government said all educational institutions will remain closed till January 23 and students can attend classes in the online mode.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/over-95-of-up-s-population-given-first-dose-against-covid-19-cm-yogi-101642593761644.html
19-01-2022||Pune||Class 10, Class 12 students gear up for offline exams; 44% of students received first dose in Pune dist||PUNE At least 44 per cent of students between the age group of 15 and 18 years have received the first dose of Covid-19 vaccination, as per the Pune district health department. As vaccination for teenagers is picking up pace, students have started preparations for offline exams for Class 10 and Class 12.The Secondary School Certificate (SSC) or Class 10 and Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) or Class 12 exams for Maharashtra state board are scheduled in March and April this year.As per the health department, over 245,535 students have received the first dose till January 18 in Pune district. There are a total of 553,190 students in the district eligible for the vaccine.Across Maharashtra, a total of 43.44 per cent of students in the age group had received their first dose of Covaxin.Teaching and non-teaching staff are already vaccinated. While most schools follow Covid appropriate norms and behaviour, offline examination seems more likely this year.Sneha Waghmare, a student of Class 10, said that she received her first dose as soon as the vaccination drive started for the age group.“My vaccination dose was arranged at my school itself. Class 10 students were given an early dose to ensure that we get the doses before our final exam starts. Last year there was a lot of confusion and delay regarding the offline exam. But this year, because we have the vaccination, it looks like we will have to give the exam offline. My classmates and I have already started preparing likewise with regular practice of writing,” said Waghmare.Another student from Class 12, Amruta Kulkarni shared similar views.“I got the first dose in the first week of vaccination. And I hope the exam is offline this year. I have been studying very hard for my final exam,” said Kulkarni.Milind Telawne, a city-based parent, said that at least for higher classes, there should be an offline examination.“Because of online classes and online education from the last one and half years, we have seen that students are not in the habit of writing. However, if they know that an offline exam will be conducted, they will start preparing. Unlike last year, this year students are getting vaccinated and the board is also firm on their stance. So, students are excited about the offline examination. If all students get vaccinated, conducting offline tests with Covid appropriate norms can be easier. It also sends a good message to students from other standards,” said Telawne.Sharad Gosavi, chairman of Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE), said that we are firm on offline examination as of now.“We have taken all necessary steps to ensure that students are safe. We are holding discussion with the education minister as to how can these exams be conducted in a safe environment for children and staff,” said Gosavi.Last year, when the board were preparing for an offline examination, the centres for students were same as their school or junior college. As per education board officials discussions are ongoing on similar lines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/class-10-class-12-students-gear-up-for-offline-exams-44-students-vaxxed-in-pune-dist-101642596381039.html
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: Malvika reaches out to quell dissidence in Moga||Battling anti-incumbency in Moga, Congress candidate Malvika Sood Sachar, who is the sister of actor Sonu Sood, on Wednesday managed to win over the Takhtupuras, an influential family and pillar of the district party unit.Also read: ED recovers ₹10 crore from Punjab CM Channi’s nephew, his partnerAdvocate Parampal Singh Takhtupura, who is also the chairman of the market committee of Nihal Singh Wala, and his father Jagroop Singh Takhtupura, a Zila Parishad member, along with 25 sarpanches announced the decision to support Malvika unconditionally in the February 20 assembly elections. Parampal was one of strong contenders for the Congress ticket from Moga and the family had announced that they wouldn’t accept any candidate except a “traditional and old Congressman”. Since their announcement, Malvika was trying to pacify the Takhtupura family. On Wednesday, she visited their house and succeeded in resolving the differences. Parampal said, “We are traditional Congressmen and will do anything to help the party form the government. To form a government, MLAs are required to win their constituencies. Therefore, we will help Malvika win the Moga elections.” On her part, Malvika said, “We are all part of the Congress family and I am very happy right now. Everyone has the right to claim the party ticket and I will support them if they get the ticket in future.” Twenty-four councillors, including the senior deputy mayor and the deputy mayor, have already extended support to Malvika. Earlier, these councillors backed outgoing MLA Dr Harjot Kamal, who went on to join the BJP last week after Malvika was given the Congress ticket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-elections-malvika-reaches-out-to-quell-dissidence-in-moga-101642594100700.html
19-01-2022||Pune||Three of family killed as car rams into sugarcane truck in Pune||PUNE Three persons of a family in Pune district’s Baramati were killed and one more was injured after their car rammed into a sugarcane-laden trailer on the Pune-Baramati road late on Tuesday night.The incident happened around 10:30pm along a stretch of Pune-Baramati road passing through Tardoli village, said officials.The three deceased were members of the same family and were identified as mother Ashwini Bhandari, son Milind Bhandari, and daughter Kavita Kalaskar, according to the police. One other person who was with the family is critically injured and undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Pune.“They were driving towards Baramati. The tractor was attached to two trailers and was heading in the same direction. The car came from behind and rammed into the tractor,” said Assistant police inspector Somnath Lande of Vadgaon Nimbalkar police station.The four were travelling back to Baramati after attending a function in Pune. The incident was recorded at Vadgaon Nimbalkar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/three-of-family-killed-as-car-rams-into-sugarcane-truck-in-pune-101642593921501.html
19-01-2022||Lucknow||Hindu Yuva Vahini jumps into poll campaign mode for Yogi’s victory||LUCKNOW The Hindu Yuva Vahini (HYV), founded in 2002, when he was an MP, by Yogi Adityanath, has emerged after five years of dormancy, with the likely trigger being the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) decision to field Adityanath from his and its base, Gorakhpur, in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly elections.The HYV played an important role in Adityanath’s election campaigns in 2004, 2009 and 2014 and also propagated the message of Hindutva in rural areas of eastern UP. After Adityanath became chief minister in March 2017, units of the HYV in various districts of Gorakhpur were disbanded at the request of the BJP leadership over fears that it would function as a parallel political outfit. Its office-bearers and members who protested this move were expelled from it. This included HYV’s then state president Sunil Singh.Over the following five years, the HYV withdrew from political activities to focus on social issues, including ration distribution, building awareness about Covid-19 and Japanese Encephalitis, assisting migrant workers, and assisting local authorities in the implementation of development and welfare schemes.The announcement that CM Adityanath will be fielded from the Gorakhpur urban seat has charged members of the HYV. Though polling on this seat will be held in the sixth phase of UP polls on March 3, the HYV has already launched an intensive campaign to ensure Adityanath’s victory. In view of Covid-19 guidelines implemented by the Election Commission of India (ECI), the HYV has decided to organise door-to-door meetings, digital meetings, and strengthen its organisation at the booth level across the assembly segment, said PK Mall, general secretary, HYV.HYV office-bearers will hold a meeting with the chief minister over the election strategy and campaign when he arrives in Gorakhpur, Mall added.“Political activities of the HYV were dormant for around five years, but the organisation has been reactivated with the announcement of Yogi Adityanath’s candidature from the city seat. The outfit will hold meetings in all the wards and also campaign for BJP candidates in other assembly segments on the direction of the CM,” said Ram Laxman, a senior HYV leader and former students’ union leader of DDU Gorakhpur University.In the 2017 assembly elections, HYV leader Raghvendra Pratap Singh contested from Domariyaganj seat in Siddharthnagar. In a close contest, he defeated BSP candidate Saiyada Khatoon by a margin of 171 votes. In the 2022 assembly polls too, several HYV leaders are aspiring for BJP tickets.From 300 members in 2002, the strength of the HYV increased to 1.5 million in 2017.However, the activities of the HYV did not go down well with local BJP leaders who considered the outfit a “private force of Adityanath”.They urged the party leadership to curtail the activities of the HYV after Adityanath became CM, Singh added.
19-01-2022||Mumbai||Have won over 400 seats, says Maharashtra BJP chief on local body poll results||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday expressed its jubilation for winning over 400 seats in the nagar panchayat elections in Maharashtra.Voting for 1,802 seats in 106 nagar panchayats, two district councils and 15 panchayat samitis was held in two phases on December 21 last year and January 18, respectively. "We are in a strong position to lead 24 local bodies and need the support of a couple of corporators to stake a claim in another six towns,” state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil said.He added that the ruling Shiv Sena is struggling to remain in the third or fourth position in the ongoing election.According to the latest trends, NCP is in the second position with 369 seats followed by the Congress at 305. The Shiv Sena has managed to win 278 seats.Initially, the NCP was leading in the election with 379 seats, followed by the BJP with 359 seats.“Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray seems to be content with his post. He cares less for his party or party leaders, as they are losing ground across the state. The situation has benefitted the NCP,” Patil further said.He added the discontent among leaders of the Maha Vikas Aghadi-led government in Maharashtra was visible, and hence, the setback in the elections.Another BJP leader, Pankaja Munde, said the MVA government suffered a setback during the nagar panchayat elections because they did not fight strongly for the Other Backward Classes (OBCs).“Despite having no official quota for the OBCs, the BJP gave tickets to leaders from the community, which benefitted us in the polls,” Munde said.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-nagar-panchayat-polls-bjp-leading-in-majority-of-seats-101642590087976.html
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||ED recovers ₹10 crore from Punjab CM Channi’s nephew, his partner||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday concluded its raids on Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s nephew Bhupinder Singh and nine others, including six mining contractors, in the illegal sand mining case with the seizure of ₹10 crore. Also read: Former Punjab CM Parkash Singh Badal tests positive for Covid-19The central agency seized total ₹10 crore from Bhupinder and his partner, Sandeep Kumar, besides recovering gold worth ₹21 lakh during the searches. The financial investigation agency had recovered nearly ₹6 crore from Bhupinder and Sandeep from their premises in Ludhiana on Tuesday and the amount touched ₹10 crore on Wednesday. The ED raided 10 locations in poll-bound Punjab, including those linked to the CM’s nephew, in connection with probes into illegal sand mining in the state on Tuesday. The ED officials, accompanied by Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel, conducted searches at locations in Chandigarh, Rupnagar, Ludhiana, Pathankot and Mohali. An apartment belonging to Bhupinder was raided in Mohali. The ED is probing the source of unaccounted cash recovered from Bhupinder and Sandeep. The agency’s probe under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) is based on a 2018 case registered by Punjab Police for illegal sand mining in the border state. The central agency had lodged an ECIR (Enforcement Case Information Report), an FIR, at its zonal office in Jalandhar in November last year after taking over the probe. ED officials said Kudrat Deep Singh, one of the main accused, had set up a firm, Provider Consultancy Services Private Limited. The three directors of the firm are Kudrat Deep, Sandeep and Bhupinder. The ED has been probing money-laundering charges against them as it suspects the proceeds of crime from the illegal sand mining has been further transferred. Following the probe against Kudrat Deep, the ED investigated the role of six contractors for illegal sand mining. Besides, it searched the premises of miner Sunil Joshi in Pathankot, Jagbir Inder Singh in Rupnagar and Randeep Singh in Fatehgarh Sahib, while the properties of Sandeep and Bhupinder were searched in Ludhiana, too. According to the FIR, there are 26 accused, including Kudrat Deep. Most of them are truck drivers. The case was registered on the complaint of the Punjab mining department that found sand quarries being run without approval during its raids in 2018. The mining department impounded 30 vehicles and other machinery being used for the illegal mining. The FIR said that the mining was done outside the designated area and the operators used forged slips that were not issued by the mining department. Police cracked down on six companies in connection with the illegal sand mining case. In 2019, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar police had also filed challan in the case against accused Baldev Singh and others. An SBS Nagar court has fixed February 23 as the next date of hearing in the matter. In 2018, the case was registered under Sections 21(1) and 4(1) of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957, and Sections 420 (punishment for cheating), 471 (whoever fraudulently or dishonestly uses as genuine), and 465 (punishment for forgery) at Rahon. 
19-01-2022||Pune||Sutradhara’s Tales: Once upon an opulent past... a story of wealth||The present day monument of Shaniwarwada is a memory and relic of a bygone past. It is but a dim reflection of the opulence of the haydays of the Peshwas. The opulence can be very well imagined through contemporary paintings and first-hand impressions recorded by the British. At the site itself, the monument survives in the form of stone plinth and obscure place names. Surviving amongst these place names, one particular name that caught my eye, was “Javahirkhana”. Javahirkhana, also known as Ratnashala, was part of the original two courtyard complex of Shaniwarwada built by Bajirao I. Thanks to the elaborate archival notes and lists, one finds miniscule details of the objects that once occupied the Javahirkhana at Shaniwarwada. Maratha period scholar, Bhasvati Soman, has painstakingly surveyed these lists and documents in the Modi script to present us with the nature and functioning of the Peshwa’s “Ratnashala” department. As the Maratha territory expanded north and south, Maratha sardars were acquainted with jewellery traditions and design forms of Karnataka, Gujarat, Malwa, Bundelkhand, Delhi, Agra and Bengal. Adornment of various types of jewellery, both by men and women was in vogue. For that matter, the very designation of Peshwa was awarded by felicitations of rich paraphernalia of royal clothes, precious jewellery and royal standards, including a palanquin.The practice of felicitating the sardars and commanders before the campaign and on the conquest was quite prevalent; it was considered encouragement and luck. Jewellery and objects of personal use were carried by the Peshwas during travels and even during the military campaigns.One letter from 1770 records Madhavrao Peshwa I asking Nana Phadnis to send the Sirpech (ornament worn on the pagadi) without fail, which was originally forgotten. Additionally, he asks Nana to oversee the making of precious idols of Gods and select the best one for the Peshwa. Another interesting record from 1750s mentions awarding of a watch to sardar Vitthal Shivdev Vinchurkar which he was ordered to wear on all occasions. Peshwas and other Maratha sardars engaged in charity during the campaigns and carried the treasures including objects of gold and silver to be donated at various religious centres and pilgrim sites. Places of personal faith such as Trambakeshwar, Jejuri and Astavinayakas had received generous grants of gold, silver masks and jewellery. The family treasury was added to and flourished with every ruling Peshwa. The Javahirkhana included jewellery of both men and women of the Peshwa family, gold and silver idols of deities, utensils, artefacts, décor, weapons, toys, games, animal and bird figurines, spare precious stones and pearls. The men were fond of decorating animals such as cows, elephants and horses with their custom-made jewellery to reflect the riches; they were to be deposited in Javahirkhana. Certain sets of furniture too were made using precious metals or embellished with precious stones. For example, the fountain spouts at Shaniwarwada were made of silver. Another record registers cost of a silver swing owned by Khajagiwale as Rs2,273.Though men and women dwelled in their own respective chambers or performed rituals in the pooja room, the family’s treasury held all the precious objects of importance. The objects may be used on a daily basis or during festivities, but the thorough central accounts were maintained at the Ratnashala. The inflow and outflow register along with expenses of upkeep were recorded. The records of the Ratnashala starts with 51,402 diamonds, 1,132,292 rubies, 26,643 emeralds, 176,011 pearls, 435 sapphires, 432 Cat’s eye, 417 Yellow sapphire, 444 Red coral, 1,912 corals, 75 Hessonite and so on. The list of various objects made of gold and silver is much longer. The treasures of Devghar (family Gods), treasures of Devdeveshwar sansthan at Parvati and personal treasures of individual men and women formed the main parts of the Ratnashala. It also included the use of various precious objects used in fire rituals (Homa-shala) and for medicinal purpose (Vaidyashala). Numbers of toys and board games such as dolls, spinning tops, balls, dice and chess are mentioned. The lists provides more than 100-odd names for various jewellery items of which some could not be identified as most of the traditional designs have not survived. Women of the family owned a considerable part of jewellery which includes typical Maratha period jewellery. This jewellery was passed over to junior members from the seniors on weddings, festivities or by inheritance. Ramabai, wife of Madhavrao, donated her own jewellery when she ascended the sati pyre. Personal ownership of objects such as writing stylus and inkpots indicate that most Peshwa family women were literate and engaged in both personal and political correspondence. Sardar Khajagiwale was incharge of personal affairs of the Peshwa family under Bajirao, Nanasaheb and Madhavrao and maintained records in the form of registers. In later times we find similar lists from 1768 and 1783 describing objects of the treasury. The lists meticulously recorded the number of precious stones attached to every piece of jewellery or artefact fearing the loss in handling. The officers responsible for the records were handsomely paid to deter any theft or corruption.Money lenders had a crucial role during these times to check the purity of objects and certify them. The objects were weighed in Gunja-Masa-Tola scale where 1 tola of those days corresponds to 11.66 present day grams.Many sardar families had deposited their jewellery with moneylenders in exchange for loans for campaigns or personal use. Money lenders such as Krishnaji Hari Chipunkar were commissioned with transport of precious objects and in addition would insure the safe transport. Of all the Peshwas, Raghunathrao Peshwa owned the biggest share of the treasury which was unfortunately squandered away as he rebelled against Marathas and took refuge with the British.Most of the Peshwa’s Javahirkhana were confiscated by the British; some parts of it was inherited by Bajirao II’s adopted heir, Nanasaheb Peshwa. Nanasaheb could not carry the treasures with him after defeat of Kanpur and Bithur. So, except for the most precious stones, he hid the treasures in a well which was traced by British spies. Colonel Gordon Alexander has recorded the nature of this treasure in his book. It consisted of Rs30 lakh in gold and silver, plates, bowls, other utensils, a palanquin of a few 100kg of silver and jewellery worth Rs70 lakh, apart from precious stones. In all, the remaining treasure of more than Rs1 crore, in those days, was lost to British. That is the last we saw of the magnificent Peshwa treasures! Saili Palande-Datar is an indologist, environmentalist, history researcher and farmer. She can be reached @ sailikdatar@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sutradharas-tales-once-upon-an-opulent-past-a-story-of-wealth-101642590261743.html
19-01-2022||Pune||Pune doctor couple’s son, 4, returns home 8 days after being kidnapped: police||PUNE: A four-year-old boy kidnapped from Baner on January 11 by an unidentified two-wheeler rider was found in Pimpri Chinchwad area on Wednesday, a senior police officer said. The child was found unhurt.The child’s parents are doctors.The boy was going to a daycare with a 12-year-old close relative on January 11 when he was kidnapped around 9.45am.“The kidnapper gave the child to a group of labourers in Punavale under the water tank near Lotus Business School. He told them that he will return in 10 minutes but did not return. The child started crying in some time and the labourers checked his bag. They found his father’s number in the bag and called him,” said Rohidas Pawar, Deputy commissioner of police, Zone 4 of Pune police.Police are looking for the two-wheeler rider who dropped the child near the water tank. The same person is believed to be the kidnapper.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-doctor-couple-s-son-4-returns-home-8-days-after-being-kidnapped-police-101642589840101.html
19-01-2022||Pune||Noted criminal lawyer Shrikant Shivade, who represented Salman Khan in hit-and-run case, dead at 67||PUNE Noted criminal lawyer Shrikant Shivade, 67, passed away at a private hospital in Pune on Wednesday. One of the junior lawyers working for Advocate Shivade confirmed that the lawyer died of leukemia (blood cancer). A representative of the private hospital where he was undergoing treatment states that clinical hematologist Dr Sameer Melinkeri was treating Advocate Shivade. A law graduate from the Indian Law Society, Shivade represented accused in multiple high-profile cases including Tyagi in 2G scam, Salman Khan and other stars in the hit-and-run case, Lieutenant Colonel Prasad Purohit in the Malegaon bomb blast case, Shiney Ahuja in sexual assault case, former Mumbai police chief RD Tyagi in Suleman bakery firing, Deepak Kulkarni in fraud case, Peter Mukerjea in Sheena Bora case, among others. In his letter of gratitude after his release from sexual assault case, ex-editor of Tehelka magazine had thanked Shivade. Son of a policeman, Shivade is survived by his mother, wife, and two children. The fraternity of defence lawyers in Pune expressed sorrow after his death was confirmed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/noted-criminal-lawyer-shrikant-shivade-who-represented-salman-khan-in-hit-and-run-case-dead-at-67-101642589480245.html
19-01-2022||Mumbai||Covid-19 infections in Mumbai under control, BMC tells Bombay high court||MUMBAI: The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday told the Bombay high court that the Covid situation in Mumbai and surrounding areas is under control as the daily count of new Covid-19 infections has gone down from around 20,000 just 10 days back to 7,000 on Tuesday, and that there is no need to panic.“Although number of positive cases were rising between January 6 and 9, there has been a gradual decline thereafter so much so that as on January 18, the number of positive cases reduced to 7,000,” senior advocate Anil Sakhare appearing for the BMC told a bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Makarand Karnik.The high court has been tracking the rise of coronavirus infections in Maharashtra during hearings on a petition filed by lawyer Sneha Marjadi during the second wave of Covid infections last year when she complained of improper management of Covid-19 treatment in Maharashtra.The high court will take up the case on Janaury 27 and has told the state government to file a report on the Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra till January 25.In response to the court’s January 10 direction, BMC filed a status report on Covid-19 and the steps taken by the authorities. The BMC said that as on January 15, out of total 84,352 active Covid-19 cases, 7% patients were admitted in hospital, 3% were on oxygen beds, 1% in ICU and 0.7% on ventilators. Sakhare added that BMC is taking appropriate steps to contain third wave of pandemic and to attend patients who tested positive. Referring to the BMC report, Sakhare said that sufficient measures had been taken regarding vaccination, bed and ambulance management, oxygen supply and so on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-infections-in-mumbai-under-control-bmc-tells-bombay-high-court-101642587619925.html
19-01-2022||Other||AAP names Amit Palekar as chief ministerial candidate in Goa||PANAJI: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday named Amit Palekar as its chief ministerial candidate in Goa ahead of the election scheduled in the state next month. Palekar emerged as the front runner to be the party’s face after AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal announced they would choose the candidate from the Bhandari Samaj, which comes under the Other Backward Class category.Kejriwal said Palekar’s heart beats for Goa. “We said we will give a Goa chief ministerial face whose heart beats for Goa and who is willing to give his life for Goa. One who can take everyone along in Goa... And most importantly he should be an honest man. That man is Amit Palekar,” Kejriwal said.The announcement came a day after Kejriwal named Bhagwant Mann, 48, as the party’s chief ministerial face for the assembly elections in Punjab.A lawyer, Palekar joined the AAP in October last year. He has no prior experience in electoral politics. Palekar has handled several prominent cases including that of former minister Francisco Pacheco when he was on the run following the death of his friend Nadia Joelle Torrado, who died by suicide in 2010.More recently Palekar represented one of the parties arguing for better Covid-19 facilities during the peak of the Covid-19 wave in Goa in May last year.“You have seen the dirty politics of the last five years. In the last two months, you have seen it fall to such a level that the Goans have begun to feel ashamed. We have entered politics to change this and are asking for one chance to bring a change,” Palekar said.He said he became a lawyer because his father did not have the money to pay a bribe when he qualified for a government job. “And I decided that one day I will fight against this injustice. I want to thank Arvind Kejriwal for this opportunity,” Palekar said.He accused other parties of having sold Goa. “Check their balance sheets. They have only done corruption. People want clean governance; corruption-free governance. ...Do we choose the same corrupt people who have been running the government or do we want new clean faces that can take Goa forward,” Palekar said.AAP and Trinamool Congress have been seeking to make inroads into the state, where the Congress emerged as the single largest party in the last assembly elections but the Bharatiya Janata Party managed to form the government in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-names-amit-palekar-as-chief-ministerial-candidate-in-goa-101642585759858.html
19-01-2022||Jaipur||Rajasthan reports 9,711 new Covid-19 cases, 9 more deaths||Nine people died from coronavirus in Rajasthan on Tuesday as 9,711 fresh cases surfaced, according to a Health Department bulletin.The highest 2,358 cases were reported in Jaipur, 801 in Jodhpur, 677 in Udaipur, 569 in Pali, 568 in Alwar, 563 in Kota, 536 in Bharatpur, 426 in Hanumangarh, 380 in Chittorgarh and 358 in Bikaner.According to the department, there were nine deaths due to the infection, including two each in Jaipur and Jodhpur, one each in Alwar, Ajmer, Bikaner, Dausa and Karauli.A total of 9,019 people have died due to this deadly infection in the state so far.According to the data, 7,056 people recovered from the infection in the state on Tuesday. At present, 69,388 people are getting treatment in the state.Till Monday evening, 8,90,91,416 people have been given doses of coronavirus vaccine in the state. Of these, 26,06,024 belong to the age group of 15 to 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-reports-9-711-new-covid-19-cases-9-more-deaths-101642584809323.html
19-01-2022||Other||Gurugram: Three QRTs to be deployed ahead of Republic Day||The Gurugram police have formed three quick response teams (QRTs) which will be deployed in the field from Tuesday as part of an enhanced security ahead of the Republic Day. These teams will be active round the clock with the personnel working in two shifts, police officials said, adding that the special deployment was made in the backdrop of the failed terror attack in Delhi where an improvised explosive device (IED) was found at Ghazipur wholesale flower market on January 14.The officials said that these QRTs would be engaged in keeping eye on suspicious movements, checking baggage and frisking of people especially in crowded places like shopping malls, bus stands and other such places in Gurugram. “These QRTs are in addition to the existing ones which are used in any kind of adverse situation or for maintaining law and order as per requirement,” said a senior police officer, seeking anonymity. According to the officials, there are at least 15 police personnel in each of the three existing QRT. “Each of them has a mini bus. The newly formed QRT will have around five personnel in an SUV. The new teams may remain active till assembly elections are concluded in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh,” the officer said. Assistant commissioner of police (crime) Preet Pal Sangwan, who is also holding the additional charge of ACP (headquarters), said that besides the deployment of three new QRTs, additional details on security measures for the Republic Day would be available in a day or two. As per the officials, the strength of Gurugram police is around 7,000 personnel. They said most of the personnel could be used for enhancing security ahead of the Republic Day. “All security requirements are expected to get fulfilled from police strength within the district,” said the police officer quoted above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-three-qrts-to-be-deployed-ahead-of-republic-day-101642584259792.html
19-01-2022||Bangalore||‘Will review all Covid restrictions in Karnataka on Friday’: Basavaraj Bommai||BENGALURU: Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday said that he will review the restrictions imposed in the state on Friday when he holds a review meeting with Covid-19 experts.“On Friday I will hold a meeting with experts. We will review all restrictions. The number of Covid infections are going up but there is no load on hospitals and no admissions. We have to pay more attention towards OPD (outpatient department),” Bommai told reporters in Bengaluru on Wednesday. The chief minister addressing the media in person after almost 10 days as he went into isolation after testing positive for Covid-19 last week.The Covid-19 restrictions currently in force in Karnataka include night and weekend curfews, a ban on rallies and protests and a bar on more than 100 people attending any event such as marriage in closed spaces. The state government has empowered the district administration to take the decision on closing schools and colleges at a taluka level.“We will take a decision on restrictions once we get the report from experts,” Bommai said.Bommai’s statement on reviewing the Covid restriction comes amid a surge in daily infections.Karnataka reported 41457 new infections in a single day, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department on Tuesday.Bengaluru, the state’s capital reported its highest single day tally of 25,595 new infections on Tuesday in a 24-hour period. This was an all time high for India’s IT capital since the Covid-19 outbreak since March 2020.The daily positivity rate in Bengaluru is 27% while the state average is around 22.30%, the state’s data shows.According to data compiled by the union health ministry, 17 Karnataka districts reported a weekly positivity rate of more than 10% for 12-18 January. In Bengaluru urban and Tumakuru, the weekly positivity rate is more than 22%. In 10 districts, the weekly positivity rate is between 5% and 10%, and in 3 districts, it is less than 5%.On Monday, Karnataka revenue minister R Ashoka said Covid experts in Karnataka expect coronavirus infections to peak on January 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/will-review-all-covid-restrictions-in-karnataka-on-friday-basavaraj-bommai-101642584019835.html
19-01-2022||Other||Gurugram: MCG okays repair of stretch linking Tulip Chowk to Sohna Road||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has decided to construct a 1.2km pothole-riddled portion of Darbaripur Road that links Tulip Chowk to Sohna Road in Sector 69, said officials on Tuesday. The estimates of ₹1.44 crore for this project were approved by the MCG’s finance and contract committee on Monday.Currently, in the absence of a bitumen road, many commuters residing in sectors 69, 70, 70A, and 75 opt to travel through the heavily congested Southern Peripheral Road (SPR) to head towards Sohna Road or Golf Course Extension Road (GCER) via Vatika Chowk. “Residents of the area had raised a demand with the MCG for constructing a road. Accordingly, estimates for the project were approved by the MCG commissioner after which it was put up before the finance and contract committee for deliberation on Monday. After deliberation, the project was given approval by the committee,” said Tushar Yadav, executive engineer, MCG, who is overseeing the project.Yadav said that the MCG is aiming to start construction of the project by the last week of February and it is expected to take around seven weeks to build it.He said that a 700-metre stretch of the Darbaripur Road, linking the road running parallel to the pond with Sohna Road, was constructed by the MCG last year. Once the 1.2km stretch is constructed, commuters can bypass the SPR and Vatika Chowk route, and reach Sohna Road directly via Darbaripur Road.Besides saving commuters around two kilometres of extra travel, the new road will bring down travelling time by 15-20 minutes during peak traffic hours.“Due to the absence of a proper road, I drive through SPR and Vatika Chowk to head towards GCER or Sohna Road. Both the road and the junction are heavily congested, and crossing the signal at Vatika Chowk alone takes more than 10 minutes. Once the road is built, I can use the main Gujjar Road to head towards GCER and take Sohna Road to head towards Badshahpur,” said Nirmala Chahal, a resident of Sector 70A.The 1.2km portion of Darbaripur Road is currently a pothole-riddled unmetalled road and commuters have a harrowing time navigating their way through the stretch especially during monsoon.“Without any bitumen surface, the soil mixes with rainwater during monsoon and becomes a swamp. This not only makes it difficult for commuters to drive on but also makes it difficult for them to spot potholes leading to minor accidents and vehicle breakdowns. Most commuters avoid this stretch,” said Aashish Sharma, who works at a private company in Sector 70.
19-01-2022||Delhi||Unclaimed bags found near metro pillar in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The Delhi Police cordoned off an area in east Delhi’s Trilokpuri after unclaimed bags were found near a metro pillar on Wednesday five days after an improvised explosive device (IED) was recovered near a flower market in the city.Police officers aware of the matter said a passer-by spotted the black bags lying at metro pillar number 50 near block 15 in Trilokpuri. The National Security Guards (NSG), which has a unit to deal with such situations, has been informed about the bags.“The passer-by spotted the bag around 1 pm. The fire department is on standby. We are not taking any chances. NSG will look into the contents of the bag,” said a police officer, who did not want to be named.Top Delhi police officers and personnel of their anti-terror special cell were are also at the spot.The Delhi Police have been on high alert since last Friday when the IED was found at Ghazipur days before the Republic Day celebrations on January 26.A controlled explosion was carried out in an eight-foot pit hurriedly dug with the help of an earthmover 100m from the spot where the IED was found. Bomb detection and disposal experts of the NSG collected traces of the explosive materials from the site where it was placed, and from the area where it was destroyed, for further examination.The IED contained nearly 3kg of explosive substance and some shrapnel. A timer device was also seen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/unclaimed-bags-found-near-metro-pillar-in-delhi-101642583779524.html
19-01-2022||Bhopal||MP to slash booze rates, retail liquor at airports, select supermarkets||In the new Excise Police for the next Financial Year, the BJP government in Madhya Pradesh has decided to allow the sale of liquor at all airports in the state and select supermarkets in four big cities, and issue home bar licenses to those earning ₹one crore or more annually.In the Excise Policy 2022-23, approved by the state Cabinet on Tuesday, the government also decided to slash retail prices of liquor by 20 per cent in a bid to "make them practical".The Cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan also cleared the Madhya Pradesh Heritage (Traditional) Liquor Policy.Under the new Excise Policy, counters selling liquor can be opened at all the airports in MP while licenses for (opening) such outlets can now be issued in select supermarkets in Indore, Bhopal, Jabalpur and Gwalior at a fixed fee, an official statement said.Now, a home bar license will be issued at an annual fee of ₹50,000 to applicants with an annual individual income of ₹one crore or more, it said.Under the upcoming policy, bar licenses can be issued at concessional rates to temporary units being operated by the Eco-Tourism Board and the Tourism Development Corporation at tourist places. The state government also decided to simplify the liquor import process. Opening of microbreweries will be allowed in Bhopal and Indore cities subject to No Objection Certificates (NOCs) to be issued by local civic bodies and the electricity department and after securing environmental clearance.Officials said that all the liquor outlets will now be composite shops to curb the sale of illegal alcohol.Composite shops are the ones from where traders can sell Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL), Country Made liquor and beer together.District-level high power committees that include the collector and MLAs will be empowered to change locations of liquor shops, if needed, under the new excise policy.Besides, wine prepared from grapes by farmers in MP will be made duty free, the officials said.The new excise policy also has a provision of tetra-packing liquor and scanning the QR code to check the authenticity of the product. The Madhya Pradesh cabinet also gave its nod to the new Heritage Liquor policy, announced by the chief minister last November, which will enable tribals to brew liquor from 'mahua' (Madhuca) flowers in a traditional way and sell it.This policy will be later presented before a cabinet sub-committee which was formed to discuss the heritage liquor project, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-to-slash-booze-rates-retail-liquor-at-airports-select-supermarkets-101642583111182.html
19-01-2022||Other||Gurugram admin asked to increase use of treated water||The Haryana Water Resources Authority (HWRA) on Tuesday directed the Gurugram administration to come up with an action plan for increasing the groundwater level in the district. Asserting that the district needed to focus on the use of treated waste water, the authority also asked the district administration to form a sub-committee under the district water harvesting committee that will submit daily reports which can be used to make a water action plan for Gurugram. “Serious efforts will have to be made to utilise the waste water in Gurugram city. Keeping in mind the future of the coming generations, efforts need to be made from now on with a better water plan. Gurugram is the financial capital of the state, and special focus should be given for water harvesting here. A concrete strategy must be adopted regarding the depleting groundwater level and water harvesting in Gurugram,” Keshni Anand Arora, chairperson of HWRA, said during a virtual meeting on Tuesday.Arora added that the departments working in the field of water harvesting should collaborate with NGOs and other institutions if needed. Yash Garg, deputy commissioner of Gurugram, apprised the HWRA chairperson that the district administration was keeping an eye on violation of water harvesting rules and action is also being taken against the violators based on surprise checks. During the meeting, officials also discussed the installation of water recharging system in the city parks, as a measure to increase groundwater level.Gurugram, a dark zone district, has been seeing a reduction in the groundwater level for the past few years. Between 2014 and 2018, the groundwater table in the district fell by two-and-a-half metres. According to pre-monsoon data from the agricultural department’s groundwater cell, the groundwater table in the district dropped by 0.27 metres between June 2019 and June 2020 and was at 29.86 metres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hwra-asks-gurugram-to-focus-on-increasing-use-of-treated-water-in-city-101642583300341.html
19-01-2022||Other||GMDA to lay 50km pipeline to use treated waste water in Gurugram||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) has planned to lay a 50km network of pipeline this year for treated waste water that will be used for upkeep of green belts and parks in the city, said officials on Tuesday. The urban environment division of GMDA will install the high-density polyethylene pipeline with hydrants by connecting them to the master line of treated water, already laid along major roads of the city. These hydrants will be installed with a spacing of 30 metres, the officials said, adding that the pipeline will be laid using trenchless technology, a method used for installing or replacing pipelines with a minimum disruption on the surface. Subhash Yadav, head of GMDA’s urban environment division, said, “Our aim is to install pipelines for treated water across the city. In areas falling under GMDA, treated water will be used for upkeep of green belts and in areas under Municipal Corporation of Gurugram, it will be used for horticulture activities and maintenance of parks. Our target is maximum utilisation of treated water so that it does get wasted as run off to the Najafgarh Lake. This year we plan to lay 50km long pipeline which will be increased gradually every year.” The project is likely to cost around ₹3 crore, the officials said. The project was discussed in the 25th core planning committee meeting of GMDA held last week.The city already has a network of over 100km of treated waste water pipelines. The GMDA has been trying to increase the use of treated waste water in green belts, construction sites and parks in the city. During the ninth authority meeting held in December last year, the chief executive officer had said that at present, 64% of treated waste water is being used in Gurugram for different purposes like in green belts, industries, rejuvenation of water bodies, among others. Gurugram generates 243 MLD (million litres per day) of treated waste water at present.Under the ‘reuse of treated waste water policy’ of the Haryana government, every municipality has been given a target of using at least 25% of treated water by 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gmda-to-lay-50km-pipeline-to-use-treated-waste-water-in-gurugram-101642583299558.html
19-01-2022||Other||Liquor vends in Gurugram may now stay open till 10pm||The Haryana government on Tuesday enhanced the hours of operation for liquor vends in the state till 10pm. Citing the rising Covid-19 cases, the state government had a fortnight ago ordered the closure of malls and markets, including liquor shops, at 6 pm. According to an order issued by the Haryana State Disaster Management Authority, gyms and spas have also been allowed to operate at 50% capacity. A similar regulation for bars and restaurants is already in place.Liquor traders in Haryana had complained about the loss of revenue due to early closure of their shops. However, the government extended the other restrictions imposed under the ‘Mahamari Alert’ till 5am of January 28. Meanwhile, in its efforts to inoculate more people against Covid-19, the district health department has decided to set up camps in 35 localities from Wednesday and will also conduct a special vaccination drive at five religious places on Sunday.The areas where vaccination camps, which is part of the door-to-door vaccination drive, will be organised include DLF Phase 1, South City 2, and Chakkarpur, officials from the district health department said. “We are trying to cover as many people as possible under different kinds of vaccination drives for all age groups. Our focus is on vaccination of the 15-18 age group and booster dose for senior citizens. We have also involved ASHA workers for motivating people in rural areas to get vaccinated. From Wednesday onwards, e-rickshaws will be used to make announcements giving information regarding vaccination centres, timings and other such details. The door-to-door vaccination drive is also being started after a gap of three weeks,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram. On Sunday, a vaccination drive will be conducted at New Colony Gurudwara, Badi Church at Sheetla Colony, Hanuman Mandir at Ashok Vihar, Anjuman Jama Masjid in Sector 57 and Jain Mandir Sadar Bazaar. At these centres, Covaxin doses will be administered to the 15-18 age bracket, and both Covishield and Covaxin will be given to beneficiaries of all other age groups. On Tuesday, Gurugram reported 3,141 fresh cases, according to the district health bulletin, taking the tally of active cases to 23,377. The district recorded a positivity rate of 30% on Tuesday, an increase from 28% recorded on Monday, the data shows.Of the total active cases, only 156 are hospitalised, the officials said, adding that 1,882 people also recovered in the district. The health department collected 10,191 samples for testing in the past 24 hours.On Tuesday, a total of 16,483 doses were administered, including 6,237 first doses, 8,024 second doses and 2,222 precautionary doses. With this, over 4.67 million doses have been administered in the Gurugram district till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/liquor-vends-in-gurugram-may-now-stay-open-till-10pm-101642582999499.html
19-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi's Covid cases ‘not low enough' to relax curbs: Health minister||The Covid-19 positivity rate in Delhi is not low enough to relax the restrictions such as weekend curfew, health minister Satyendra Jain said on Wednesday as the daily cases in the national capital are seeing a steady dip. "The positivity rate has come down from 30 per cent to 22.5 per cent and the total number of cases in Delhi has also decreased," the health minister also said. "However, the positivity rate is not low enough that we can relax the Covid restrictions," he added.This comes days after the health minister said that the Delhi government will consider easing restrictions once the daily case count starts dropping below 15,000. On Tuesday, the city logged 11,684 cases and 38 deaths due to the viral disease.
19-01-2022||Mumbai||Daily Covid cases in Maharashtra declining, hospitalisations are less: Tope||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday that the daily cases of Covid-19 in the state are declining, adding the overall pandemic situation is under control.Speaking to reporters, Tope said the Maharashtra government is using its full potential to increase the coverage of testing and vaccination.“The Covid-19 tally which was earlier increasing has now stabilised. Hospitalisations are less in number. As many as 87% infected patients are under home isolation,” Tope added.Also Read| Third wave may peak by month-end or 1st week of Feb: TopeTill now, Maharashtra has recorded 7,282,128 cases of coronavirus disease in total. Daily infections have remained below the 40,000-mark for two consecutive days.On Tuesday, the state reported 39,207 fresh cases and 53 deaths. The daily Covid-19 positivity rate has dropped to 20.05%. Medical experts have pointed out that the pandemic situation is stabilising by the day and there won't be a spike in the coming days.“Districts like Mumbai and Palghar, which initially reported a surge, are now recording a decline in the number of cases,” Dr Pradeep Awate, the state's surveillance officer, told Hindustan Times on Tuesday. He said the Covid-19 count in other districts of Maharashtra may be high because the surge started late and added the situation in such districts will also stabilise in near future.Also Read| Maharashtra reports nearly 40K Covid-19 cases, officials say situation stabilisingThe state is currently placed under a night curfew from 11 pm till 5 am and there is no plan to impose a lockdown. However, the government has introduced restrictions to ward off the spread of Covid-19.Salons and gymnasiums in Maharashtra are allowed to operate at 50% of their capacity and only fully vaccinated people are allowed to enter these establishments. Only 50 people are allowed to attend weddings and other social, religious and political events. On the other hand, only 20 people are allowed to attend funerals. Restaurants can operate at 50% from 8 am and 10pmGiven the low incidence of Covid-19 in children, the Maharashtra government will consider the demand for reopening schools in the coming days.“Demands are rising from certain quarters for reopening of schools as children are suffering the education loss. We will consider it after 10-15 days as there is a low (rate of) infection among children,” health minister Tope said on January 16, adding that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will take a final call in this regard.All educational institutions including schools, colleges in Maharashtra have been closed till February 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/daily-covid-cases-in-maharashtra-declining-hospitalisations-are-less-tope-101642575849228.html
19-01-2022||Kolkata||Palanquins carry women to hospital from remote, hilly Bengal villages||KOLKATA: Pasalam Dukpa, 22, a resident of a remote village in the Buxa Tiger Reserve in West Bengal’s Alipurduar, was lucky to have reached a local hospital on January 14 to give birth to a girl. The mother and child were doing well and went home a day after.Unlike Dupka, many women from remote villages along the India-Bhutan border in Alipurduar have not been as fortunate. The region’s hilly terrain, dense forests and narrow paths make it difficult for people to arrange transport to take expecting mothers in labour to the nearest hospital, around 12 km from the nearest motorable road. In December 2021, a tiger was also spotted in the Buxa Tiger Reserve after almost two decades.District magistrate Surendra Kumar Meena said every time a pregnant woman needed to reach the hospital for delivery, the locals would prepare a makeshift stretcher with bamboo and cloth. “The woman, despite suffering from labour pain, had to cling on to the bamboo, as the men trekked through the jungle and hilly terrain for almost three-four hours.”The situation has changed since the district administration and Family Planning Association of India (FPAI), an NGO, started a Palki “Ambulance” service on December 8. “It is a basically a palanquin made of wood and decorated with aluminium sheets, which is being used to transport such emergency patients from the remote corners of the district to the nearest motorable point from where they can avail the government ambulance service to reach the hospital,” said Meena.Around 11 villages are located in the remote corners of the district along the India-Bhutan border and the Buxa Tiger Reserve. The remotest of them such as Adma and Sewgaon is located around 12 km from the Zero Point, the nearest motorable junction. Adma is located at an altitude of 5,000 feet.FPAI general manager Tushar Chakraborty said institutional deliveries was almost unheard of even a decade ago. “It took years to convince the locals to go for institutional delivery. But the journey to the hospital was traumatic. In February 2021, a woman delivered a child on the banks of a rivulet while she was being carried all the way down. Now at least the journey would be comfortable as the woman can lie down on a bed inside the palanquin as the men trek down.”He said the terrain is hilly and remote and some of the roads are very narrow. “It is almost impossible to trek with such a huge load. The palanquin weighs around 55 kilos. Now add to this the woman’s weight, who needs to be transported. We are planning to bring some changes so that the palanquin could be made lighter.”The NGO pays for transportation as well as a trained attendant, who accompanies the palanquins to the hospital to take care of a patient in case of any emergency.Two palanquins have been pressed into service for seven of the 11 villages and at least eight more were being introduced to cover even the remotest Adma and Sewgaon villages.
19-01-2022||Gurugram||Haryana adds 8,388 new Covid cases, 3,141 from Gurugram||Eight more people died from coronavirus in Haryana on Tuesday as 8,388 fresh cases surfaced, pushing the state’s infection count to 8,64,490, according to a Health Department bulletin.So far, 10,124 people have died from the infection in the state.The worst-hit Gurugram district reported 3,141 fresh cases.Faridabad (1,136), Karnal (484), Panchkula (416), Sonipat (326), Ambala (437) and Yamunanagar (298) were among other districts affected by the surge in cases.While two fatalities were reported from Yamunanagar district, Hisar, Sonipat, Karnal, Panipat, Ambala and Kurukshetra districts reported a fatality each, as per the bulletin.The recovery rate was 92.20 per cent, the bulletin said, while the cumulative recoveries so far after the outbreak of the pandemic are 7,97,066.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/harayana-adds-8-388-new-covid-cases-3-141-from-gurugram-101642574468875.html
19-01-2022||Mumbai||We fully stand by with kin: Navy chief condoles of lives in INS Ranvir blast||Chief of Naval Staff Admiral R Hari Kumar on Wednesday condoled the loss of three navy personnel who were killed onboard INS Ranvir on Tuesday evening.According to an official statement, Admiral Kumar said the navy fully stands by with the families of the deceased in this difficult time."Admiral R Hari Kumar, chief of Naval Staff and all personnel of Indian Navy extend heartfelt condolences to the families of Krishan Kumar MCPO I, Surinder Kumar MCPO II and AK Singh MCPO II, who succumbed to injuries caused by the unfortunate incident onboard INS Ranvir on January 18, 2022," the statement added.Also Read| Mumbai: Three Navy personnel killed in blast at INS RanvirThree navy personnel- Master Chief Petty Officer (MCPO) First Class Krishan Kumar, MCPO Second Class Surinder Kumar and MCPO Second Class A K Singh were killed, and 11 others were injured in a blast at around 4:45 pm in the internal compartment of INS Ranvir, which is currently anchored at the naval dockyard in Mumbai.Chief of Naval Staff Adm R Hari Kumar extends heartfelt condolences to the families of Krishan Kumar MCPO I, Surinder Kumar MCPO II & AK Singh MCPO II, who succumbed to injuries caused by the unfortunate incident onboard INS Ranvir today: Indian Navy pic.twitter.com/LGYaYSESdwThe 11 injured are reported to be in stable condition.Officials said on Tuesday that the ship's crew immediately responded and the situation was brought under control. There is no major material damage, they said.INS Ranvir, a destroyer ship that was commissioned in the navy back in 1986, was presently on cross coast operational deployment from the Eastern Naval Command and was due to return to base port shortly, the officials also said, adding a board of inquiry has been ordered to investigate the cause of the blast.The Mumbai Police, meanwhile, has registered an accidental death report into the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/we-fully-stand-by-with-kin-navy-chief-condoles-of-lives-in-ins-ranvir-blast-101642572059526.html
19-01-2022||Mumbai||Man held for cheating women after meeting them via matrimonial sites||MUMBAI: The Mumbai Police have arrested a 34-year-old man for allegedly cheating at least 40 women after meeting them via matrimonial sites. They said the accused, Vishal Suresh Chavan alias Anurag Chavan, who has B Tech and MBA degrees, would get in touch with women from rich backgrounds and claim he worked in a high-end mobile manufacturing company. Chavan allegedly took money from at least 30 people by promising to get them the latest iPhones.Chavan faces three two cheating and a rape case. Police said a 28-year-old woman in August registered a cheating case against Chavan, saying they met through a matrimonial site and he allegedly took ₹2.25 lakh from her on the pretext of investing in the share market. After a month, he stopped meeting her and receiving her calls.“Based on the technical evidence and call data records, we gathered that the person was using a mobile number in the name of someone else. We had his photographs and after connecting one link to another, we found his residential address in Kalyan East but he had not been home for 15 days,” said a police officer.Inspector Sudhir Jadhav said Chavan duped many women. “Most of them are not coming forward to register cases against him. He was arrested in 2017...after a woman registered a cheating case against him...he had taken ₹17 lakhs from her. He got bail from the high court after submitting ₹17 lakh in the court.” He added Chavan would contact women on matrimonial sites and promise to marry them and get details of their financial background. “He would then start visiting the woman’s home to gain trust and later take money to invest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-held-for-cheating-women-after-meeting-them-via-matrimonial-sites-101642568298106.html
19-01-2022||Patna||Bihar State Archives to release documents related to anti-colonial resistance||PATNA: Over 100 confidential documents at Bihar State Archives related to tribal movements and resistance in the undivided Bihar during the colonial period would be uploaded online ahead of the Republic Day celebrations on January 26.The documents include the records related to the arrest of freedom fighter Birsa Munda in 1895 and the Tana Bhagat movement in Chhotanagpur against the British.Suman Kumar, director, State Archives, said India’s Independence was not just the outcome of a movement led by some prominent leaders and their followers. “The country also owes a lot to the tribals of undivided Bihar, who resisted the colonial rule. Though some books have also been written on these events and personalities, many facts and details related to these events are still unknown.”Kumar said many records and reports related to them are still in the files of the archives. “We will be releasing these documents online on the state archive portal on this Republic Day.”Udai Kumar, assistant director, State Archives, said these records would help discover new facts about Birsa Munda and Tana Bhagats. “Tribal resistances and movements might get a new perspective because of these confidential records.” He said they planned the online display due to increasing Covid-19 cases.
19-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality in very poor category||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s air quality was in the “very poor” category on Wednesday morning with partly overcast weather and moderate fog. According to the Central Pollution Control Board, the hourly Air Quality Index (AQI) at 7.00 am was 331. On Tuesday, the average 24-hour AQI was 352 in the “very poor category”. The dominant pollutants in Delhi’s air were particulate matter PM2.5 and PM 10.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.On Tuesday, the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research said the air quality is expected to remain in the “very poor” category till Friday. “It is expected that minimum temperature increases dispersion while wind speed reduces dispersion for the next 3 days... the net effect is that AQI remains within ‘very poor’. It is likely to rain on 22nd January with gusty wind leading to wet deposition and strong dispersion resulting in significant improvement of AQI to ‘poor’ category.”The minimum temperature on Wednesday was likely to be 9 degrees Celsius and a maximum of 16 degrees Celsius. On Tuesday, the minimum temperature was 8 degrees Celsius, one notch above normal, and the maximum temperature was 15.4 degrees Celsius, four degrees below normal. Similar conditions are likely to persist on Thursday with a likelihood of very light drizzle on Friday and light rain accompanied with gusty winds on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-quality-in-very-poor-category-101642563917608.html
19-01-2022||Bangalore||‘Teacher threatened to push us out’: Students barred for hijab||A group of six Muslim students at a government college in Karnataka’s Udupi district, who were denied entry into classrooms allegedly for wearing a hijab, have claimed that a teacher threatened to push them out of the class.The six students have been barred by the college since the last week of December. A photograph of the students in headscarves and college dress, sitting on the staircase outside the classroom, has gone viral.“We are still sitting outside the class. We are not allowed to go inside the classroom,” said Aliya Assadi, one of the six students. “One day, we had gone inside the classroom, but the teacher’s response was, ‘If you don’t go out of the class, I will push you out.”College authorities said the students were in violation of the dress code.According to the principal of the college, Rudra Gowda, the students can wear headscarves on the college premises, but not inside the classrooms. The rule is being implemented to ensure uniformity in classrooms, he said.“There are no provisions to have hijab as the uniform in our school’s rules...They can attend classes if they remove the hijab...,” he added.“Though it is our fundamental right, though it is our constitutional right, they are still not allowing us to go in the class because we are wearing hijab,” Assadi said. “There is a lot of discrimination in the college. We can’t speak in Urdu. We can’t do salam to each other.”The All-India Lawyers Association For Justice has demanded an investigation by the state government. “The actions of the college administration and staff against the students is per se violative of the fundamental rights of the students,” the non-profit organization said in a statement.Deputy commissioner on Udupi district and Karnataka education minister didn’t respond to the calls for a comment.Yashpal Suvarna, vice-president of the college development committee, said: The protest was politically motivated as the students are members of the Campus Front, a students’ organisation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/teacher-threatened-to-push-us-out-students-barred-for-hijab-101642545268020.html
19-01-2022||Delhi||Delhiwale: White is as good as red||Winter means carrot halwa, means colour red.Not always. There is at least one place in Delhi that sells carrot halwa, which is not red. It is white.You may taste this extraordinarily unusual cold weather delicacy at Sheeren Bhawan in Old Delhi’s Chitli Qabar Chowk. The congested market is crammed with a range of edible heritage (Diamond Bakery, Shaberati Nihari Wale, etc). This mithai shop, too, is as iconic. One of the oldest surviving culinary landmarks in the Walled City, it was established long before Partition by a gentleman called Fayazuddin, whose descendants continue to thrive in a sprawling house within walking distance of the shop, in Pahari Rajaan.This evening, the glass display by the entrance is filled with sweet-tasting distractions (khoya kadam, chocolate burfi…) The star attraction though is atop the counter. A gigantic platter is perched on a burner, filled with what looks like a mound of crushed snow that has been shallow-fried to a pale golden shade. Steam is silently escaping from the surface. This is the enigmatic white carrot halwa. Sprinkled generously with kaaju and pista, shop attendant Mr Mateen is stirring the prized dish frequently with a heavy ladle.Seated on a chair, the founder’s great-grandson Adnan Qureshi confirms that the white carrot is not a fairytale legend, and that it exists for real. He calls it sunheri gaajar (golden carrot). “These are not easily available… we commission them from a farm in Ghaziabad.”Handing over a bowl of the halwa (60 rupees, 100 grams), Mr Qureshi asserts that it is made in pure desi ghee by Sheeren Bhawan’s chief cook, the “exceptionally skilled” Ustad Suger Singh Tomar. Incidentally, this gentleman, presiding over the kitchen of the famous Old Delhi landmark, is not a native of Delhi, but of Morena in Madhya Pradesh (see photo).It is possible that a first-timer to the white carrot halwa might feel uneasy about the confection. After all, one’s most cherished memories of this dessert are made of its universally recognisable red version. But one bite of the white halwa, as made in this Chitli Qabar establishment, might temper your loyalty towards the red. The halwa is supremely delicious, very rich, and so aromatic that you may end up feeling heady and happy. A must-try, it will last until the end of February, following which it will return the next winter, in mid-December.PS: While in the area, also look for a sweet shop further ahead, in Matia Mahal, that makes jalebis, which are not customary red but black (already celebrated on these pages).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-white-is-as-good-as-red-101642544323038.html
19-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi chief secy retires on April 20, to take up EC post next day||The President has accepted voluntary retirement request of Delhi chief secretary Vijay Kumar, an IAS officer from 1987 batch AGMUT cadre, paving the way for his retirement from service on April 20 this year, and subsequent appointment as the state election commissioner.“The President is pleased to accept the notice of voluntary retirement dated December 31, 2021, of Vijay Kumar Dev, an IAS officer of 1987 batch AGMUT cadre, and permit him to retire voluntarily with effect from April 20, 2022 in accordance with Rule 16(2) of All India Services (death-cum-retirement benefits) rules, 1958,” an order issued by the Union home ministry stated.Dev will assume the position of the election commissioner of Delhi from April 21, 2022, and will hold the office for a term of six years from the date he assumes the charge, or till he turns 65, an order issued in November 2021 stated.Dev assumed charge as Delhi’s chief secretary in 2018, replacing Anshu Prakash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-chief-secy-retires-on-april-20-to-take-up-ec-post-next-day-101642543067080.html
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to get no respite from biting cold till January 23, says Met||Residents continued to shiver as the city’s maximum temperature dipped another notch, going from Monday’s 12°C to 11°C on Tuesday. With this Chandigarh continued to remain colder than Shimla for the third day in a row. The city also recorded a severe cold day as the maximum temperature remained 10.1 degrees below normal. Similar weather conditions are likely to continue in the coming days as well. The minimum temperature also dropped to 9.1°C on Tuesday compared to 9.5°C recorded the previous night.Chandigarh met department director Manmohan Singh said the sky has been obscured since the last few days which is why is the days have remained cold. “The present condition will prevail until January 20, following which, another Western disturbance is expected around January 21 and 22. We may get to see the sun only from January 23,” he said. According to Met officials, a severe cold day is declared in the plains when the minimum temperature is below 10°C and the maximum temperature goes more than 6.5°C below normal.In Shimla, the maximum temperature was recorded at 15.3°C on Tuesday, while in Manali, the maximum temperature stood at 14°C. In the coming days, the maximum temperature is expected to remain around 12 degrees while the minimum temperature will hover around 9 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-to-get-no-respite-from-biting-cold-till-january-23-says-met-101642542176424.html
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||Soon, Chandigarh MC to name and shame waste segregation defaulters||Come January 27 and Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) will go all out to get residents to segregate dry and wet waste.First, a massive awareness campaign will be run to encourage people to segregate waste at source, and then, MC will start penalising violators on a “mission mode”.City Beautiful’s Swachh rankings had seen a sharp decline last year, and one of the major reasons for this was its poor record in waste segregation. The city had also failed to properly process its wet waste, the reason for which was attributed to lack of segregation. Reaching 2.5 lakh units Under the sensitisation campaign, the MC will endeavour to reach more than 2.5 lakh households and establishments in the city from which it collects the door-to-door garbage.“We have charted out an action plan under which we will be distributing four-coloured stickers to households. Each colour will represent a different type of waste like solid, wet and hazardous. These stickers will also have details of what all garbage comes under a certain category of waste. People will be given stickers to be pasted in their kitchen or a place where a type of waste is generally generated,” said MC commissioner Anindita Mitra.In the sensitisation drive, the MC will involve not only its employees but also councillors and other stakeholders.“We have detailed point-wise charts for our employees too which delineate their duties as well as inform them about the types of waste, and how to go about their segregation,” said Mitra.The MC had taken over the door-to-door garbage collection last year through its two-bin vehicles. Earlier this year, these were converted into four-bins. In addition to dry, wet and hazardous waste, the MC will also collect sanitary waste in these vehicles.Zeroing in on defaulting housesFrom area-based approach, the MC will now shift to making individual establishments and houses accountable for not giving segregated waste.It had earlier identified eight such localities - Hallomajra, Bapu Dham Colony, Sanjay Colony (Industrial Area), Indira Colony (Manimajra), Maloya, EWS Colony (Maloya), Mauli Jagran, and Vikas Nagar (Mauli Jagran), where segregation was not up-to-the-mark.“We had earlier identified localities and areas from where we were not getting segregated waste. Now, we are zeroing in on individual houses, which are still giving us mixed waste. If there are 20 houses in a lane, and even one doesn’t give us segregated waste, then the whole waste becomes mixed,” said Mitra.The MC is preparing a list of repeat offenders, who even after requests and warnings continue to flout the mandate of segregation of waste at source.“We are penalising people even now for not segregating waste, but after the awareness campaign, it will be done on a mission mode,” said Mitra.Revving up the wet waste processingThe MC plans to increase the wet waste processing capacity of the solid waste processing plant, Sector 25. Currently, the plant is only processing around 100 MT per day against its full capacity of 300 MT per day. The MC plans to clear up around 300 MT of legacy waste lying at the plant to have more space to dry the wet waste for its full processing. After removal of legacy waste, the plant is expected to double the processing of the wet waste.For dry waste processing, the MC is planning to spend around ₹3 crore for overhauling of the machinery at the existing plant, and another ₹3 crore for running and maintenance costs.
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||Meet Chandigarh’s zero-waste warriors||Even as City Beautiful slipped to an ignominious 66th rank in Swachh Survekshan 2021, thanks to poor waste management practices of the municipal corporation (MC) and lack of citizens’ participation, some of its residents have taken it upon themselves to set things right. From composting at home to recycling waste, these zero-waste warriors are showing the way towards regaining Chandigarh’s lost glory as the cleanest city in the country. Recently, the municipal corporation (MC) had also acknowledged their contribution and honoured them with Swachhta awards. MC commissioner Anindita Mitra said, “We want city residents to become Swachhta partners with the MC, like these individuals and institutions, by taking the lead in solid waste management and also spreading awareness among their neighbours and general public about Swachhta.”Supriya GoyalA social worker, Supriya Goyal, who resides in Sector 28, has taken up the initiative of converting single-use plastic into ‘eco-bricks’. Instead of throwing away single-use plastic items such as biscuit packets, chips packets, toffee rappers, she stuffs it into plastic bottles and donates it to an environment NGO, which further sends it for use in construction of roads and buildings.“I started creating eco-bricks after reading about the damage plastic causes to the soil. Plastic, being non-bio degradable, releases harmful toxins into the environment. We should all pledge to make Earth plastic-free,” she says.“I create eco-bricks with 1-2 litre bottles. So far, I have donated more than 50 eco-bricks to the NGO,” she says while adding that she has been encouraging her neighbours to follow suit. Amit GargAn IT sector entrepreneur, Amit Garg, 37, a resident of Sector 40, started composting wet waste in his house around a year ago. His kitchen waste is helping him get fresh organic vegetables for his kitchen.“Landfill and its hazardous environmental impact is the biggest issue today in Chandigarh. Also, buying compost from the market is expensive. So, creating one’s own compost at home with kitchen waste is a win-win situation.”He first segregates all the wet waste and composts it using earthen pots. “I started with one pot, now there are 40 such earthen pots for composting. We use cocopeat to make manure, and it is totally odourless. We are giving out almost zero waste to the MC.”He urges every resident to start composting at home. “It’s eco-friendly, and the least one can do for the environment. Some of my friends and relatives have also started composting at home.”Naresh KohliNaresh Kohli, a resident of Sector 29, and an employee of the Chandigarh administration, has taken inspiration from Nek Chand and created artefacts for his garden using old tyres, kids’ toys, cycle parts, spoons and broken crockery.He also converts kitchen and garden waste into manure. Kohli also makes eco-bricks. “Around 350gm single-use plastic can be stuffed into a one-litre bottle. We use these as barricades and supporting material for our garden. If produced on large-scale, these can be used in road and pavement constructions,” he adds. He also supports the Chandigarh municipal corporation in creating awareness about waste segregation and home composting, in his ward.Seema GirdharPrincipal of Government Model Senior Secondary School, Dhanas, Seema Girdhar has created a vertical and herbal garden. “We have taken several initiatives and practices, which are aimed at improving the environment and cleanliness in the city. All the waste generated in school is reprocessed on campus, and we don’t need to give any waste to the MC.”GMSSS, Dhanas, is a double shift school where more than 3,500 students study. Most students come from migrant workers’ families and are first-generation learners. The school is teaching them how to be Swachhta warriors and bring change around them. Vertical and herbal gardens on school premises have been created with student participation and use of recycled materials and in-house compost. Prachi MannPrachi Mann, a programming officer of the National Service Scheme (NSS) for Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 32, was recognised by the MC for being an “inspiration and role model for students” in creating Swachhta awareness.“We have been focusing on the recycling single-use plastic. Students are being trained to reuse single-use plastic, which otherwise end up polluting the environment. We are converting plastic into eco-bricks, which are donated to the MC,” she says.In addition to involving students in creating awareness about Swachhta through street plays and awareness campaigns, Maan is also training students to convert waste materials into artefacts. “Our students participated in an MC-organised exhibition displaying waste-to-art products. We have also created a green wall in the school, which is entirely made of waste products,” said Mann.
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||2 Punjab cops arrested, 1 detained for forgery of promotion orders||The UT police arrested two Punjab cops while detaining another one for alleged involvement in forgery of promotion orders of 11 Punjab police personnel issued under the name of former Punjab director general of police (DGP). Those arrested were identified as Sandeep Bahadur and Mani Katoch, both working with Punjab police. As per sources, Sandeep is superintendent while Mani is a head constable and is among the 11 Punjab police personnel whose names figured on the list. Sources added that Mani, according to the forged order, was to be promoted as “officiating ASI with immediate effect.” Sources revealed that another person had been detained while an inspector posted in Mohali police lines and a dismissed sub-inspector of Punjab police were being questioned at the time of filing of this report. “We have arrested two persons and questioning of others is on,” said Ketan Bansal, superintendent of police (SP, City), Chandigarh. The Chandigarh police had on January 12 registered a case against unidentified persons on the complaint of a deputy superintendent of police, on behalf of the Punjab Police, alleging forgery of promotion orders. The promotion orders were of constables, senior constables, sub-inspectors and assistant sub-inspectors, including the gunman of the former director general of Punjab (DGP). Sources said the orders were issued directing the units concerned to issue separate orders of promotion. These letters were purportedly issued on January 8 in the name of former Punjab DGP S Chattopadhyaya, the day the model code of conduct was enforced in the state with the announcement of assembly elections. In reality, no such orders were issued, claim sources. A case under Sections 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating), 464 (false document in the name of a fictitious person), 465 (forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security, or to receive any money, etc), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Sector 3 police station.
19-01-2022||Lucknow||Opposition trying to bring back anarchy that prevailed before 2017: Yogi||LUCKNOW Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said political parties, which believed in dynastic rule, had reminded the people of riots, crime and ‘goondas’, from which they had been relieved after 2017 Assembly elections in UP. In a press statement, he said criminals and rioters had made the electoral battle a fight of mafia, rioters and those carrying country-made revolvers instead of a fight for development and nationalism. He said Uttar Pradesh would win this election while the mafia, rioters and those carrying country- made revolvers would be defeated. “On March 10, the BJP would form the next government with absolute majority,” stated Adityanath. He said the Samajwadi Party, the Congress and the BSP were giving tickets to criminals, rioters and mafia and this became evident from the list of candidates released by these parties. “The three parties are making efforts to bring back the situation of anarchy that prevailed in the state before 2017. People of the state would give a befitting reply to this,” said the CM. Yogi Adityanath said the SP’s move to give tickets to Imran Masood and Nahid Hasan were examples of what kind of agenda the party wanted to pursue in the state. He also listed names of other leaders to make his point. Adityanath said the SP had given a new definition to law and order under its regimes in UP. “Anarchy was law for them and dreaded mafia like Mukhtar Ansari used to be protectors of law for them,” added the CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/opposition-trying-to-bring-back-anarchy-that-prevailed-before-2017-yogi-101642540795954.html
19-01-2022||Gurugram||Infant trafficking: Two arrested from Rajasthan, five-month-old girl rescued||Gurugram police arrested two more suspected members of the interstate infant trafficking gang, which was busted earlier this month, from Alwar district in Rajasthan, and rescued a five-month-old girl child from them, said police on Tuesday.The suspects have been identified as Rajinder Kaur alias Baby (45) of Sadar locality and Anand Kumar (38) of Khairthal locality, both in Alwar. Police said the child was rescued from Anand’s possession.“A police team was camping in Alwar. While Rajinder was arrested on Tuesday, Anand was nabbed on Monday. Both of them are being interrogated ,” said a senior police officer. “There are high chances that the girl was purchased from a poor couple somewhere in Delhi,” he added. Manoj Kumar, station house officer of DLF Phase-III police station, said the interrogation of the suspects will help them find more clues and trace more people involved in the racket. Another police officer said that till now, they have got to know that Rajinder was the first to sell the five-month-old girl to a person. “That person, who is also a native of Alwar, further sold the child to Anand. We are interrogating Anand to find out if he was going to sell the child to someone else or not,” said the officer. He said the person who had bought the child from Rajinder is evading arrest and efforts are on to trace and arrest him. Police said that with the two fresh arrests, 13 members of the interstate gang have been nabbed till now and three female and one male infant have been rescued. The gang was busted after an alert taxi driver drove two women and a man directly inside the premises of DLF Phase-III police station in Gurugram on January 7 with two female infants who were allegedly to be sold. The driver had become suspicious after hearing the telephonic conversation of his passengers, who were talking about selling infants. “The parents of the male child could be traced till now. They are labourers from Delhi, who had sold the child to the gang for money,” said an officer privy to the investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/infant-trafficking-two-arrested-from-rajasthan-five-month-old-girl-rescued-101642540615632.html
19-01-2022||Noida||No increase in forest cover in Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar, finds govt survey||The forest cover in Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar remained unchanged in 2021 from what it was in 2019, showed the State of Forest Report, 2021, released by the Forest Survey of India (FSI) on January 13 this year. The report also indicates there has been no increase in forest cover in the neighbouring districts of Meerut, Baghpat and Bulandshahr compared to 2019, shows the FSI report. According to the report, of the total geographical area of 1,282 square kilometres (sqkm) in Gautam Budh Nagar, the district has a forest cover of 20sqm, which is about 1.56%. Likewise, out of the total 1,179sqkm in Ghaziabad, only 25.22sqm (2.14%) is under forest cover. The report said the two districts have not shown any increase in forest cover compared to the previous assessment carried out in 2019. In fact, the forest cover recorded in Gautam Budh Nagar in 2019 was no different than the assessment carried out in 2017 while there was a decline of -0.78% in Ghaziabad’s forest cover compared to 2017. Officials of the Uttar Pradesh forest department said in the last few years, many trees have been felled for infrastructure projects while efforts are on to increase the area under plantation. “The issue is also with the land availability. This is why the compensatory afforestation, which we take up in lieu of permission given for felling of trees for infrastructure projects, is taken up in districts, such as Shravasti, Chitrakoot and Jhansi among others. The forested areas have old plantation and new addition is done only on a rotational basis. Hence, the forest cover has not shown any increase over the years in the region,” said Ganga Prasad, conservator of forests (Meerut) from UP forest department. Some of the major infrastructure projects which have come up or are under-development includes the Delhi Meerut Expressway, Regional Rapid Transit System, Delhi-Dehradun Expressway, Meerut-Bulandshahr (NH-235) and Eastern Peripheral Expressway. The projects span in Ghaziabad, Meerut, Bulandshahr, Hapur and Baghpat districts, among others. Officials said the data for the permission obtained for felling trees for infrastructure projects was not readily available. According to previously reported figures, for instance, the Delhi Meerut Expressway accounted for felling of about 22,000 trees in phase 2 (UP-Gate to Dasna) while phase 4 (Dasna to Meerut) accounted for 11,025 trees while about 5,500 trees were axed for phase 3 (Dasna to Hapur) of the project. Against this, officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) vouched to plant 101,500 trees in three phases and also paid ₹15 crore for the felled trees to the UP forest department. According to the FSI report, the forest cover includes all lands measuring over one hectare in area with tree canopy density of more than 10%. The forest cover recorded in the report does not make any distinction between the origin of tree crops (whether manmade or natural) or tree species, and encompasses all kinds of lands, irrespective of their ownership, land use of legal status. “Since the survey is taken up by the help of a satellite, it may be possible that smaller trees or patches may not have been accounted for. But it is also true that there is a shortage of land for compensatory afforestation and as a result, the exercise is taken up in other districts,” added Prasad.  Officials of the forest department in Ghaziabad could not be reached for comments. P K Srivastava, divisional forest officer of Gautam Budh Nagar, said, “The FSI report will not take into account the plantation taken up in the last five years.” He, however, declined to elaborate further on his remarks. Overall, in Uttar Pradesh, the forest cover has increased by 6.15% of the total geographical area of 240,928 sqkm. Environmentalists said the districts have a target of planting 500,000-700,000 plants every year. “Despite this, there is a shortfall in forest cover. If the forest cover has not increased over the years, there has to be some serious planning. In the coming years, more infrastructure projects will come up and it would mean more trees would be felled,” said Sushil Raghav, an environmentalist from Ghaziabad. “Plantation is taken up by the forest department and other agencies, besides citizens also do their bit. However, such plantation is scattered and undertaken on a patch of land, which many not qualify as forest cover as per the methodology taken up by FSI for the report. On the other hand, old trees have also been felled for major projects. Hence, more and more plants should be planted on roadsides and vacant patches and the increase may reflect in the coming years,” said Vikrant Sharma, another environmentalist from Ghaziabad.
19-01-2022||Noida||Daily cases drops 1,000-mark as Ghaziabad reports 793 new infections||For the first time in over a week, the daily infections dropped below the 1,000-mark as the district recorded 793 fresh Covid cases, taking the number of infections reported in January to 17,080--the highest number of cases to be reported in a month since the beginning of the Covid outbreak. According to district data, Ghaziabad district recorded more than 1,000 fresh cases per day from January 10 to 17.Currently, there are 8,828 active cases in the district, of whom 94 patients are taking treatment in hospitals while the remaining are in home isolation. As many as 2,473 patients were declared ‘recovered’ on Tuesday.“The patients requiring hospitalisation are majorly senior citizens or those who have comorbidities. Otherwise, a majority of the patients are recovering well in home isolation,” said Dr Sunil Tyagi, additional chief medical officer. Meanwhile, the week spanning from January 12 to 18 recorded a positivity rate of 15.62%, the highest positivity rate recorded in a week since December 1, when Covid cases started increasing. Positivity rate refers to the number of samples which returns positive for Covid-19 out of the total samples tested. According to official data of the district health department, the weekly positivity rate stood at 0.03% with 26,067 samples yielding seven positive cases during the week from December 1-7 in 2021. Thereafter, the weekly positivity rate increased and shot up to 15.62% in the week ending on January 18, when the samples of 10,843 patients confirmed positive for Covid-19 on the back of 69,396 tests. Official data indicates that the Covid-19 infection is at its peak since it started rising in December. Officials said they will observe the trend for another week. “We are seeing the 793 cases (reported on Tuesday) as a decline as many test reports are pending at a lab in Lucknow and the figure may rise once these reports come. According to our estimates, the rise in Covid cases has reached a plateau and we expect that it will stay this way for another week or a fortnight, after which cases may start declining,” said Dr Tyagi. Experts feel there has been a decline in Covid cases. “If we just discuss the cases at our hospital (32), then I will say cases are decreasing and we have reached a declining stage. The peak may have not arrived yet, though we are observing a decline in daily cases, but if the government withdraws the night curfew and other restrictions, cases will reach its peak anytime soon,” said Dr Sharad Joshi, associate director (pulmonology) at Max Hospital, Vaishali. “If proper Covid precautionary measures are not followed and if political rallies or public gatherings are conducted, we are assuming that cases will increase at a faster rate and soon reach its peak,” said Dr Joshi. Between December 1, 2021, to January 18 this year, the health department collected 286,066 samples, of which 17,308 have returned Covid positive. 
19-01-2022||Noida||With over 19,000 cases in January, monthly tally in GB Nagar now highest ever||Gautam Budh Nagar reported 1,262 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the number of infections reported in the district in January to 19,662, the highest number of cases to be reported in a month ever since the pandemic began. Currently, there are 10,428 active cases in the district while 3,150 people have been declared ‘recovered’ in the 24 hours. Though the daily count of Covid cases is much lower than Monday, when 2,158 cases were reported, the monthly Covid cases are now higher than ever before. According to data available with the district administration, the monthly Covid tally has crossed the infections recorded during the peak of the second wave, when the district recorded 17,358 cases in April and 18,729 cases in May. Not just the total cases, even the fatality count was very high during this period. While 213 Covid deaths were recorded last April, there were 143 fatalities from the infection in May. This year, however, just one Covid death has been reported in January so far. Though the severity of the infection is less this time, the transmissibility is much higher. There are still 12 days left in this month. “In this wave, the number of positive cases have been high all over as compared to the previous wave. Obviously, transmissibility is more. At the same time, serious cases and hospital requirement are less this time. This is a positive sign and we hope that cases start reducing soon,” said district magistrate Suhas L Y. Another positive trend is the age profile of those who tested positive for Covid-19. Unlike previous assumptions that more children will be infected in the current wave, this has not been the case. According to district data, just 8.2% of the total confirmed cases recorded between December 15 to January 17 were of children while the remaining cases were of adults. Of the total cases recorded during this period, 1.8% were of children less than five-years-old while around 6.4% were children between the age of five and 17 years. Meanwhile, adults accounted for 17,095 cases in the last one month. Doctors said it was clear very early on that it may not be a ‘paediatric wave’ and preparations should be made accordingly. “We had suggested to the administration that preparations should be made for hybrid ICUs where, both adults and children can be treated. It seemed like a false assumption very early on since children usually have better immunity and there was no scientific reason why more children would be affected,” said Dr D K Gupta, chairman, Felix hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/with-over-19-000-cases-in-january-monthly-tally-in-gb-nagar-now-highest-ever-101642539174875.html
19-01-2022||Delhi||SDMC announces waiver of previous years’ property tax in newly regularised unauthorised colonies||In its revised budget estimate for the fiscal 2021-22 and 2022-23, the standing committee of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Tuesday rejected the proposal to hike property taxes in recently regularised unauthorised colonies. Standing committee chairman Col (Retd) BK Oberoi said that the waiver will be made under a special amnesty scheme. “According to the scheme, property tax of residential property for previous years will be waived if a taxpayer deposits the property tax for the financial year 2021-22. The property tax of non-residential property for previous years will be waived if a taxpayer deposits the property tax for the last three fiscals from 2019,” he said. He said that while the SDMC collaborated with BECIL to operate all parking lots through My Parking App, it has also signed an MoU with Indian Solar Energy Corporation to install solar rooftop plants at its buildings. “Not only that, the civic body has also set up 20 STPs with a capacity to process 50 kilolitres waste per day at 16 locations using its urban development fund. We have also signed an MoU to set up a CBG plant having capacity to dispose of 100 TPD [tonnes per day] wet garbage at Hastsal,” he said. Oberoi also said that to ensure proper garbage management in the areas under the jurisdiction of the SDMC, waste segregation is being done in 16 model wards. “One small Mechanical Sweeping-cum-Jetting Machine will be made available in each zone. The engineered landfill site has been set up at Tehkhand, Okhla, besides a waste-to-energy plant on 15 acres of land at this site. We also planned to set up a 100 TPD capacity material recovery facility there,” he said. He said that in the health sector, one 24X7 maternity services centre has been established at Mata Gujri Hospital in Tilak Nagar. “We have also set up two dialysis centres at Mata Gujri Hospital, Tilak Nagar, and Poornima Sethi Hospital, Kalkaji. The SDMC has also approved a proposal to open eight new health centres, besides computerised OPD registration facility at all health centres,” he said. Highlighting the budget provisions in the education sector, the standing committee chairman said that rain water harvesting system has been constructed in 399 school buildings of the 431 school buildings under the SDMC’s jurisdiction. While CCTV cameras have been installed in 388 schools so far, they will be installed in remaining 43 schools very soon. We have also decided to set up a resource centre in each zone for children with special needs (CWSN). The standing committee has also approved the hike in the boys’ fund from ₹40 per year to ₹100 per year,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sdmc-announces-waiver-of-previous-years-property-tax-in-newly-regularised-unauthorised-colonies-101642537494329.html
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir reports highest Covid cases in 8 months; Srinagar logs 957 infections||Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday witnessed three Covid-induced deaths and 4,651 fresh infections – reporting the highest daily surge after May 9.The active cases in the union territory reached 21,677 with over 20,300 active cases added in January so far. On December 31, the union territory had just 1,337 active cases.The officials said a record 74,772 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT taking Tuesday’s daily test positivity rate to 6.22% for the first time since May when the second wave had peaked. The authorities have increased the testing rate this month as they have been conducting between 42,000 and 56,000 average daily tests every month from May to December.Of the total infections, Kashmir valley saw 3,105 infections and a fatality while 1,546 cases and two deaths were reported in the Jammu division.Kashmir valley witnessed the highest 957 cases in the summer capital Srinagar followed by 633 cases in Baramulla, 411 in Budgam and 253 in Anantnag.Kashmir divisional commissioner Pandurang K Pole held a review meeting with regard to the containment of the pandemic.“The wave predominantly looks like Omicron-led and is mild in severity so far which is depicted from the data,” Pole said as stressed the importance of home isolation management at the primary level.He directed all chief medical officers of the division to monitor referral cases to tertiary care hospitals themselves. “(Do) not refer cases to tertiary care hospitals which can be managed at primary and secondary level hospitals within the districts,” he said.Jammu division’s Jammu district reported 919 cases followed by 184 in Udhampur and 109 in Samba.Jammu district has the highest number of Covid active cases at 4,862 followed by Srinagar and Baramulla districts with 4,706 and 3,107 active cases, respectively.This month has witnessed a steep rise in cases. As many as 2,827 were reported on Monday, 3,499 on Sunday 2,456 cases were detected on Friday, 1,996 cases on Thursday, 1,695 cases on Wednesday and 1,148 on Tuesday. From January 5 to 10, the union territory saw between 400 to 700 cases daily. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 899 with active positive cases reaching 21,677.However, of the 4,794 beds dedicated for Covid patients, just over 7.36 percent or 353 are occupied, indicating that the higher cases are not translating into higher hospital admissions. The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 51,060 vaccine doses were administered taking overall doses administered in the UT to 1.997 crore.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,40,599 while the recovery rate has dropped to 92.84%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,66,851 and the death toll has reached 4,575.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,174 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 887 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-reports-highest-covid-cases-in-8-months-srinagar-logs-957-infections-101642537435714.html
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||Iranian apples in mandis worry Kashmir growers; write to PM Narendra Modi||In summer, young growers from Sopore Asif and Adil purchased thousands of apple boxes across north Kashmir with the hope that they will reap good dividends by selling those apples outside state fruit mandis in winter.The arrival and export of Iranian apples have marred the prospects of these young growers, who say that now over 2,500 apple boxes are lying inside their house at Saripora, Rafiabad, which is known as the apple bowl of north Kashmir and is close to Asia’s second-largest fruit mandi at Mazbough, Sopore. “If market doesn’t stablise then we are staring at a bleak future. I recently sold a few hundred boxes in Jammu as there were no takers in big mandis outside the state. Even in Kolkata, after spending huge freight, I did get a good price for my produce,” said Adil Malik, who after completing a master’s degree in education from Pune started doing his own business. “Last year, I had purchased 2,000 boxes, but this year I and my brother took a big risk by purchasing 4,000 boxes during summers. So far, we have just sold less than half of our apples as we didn’t get the good money that we had desired for our produce. The apple box that usually used to fetch us ₹1,100 to 1,300 is currently sold at ₹600 to 700 per box,” he says, adding that if the market doesn’t stabilise then they will lose huge money. “Due to slump in mandis, we haven’t paid to growers from whom we had purchased apples. All this is due to apples from Iran,” he said.Adil’s brother Asif too is perturbed due to the present market condition. “We had been eyeing to earn good money, but now we fear losses,” he said.From the last two weeks, growers across Kashmir have expressed concern over the sale of Iranian apples in mandis without the imposition of tax. At Sopore and Srinagar fruit mandis where apples are brought by big commission agents, the growers held protests after they failed to fetch a good price for their produce.As per official records, 7 lakh farming families (approximately 35 lakh people) are directly or indirectly associated with the sector. The apple trade contributes to around 8% of the UT’s GDP and the government is trying to increase production by introducing high-density plantations.Growers allege that the arrival of apples from Iran has increased from the last year which is damaging the fruit industry not only in Kashmir but also in Himachal Pradesh.“Compared to the previous year, this time production was very good in Kashmir. Till Diwali we had good business. Once the apples started arriving from Iran, the rates have come down more than 50 percent,” said Bashir Ahmad Bhat, president, Kashmir Valley Fruit Growers-cum-Dealers Union.He said, “If we have our production then why we are allowing apples from Iran here. This will ruin not only the apple industry in Kashmir but also in Himachal Pradesh. We have brought this issue to the notice of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union agriculture minister and other officials but so far the issue hasn’t been resolved.”Bhat said that allowing apples from Iran via Mumbai, Cochin ports or Afghanistan via the Wagah border will cause severe damage to the trade. “Last year Iranian apple came via Afghanistan without any tax and everybody knows that Afghanistan doesn’t produce apples. We fear if things aren’t stopped in coming years, the quantum of apples from Iran will see a spike and there won’t be any takers for our apples,” he said.Even J&K’s horticulture department has shot a letter to the Central government highlighting the issue of import of Iranian apple/kiwi under the name of Afghanistan that has certain tax relaxation and sought regulation of import of apples from Iran to safeguard the local apple industry of J&K and Himachal Pradesh.Director, horticulture, Ajaz Ahmad said more than 16 lakh metric tonnes of apple have been exported from Kashmir and sold already this season. “This time1.87 lakh metric tonnes are in cold stores. I don’t think the apple from Iran has any potential to damage our industry. Usually, the apples stored in cold stores are sold April onwards,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/iranian-apples-in-mandis-worry-kashmir-growers-write-to-pm-narendra-modi-101642537434332.html
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||Army rescues 30 civilians trapped in avalanches in Kupwara||The Army on Tuesday rescued 30 civilians stuck in avalanches triggered by recent snowfall in the border district of Kupwara, officials said on Tuesday.Kashmir’s upper reaches had received fresh snowfall on Monday after a fresh western disturbance hit the region. The weather was also cloudy on Tuesday and it is expected to snow on Wednesday as well.Col Emron Musavi, PRO, Defence, Srinagar, said amidst fresh snowfall and two avalanches, the Army and the General Reserve Engineering Force (GREF) rescued 30 civilians stuck on the Chowkibal-Tangdhar road (NH-701) on the night of January 17-18.“As soon as the information of civilians getting stuck closer to Khooni Nala and SM Hill on the national highway 701 reached the troops at the NC Pass, two rescue teams were mobilised for rescuing the civilians who were stuck in their vehicles,” he said.The rescue group comprised the avalanche rescue teams from the Army and a team of the GREF.Musavi said despite adverse weather conditions compounded by twin avalanches, 14 civilians were brought to Neelam and 16 civilians to the NC Pass, which is also commonly known as the Sadhna Pass.“All the rescued civilians were provided food, medical care and shelter for the night,” he said.The Army also said that it retrieved 12 vehicles on Tuesday after snow clearance from the road.“The GREF played a difficult but stellar role in snow clearance amidst dangerous conditions. The entire effort took about five to six hours,” Musavi said.Last year also people were rescued near Khooni Nala as the area is prone to avalanches and snow-slides.More rains, snow expectedThe Srinagar office of the meteorological department has predicted more rains and snow on Wednesday as the sky remained overcast in the valley on Tuesday.“We expect widespread rains and mild snowfall on Wednesday,” an official of the department said.Director, meteorological department in J&K and Ladakh, Sonam Lotus had on Monday predicted two weather systems to hit the region.“The weather is expected to remain generally cloudy with light precipitation and light to moderate precipitation during January 21-22 at scattered places of J&K and Ladakh. No forecast of any major snow spell till January-end,” he said.The minimum night temperatures improved in Kashmir on Tuesday owing to the cloud cover.The lowest temperature of -6.0°C was recorded in north Kashmir’s ski resort of Gulmarg while the resort of Pahalgam in south Kashmir recorded -0.7°C. The mercury settled at 1.1°C in summer capital Srinagar during the night while it was 0.2°C in south Kashmir’s Qazigund, the gateway into Kashmir from Jammu.It was -0.6°C in Kokernag, 0.6°C in Konibal and 0.2°C in Kupwara.The day temperatures on Monday at all the above stations did not cross 6.1°C degrees with Gulmarg seeing lowest -0.5°C and Qazigund recording highest 6.1°C.Kashmir is under the grip of Chilai Kalan, the valley’s harshest over 40-day winter period which started on December 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/army-rescues-30-civilians-trapped-in-avalanches-in-kupwara-101642537376990.html
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||Complete DPRs of projects in time-bound manner, says Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur||Presiding over a meeting with the MLAs of Kangra and Kinnaur districts to finalise priorities for the Budget 2022-23, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur directed officers to address various issues taken up by the public representatives besides considering their suggestions on priority.He said the detailed project reports (DPRs) of various projects should be completed in a time-bound manner.He said the state government during the last four years has ensured that every area and every section of society gets the benefits of welfare and developmental schemes initiated by the state government. He said despite the pandemic, the government laid special focus on strengthening the health infrastructure in the state. He said that there were only two oxygen plants in the state and today there were 48 oxygen plants.Thakur said that several schemes have been initiated to ensure that the weaker sections of society were not deprived of better healthcare facilities for the want of funds. He said under the Ayushman Bharat scheme, 4.26 lakh families have been registered and 1.20 lakh people have been provided free treatment worth ₹145 crore. He said that under the Chief Minister HIMCARE Yojana, 5.13 lakh families have been registered and 2.20 lakh families have been provided financial benefits of ₹200 crore.He said that a provision of ₹2,363.80 crore was made for the implementation of MLAs’ priority schemes in the five years of the previous government’s tenure, whereas the present government has made a provision of ₹3,183.37 crore in the first four years itself.During the meeting, the MLAs of Kangra and Kinnaur listed priority projects for their respective constituencies. Various demands raised by the MLAs were related to roads, water supply schemes, hospitals, schools, colleges and setting up industrial areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/complete-dprs-of-projects-in-time-bound-manner-says-himachal-cm-jai-ram-thakur-101642537375768.html
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||Himachal logs record 3,084 Covid cases, five deaths; Shimla reports 644 infections||Himachal Pradesh’s Covid-19 case tally climbed to 2,48,895 on Tuesday after a record 3,084 people were tested for the virus. The death toll mounted to 3,885 as five more patients succumbed to the contagion.Shimla and Kangra districts reported record 644 and 594 cases, respectively. 461 cases were reported from Solan, 437 from Mandi, 264 from Hamirpur, 163 from Una, 137 from Sirmaur, 135 from Bilaspur, 126 from Kullu, 80 from Chamba, 34 from Kinnaur and nine from Lahaul-Spiti.Two fatalities were reported from Shimla and one each from Mandi, Solan and Una.Active cases climbed to 13,639 while the recoveries reached 2,31,328 after 1,581 people recuperated.Kangra is the worst hit district with its case tally reached 56,510 followed by 34,115 cases in Mandi and 31,080 cases in Shimla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-logs-record-3-084-covid-cases-five-deaths-shimla-reports-644-infections-101642537374399.html
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||I congratulate the groom, but wedding in voters’ hands: Sidhu on Bhagwant Mann as AAP’s CM face||Hours after the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) announced its member of Parliament (MP) Bhagwant Mann as the chief ministerial candidate for Punjab, state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu congratulated him in a mocking tone. “The bridegroom (CM candidate) may have been chosen but it depends on the people whether a wedding should take place or not. I congratulate the bridegroom, though. Our high command is intelligent and whatever decision it will take, it will be in the interest of the state. I have trust in the people of Punjab that they will vote for ‘Punjab model’, a roadmap for the state’s future. Sidhu stands by the roadmap; Sidhu stands for giving a better life to the people of Punjab. Getting power for the heck of it is not Sidhu’s interest,” he said at a press conference in Amritsar on Tuesday. He said the ‘Punjab model’ will end the ‘thekedari’ (contract) system, bring the state’s money back and invest in people’s welfare. “Complete government control over sand mining is the only solution. ‘Punjab model’ proposes the formation of Punjab State Mining Corporation to disband the ‘thekedari’ system and to sell sand at a fixed rate and date. As long as the ‘thekedari’ system exists, people won’t have access to cheaper sand,” he said. “The ‘Punjab model’ policy includes state-owned stockyards, online booking, delivery on fixed date through GPS-fitted trucks. This will provide cheap sand to the people and earn the exchequer about ₹2,000-3000 crore extra on yearly basis besides creating 60,000 jobs for the youth,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/i-congratulate-the-groom-but-wedding-in-voters-hands-sidhu-on-bhagwant-mann-as-aap-s-cm-face-101642537266281.html
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||Himachal reports 5 Omicron cases; highest positivity rate in Shimla, Solan||Genome sequencing has confirmed the presence of the Omicron variant in the sample of five Covid-19 patients in Himachal. With this, the total number of Omicron cases has reached six in the hill state. Two cases were reported from Una on Monday while two cases were reported from Mandi and one from Kullu on Tuesday. Una chief medical officer Dr Raman Sharma said one of the patients has travel history to Dubai while the other returned from France. Their samples were sent for genome sequencing on January 6. Both the patients are in good health. However, the health authorities traced their contacts and their samples were collected as a precautionary measure. The CMO said all their contacts have been tested negative for Covid-19. Meanwhile, two Australia returnees have tested positive for the variant in Mandi. The person, who tested positive in Kullu, has returned from Canada, said National Health Mission director Hemraj Bairwa. Their contacts are being traced. The first case of Omicron in Himachal was reported on December 26 when a Canada returnee woman was tested positive for the variant. Highest positivity rate in Shimla, Solan Meanwhile, the state health authorities said that Shimla registered the highest positivity rate of 25.3% last week (January 10 to 16) followed by Solan with a positivity rate of 20.7%. A total of 6,442 tests were conducted in Shimla of which 1,628 tested positive for Covid-19. The overall positivity rate in the state was 14.1% after 11,280 out of 80,277 samples turned out positive during the one-week period. At the onset of the third wave in December last week, the positivity rate was just over 1%. Of the 9,364 samples taken in Solan 1,939 had tested positive. With 1,056 samples testing positive for the virus out of 5,299, Hamirpur was third on the list registering a positivity rate of 19.9%. Kangra, the most populous and also worst-hit district, clocked a positivity rate of 13.8%. A total of eight districts have a positivity rate above 10%. Other districts with high positivity rates are Sirmaur (16.5), Kullu (16.2), Una (12.3) and Mandi (10.1). The districts with a positivity rate below 10% were Lahaul-Spiti (4.3), Bilaspur (6), Chamba (7.1) and Kinnaur (7.8). 
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||Four killed, 3 injured as JCB machine falls into gorge in Kullu’s Banjar||Four people, including a woman, were killed and three injured after a JCB machine, engaged in a road clearing operation, plunged into a 300-ft gorge at Grahu of Bajnar subdivision in Kullu district on Tuesday.The deceased have been identified as Pyar Dasi, 55, Dave Ram, 56, Bheme Ram, 37, all residents of nearby villages who worked as labourers. The fourth victim has been identified as Hem Raj, 28, the JCB operator.Kullu superintendent of police (SP) Gurdev Chand Sharma said the rescue teams were rushed to the spot immediately after the information was received.He said there was a total of seven occupants on the JCB machine which was on its way to open a blocked road. He said three injured have been admitted to Banjar Hospital.A case has been registered and further investigations are on. The cause of the accident is yet to be ascertained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-killed-3-injured-as-jcb-machine-falls-into-gorge-in-kullu-s-banjar-101642537262562.html
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||Rakesh Pathania launches Himachal’s new sports policy; aims at developing infrastructure||Youth services and sports minister Rakesh Pathania on Tuesday formally launched the Himachal Pradesh Swarnim Jyanati Sports Policy-2021 which he said was aimed at promoting sports at the grass-roots level, creating world-class infrastructure and producing international players.Releasing the policy during a press conference at Dharamshala, Pathania said the need to review the existing policy and formulate a comprehensive policy was realised for a long.Given the limited access to sports/physical education opportunities in far-flung areas due to geographical constraints and low level of participation, particularly of girls, in sports activities at home, schools, colleges and workplaces the need for a new policy was felt.He said the sports facilities in the educational institutions were also inadequate while the need to revamp the role of sports associations was also felt. Besides, a scientific support system was also needed for high-performing athletes.The minister said that in the new sports policy, government, departments of education, panchayati raj rural and urban development, tourism, forests, and various sports associations, youth clubs and community have been made the stakeholders.“The new sports policy intends to develop the sports infrastructure by way of convergence of various department and active participation of voluntary organisations at panchayat and cluster level,” he said.“The youth services and sports department will focus on district sports complexes, super-specialty complexes besides grass-root level collaborations,” he said.He said the new policy is also aimed at making Himachal a training destination by creating high-altitude training infrastructure in collaboration with the Government of India and the state forests department.The new policy, Pathania said, also lays emphasis on winter sports, adventure sports and water sports infrastructure to reap geographical dividend in tourism sector and discipline-specific competitive sports. Apart from it, focus would be on the development of super-specialty sports facilities.“A state sports institute will be set up to coordinate sports training, officer certificate courses and seminars for capacity-building of the manpower,” he said.Sports prioritisationThe sports minister said that there will be categorisation of sports discipline for optimum utilisation of resources and better results.“Indigenous sports, adventure sports and state-specific popular sports will be promoted to reap the dividends of inherent talent and strengths,” said Pathania.The role of state sports associations has been well defined with provisions for framing detailed guidelines and extension of government support and sports clubs will be vigorously promoted.Aggressive talent huntSports tournaments will be organised at the grass-root level to carry out an aggressive talent hunt. The education department will identify the budding high-performing sportspersons and they will be groomed by the sports department,” he said, adding that emphasis would be on Fit India and gender-specific tournaments. “There will be integration of sports with education through the action-based approach on curriculum participation of every student in a time-bound sports activities and inclusion of yoga and physical education at primary level,” he said.Pathania said to encourage the youth to opt for sports as a career, the new policy also has the provision of Class-I and Class-II appointments under 3% quota in employment will be made in all departments.Besides, the cash incentive for medal winners in various international sports events and new categories of international sports tournaments have been included in this list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rakesh-pathania-launches-himachal-s-new-sports-policy-aims-at-developing-infrastructure-101642537195527.html
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||BJP-led state government claiming credit for works started by Congress: Sudhir Sharma||All-India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary and former minister Sudhir Sharma on Tuesday slammed the BJP-led state government accusing it of claiming credit for projects which were initiated in the previous Congress regime.In a press statement issued here, Sharma said the chief minister would be inaugurating several projects in Dharamshala on Wednesday, which were actually started by the Congress government led by the then chief minister Virbhadra Singh.“All these projects were deliberately delayed by the present government for four years. Now, when the state has entered the election year, the chief minister is coming to claim credit for these projects,” he said.Sharma also alleged that the chief minister would also inaugurate the Dharamshala War Museum, the inauguration of which was already done by ex-CM Virbhadra Singh.“This is a bad joke with our brave soldiers and the people of Dharamshala as well,” he said. Sharma said the project for expansion and beautification of HPTDC’s Hotel, Dhauladhar, was approved during the Congress regime.He said that a football academy is already proposed at the Zoravar Stadium where the CM is going to lay the foundation stone of the international convention centre. A gymnasium and a lake are also proposed to come up there. “Any attempt to tinker with the existing plan would be opposed vehemently,” he said.The former Dharamshala MLA said the biggest project, the Dharamshala-McLeodganj ropeway, was also approved by the previous government at a cost of ₹140 crore.“The delay caused by the present government escalated its cost to over ₹200 crore. The government must clarify why the work on proposed parking at the lower terminal of the ropeway is could not be started as of yet,” he said.He said that chief minister Jai Ram Thakur must also clarify about the second capital status for Dharamshala town which was granted by the previous government.He must also tell the people why there was no quality check on the works done under the Smart City Mission and what is the status of the Himani-Chamunda Ropeway project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjpled-state-government-claiming-credit-for-works-started-by-congress-sudhir-sharma-101642537194180.html
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Mini Covid centre inaugurated at police hospital||Director General of Police (DGP) Praveer Ranjan on Tuesday inaugurated a 52-bed mini Covid care centre at the Police Hospital in Sector 26 which has been set up by the Sri Sathya Sai Gramin Jagriti. Ranjan said that the centre will offer free treatment to families of police personnel and also the general public at large, especially from financially-challenged background. The trust said that the centre will provide all facilities free of cost and a team of 28 doctors and medical staff will look after the patients 24x7. Also, recreational activities will be organised and nutritious food will also be provided to the patients for free. According to the chairman of the trust, the unused portion of the hospital building was used to set up the centre.MORE NEWS IN BRIEFSTraders’ body assures mayor of full supportMembers of the MC coordination committee of Chandigarh Beopar Mandal on Tuesday assured mayor Sarabjit Kaur, senior deputy mayor Dalip Sharma and deputy mayor Anoop Gupta of full support towards all steps that will be taken by MC to upgrade and beautify markets of the city and assure the trading community’s welfare. The CBM delegation led by president Charanjiv Singh gave the newly-elected officials a formal welcome.MC cracks down on use of polythene bags The municipal corporation on Tuesday carried out a special drive at the Sector 26 grain market and seized 60 kg polythene. The drive was conducted by sanitary inspectors of the MC, during which 14 violators were challaned for using banned plastic bags and 12 for flouting sanitation norms.4 men held for gambling in DhanasThe district crime cell of Chandigarh police arrested four men while gambling in Dhanas. The accused have been identified as Ashish Kumar, 32, of Sector 25; Ramesh Kumar, 54, of Sector 44; Ravi Kumar, 27, of Dhanas and Somvir, 30, of Sector 25. Police recovered a van and ₹51,150 from them. A case under Gambling Act was registered against them and later, they were released on bail. Meanwhile, police arrested a 19-year-old resident of Manimajra for gambling in Sector 26 and recovered ₹500 from his possession. The accused has been identified as Subham, 19. A case under Gambling Act was registered at Manimajra police station. Man held with illegal knifeA 27-year-old man was arrested for illegal possession of a knife. The accused has been identified as Naresh of New Indira Colony, Manimajra. A case under Arms Act was registered at Sector 26 police station. 3 snatchers land in police netThree Panchkula men have been arrested for snatching a phone near the bus stand in Manimajra on January 16. The accused have been identified as Bajrangi, Dharminder and Nishant alias Nishu. They have been arrested based on the statement of the victim, Amardev. 
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Covid vaccination numbers go down as residents fear infection at sites||Amid rising Covid infections, Chandigarh’s daily vaccination figures are seeing a consistent dip. Health officials feel that residents are avoiding visiting vaccination centres and hospitals, fearing infection at these sites. On Tuesday, the city recorded only 968 vaccinations even as two weeks ago, on January 4, it had recorded its highest ever single-inoculations with 14,627 getting jabbed.UT’s director, health services, Dr Suman Singh said, “As cases are going up, people are not willing to visit vaccination centres or hospitals. Over 9,000 people in the city are presently infected and in mandatory isolation. Their family members (even if they are not infected) are in quarantine. However, these people, despite their eligibility, cannot move out and get vaccinated.”She added that people are now contacting health workers through helpline numbers (see box) and requesting vaccination at home. “We are going to their doorsteps and administering the doses,” she added. Jittery wait as city close to 100% vaccinationDue to the slow-pace of vaccination drive, UT has already missed its target of fully vaccinating its entire eligible population by December 31, 2021. According to the latest electoral list and central government’s set target, there are around 8.43 lakh adults eligible for vaccination in Chandigarh. For the last four days, the vaccination percentage has been stuck between 98% and 99%.UT health secretary Yashpal Garg said, “Until Monday, the city had around 91,000 people who had taken the first dose of Covid vaccine, but had not turned up for the second dose even after the completion of the time gap between both doses. We are contacting each one of them are asking them to get vaccinated.” ‘Youngsters enthusiastic, precaution dose evokes dull response’According to the eligible population projected by the central government, about 72,000 children, aged 15 to 18, are eligible for vaccination in Chandigarh. Since January 3, UT health department has vaccinated 46,869 (65%) children with the first dose while they are expecting to meet their vaccination target by January 26. However, for the precaution dose, the response has been dull. Since January 10, only 2,325 healthcare workers (9% of the target), 2,055 frontline workers (9%), and 3,578 (23%) comorbid senior citizens (above the age of 60) have taken the precautionary jab in UT.“Since healthcare workers, frontline workers and co-morbid senior citizens are more vulnerable to catching the infection, they should get vaccinated with the boaster at the earliest,” said Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-covid-vaccination-numbers-go-down-as-residents-fear-infection-at-sites-101642536954234.html
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||SSM’s poll plunge will have no bearing on AAP prospects in Punjab: Bhagwant Mann||Why should people vote for AAP? People have made up their minds to vote for us. In 2017, they trusted Capt (Amarinder Singh) thinking he was the same Capt of 2002-07. Prashant Kishor also got them to make lofty promises. People feel cheated because the Congress didn’t fulfil its promises and tried to wriggle out by replacing Capt with Channi just 70-80 days ago. This will not work as Channi and others were part of his team. We are doing positive politics, laying out our roadmap. ‘Khazana vi bharange, debt vi clear karange aur logan nu facilities vi dewange’. There is a feeling that Sanyukt Samaj Morcha set up by farmer bodies will dent AAP. Kejriwal Ji also conceded this. What’s your sense? SSM is a political party. Let’s stop calling them farmers. They are fighting elections and the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (an umbrella organisation that spearheaded the farmers’ stir) has already announced that the unions contesting the elections are not part of it. People are very intelligent. They know very well who is going to dent whom, who is splitting votes, and who is helping whom. I don’t think there will be much loss to us. You haven’t been campaigning hard so far. Why? Circumstances were such due to Covid-19 first and then the EC restrictions. But the EC guidelines suit us. We are specialists of door-to-door campaign. We forced those who used to get votes by waiving their hands from helicopters to go door to door. We have passionate people in our social media teams. Their people are on salary. If restrictions are relaxed, I will switch gears and hold rallies. In 2014 and 2017, AAP’s footprint was limited to just Malwa and absent from Majha and Doaba. Have you made up? The response we are getting these regions is competing with Malwa. Our ‘Tiranga Yatra’ in Pathankot and Jalandhar saw good turnouts. I got huge response in Patti. We will do very well in all three regions. Allegations are that AAP is being run from Delhi. What do you have to say? Is the Congress run from Bhucho Mandi? Every third day Channi or Sidhu are called (to Delhi). Does Harish Chaudhary belong to Mansa? Where are Gajendra Shekhawat, Hardeep Puri and Meenakshi Lekhi from? Ours is a national party. It is headquartered in Delhi. This does not mean that decisions are taken in Delhi. All decisions are taken by Punjab leadership. In 2017, you did well in reserved constituencies. How will Channi’s appointment as the first SC chief minister impact the electoral dynamics? We don’t do caste politics. We talk about 2.75 crore Punjabis. When we say that we will transform schools, who will benefit from it – the poor, and ditto for hospitals. We are getting same response from every section. 
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||Mohali MLA holds meetings in 12 villages ahead of Punjab elections||With one month left for the Punjab assembly elections, Congress candidate from Mohali constituency Balbir Singh Sidhu on Tuesday campaigned at 12 villages.The villages are- Jhiurheri, Bakarpur, Safipur, Nadhiali, Alipur, Kandala, Dharamgarh, Roorka, Chachumajra, Paapri, Kambala and Kambali .On the occasion, he also inaugurated his election office at Bakarpur and Jaspal Singh, former sarpanch of Alipur, left the Shiromani Akali Dal and joined the Congress party. Jaspal announced that he will mobilise the people of the village in favour of Sidhu and Congress in the upcoming elections.He said that he was impressed with the all-around development carried out by Sidhu in the constituency and he decided to join him and Congress party for further betterment of the area.Meanwhile, while addressing various election meetings, Sidhu said that he has come to the court of the people on the issue of development and was seeking votes from the people on the basis of his work.Kulwant campaigns in PattonFormer mayor and Aam Aadmi Party candidate from Mohali, Kulwant Singh, on Tuesday campaigned from door-to-door at Patton village.Kulwant said a large number of people are joining AAP on their own and they are receiving strong response as people from almost all walks of life are expressing their confidence in AAP’s policies. Some youths of the village also joined AAP in the presence of Kulwant Singh.Channi hasn’t fulfilled any promise: SohanaAkali-BSP candidate Parvinder Singh Sohana and his supporters on Tuesday created awareness about the future programs of the party by reaching out to the locals. Sohana is also holding private meetings at various places to meet the people .Parvinder claimed that the people of Punjab have now understood the false pretences of the Congress and AAP and are ready to make changes to get employment and better hospitals, schools and other facilities.He said that chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi has been unable to fulfil any of his 80 promises even 111 days into his tenure. He added that the CM is proposing to start new projects worth ₹22,000 crore, whereas Punjab is in debt of over ₹3,000 crore||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohalimla-holds-meetings-in-12-villages-ahead-of-punjab-elections-101642536774064.html
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||Seven more Covid deaths in Chandigarh tricity area, active caseload crosses 20K||Tricity logged seven more Covid deaths—five from Mohali and two from Chandigarh – on Tuesday. This, even as 2,886 new cases were detected on the day, taking the active caseload in the tricity to 20,535.Chandigarh’s single-day infections rose again with 1,275 people testing positive, against 864 the previous day. Mohali’s cases too continued the upward trend, going from 702 on Monday to 1,275 on Tuesday. Mohali had been seeing a decline in infections for the last three days. Panchkula was the only city with some respite as no deaths were reported here and the daily infection tally also showed a dip, settling at 416 cases from 649 cases the day before. In Mohali, the latest fatalities are a 37-year-old male from Mohali, a 53-year-old man from Sector 80, a 49-year-old man of Phase-1, a 75-year-old man from Banur, and a 76-year-old man from Dhakoli. Four of the patients had been undergoing treatment at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research while one was admitted at Alhemist Hospital in Panchkula. Chandigarh’s fatalities included a 76-year-old man from Sector 38 West, who died of multiple organ dysfunction at a private hospital, and a 72-year-old man of Dhanas who breathed his last Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/seven-more-covid-deaths-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-active-caseload-crosses-20k-101642536595416.html
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||Nigerian national among 2 held for cheating Chandigarh woman of ₹13.32 lakh||The cyber crime investigation cell of Chandigarh Police has arrested two people, including a Nigerian national, for duping a Sector 21 resident of ₹13.32 lakh on the pretext of sending her gift. The accused have been identified as Odoeke Fransic Ifeanyi, 37, presently living in New Delhi and Satvinder Singh, 33, of Delhi. Police have recovered mobile phones, laptops and debit cards from their possession. The victim, Kirandeep of Sector 21, stated in her police complaint that she had befriended a person who called himself Richard through a social media platform. He told her that he would be sending her a gift. Initially, she refused, but gave in after he insisted. She said that on November 3, she got a call from a courier company saying that Richard from England had sent her a parcel and to claim it, she needs to deposit ₹40,000 in their account, which she did. But, she did not receive any parcel and called the courier company, who told her that the parcel contains expensive items, so she has to deposit more money for customs, police and finance department clearances. Meanwhile, Richard told her that he had sent her gold sets in the parcel. So, Kirandeep ended up depositing ₹13.31 lakh into the courier company’s account. But, when she did not receive the parcel, she lodged a complaint. Acting on her complaint, a cheating case was registered at the Sector 19 police station on December 6, 2021.The accused were produced in court on Tuesday, from where Satvinder was sent to judicial custody while Ifeanyi was sent to four days in police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nigerian-national-among-2-held-for-cheating-chandigarh-woman-of-rs-13-32-lakh-101642536594105.html
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana government provided 70k jobs in seven years: Ambala MP||Member of Parliament from Ambala constituency and former Union minister Rattan Lal Kataria on Tuesday said that the BJP-led Haryana government has provided 70,000 jobs in the last seven years. “All these jobs are permanent and there are several projects underway that will further provide more jobs to the youth. The government has already probed the job recruitment scam in HPSC thoroughly,” Kataria claimed.He was responding to reporters on being asked about Haryana having the highest unemployment rate in India as per a report released in December last year. The BJP MP was in Ambala to chair a meeting of the District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee and addressed a press conference after that. As per the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) report released in December, Haryana topped the nation with the highest unemployment rate at 34%, followed by Rajasthan (27.1%) and Jharkhand (17.3%), against the national average of 7.91%. However, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar rejected the report, dubbing it “fictional” and said that the rate is only 6.1% in Haryana and action will be taken against CMIE.Meanwhile, Kataria said that the farmer groups led by Balbir Singh Rajewal and Gurnam Singh Charuni contesting elections in Punjab will remain unsuccessful and that BJP will win in the state and also retain power in four other states where the assembly elections are scheduled for February.The BJP lawmaker said that he will seek several new projects for his constituency in the upcoming budget session including renovating Ambala Cantt station as a world-class facility, a logistics hub and a defence corridor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-government-provided-70k-jobs-in-seven-years-ambala-mp-101642536414249.html
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||60% of Chandigarh tricity area’s Covid deaths in January were of unvaccinated||Around 60% of people, who succumbed to Covid-19 in the tricity since January 1, had not taken a single dose of vaccine, data available with the health departments shows.Since January 1, as many as 33 Covid-19 patients have died at various hospitals across the tricity. Of them, as many as 20 people had not got even a single dose; one person had received the first dose while 10 people were fully jabbed. The vaccination status of two people-- one from Chandigarh and the other from Panchkula – has not been ascertained.Of the three jurisdictions, Mohali remains the worst-affected with 18 fatalities this month. For the Mohali health department, it is a cause of worry as despite door-to-door vaccination drives and awareness campaigns, 16 out of the 18 deceased were not even vaccinated with first dose. The other two were fully vaccinated.Dr Girish Dogra, nodal officer for Covid-19 in Mohali, said: “Despite setting up awareness camps and conducting special drives, people are not coming forward to get jabbed. Vaccination is definitely helping in reducing the severity of infection. The first dose of vaccine helps in building antibodies, but without a booster dose, the antibodies are insufficient to fight the virus. In Mohali, over 2 lakh people have not turned up for their second dose. People must end vaccination hesitancy.”In Chandigarh, seven of the 12 deceased were fully vaccinated while one had taken only the first dose. But, three had not received any dose. So far, Panchkula reported three fatalities this month, with one person being fully vaccinated and the other not even being vaccinated with first dose.‘Most died of co-morbidities’As per the UT health department, all 12 deceased in the city were suffering from co-morbidities, such as hypertension, diabetes, and heart or kidney related illnesses. In Panchkula and Mohali too, the deceased had co-morbid conditions and most of them were above the age of 50.‘Fatality rate low this time only because of vaccination’Dr Sanjeev Palta, the nodal officer of ICU management at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, said, “During the first and second wave of the pandemic, the fatality and hospitalisation rates were much higher than the ongoing third peak. This is because vaccination is helping in lowering the severity of the infection and most people requiring hospitalisation or dying, these days, are either not vaccinated or have co-morbidities. So, people must get vaccinated at the earliest so as to protect themselves from severe infection.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/60-of-chandigarh-tricity-area-s-covid-deaths-in-january-were-of-unvaccinated-101642536354178.html
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||PU students yet to receive detailed instructions for semester examinations||Students of Panjab University are yet to receive detailed instructions for the semester examinations which will be held in online mode from January 24. The exam schedule was announced last week and as many as 2,07,033 undergraduate (UG) and 43,471 postgraduate (PG) students will be appearing. This is the fourth time since the pandemic broke out in March 2020 that the semester exams are being held online at PU and prior to their commencement, a set of instructions are issued to students regarding the modalities. The includes details on how to download the question paper, submitting the answer sheets and time slots. Mukul Chauhan, a student at the department of community education and disability studies, said, “The university authorities should issue the detailed guidelines in time, so that students can mentally prepare themselves.” The semester examinations were initially scheduled to be held in December, but had to be postponed amid the teachers’ strike over non-implementation of revised UGC pay scales. The university has also not made any announcement yet regarding the use of online proctoring. A university official said that the guidelines have been approved and are expected to be issued on Wednesday. BOX: Library reading halls reopened A day after students held a protest on campus, Panjab University (PU) on Tuesday reopened the readings hall at first and third floor of the AC Joshi library for vaccinated research scholars. The halls were closed on January 13 amid the rapid Covid spread. 
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC: Five F&CC members set to be elected unanimously||All five members of the MC’s finance and contract committee (F&CC) are set to be elected unanimously. The election is scheduled for January 24 and the nominations are to be filed by Wednesday.The BJP and AAP are fielding two and Congress is fielding one member. BJP has 13 councillors (plus one Chandigarh MP vote), AAP has 14 councillors, Congress seven and Shiromani Akali Dal has one.AAP Chandigarh president Prem Garg said, “All 14 AAP councillors have decided to field only two candidates for elections to F&CC- Taruna Mehta from ward 18 and Jasbir Singh Laddi from ward 21.” Senior AAP leaders Pardeep Chhabra, Garg and Chander Mukhi Sharma expressed hope that all candidates will be elected unopposed.Congress president Subhash Chawla held a meeting with Congress councillors on the issue here on Tuesday. “We have decided on the nomination of councillor Gurbax Rawat to the committee. We expect election to be unopposed.”BJP is also going to file nominations for two councillors. It is yet to decide on the name of its candidates, which is expected by Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-five-f-cc-members-set-to-be-elected-unanimously-101642535876200.html
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||Widening of Morni-Panchkula Road: HC directs Haryana to explore all possible alternatives to cutting trees||The Punjab and Haryana high court has directed the Haryana government to explore all possible alternatives to save the trees while undertaking widening of Morni-Panchkula Road connecting the tourist town. While disposing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by advocate HC Arora, a division bench comprising chief justice RS Jha and justice Arun Palli, recorded a statement by the additional advocate general, Haryana, that the January 6 representation of Arora will be considered by the authorities and all possible steps to save the tress on either side of the Morni-Panchkula Road will be taken while undertaking the widening project. In his PIL, Arora stated that government is going ahead with the uprooting/ cutting of 1,137 trees, which include 175 pine trees, and the remaining Khair trees, for the purpose of widening of the road. The petitioner alleged that he had submitted a representation to the chief secretary requesting that all steps and alternatives be considered for the purpose of saving maximum number of trees, while carrying out the project, but the respondents were going ahead with the uprooting/cutting of the trees standing on either side of the road, without first considering the various alternatives to save more than 1,100 of them. It is necessary to maintain a balance between the environment and development, but unfortunately, the state was considering only the aspect of development and construction of the road, while totally ignoring the duty to protect the environment by protecting the trees, he had submitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/widening-of-morni-panchkula-road-hc-directs-haryana-to-explore-all-possible-alternatives-to-cutting-trees-101642535694434.html
19-01-2022||Lucknow||UPPCL U-turn: CBI probe demanded into Lalitpur power plant’s capital cost issue||The UP Rajya Vidyut Upbhokta Parishad and Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) on Tuesday demanded a CBI probe into the issue of UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) taking a u-turn on the capital cost of the 1980 MW Lalitpur thermal plant on Monday admitting that the cost claimed by the private developer in 2015 was too high.“A CBI probe into the matter is must to expose a possible nexus and punish the culprits,” said Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) leader Anupam Mishra.Questioning the UPPCL’s u-turn, Parishad chairman Awadhesh Kumar Vema, who is also a petitioner in the case said, it could turn out to be a big scam and demanded a CBI probe .“After all, how the same UPPCL that evaluated the plant’ initial capital cost to be ₹16006 crore in 2015 has now informed the regulator in 2022 through an affidavit that the cost could not be more than ₹11848 crore,” Verma said. Verma pointed out that the UPPCL had to buy power from the Lalitur plant at a very high rate due the inflated capital cost and the UPPCL finally passed the cost on to consumers.The UPPCL in 2015 evaluated the ceiling capital cost of the plant to be ₹16006 crore and on Monday it submitted an affidavit in the UP Electricity Regulatory Commission (UPERC) saying the initial capital cost of the plant could not be more than ₹11848 crore.“This is in the reference to Hon’ble UPERC order dated 23-03-2015, regarding submission of ceiling capital cost of Lalitpur Power Project (3x660 MW). In this context the undersigned has been directed to convey that the ceiling capital cost of Lalitpur Power Project is ₹16006.15 crore only,” then UPPCL chief engineer (PPA) VP Srivastava informed the Lalitpur plant management through a letter dated April 29,2015.The Lalitpur Power Generation company on Monday had urged the UPERC to sanction the initial capital cost of the plant at ₹16574 crore while the UPPCL arguing against the claim. The UPERC is expected to give its verdict next month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uppcl-u-turn-cbi-probe-demanded-into-lalitpur-power-plant-s-capital-cost-issue-101642535574027.html
19-01-2022||Noida||Pandemic, ECI curbs hold back independents from filing papers in Ghaziabad||With the last date of filing nominations (January 21) drawing nearer, candidates of several parties are filing their nominations in Ghaziabad district, while independent candidates are yet to file their papers for the upcoming assembly polls.The Uttar Pradesh assembly election is scheduled to be held from February 10 to March 7 in seven phases. Ghaziabad goes to polls in phase 1 of the election on February 10. Under phase 1, candidates began filing their nominations on January 14. Nominations will be scrutinised on January 24, and the last date of withdrawal of nominations is January 27, according to the Election Commission of India (ECI). According to the latest electoral roll, there are 2,899,484 eligible voters in the five assembly segments -- Loni, Muradnagar, Sahibabad, Ghaziabad and Modinagar -- of the district. According to official records of the district election office, nominations have so far been filed by Prerna Solanki (Muradnagar) from Nyay Party, Manoj Kumar Sharma (Muradnagar) from Subhashwadi Bharatiya Samajwadi Party, Nand Kishor Gurjar (Loni) from Bharatiya Janata Party, and Chhavi Yadav from the Aam Aadmi Party, Amarpal Sharma from Samajwadi Party and Sunil Sharma from the BJP have filed their nominations from Sahibabad. Sushant Goyal (Ghaziabad) from the Congress, Rakesh Suri (Ghaziabad) from the Right to Recall Party and Sudesh Sharma (Modinagar) from Rashtriya Lok Dal have also filed their nominations.“This time, the pandemic has affected the prospects of independent candidates. I was not socially active during the pandemic and the campaigning will also not be easy due to the restrictions imposed by ECI on account of the rising Covid cases. Supporters will also not come out. Due to all these factors, I have decided not to contest the elections this time,” said Shamsher Rana, who contested the 2017 elections as an independent candidate from Ghaziabad. “It is not easy to contest elections as an independent candidate as we have to find funds for campaigning. Further, over a period of time, independent candidates have also understood that people vote more for political parties. Not to mention the difficulty in campaigning during a pandemic. All these factors are holding back independent candidates this time,” said Rajiv Sharma, who contested the 2017 elections as an independent candidate from the Sahibabad assembly constituency. In the 2017 assembly elections, two of the six candidates contesting from Loni were independents while three of the 11 candidates from Sahibabad were independents. From Ghaziabad, five of 13 contesting candidates were independent, while seven of 14 candidates who contested from Muradnagar were independents. From Modinagar, three of the nine candidates were independents. Experts said the present trend of elections is more focussed on political parties. “Over time, voters have shown an inclination towards major political parties. During the elections held in the past, many people contested as independents. However, social interactions have reduced due to the pandemic and expenditure on election campaigns is also taxing,” said associate professor (history) KK Sharma from MM College, Modinagar.“The current trend of fewer independent candidates has put less burden on state resources. A separate ballot unit needs to be installed if the number of candidates contesting from an assembly is more than 16. Although anyone can contest elections in a democracy, independents have also figured out that their chances of winning an election are slim while contesting against bigger parties, which have huge resources at their disposal,” he added. District election officer RK Singh could not be reached for his comments despite repeated attempts on Tuesday. With regard to past performance, official records show that the option of ‘None of the above’ (NOTA) garnered more votes than independent candidates during the 2017 assembly elections. People from Muradnagar voted on Nota, which received 1,053 votes -- higher than the highest number of votes -- 770 -- garnered by an independent candidate in the 2017 assembly elections. In Sahibabad, Nota received 3,057 votes compared to 1,205 votes received by the candidate who polled the highest among independents. In Ghaziabad, Nota received 1,184 votes. Only the votes polled for one independent candidate from this seat was higher (2,136 votes) than the total votes Nota received. In Modinagar, 1,074 people voted for Nota compared to the 490 votes received by the best-performing independent candidate, while in Loni, only one independent candidate secured 3,808 votes, higher than the 1,663 votes Nota received.
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh rehabilitation colonies: With over ₹43 crore pending in rent, CHB to start allotment cancellations||With more than ₹43 crore in rent yet to be paid, the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has decided to initiate allotment cancellation proceedings against more than 12,000 residents of eight rehabilitation colonies.The allottees are from rehabilitation housing schemes in Dhanas, Sector 38 (West), Sector 49, Sector 56, Ram Darbar, Mauli Jagran, Maloya and Industrial Area. Also, 1,300 allottees under the Affordable Rental Housing Scheme in Maloya owe CHB around ₹3 crore.“We have sent recovery notices regarding payment of rent, but with dues still pending, we will initiate cancellation proceedings against defaulters,” said a CHB official.The flats in question were allotted under the slum rehabilitation scheme in different parts of the city. Allottees of one-room EWS flats are charged ₹800 to ₹1,000 per month as ground rent, which is increased by 20% after five years of allotment.Under the Chandigarh Small Flat (Amendment) Scheme 2020, if allottees do not pay the rent, they are liable to pay a penalty of 12% per annum. If paid on time, the yearly collection of rent will be around ₹20 crore. While CHB keeps 5% of the recoveries as administrative costs, the rest is deposited with the administration. In 2019, the CHB had cancelled the allotment of nearly 250 allottees for the violation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-rehabilitation-colonies-with-over-43-crore-pending-in-rent-chb-to-start-allotment-cancellations-101642535515979.html
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||Posing as cops, 2 men rob Ludhiana trader of ₹18,000 at gunpoint||Posing as cops, two men robbed a trader of ₹18,000 at gunpoint at the main market in the Sidhwan Bet area on Monday. The complainant, Dikshay Singla of Rauwal village, runs a grocery shop. He had just parked his pickup auto on the roadside, when a Hyundai i-20 car stopped near him and two men posing as cops sought his identification. Singla alighted from his vehicle and pulled out his wallet, but before he could take out his Aadhaar Card, the accused snatched his wallet from his hands. They also brandished a pistol and threatened him to keep quiet, before fleeing. “The wallet contained ₹18,000 cash and some documents. The car used by the accused did not have a number plate,” he said. Sub-inspector Sukhjinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said an FIR has been registered under Sections 379B (theft) of the Indian Penal Cod at the Sidhwan Bet police station. The police are scanning CCTVs to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/posing-as-cops-2-men-rob-ludhiana-trader-of-18-000-at-gunpoint-101642535214132.html
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||‘Anti-party’ activities: 3 MLAs, Sukhpal Khaira urge Sonia to expel Rana Gurjeet||A day after cabinet minister Rana Gurjeet Singh’s son Rana Inder Partap Singh announced to contest as an independent candidate from Sultanpur Lodhi, three sitting MLAs — Navtej Singh Cheema (Sultanpur Lodhi), Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal (Phagwara) and Bawa Henry (Jalandhar North) — and former Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira wrote to Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi, demanding the minister’s expulsion from the party. Since Khaira is in judicial custody, his son Mehtab Singh Khaira gave consent to the letter on his father’s behalf. Besides Sonia, copies of the letter were also sent to former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and state affairs in-charge Harish Chaudhary. In the letter, the signatories alleged that ‘tainted’ Rana Gurjeet, who had to resign as a minister in 2018 over his alleged involvement in a sand mining scam, is trying his best to harm the party in the forthcoming elections. They further said the minister was weakening the Congress by interfering in the party affairs of various constituencies of Doaba region. “Though we had apprised the state leadership about his anti-party activities, unfortunately, he was reinstated in the Punjab cabinet,” the letter reads. “Rana Gurjeet has allowed his son to contest as an independent candidate from Sultanpur Lodhi against the two-time Congress MLA Navtej Singh Cheema. This is a gross violation of the party discipline. He is playing into the hands of opposition parties, especially the BJP,” mentions the letter. The signatories alleged that Rana Gurjeet was still close to former CM Capt Amarinder Singh and he recently facilitated his close aide Amandeep Singh’s entry into Capt’s Punjab Lok Congress party who is a probable candidate from Bholath. “Besides this, Rana Gurjeet is making baseless allegations against PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu,” they said. Despite repeated attempts, Rana Gurjeet Singh and his son Rana Inder Partap Singh remained incommunicado.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/antiparty-activities-3-mlas-sukhpal-khaira-urge-sonia-to-expel-rana-gurjeet-101642535035614.html
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Close shave for two as car bursts into flames||It was a close shave for two persons after the car they were travelling in burst into flames on Kitchlu Nagar main road near Dhami Eye Hospital on Tuesday.The car belongs to chartered accountant, Ramesh Agarwal, and two of his employees were in the car when the fire broke out at around 1.30pm.The car was relatively new, and been purchased last year. Agarwal said, “It is unclear why the fire broke out. My staff had come to the market to purchase medicines when the incident took place. Fortunately, no one was hurt. The car is insured.” Eyewitnesses said the driver of the vehicle tried to open the bonnet when he spotted flames erupting from the engine. However, he was unable to do so because of the heat. Shopkeepers and bank staff in the area tried to douse the flames with fire extinguishers, but to no avail. Sub-fire officer Navrang Singh said a fire tender from the Haibowal fire station was rushed to the spot, and two tenders from other stations were also summoned as precautionary measure. “The flames were doused in a short time, and no injury or casualty was reported from the spot.” The reason for the fire incident is yet to be ascertained. A video of the incident is also doing the rounds on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-close-shave-for-two-as-car-bursts-into-flames-101642535034078.html
19-01-2022||Noida||Two minor siblings fall into drain while playing outside house in Noida, die||A nine-year-old girl and her 10-month-old brother died on Monday after they allegedly fell into a drain near their house in Noida Sector 85 that day, police said on Tuesday.The victims were identified as Rubina (goes by first name) and Sumit Kumar, said police, adding that the siblings -- natives of Samastipur in Bihar -- lived with their parents in a makeshift house in Noida Sector 85. The victims’ father, Shambhu Kumar Sahni, 35, said that his two children had gone outside their house around 4:15pm on Monday to play. “When they did not return home in the evening, I went to check on them. However, I could not find them there, and we started searching for them in the neighbourhood. Later, we found my children unconscious in an open drain near our house,” Sahni said. The father and some local residents went inside the drain and managed to pull the two children out. The two children were taken to Felix Hospital in Noida Sector 137, where the doctors declared them dead.“The drain is about 10-foot deep and it has been kept open for a long time. The two children were covered in mud and sewage, due to which they suffocated,” he added. Dr DK Gupta, paediatrician and chairman of Felix Hospital, said that the duo was brought to the hospital around 5:45pm on Monday. “They had died by then,” Gupta said.Senior sub-inspector Diwakar Singh, Phase 2 police station, said that they received information about the incident from the hospital. “Autopsies were conducted and according to the reports, the two children died due to drowning. The bodies were handed over to the family members,” he said. Police have not received a complaint in the matter as yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-minor-siblings-fall-into-drain-while-playing-outside-house-in-noida-die-101642534913912.html
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man accused of drug peddling dies in lock up, hours after arrest||Hours after being arrested for drug peddling, the accused passed away in the lock-up at the Machhiwara police station on Tuesday. Police suspect that the arrestee, Kirpal Singh, 55, of Bhamma Kalan village, had suffered a cardiac arrest. His body has been sent to the civil hospital for postmortem, and his next of kin have been informed. Kirpal Singh, who had been arrested with 15g smack near the Canal Bridge near Garhi Tarkhana village, was to be produced before court on Tuesday. On spotting the police party, Kirpal Singh, had thrown the contraband and made a run for it. However, he was caught and the narcotics seized. A case had been registered under Sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. His family, who had visited him at the police station on Monday evening, said that Kirpal Singh had seemed healthy at the time, nor was he suffering from any heart-related ailment. However, he had lost his son to a heart attack one-and-a-half years ago. Inspector Parkash Masih, Machhiwara station house officer said, the accused did not wake up on Tuesday morning. “He was rushed to the Civil Hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead. The cause of death will be ascertained after the postmortem.” According to family members Kirpal Singh had lost his son around one and a half years ago due to heart attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-accused-of-drug-peddling-dies-in-lock-up-hours-after-arrest-101642534853898.html
19-01-2022||Other||FIR lodged against UP MLA for model code violation||A named-FIR has been lodged at Kokhraj police station of Kaushambi district against BJP MLA from Chail assembly constituency Sanjay Gupta for alleged violation of model code of conduct (MCC), police said. Gupta has been accused of holding a programme for young girl students through his trust at KPS Ground in Bharwari area recently. It is also alleged that 40 vehicles (scooty) were also given to the participants.SHO of Kokhraj police station Ganesh Prasad said that an FIR had been lodged against chairman of Riddhi Siddhi Educational and Human Welfare Trust Sanjay Gupta under section 123 of Representation of the People ACT and sections 171-B, 171(G), 188, 269 and 270 of IPC on the complaint of field squad team-2 (FST-2) in-charge magistrate Manoj Singh on Monday night.In his complaint, Manoj Singh said through different sources including media reports he came to know about Rani Laxmi Bai Award programme at Bharwari by Riddhi Siddhi Educational and Human Welfare chairman Sanjay Gupta and others. Under the award programme “Meri Beti Mera Swabhiman”, 40 girls were handed over two-wheelers by Gupta which is in violation of model code of conduct. The photographs and videos revealed that the programme was organised on January 16 at a school in Parasara area of Bharwari area of the district during which large crowd assembled. As no permission was taken for the programme, it comes under violation of model code of conduct which is presently in effect. Moreover, the programme has also violated section 144 and Epidemic Act, the complaint added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fir-lodged-against-up-mla-for-model-code-violation-101642534735417.html
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab assembly polls: Congress ticket aspirants in Ludhiana bank on political connections||With the Congress yet to allocate tickets in five of the 14 constituencies in the district, it is anyone’s game right now, and aspirants are putting their best foot forward – be it reaching out to the public, or hobnobbing with higher ups.The grand old party had announced candidates for nine assembly segments on January 15. However, they are yet to announce candidates for Ludhiana South, Sahnewal, Samrala, Jagraon and Gill Constituency. Traditionally, Sahnewal, Jagraon and Ludhiana South segments have been tough nuts to crack for the Congress. A fierce contest is underway in Ludhiana South and Sahnewal where at least five aspirants each are fighting for a ticket. Aspirants for the coveted tickets include former chief minister Rajinder Kaur Bhattal’s son-in-law Vikram Singh Bajwa, chief minister Charanjit Channi’s relative Dilawar Singh Lehra, former union minister Buta Singh’s daughter Gurkeerat Kaur and former minister Karam Singh Gill’s son Raja Gill. Bajwa and Gill are aspiring to contest from Sahnewal, while Lehra is eyeing a ticket from the Gill constituency and Kaur is trying to get the party ticket from Jagraon.A tough contestIn Ludhiana South, Congress leader Ishwarjot Cheema, former district president (rural) Gurdev Lapran, district working president Niki Riyat, Punjab State Industrial Development Corporation chairperson KK Bawa and deputy mayor Saravjit Kaur’s husband Jarnail Singh Shimlapuri are in the fray for a party ticket. The south constituency is the stronghold of sitting Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) MLA Balwinder Bains, who has won two consecutive elections from the segment.In Sahnewal, apart from Bajwa and Gill, Punjabi singer Satwinder Kaur Bitti, councillor Pal Singh Grewal, and Paramjit Ghawaddi are also hoping for a ticket. Incidentally, Gill is also close to former chief minister Beant Singh’s family. At present, the segment is the bastion of SAD sitting MLA Sharanjit Dhillon. Bajwa had lost to sitting Dhillon in 2012, while Bitti had lost to Dhillon in 2017.For the Jagraon assembly seat, which is reserved for the Scheduled Caste community, Congress leaders Malkit Singh Dakha, Buta Singh’s daughter Gurkeerat Kaur, Punjab State Safai Karamchari Commission chairperson Gejja Ram Valmiki and sitting Raikot MLA Jagtar Singh Hissowal are aspiring for a ticket. Hissowal, a former Aam Aadmi Party leader, had not been given a ticket from Raikot and is hoping to get one from Jagraon. Whoever gets the ticket will have to go against sitting MLA Saravjit Kaur Manuke of AAP, who is the deputy leader of opposition. During the previous assembly elections, Dakha had lost to Manuke.In Samrala, sitting MLA Amrik Singh Dhillon is seeking a ticket for his grandson Karanvir Singh Dhillon this time. However, the party is yet to take a final call.Those privy to the development say the Congress is expected to announce the candidates soon.Gill, Samrala in eye of the stormMany eyebrows were raised after the party reserved the decision to announce the candidates from Gill and Samrala constituencies, which are represented by sitting Congress MLAs – Kuldeep Vaid and four-time MLA Amrik Singh Dhillon, respectively, especially as the party had given tickets to six other sitting MLAs — cabinet ministers Bharat Bhushan Ashu (Ludhiana West) and Gurkirat Kotli (Khanna), MLAs Rakesh Pandey (Ludhiana North), Sanjay Talwar (Ludhiana East), Surinder Dawar (Ludhiana Central) and Lakhvir Lakha (Payal).In Gill (reserved seat for SC community), the names of Lehra and Congress leader Balbir Singh Barewal are doing the rounds, and the party high command is yet to decide whether it wants to continue with Vaid or not. Recently a group of sarpanches and their supporters had protested against Vaid for his “poor performance” , and backed Barewal instead. Vaid had however refuted the allegations as an “attempt to defame him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-assembly-polls-congress-ticket-aspirants-in-ludhiana-bank-on-political-connections-101642534613757.html
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||Shopkeeper kidnapped for not paying extortion money in Ludhiana||Four people allegedly kidnapped a Giaspura-based shopkeeper for not paying extortion money, and only let him go after his son transferred ₹10,000 into their Paytm account. The complainant, Sanjay Upadhaya, 57, of Maha Laxmi Nagar said on January 17 the accused showed up at his shop, which he runs from his home, around 4pm and demanded extortion money from him. However, when he refused, the accused forced him into their car, and took him to a vacant plot near Shimlapuri where they assaulted him with sharp-edged weaponsLater, the accused called his son and asked him to deposit ₹10,000 into their Paytm account, after which they dropped him near the vegetable market in Prem Nagar, and fled. Old rivalry at play: Cops  Sub-Inspector Sewa Singh, Sahnewal station house officer, said the accused had an old rivalry with the victim. “A few days ago, the complainant’s son had damaged the windshield of the accused’s car.A case has been registered under Sections 384 (extortion), 364 (abduction), 34 (common intention), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against four unidentified accused. A hunt is on for their arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shopkeeper-kidnapped-for-not-paying-extortion-money-in-ludhiana-101642534433884.html
19-01-2022||Noida||Noida authority to organise camps for mandatory registration of all pets on app||The Noida authority has decided to hold camps for the registration of pets in residential areas of the city, said officials on Tuesday.The mobile application -- Noida Pet Registration App -- was launched in September 2021. It is mandatory for all residents to register their pets on the app. The registration costs ₹500, and must be renewed every year at the same price. However, the app received a lukewarm response.The authority officials have appealed to the apartment owners’ associations (AOAs) in the city to make a list of pet owners in their respective housing complexes to facilitate the registration process.“Since the launch of the application last year, only 156 pets from Noida have been registered on the app, which is a very low count. So, we have decided to hold camps with the help of all the AOAs,” said Husana Praveen, coordinator for the initiative from the Noida authority. Six representatives from the Noida authority will hold the camp at residential areas, she added.“At the camp, residents do not need to download the mobile app for registration. The representatives will add the details of the pets on the mobile app and take the registration fee instead. For this process, residents need to submit their ID, photograph, address proof and their pet’s vaccination book,” Praveen said, adding that the pets will also be eligible for free vaccination by the Noida authority on completion of the registration.According to Rajiva Singh, president of Noida Federation of Apartment Owners’ Association (NOFAA), which comprises over 70 housing complexes as members, “All AOAs have been instructed to make a list of residents who have pets. This will be shared with the officials of the Noida authority. Representatives from the authority will visit a cluster of housing complexes or sectors on a pre-scheduled date and organise a camp to facilitate registration of pets in the respective housing complexes.”
19-01-2022||Lucknow||Man, two sons get life imprisonment for murder of elder brother in UP||Lakhimpur Kheri district and sessions court on Monday sentenced a 60-year-old man and his two sons to life imprisonment in the murder of his elder brother over land dispute nearly six years back, said senior police and prosecution officials on Tuesday.A senior prosecution official Rajesh Kumar Singh told media that the court of additional district judge Deependra Kumar Singh pronounced life imprisonment to one Succha Singh and his two sons Harpreet Singh and Balwinder Singh in the murder of Succha Singh’s elder brother Jageer Singh. He said the court also imposed penalty of ₹ 25,000 each to all three convicts.He said the court has earlier convicted them after finding them guilty on the basis of statements of 10 witnesses, including two eyewitnesses Jagjeet Singh and Amarjeet Singh.A local police official said Jageer Singh was bludgeoned to death over land dispute by his younger brother Succha Singh near Paduwa village while returning from Trilokia market to his house at Kundli farms under Sampoornanagar police station limits on May, 16, 2016. He said the victim’s wife Jagdish Kaur had lodged an FIR under Indian Penal Code section 302 against Succha Singh and his two sons in the matter.He said the relations of the families of Jageer Singh and Succha Singh were strained over land dispute for the past few years. The matter had been taken up by local panchayat to settle the issue with mutual consent but it further aggravated.Singh said the statements of witnesses concluded that the murder was fallout of the same dispute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/man-two-sons-get-life-imprisonment-for-murder-of-elder-brother-in-up-101642534193891.html
19-01-2022||Lucknow||At 4.5 degrees C, cold bares fangs in Lucknow, fog adds to misery||The state capital recorded its coldest day this winter, on Tuesday, as the day temperature dropped to 12.2 degrees Celsius with a drop of 9 degrees from normal while the minimum temperature was recorded at 4.5 degrees Celsius, three degrees below normal.The average day time temperature across Uttar Pradesh stayed around 15 degrees Celsius, the lowest this month. The average minimum temperature also recorded a drop of three degrees.The Indian Meterological Department (IMD) issued an alert for similar weather conditions to be expected on Wednesday across UP. The IMD has also issued a forecast for rain over western UP districts over weekend.Clouded sky, heavy fog and accompanied by Westerly Winds added to the chill, forcing people to stay indoors. Lucknow will experience similar weather on Wednesday with the day temperature expected around 14 degrees Celsius and night temperature around 6 degrees Celsius. In several places across Uttar Pradesh, the day temperature dropped to the 10-degree mark.According to the alert issued by IMD, “Very cold and cold weather is likely over Lakhimpur Kheri, Sitapur, Hardoi, Bahraich, Sravasti, Balrampur, Siddharth Nagar, Maharajganj, Kushinagar and adjoining areas on Wednesday.“Dense fog is very likely over Saharanpur, Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, Bijnor, Moradabad, Rampur, Amroha, Meerut, Baghpat, Hapur, Ghaziabad, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Bulandshahar, Aligarh, Hathras, Mathura, Agra, Firozabad, Sambhal, Badaun, Bareilly, Pilibhit, Shahajahanpur, Lucknow, Rae Bareli, Farrukhabad, Barabanki, Ayodhya, Ambedkarnagar, Sultanpur, Gonda, Basti, Santkabir Nagar, Gorakhpur, Deoria, Azamgarh, Mau, Ballia, Jaunpur, Ghazipur, Etah, Kasganj, Amethi and adjoining areas,” the IMD warning reads.Director of state MeT department, JP Gupta, said, “A low-pressure atmospheric zone has developed over central and west UP which is responsible for the drop in temperatures. The low-pressure zone will gradually subside in the next two days.”Considering the forecast, the state MeT department has alerted district authorities about the adverse weather conditions suggesting them to make appropriate arrangements to fight the cold.Lko chill over the yearsThe all-time lowest temperature recorded in Lucknow for the month January was minus -1 on January 31, 1964. On January 13, 2017 it was 0.1, on January 23, 2016 it was 2.1 and on January 11, 2015 3.4 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/at-4-5-degrees-c-cold-bares-fangs-in-lucknow-fog-adds-to-misery-101642533773663.html
19-01-2022||Noida||Noida: Security stepped up ahead of assembly elections, ₹99 lakh seized from duo||Police detained two people and recovered over ₹99 lakh in cash from their car during a checking drive near Noida Stadium crossing in Sector 24 on Tuesday, said officials.Rajneesh Verma, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Noida, said that a team of officials was conducting a checking drive near Noida Stadium crossing at 11am on Tuesday. “Police stopped two people travelling in a white Toyota Fortuner for checking, and found ₹99,30,500 in cash from their vehicle,” he said, adding that the duo failed to produce any document in connection with the money.According to officials, a probe has been launched to see if the seized money was linked to the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, which is scheduled to be held from February 10 to March 7 in seven phases. Polls are to be conducted in the first phase on February 10 in Gautam Budh Nagar’s three assembly constituencies -- Noida, Jewar and Dadri.Later, a team of senior police officers reached the spot to investigate the matter.The suspects were identified as Akhilesh Kumar (the car driver), 40, and Bhim Sen, 35 -- residents of Wazirpur and Karol Bagh in Delhi, police said.“They could not clarify the source of the money and its usage. During interrogation, Bhim Sen said that he works as a field executive to a businessman (details not available) from Delhi’s Ashok Vihar, who deals in clothing. Akhilesh Kumar works as a driver there,” Verma said, adding that the businessman -- the duo’s employer -- had given the bag containing cash to the suspects to deliver it to someone in Noida.The duo was released in the evening, after interrogation.“We are trying to contact the employer and interrogate him about the cash at the earliest,” the ACP added. The car, registered in the name of the businessman’s wife, has also been seized.Police have also informed the Income Tax Department to probe the matter. “We will register a case if we find irregularities in connection with the seized money,” Verma said.Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP), Noida, said that the police have stepped up security in the district to check illegal weapons, liquor, and cash ahead of the elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noidasecurity-stepped-up-ahead-of-assembly-elections-99-lakh-seized-from-duo-101642533713755.html
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana cops crack down on modified silencers on bikes||Now, think twice before installing modified silencers, which emit a gunshot-like cracking sound, on your Royal Enfield Bullet motorcycles, as cops are cracking down on offenders and dealers. As part of their drive, cops will be carrying out surprise checks at shops selling or fitting modified silencers on vehicles. Saying that the sound emitted by the modified silencers often creates panic amid residents, who fear that a gunshot has been discharged, assistant commissioner of police (ACP, Traffic Zone 2) Karnail Singh held a meeting with spare parts dealers and warned them against selling the banned silencers.Over the past two days, the police have issued challans to 28 violators, and have asked them to name the seller of the modified silencer. The ACP said that action will also be taken against the mechanic for fitting silencers on the vehicles.In a similar drive, cops had issued 1,523 challans to offenders in two months in 2021. Such silencers are available in the city at different spare part shops at very reasonable prices.RTI activist Rohit Sabharwal had raised the issue in 2021 and had also filed a contempt petition before court. The Punjab and Haryana High Court had issued a notice of motion to Ludhiana police commissioner in a petition pertaining to plying of Royal Enfield Bullet motorcycles in the city without properly fitted silencers in April 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-cops-crack-down-on-modified-silencers-on-bikes-101642533653927.html
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||Nine-member committee to probe Dadam mining site landslide||The Haryana government has constituted a nine-member committee to hold inquiry into the January 1 landslide incident at Bhiwani’s Dadam mining site.The government re-constituted the earlier formed five-member fact-finding committee headed by Bhiwani additional deputy commissioner Rahul Narwal.Former IAS officer SS Prasad will be chairman of the re-constituted committee, while Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) member secretary, DC Bhiwani, additional deputy commissioner Bhiwani, additional superintendent of police Bhiwani, state geologist (mines and geology, sub-divisional officer (civil) Tosham, divisional forest officer Bhiwani, and district mining officer Bhiwani will be members of the committee.At least five people were killed and three others were injured in the landslide at the mining site.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ninemember-committee-to-probe-dadam-mining-site-landslide-101642533294591.html
19-01-2022||Other||Braj area candidates look for auspicious day to file papers||Candidates in the fray avoided filing nomination papers on Tuesday, which was also ‘padwa’ and fewer nominations were made in Braj region on this fourth day of the nomination process. In all, 12 nominations were filed on Tuesday in the Braj region, including three in Agra, five in Mathura and four in Aligarh. Many blamed the cold weather for the low nomination turnout on Tuesday, but most party workers held that it was ‘padwa’ (pratipada) or the first day of ‘paksh’ (fortnight of Hindi calendar) and thus not a good day for beginnings. “Our party candidate will file nomination on Wednesday and Tuesday was avoided as it was ‘padwa’ and no auspicious task is begun on this day,” said a party office-bearer on condition of anonymity.None of the BJP candidates in Agra and Aligarh filed nominations on Tuesday and in a press release issued by Media Cell for BJP in Aligarh, it was informed that BJP candidates Sandeep Singh for Atrauli, Ravendra Pal Singh for Charra, Rajkumar Sahyogi for Iglas, Anup Pradhan for Kair and Jaiveer Singh for Baroli will file nomination in Aligarh on Wednesday.“Yes it was ‘padwa’ today and many avoid beginning an important task on this day although there is more to this belief. It was ‘padwa’ today but it was Pushya Nakshatra (lunar mansion of Hindu astrology) and is a rare occasion of good luck but not many are aware about it and thus prefer to avoid filing nomination papers on the day of ‘padwa’” said Mahant Yogesh Puri from Mankameshwar Temple in Agra. It is believed that filing of papers will rise from Wednesday onward before the last day of nomination: Friday, January 21. However, on Tuesday, four nomination papers were filed in Aligarh, by Pintu Kumar from Bhartiya Mahasangh Party for Khair assembly seat, Narendra Kumar Sharma from Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) for Baroli assembly seat, Satish Lodhi, an independent for Charra assembly seat and Jafar Alam from Samajwadi Party for Aligarh city assembly seat. In Agra, only three nomination papers were filed on Tuesday and included Derek Smith from Adarsh Samaj Party for Agra South, Ravi Bhardwaj of BSP for Agra South and Kapil Vajpayee from Aam Admi Party in Agra. There were five nominations filed in Mathura district on Tuesday and included BJP candidates Pooran Prakash from Baldev and Megh Shyam Singh from Goverdhan assembly seats. RLD candidates Babita Devi from Baldev and Pritam Singh from Goverdhan assembly seat filed nomination papers. The fifth nomination was for Mathura city by Suresh Chand Baghel from Rashtiya Soshit Samaj Party.
19-01-2022||Lucknow||Lucknow: Officials asked to make wide publicity of KYC App to help people choose a right candidate||Lucknow: Additional chief electoral officer (ACEO) BR Tiwari on Tuesday directed officials to make wide publicity of the KYC (Know Your Candidate) App so that common people could get all the relevant information about the candidates in their constituencies and vote for one keeping his conduct in mind. Tiwari was holding a meeting with state’s deputy electoral officers, returning officers, nodal officers and other government officials via video conferencing. “Publicity should also be made of C—vigil App, Voter Helpline App, PwD App etc,” he said. The C-vigil App empowers citizens to report model code of conduct violations such as bribery, gifts, liquor distribution and playing of loudspeakers at a volume beyond the permissible limit. Laying stress on the need for increasing the voters’ participation in the elections, Tiwari told officials to make an action plan based on the district’s theme and icon to enhance voting percentage on booths where it was low during last elections. He asked officials to take quick note of complaints about the model code violations and take necessary action. He said district control rooms must work round the clock to exchange election-related information. Tiwari informed that the police lodged FIRs against 23 persons during last 24 hours for violating the model code of conduct guidelines in the state. “Cases have been registered against 143 persons so far,” he said. In the meantime, on Tuesday a total 41 candidates filed their nomination papers for the first phase of polling to the assembly elections in the state. So far, 77 candidates have filed their nomination papers. January 21 is the last date for filling nomination papers for the first phase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-officials-asked-to-make-wide-publicity-of-kyc-app-to-help-people-choose-a-right-candidate-101642533114714.html
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana vigilance arrests HCS officer in bribery case||The Haryana State Vigilance Bureau has arrested Amrinder Singh Manais, an HCS officer, accused of involvement in a bribery case while he was holding additional charge of district transport officer, Ambala during the leave period of the regular incumbent.The 2019 batch HCS officer, who holds additional charge of estate officer of Haryana Sehari Vikas Pradhikaran Kaithal, was arrested from his office in Kaithal’s mini-secretariat soon after he reached the office on Tuesday morning.Deputy inspector general vigilance (Ambala) Ashok Kumar said the officer was arrested in a case of corruption during his previous posting in Ambala. As per an official communication sent to Haryana chief secretary’s office by the office of DIG (vigilance), the accused was arrested in a case registered on December 17 last year under Sections 7 and 7A of the Prevention of Corruption Act and Section 120 of the Indian Penal Code.The arrest was made following allegations by a Kaithal-based transporter Devraj, who accused Manais and other officials of taking ₹6.50 lakh to allow inspection-free movement of overloaded vehicles on highways. The matter was reported in September last year when Ambala DTO Gauri Midha was on leave and Manais, the then DTO of Panchkula, was given the additional charge of DTO Ambala temporarily. Reacting to the complaint, the vigilance bureau had started an investigation and arrested Ambala-based agent Gurpreet Singh, assistant sub-inspector Jaspal Singh, who was posted in the DTO’s inspection team, and DTO’s driver Karanvir Shergill in the case. Later, ASI Jaspal Singh agreed to become a witness in the case and recently named the then DTO for his involvement in the racket.While giving this information, a vigilance bureau spokesperson said three accused who had been arrested in the case had disclosed the modus operandi adopted by the accused officer in the scandal.During investigation, sufficient evidence has come on records to show that after taking over charge, the accused HCS officer had established a network of subordinate officials and agents and obtained illegal gratification through them for allowing overloaded vehicles to ply in his jurisdiction, following which, the arrest was made on Tuesday.The spokesperson said, “The probe will further help in getting to the bottom of the matter and the possibility of involvement of other accused cannot be ruled out. Strict action will be taken against all culprits as per law.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-vigilance-arrests-hcs-officer-in-bribery-case-101642533053586.html
19-01-2022||Delhi||AAP MLA seeks legal action against sale of ‘school land’ by North MCD||Aam Aadmi Party MLA Somnath Bharti on Tuesday sought legal action against the sale of land belonging to schools by North MCD, a claim that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which rules the MCD, dismissed as baseless.Bharti said that he raised the issue of commercialisation of land given by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) to the MCD for development of schools. “I raised this issue in the DDA meeting, chaired by the Lieutenant Governor (LG), on Tuesday. The land in Delhi principally belongs to the DDA, and it is the DDA which gives properties to everyone. So all this land, which is now being sold by the MCD, was once given by the DDA to the MCD for building schools. But, instead of utilising this land meant for developing the schools, the BJP-ruled MCD is selling it. I submitted a request to the LG in writing, asking him to save MCD schools. The DDA should take action on it and hand over all MCD schools to the AAP-ruled Delhi government. The way Arvind Kejriwal has made Delhi’s schools world-class, he will also transform the schools under the MCD,” he said. Refuting the allegations, the Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said that the AAP leaders are blowing this issue out of proportion. “The AAP, leaders, in an apparent competition, repeat the same lie many times. The North MCD has repeatedly clarified that no school land is being sold and actually car parking are being constructed under PPP model on the demand of local residents and traders. The lands near schools in Shalimar Bagh and Bank Street (Karol Bagh) were allotted 6-7 years ago by the DDA to the North MCDs. But as this is the election year, they are simply creating a brouhaha,” said Kapoor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aapmlaseeks-legal-action-against-sale-of-school-land-by-north-mcd-101642532873388.html
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||Poisonous gas from Panipat refinery damaged crops, allege farmers||Hundreds of farmers from six villages located near the Indian Oil Corporation Limited’s Panipat refinery on Tuesday held a protest alleging that a poisonous gas released by the refinery has damaged their crops on over 1,500 acre.Farmers from Kutana, Bohali, Dadlana, Sighpura, Sithana and Rarekalan joined the protests at the entrance of the refinery and demanded compensation for the damaged crops.Farm leader Jagdip Singh Aulakh alleged that hundreds of acres of wheat crop near the refinery dried up due to poisonous gases released from the refinery. He alleged that as per local farmers, the gas was released on the intervening night of January 14 and 15 following which, the crop got damaged and people complained of pains in their eyes. He alleged that the impact could be seen on all crops, especially wheat and mustard.He said earlier, the local farmers tried to take up the issue with officials of the refinery but they were not ready to listen to the farmers following which they had to hold protests.He threatened to intensify their agitation and launch an indefinite protest if the refinery did not give compensation to the farmers. After protests of hours, the refinery management called a delegation of farmers for talks and agreed to get the affected areas examined by the agricultural experts and sought two days from the protesting farmers.On the other hand, the refinery officials have refuted the allegations and called them baseless. They said the refinery never releases any poisonous gas and the recent rainfall and bad weather could also be a reason behind the damaged crop. And yet, they will conduct a survey of the affected areas and an inspection team of the refinery officials has already been formed.In 2019, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had held the IOCL refinery responsible for violating environmental norms and spreading pollution in nearby villages and directed the IOCL officials to deposit a sum of ₹17.31 crore and later, ₹25 crore, in 2019 and 2020, respectively, as interim compensation for restoration of the environment, subject to further orders.The interim orders were issued on the reports of the joint committee formed by the NGT to assess the damage caused by the refinery to environment and human health following a complaint by the locals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/poisonous-gas-from-panipat-refinery-damaged-crops-allege-farmers-101642532756227.html
19-01-2022||Other||MNNIT’s 18th Convocation: Not just tech leaders but produce entrepreneurs too, says MoS||Union minister of state for education Subhas Sarkar has called on students to develop perseverance, patience and a strong belief in one’s own abilities to overcome challenges and attain success. Additionally, he urged technical institutions to not just produce tech leaders for business ventures but also entrepreneurs who can dream and create the next successful and big business ventures.Sarkar was virtually addressing passing out students of the Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology (MNNIT)-Allahabad at its 18th Convocation function held online, on Tuesday.The minister of state said that his government was committed towards creating a hub of various systems, processes and policies aimed at developing a self-reliant India or ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’.“PM Narendra Modi in his recent address to the nation has stated that start-ups would be the backbone of the new India and also declared January 16 as the National Start-Up day of the country. Following the vision of the PM, the government has supported setting up of start-ups in both the software and the manufacturing sectors. The government has also made the process of registration of companies and start-ups easier along with considerable support in the shape of several tax breaks to help them grow,” he pointed out.He urged the youngsters to showcase their talent by making use of these opportunities to become an entrepreneur and work for themselves and the nation thereby becoming job providers instead of mere job seekers.He advocated creation of a futuristic knowledge system based on ancient Indian traditions, rich cultural heritage, and wisdom. Also, he stressed on the holistic development of skill sets and competencies required for a sustainable world.On the occasion, he also inaugurated a newly constructed girls’ hostel.Earlier, MNNIT director Prof Rajeev Tripathi welcomed the minister and other guests and highlighted achievements of the institute as well as steps taken to implement the provisions of the new national education policy (NEP)-2020.In all, 1,464 degrees were awarded at the convocation function that included 860 BTech, 367 MTech, 85 MCA, 35 MBA, 18 MSc and 99 PhDs. During the ceremony, 61 foreign students admitted through Direct Admission of Students Abroad (DASA) also received their degrees. There were 229 girl students among the degree recipients. Meritorious students of the institute were awarded gold medals of which 32 gold medals were given to postgraduate students and 13 to undergraduate students. Apart from these gold medals, 12 sponsored gold medals constituted by faculty members, alumni and industry were also conferred to students for their outstanding performances. Akshat Jain of BTech civil engineering branch was awarded the overall Institute Gold Medal as the best student amongst all BTech Final year students passing-out batch of 2021. He bagged five gold medals at the function.In the year-wise gold medal category, Aryan Mittal (CSE) for third year, Shubham Dixit (CSE) for second year and Amisha Sinha (ECE) for first year were awarded gold medals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mnnits-18th-convocation-not-just-tech-leaders-but-produce-entrepreneurs-too-says-mos-101642532753462.html
19-01-2022||Delhi||‘Marriage not sufficient reason to deny wife right to prosecute husband of rape’||The Delhi high court, hearing a clutch of petitions seeking to criminalise marital rape, was on Tuesday informed by the amicus curiae that the status of marriage between two parties cannot be sufficient reason to deny a wife the ability to prosecute her husband for marital rape.Arguing before a bench of Justices Rajiv Shakdher and C Hari Shankar, senior advocate Rajshekhar Rao submitted that a “rapist remains a rapist irrespective of the relationship” as he read out from the Verma Committee report which had recommended the criminalisation of marital rape.“Given the length and breadth of material that is before your lordships, I do not believe it is possible for anyone to say that there is any justifiable basis in thinking that the status of marriage between the two parties as being sufficient to deny the wife the ability to prosecute her husband for the act of rape,” he said.Senior advocate Rao, who concluded his arguments on Tuesday, told the court that it is time to bury the provision or exception in 375 Indian Penal Code which decriminalizes marital rape.Exceptions of section 375 IPC decriminalises marital rape and mandates that sexual intercourse by a man with his own wife, the wife not being under 115 years of age, is not rape.The court was hearing PILs by NGOs RIT Foundation, All India Democratic Women’s Association and two individuals who have sought striking down the exception in the Indian law, saying that it discriminated against married women being sexually assaulted by their husbands.On Tuesday, the court asked the Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Chetan Sharma, for the union government, to be ready to advance their arguments.In response, the ASG told the court that an “informed consultation process” to examine the issue of criminalising marital rape has been “fast-tracked”.The matter would continue on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/marriage-not-sufficient-reason-to-deny-wife-right-to-prosecute-husband-of-rape-101642532394131.html
19-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi HC asks for authorities’ stand on seeking removal of stray cattle from roads||The Delhi high court on Tuesday sought the stand of the Delhi government and other authorities on a plea seeking the removal of stray cows and bulls from roads and highways to prevent accidents.Justice V Kameswar Rao issued notice to the Delhi government, deputy commissioner (traffic), and deputy commissioner of South Delhi Municipal Corporation on the petition by Satish Sharma, a lawyer, who claimed to have suffered injuries after “stray cows and bulls started quarrelling” on the road.In the petition, the lawyer said that there are several stray cows and bulls wandering freely on the roads after being abandoned by their owners and despite several complaints to the authorities concerned, the animals are yet to be removed.It said that on December 15, 2021, the petitioner was returning home on his motorcycle when a herd of stray cows and bulls began fighting on the road.“The petitioner sustained injuries on his palm, wrist, knee, and ankle...the petitioner fell on the road and passersby saved him,” the plea said.It said that such incidents can lead to grave road accidents. The petition contended that it is the duty of the authorities to prevent cows and bulls from gathering on the roads and their inaction is illegal, wrong, and uncalled for.The matter will next be heard in April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-asks-for-authorities-stand-on-seeking-removal-of-stray-cattle-from-roads-101642532333514.html
19-01-2022||Delhi||2 BSF personnel killed, 3 others injured after ambulance overturns in NE Delhi||Two personnel of the Border Security Force (BSF) were killed and at least three others injured after an ambulance that was carrying them to a hospital in Shahdara overturned in Shastri Park area of northeast Delhi on Monday, police said on Tuesday.A police officer said the BSF’s ambulance was carrying the personnel to a hospital in Shahdara around 8.30am, when the vehicle overturned while trying to save a man who was crossing the road in Shastri Park. Locals rushed the five personnel to GTB and JPN hospitals.The dead BSF personnel were identified as Yashvir Malik, 51, and Manoj Paswan,31. Malik was declared brought dead at JPN hospital while Paswan died at GTB hospital, the officer said.They were posted to BSF’s 165 battalion in Sector 26, Rohini. Malik, who belonged to Shamli in Uttar Pradesh, was a head constable, and Paswan, from Jharkhand’s Hazaribagh, was a constable. The injured personnel KS Gupta, Praveen (known by his first name), and Arun Kumar were discharged after treatment.A case was registered at the Shastri Park police station and the bodies of the dead personnel were handed over to their families after an autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/2-bsf-personnel-killed-3-others-injured-after-ambulance-overturns-in-nedelhi-101642532213494.html
19-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi Police register suo motu FIR against derogatory Clubhouse chat||The Delhi Police on Tuesday registered an FIR (first information report) against unknown persons over an offensive chat on Clubhouse, a social audio network, in which participants could be heard making derogatory comments about Muslim women. Clips of the taped audio conversation have since been widely shared on social media platforms and though HT could not independently verify the authenticity of a 2.20 minute leaked audio clip that it is in possession of, the screen showed that there were at least 70 to 80 participants in the particular Clubhouse discussion.This is the third such case in the past eight months, wherein offensive photographs or messages were posted online to target Muslim women. The first was the “Sulli Deals” app on GitHub in July and the second was the “Bulli Deals” app, which was flagged earlier this month. Both apps featured doctored photographs of prominent Muslim women along with offensive and derogatory comments about them. They were taken down after widespread outrage and the police registering cases against five men for creating the two apps. Police have maintained that the two alleged app developers -- Neeraj Bishnoi, a BTech student, and Aumkareshwar Thakur, a freelance web developer -- were self-radicalised.In the Clubhouse case, the audio clips revealed participants purportedly making offensive comments about Muslim women during a discussion session that took place on Monday afternoon. The clip has since been widely circulated on other platforms, leading to public outcry. On Tuesday, the Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) issued a notice to the Delhi Police’s cybercrime unit, the Intelligence Fusion Strategic Operations (IFSO), seeking details of the action taken. The DCW also sought to know from the police why no one has been arrested in the matter so far.KPS Malhotra, chief of the IFSO, said, “ We have filed a case suo motu against unidentified persons. The case has been filed under Indian Penal Code sections of 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion), 295A (deliberate and malicious act, intended to outrage religious feelings), and 354A (sexual harassment). We have started the probe.”Clubhouse is a social audio app, where members can participate and listen in on chat sessions and discussions based on their topics of interest. The app has in the past been banned by a few countries after participants took part in similar offensive discussions.In response to HT’s email seeking a comment on the matter, a Clubhouse spokesperson said, “Clubhouse is a place for people around the world to spend time with friends, meet others, engage in discussions and learn. There is absolutely no place for hate or abuse on the platform. We invest significantly in keeping our community safe and take swift action at any violation of our policies. In this instance, the room was reported and those involved in organising were quickly actioned.” The spokesperson added that community health is a top priority for the platform and Clubhouse has built features such as room title reporting, blocking, shared block lists, removing replays, and NSFW filters, and improved policies to keep a check on real-time voice conversations and group discussions.The investigation into the two offensive apps had initially hit a road block, after GitHub -- the platform where the apps were hosted -- refused to share details of its users -- the persons who had created the app. Delhi Police was able to trace the alleged culprits and make arrests after one of the them, Neeraj Bishnoi, masked his identity on Twitter and claimed responsibility for the app. Bishnoi was arrested from his house in Jorhat, Assam. It was on his “confession statement” that police arrested Thakur from Indore, Bhopal. Thakur, police said, is the creator of the second GitHub app. Police have said the two men knew each other on social media platforms and were part of the same groups where the idea to come up with such apps was first discussed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-register-suo-motu-fir-against-derogatory-clubhouse-chat-101642532153289.html
19-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi CP writes to central armed police forces, seeks officers on deputation||Paving the way for lateral entry of personnel from Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs), the Delhi Police has written to the heads of the five forces to send their personnel on deputation for an initial period of three years.According to a copy of the letter seen by HT, there are 700 posts available for lateral entry between the ranks of constables and inspectors. The letter was sent by Asthana’s office on January 10, addressed to the chiefs of the paramilitary forces(CAPFs) asking them to send applications of “willing and eligible” personnel for a period of three years, which could be extended to five years.The five central forces include Border Security Force (BSF), Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), and Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB).According to the letter, 375 constables, 60 head constables, 20 sub-inspectors and 5 inspectors would be posted to different police units within the force. And, 240 constables on deputation would be those who are experts in units such as finger print bureau, dog handling, drill instruction and unarmed combat.The five forces must also send a “vigilance clearance and integrity” certificate of the candidate when applying for the post, the letter said. The heads of the CAPFs must also send the annual confidential report(ACR) along with details of major or minor penalties, if any, that the candidates have received. The candidates must be less than 56 years old, according to the letter.To be sure, this is not the first time that junior police personnel from forces such as CRPF, BSF or CISF will be joining Delhi police. There are many serving inspectors and ACPs, who joined Delhi police from CISF and CRPF on deputation and were later inducted into the force.But, this will be the first time that recruitment on such scale is being done.“The lateral entrants will be posted in specific departments, where their expertise could be used. For example, an inspector from CISF could join the security department. Security is an important issue in the national Capital today,” a police officer, who asked not to be named, said.Senior officers, especially those who are from the Indian Police Service (IPS) are regularly transferred from the Delhi Police to the paramilitary forces and vice versa. Until his appointment as the Delhi police commissioner, Asthana was the chief of the Border Security Force (BSF). Former commissioner SN Shrivastava was in the CRPF when he was appointed the Delhi police chief in February 2020.Junior Delhi police personnel such as constables or mid-level ones such as inspectors also join CBI and NIA on deputation.Retired Delhi police ACP, Rajender Singh, who served the force for over three decades, said, “If you look at the larger picture, this is a very good initiative. A trained person from an outside force will use his/her experience and improve police’s productivity. At the same time, the police headquarters should ensure that only deserving candidates are selected. The headquarters must also maintain balance between serving police personnel and those on deputation when it comes to delegation of responsibilities. There should not be mistrust. No one should feel at a disadvantage in terms of promotion or posting.”Another police expert, advocate LN Rao, who retired as a DCP in Delhi police, said such experiments have in the past yielded little success. “Senior officers from outside come here in leadership roles and deliver give good results. The present commissioner came from BSF and is doing well for Delhi police. But at the junior level, a transfer like this may not work. Instead of getting people from outside, the police headquarters must promote their own personnel or quickly fill up the vacancies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cp-writes-to-central-armed-police-forces-seeks-officers-on-deputation-101642531973516.html
19-01-2022||Delhi||Omicron behind most fresh Covid cases in Delhi||The Capital added 11,684 new cases of Covid-19, according to the health bulletin released on Tuesday that showed a drastic drop in the share of tests turning positive, reinforcing signs that the outbreak may have begun to taper.Officials aware of the matter said they will continue to watch these trends further to take any decision on restrictions, while experts separately said Omicron is now virtually the only variant causing infections in the city, which has helped keep hospitalisation rates low. Senior officials of Delhi’s government’s health department said the share of Omicron variant in community samples sent for genome sequencing has been consistently increasing, reaching nearly 95% in the last week, up from 62% in the last week of December. “Omicron is definitely the dominant variant in the city currently and that is a sigh of relief for us because generally among patients, the symptoms are milder compared to the earlier variants. The hospital admissions are also lower because the infection under this variant is not impacting the lungs of patients,” said a senior health official, asking not to be named. SK Sarin, director of the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS)—among the labs that conduct genome sequencing of Covid-19 samples in Delhi—said similar trends were seen at his facility with nearly 90-95% samples among the total samples tested in Delhi turning out to be of the Omicron variant. “People are largely testing positive for Omicron in Delhi currently and its share has shown a steep rise since December. Almost 90-95% of the cases being tested are of the Omicron variant,” Sarin said. The rise of the variant has been drastic. Delhi government data showed that the variant comprised 65% of all infections in the first week of January, growing to 81% in the samples sequenced the following week, according to government data. The variant is the most transmissible version of the Sars-CoV-2 yet, and has led to near vertical case trajectories in the countries where it has taken hold. But the hospital rate has remained under control, with over 85% of the bed strength in the capital still available. Only 2,730 of the 15,606 beds in dedicated Covid-19 hospitals have been occupied, data released by the government showed. The bulletin also showed that on Tuesday, 38 people succumbed to the infection, the highest since January 12 when the city reported 40 Covid deaths. A little over 52,000 Covid tests were conducted over the last 24 hours, according to the health bulletin. The number of tests carried out has fallen after a change in testing guidelines said those without symptoms need not be tested. But the reduction is not only due to fewer tests. The test positivity rate of 22.47% recorded on Tuesday was significantly lower than the 27.99% on Monday. On Sunday too, the positivity rate was over 27%. “It seems like the cases have started declining but we will have to wait a few more days to actually call this a trend and not just an aberration. The cases along with the positivity rate and consistent testing numbers, need to be taken into account to say definitively that there is a decline. But if the trajectory of other countries are to be followed, then yes in the next week or so, Delhi should also start seeing a fall in daily infections,” said DR KK Talwar, former head of the Medical Council of India, who was also heading the Punjab government’s expert group on Covid during the second wave of the pandemic.
19-01-2022||Delhi||NE Delhi riots: HC grants bail to 6 accused in murder of 22-year-old||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Tuesday granted bail to six persons accused in the murder of 22-year-old Dilbar Negi, who worked as a waiter at a sweet shop during the north-east Delhi riots in February 2020.According to the FIR, an unruly mob had put the sweet shop on fire during the riots in the Gokulpuri area, following which Negi sustained burn injuries and died. Justice Subramonium Prasad granted bail to Mohd Tahir, Shahrukh, Mohd Faizal, Mohd Shoaib, Rashid and Parvez.According to police, the rioting incident had taken place near Shiv Vihar Tiraha on February 24, 2020, in which accused persons allegedly pelted stones, and ransacked and torched several shops there. Negi’s mutilated dead body was found in the shop two days later, following which the FIR, under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, was registered at Gokulpuri police station.During the earlier hearings on the bail pleas, the prosecution had opposed the petitions, saying that while the riots started in the morning and continued till late in the night, it cannot be said that the accused were part of the riotous mob in the afternoon and not during the night.Communal clashes had broken out in north-east Delhi on February 24, 2020, after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 700 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/nedelhi-riots-hc-grants-bail-to-6-accused-in-murder-of-22yearold-101642531733274.html
19-01-2022||Patna||Akhilesh hits back at BJP on charges of fielding criminals in polls||Lucknow: Under attack over fielding candidates with a criminal background in the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday alleged that his party leaders had been framed in false cases by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Flanked by veteran leader Azam Khan’s son Abdullah Azam who was recently released from jail and new entrant Swami Prasad Maurya, Akhilesh Yadav also claimed that the maximum number of MLAs with a criminal background were from the saffron party. Akhilesh said this in response to media queries on a PIL which sought a direction from the Supreme Court to the Election Commission to de-register any political party which violated the directions of the apex court on making public information about their candidate’s criminal record. The public interest litigation (PIL) cited the case of SP candidate from Kairana constituency - Nahid Hasan - who was arrested recently under the Gangster Act. Terming the PIL as BJP-sponsored, the SP president said that going by this standard, the BJP would not be able to contest anywhere in the country. “The chief minister and deputy chief minister have a number of cases against them. The maximum number of MLAs with a criminal background has reached the assembly from the BJP,” he claimed. To note, the BJP has been accusing the Samajwadi Party of sheltering gangsters and mafias during its rule in Uttar Pradesh. “The Samajwadi Party, which has been protecting criminals, has now given tickets to anti-social elements and history -sheeters for several assembly seats, including Kairana, Muzaffarnagar, Siyana, Bulandshahr and Loni in western Uttar Pradesh,” chief minister Yogi Adityanath had said on Monday. The SP chief, however, alleged that a large number of his party leaders had been framed in fake cases under the BJP government. ‘I have said this earlier also. A DM who had come from another state and wanted extension was posted in Rampur and he worked there as per the wishes of the government. An IPS who had charges against him was sent to Rampur to end his inquiry. During the past five years, the BJP lodged fake cases against Samajwadi Party leaders and Nahid Hasan also comes in this category,” Akhilesh Yadav claimed. On senior leader Azam Khan, who is presently in jail, Akhilesh alleged that both the Congress and the BJP colluded in framing him. ‘We have an app’ On Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressing party workers in his parliamentary constituency-Varanasi through Namo app today, Akhilesh Yadav said that BJP was aware of how the elections were going to be conducted and so strengthened its digital medium while other parties were making the preparations now. “We have an app which has been activated,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/akhilesh-hits-back-at-bjp-on-charges-of-fielding-criminals-in-polls-101642531613322.html
19-01-2022||Delhi||Relaxations in Covid-19 restrictions unlikely this week in Delhi||There are no plans yet to rollback some of the Covid-19-related restrictions on activities and movement of people, Delhi government officials privy to discussions said on Tuesday, even as the number of new cases grew at a significantly slower pace and the share of tests that turned positive also dropped.There were a little under 12,000 cases on Tuesday, the second day this was under 15,000, and the positivity rate clocked in at 22.47%. Last week, Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain said some curbs, like the weekend curfew, could be rolled back if new cases stay under 15,000.An official aware of the planning said the situation will be monitored further before relaxations are made. “There is going to be no relaxation in the ongoing restrictions in Delhi this week. Restrictions will continue till the situation comes in grip. The weekend lockdown will continue this weekend (January 22-23),” said this person, a senior official, who asked not to be named.The decisions on restrictions are taken by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), which is headed by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal. A second senior official said no meeting of the DDMA has been scheduled this week so far. “It is likely that status quo will be maintained on all the previous DDMA orders this week. In all likelihood, the matter may be reviewed early next week ahead of Republic Day (January 26),” said this person, asking not to be named.A third official, from the health department, too said they will wait to see how the trend in cases holds. “We will be assessing the situation for a few more days,” this person said, while adding that if a recommendation will then be sent to the DDMA accordingly.Chief secretary Vijay Dev directed all concerned teams to increase Covid-19 testing from Wednesday, the first official quoted above added. The directive came after the ministry of health, in a letter dated January 17 (Monday), asked all states and Union Territories (UTs) to immediately increase testing in a strategic manner.The Centre said it seemed from data that testing declined in many states and UTs, although the drop likely took place due to a change in guidelines that said people without symptoms need not be tested.A host of restrictions are in place in Delhi, including a weekend curfew, a night curfew and a ban on high-risk, non-essential activities such as dining at a restaurant or going to a cinema.Shops and malls are allowed to operate only on odd-even basis on weekdays and restaurants can only offer take-out meals.These rules have been criticised by businesses, which say that they are excessive since the city’s health infrastructure has adequate capacity to deal with even larger numbers of cases as the variant now causing infections is less likely to lead to serious disease.The New Delhi traders’ association (NDTA) on Tuesday wrote to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal urging him to allow all shops to operate on all weekdays till 8 pm. They requested that the existing rule of running shops in markets and malls in odd-even manner be lifted. “Please note that by adopting an odd-even process, the crowd increases in front of a shop. Crowds will only reduce if all shops are allowed to open regularly till 8 pm,” wrote Atul Bhargava, president of NDTA.(With inputs from Soumya Pillai)
19-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram: Circle rate hike makes property dearer in many key micro markets||Property rates in the city are set to go up, especially in areas along Golf Course Road, Golf Course Extension Road, Southern Peripheral Road (SPR) and in sectors along Dwarka Expressway, after the implementation of new circle rates, which were revised by the district administration at the start of the year.According to the new circle rates, which came into effect from January 1, the average hike ranges from 10% to 25% depending upon the area.Collector or circle rate is the minimum price at which a property is registered with the revenue department when being transferred. The stamp duty levied on such properties is a major revenue earner for the government.An analysis of the new circle rates shows that hike has been effected primarily for properties that have witnessed higher sales, and where there is a difference in the market and circle rates (market rates in these areas are higher). Market rate is the rate at which a property transaction takes place and its price is determined by market forces, while circle rates are fixed yearly or twice a year by the district administration.The Gurugram administration said that in most areas there was a marginal increase in property rates, and they took care to ensure that affordable housing is not affected by the hike.District administration officials said circle rates of privately developed colonies have been revised in Gurugram and Wazirabad tehsil by 5-10%, Manesar tehsil by 10-15%, Farrukhnagar tehsil by 30-50%, and Badshahpur tehsil by 25%. In the case of group housing colonies, the price has been increased from 5% to 66% in some cases depending on the revenue registration data, said officials.Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, said that the objective was to rationalise the circle rates in tune with prevailing market rates as the difference had become too high and, in several cases, rates had not been revised in the last two years.According to authorities, the circle rates for Golf Course Road have been revised for The Verandas, Palm Springs, The Summit, La Lagune, Sun City, Central Park, and other similar projects from ₹1,500 per square foot (PSF) to ₹2,500 PSF. Local property dealers said these projects have seen the maximum sale and purchase over the last two years.The circle rate of properties in the Ambience Group has witnessed a hike of ₹500 PSF, while prime properties on Golf Course Road (including DLF Aralias, Magnolias, and Camellias) have not witnessed any hike in circle rate. Several mid-level but older projects such as Laburnum, Unitech World Spa, Park Place, Belaire have also not seen any change in rates. The rates are changed based on revenue data and number of registrations in the last six months, authorities said, and these projects have not seen much traction in this period.Compared to group housing projects, the circle rates of plots in private licensed colonies saw a much higher hike, primarily due to a higher demand of plots and floors among buyers, said real estate dealers.The circle rate for plots in Sushant Lok 1 and DLF phase 1 has been revised from ₹77,000 to ₹85,000 per square yard (PSY), for DLF phase 2,4 and South City 1 from ₹72,000 PSY to ₹85,000 PSY, for DLF phase 3 from ₹66,000 PSY to ₹72,000 PSY, and for DLF phase 5 from ₹72,000 PSY to ₹90,000 PSY.The circle rate of plots in sectors 58 to 64 has been increased from ₹3,000 PSY to ₹36,000 PSY. The circle rate in developing sectors (104, 105, 106, 109, 110, 110A, 11 112, 113, 114, 115) has been increased from ₹25,500 to ₹30,000. In municipal areas, circle rates have been revised by an average rate of 8-10%, said officials.In colonies located from Railway Crossing to Daulatabad, the rate has been revised from ₹21,000 PSY to ₹23,000 PSY. From Civil Lines to Jail Road, the rate has been revised from ₹52,000 PSY to ₹58,080 PSY, they added.The deputy commissioner said that the hike has been put in place in areas where there was a sharp difference in market and circle rates. “We have taken inputs from different stakeholders, and based on the revenue registration data, the circle rate has been increased in some areas. We have ensured that affordable housing and housing meant for similar categories are not affected by the revision,” he said.The hike in circle rates has, however, not gone down well with the developers and property dealers, who said that given the Covid-19 pandemic, and lack of business in previous years, the government should have waited for the market to revive.Pradeep Aggarwal, chairman, Signature Group, a city-based developer, said that this hike will increase the burden of stamp duty on the end-user by 25%. “This will further burden buyers financially and hit sales. This hike will have a cascading impact on the prices of properties. Higher acquisition costs caused by the higher circle rates will dampen sentiments. An objective market assessment of property prices in Gurugram is the need of the hour. The approach to determine circle rates needs to be reconsidered in order to capture the market rates more accurately,” he said.Property experts said that government must take into account the fact that circle rates in neighbouring Delhi and adjoining states have been reduced, and any hike in Gurugram might see buyers rushing to these places.Vinod Behl, a city-based real estate expert, observed that the authorities’ prime focus is to maximise revenue and the hike in circle rates is a step in that direction as funds for development are shrinking.“Any increase in circle rates results in an increase in the transaction cost by way of increase in stamp duty and registration charges. In the wake of the pandemic, states such as Maharashtra and Karnataka, last year, cut stamp duty to push home sales. At a time when the Union budget is around the corner and the real estate sector is demanding relief in the form of reduction in stamp duty and GST on properties under construction, putting any extra burden on property buyers is questionable,” he said.Santosh Agarwal, chief financial officer, Alpha Corp, a real estate company, also said that any decision to raise circle rates now undermines the recovery process and has a detrimental influence on the real estate sector. A higher circle rate correlates to a higher registration cost, which translates to a higher acquisition cost and thus has an impact on the property’s transaction worthiness.
19-01-2022||Delhi||HC pulls up UP Police for forging papers, illegally arresting two from Delhi||The Delhi high court pulled up the Uttar Pradesh Police on Tuesday and said the police had resorted to “complete forgery of documents” and “illegally” arrested from Delhi two family members of a man who had married against the wishes of the woman’s parents.Justice Mukta Gupta noted the submission made in a status report by the Uttar Pradesh government that the inquiry conducted by senior police officers had revealed that the two men were illegally taken from Delhi without informing the local police; neither was the date and place of arrest shown correctly.The judge also said though the two were kept in illegal custody for two days, their arrest was shown only on September 8, 2021, when talks to take back the woman, petitioner no 1, to her mother failed.Additional advocate general (AAG) Garima Prashad, appearing for the UP government, told the court that a fair inquiry has been conducted in the matter and the strictest of action will be taken against the errant police officers under disciplinary proceedings.Noting her stand, the court disposed of the plea by the couple who had approached the high court with a petition seeking the court’s protection. The plea, filed through advocate Awadesh Kumar, had said the couple got married in July of their own free will but were now being threatened by the woman’s family. They contended that the whereabouts of the man’s father and brother were not known after their arrest on September 8, 2021, allegedly from Delhi.On October 28, 2021, the court slammed the UP Police and said it will not let any illegal arrest take place in Delhi. The court took strong exception to the UP Police personnel picking up the father and brother from Delhi without intimating the local police, besides completely ignoring the fact that both bride and groom were adults. “Yeh sab UP me chalta hoga, yahan nahi (these things may happen in UP, but not here),” the judge had said.On November 18, 2021, the UP government, represented by Prashad, told the court that the two police officers, who had arrested the family members, have been suspended and an SIT has been constituted to probe their role in the illegal arrests.During the last hearing on January 11, the court gave one last opportunity to the Uttar Pradesh government to file their status report.On Tuesday, Prashad submitted that although the mother of the man, petitioner no. 2, stated that the arrest was made on August 6, 2021, it was made on September 6.The status report also said in the FIR by the woman’s mother, the woman’s age was mentioned as 21 years and it had given an address in Delhi, but the IO, Narendra Kumar Verma, had not taken any efforts to find the woman or get her statement.It added that then SHO of Shamli police station, Pankaj Tyagi, also did not render proper support to his juniors.The status report said on September 6, 2021, the sub inspector and investigation officer, along with constables, come to the house of the petitioner around 6pm and took away his two family members. But their arrest was shown as on September 8, 2021 -- from a bus stand in Shamli.Noting these, the court said, “Complete forgery of documents, A to Z every document is forged…Investigation may be callous but you cannot fudge documents. Take away somebody, pick up from one place, take him there illegally and then show arrest. Laxity and forgery of documents are two different things. Laxity in investigation is not an offence but you forge documents, this is a clear case of forging documents by IOs”.The judge also said when a major (adult person) marries someone of her own free will, the same is not an offence of kidnapping.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-pulls-up-up-police-for-forging-papers-illegally-arresting-two-from-delhi-101642531313238.html
19-01-2022||Delhi||DDA approves construction of new flats for MPs in central Delhi||Paving the way for the construction of flats for Members of Parliament in central Delhi, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) approved a proposal to include a government residential colony as a redevelopment area under the zonal plan.The proposal was approved in a meeting on Tuesday along with DDA’s annual budget for ₹7,933 crore for the financial year 2022-23.The meeting, chaired by Delhi lieutenant governor (LG) Anil Baijal, approved budgetary allocations for various ongoing projects for the next financial year. However, no new projects were announced.The area where new housing for MPs is proposed is located along Baba Kharak Singh Marg and Pandit Pant Marg in central Delhi. A senior DDA official aware of the development said, “Currently, it has CPWD [Central Public Works Department] flats, which are in a very bad condition. Earlier, the area was not included in the zonal development plan.Now this area can be taken up for redevelopment.”On Tuesday, Baijal tweeted, “Inclusion of multi-storied flats along Baba Kharak Singh Marg and Pt. Pant Marg under Redevelopment area in Zonal Development Plan (ZDP) for construction of multi-storied flats for Hon’ble Members of Parliament (Lok Sabha) for final notification by the MoHUA (ministry of housing and urban affairs).”The land-owning agency’s budget outlay for the financial year 2022-23 is ₹7,933 crore, which is ₹1,195 crore more from last year. Its project receipt for the next financial year is ₹7,943 crore, whereas it was ₹6,749 last year.In the meeting, the DDA approved the allocation of monies to projects, such as the upgradation of physical infrastructure in Rohini, Narela and Dwarka; construction of Urban Extension Road-II, completion of housing projects, etc.Last year, the DDA announced that it will pay the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation ₹1,000 crore for the construction of the Metro corridor connecting Narela with the Rithala-Narela corridor under Phase 4 and allocated ₹400 crore for 2021-22. While the project is in the planning stages, the DDA has allocated ₹240 crore more for the project in the new financial year.The DDA, which is currently the main developer in Delhi, has planned no new housing project in the new financial year. The land-owning agency has allocated ₹2,543 crore for 2022-23 to complete ongoing projects.According to a senior DDA official, “DDA is likely to earn ₹2,761 crore from the sale of flats in the new financial year. We recently launched a housing scheme in which 18,000 flats were put on sale. There are flats in Narela and Dwarka in various stages of construction.”For the UERI-II, also referred to as the third Ring Road of Delhi, the DDA will be paying the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), which is executing the project, ₹3,600 crore as viability gap funding.“Of the ₹3,600 crore, ₹1,787 crore will be paid from the Urban Development Fund and rest by the DDA…While an additional ₹100 crore will be given in this financial year, ₹725 crore will be released in the next financial year,” said an official.A senior DDA official said that work on about 10 in-situ slum rehabilitation projects will also start this year. Close to ₹300 crore has been allocated for these projects for this and the next financial year.The land-owning agency is likely to start work on three new sports complexes –two in Dwarka (including a golf course) and one in Rohini--and will spend ₹546 crore on the projects this year. The work on phase 1 of the Delhi Cycle Walk project between Badarpur and Malviya Nagar is going on. For this, ₹6 crore has been allocated. DDA officials said that the project is likely to be finished by the end of this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ddaapproves-construction-of-new-flats-for-mps-in-central-delhi-101642531133099.html
19-01-2022||Delhi||Tension in outer Delhi’s Sultanpuri as rape accused kills survivor’s brother||A 38-year-old man, the brother of a rape survivor, was stabbed to death allegedly by the rape accused and his brother in outer Delhi’s Sultanpuri on Monday night, three days after the accused was released on bail in the rape case. Another resident of the area was also shot and injured after a bullet fired by the attackers missed the target (the dead man) and hit him, police said.Both brothers, aged 40 and 35 years, were arrested within a few hours of the firing and stabbing incident that took place near a public park in Sultanpuri, the police said. While the deceased’s family alleged that the murder was an act of revenge, over them having filed the rape case, the police said the rape accused and the dead man also had an ongoing dispute over some money and a car that the deceased was not returning.The passerby, aged 42 years, who was shot and injured was known to the families of both the deceased and the alleged attackers, who live just 20 metres apart. The injured man underwent a surgery at a nearby hospital and is stable, the police said.The identities of the deceased, the injured man, and the arrested men have been withheld to protect the identity of the rape survivor.Tension prevailed in the neighbourhood as the deceased man was a Hindu and the arrested men belonged to the Muslim community. Apart from the local police, over 30 paramilitary personnel were deployed in the area to ensure law and order. The arrested men’s family is the only Muslim family in that lane, the police said, adding that soon after the incident, the family locked up their three-storey house and left, fearing a retaliation. The family members of the dead man said the murder was a revenge as the dead man’s 28-year-old sister had filed the rape case against the Muslim man last August. He was arrested and sent to jail, but was released on bail on January 14. He (the suspect) and his family members would stand outside our house and threaten us with dire consequences for filing the rape case. He intimidated us and said he had friends in high places who would protect him even if he killed everyone in our family. My sister, who filed the rape case, had to shift to a new address as she feared for her life,” said another sister of the dead man.According to the man’s mother, on Monday afternoon, the rape accused came to their house with a sword in hand and threatened to kill everyone in the house for having filed the rape case, which he claimed had ruined his life. An argument ensued between him and the rape survivor’s brother, but the mother intervened and stopped it.That evening, around 7.30, the rape survivor’s brother had gone to the market nearby when he met the rape accused and his brother and an altercation again ensued. Eyewitnesses told the police that the brothers stabbed the man and also fired at him. But the bullet missed the intended target and hit the 42-year-old passerby.Deputy commissioner of police (outer) Parvinder Singh said the police received a call at 7.53pm about the incident. A police team reached the hospital and found that two injured men were admitted there. One of them had succumbed to stab wounds while the other was undergoing treatment for a gunshot wound. A case of murder was registered and the brothers were arrested, the DCP said.He further said, “We will examine all the allegations and action would be taken accordingly. Our investigation has revealed that the 40-year-old accused had given some money and a Swift car to the deceased man as they once used to be friends. However, the man neither returned the money nor the car. The accused was also arrested in the rape case filed by the man’s sister last year.”
19-01-2022||Pune||Puneites demand reopening of gardens||Pune: As part of the Covid induced curbs, the gardens in the city have remained closed. However, citizens have raised questions on the decision and the demand for reopening of gardens for fully vaccinated adults has been gathering chorus. The Pune Municipal Corporation closed all public gardens in the city on January 10. Around 170 gardens in the city had reopened when the Covid cases had dropped in the city. However, fresh guidelines were introduced owing to the rise in Covid cases, and the public gardens were again out of the reach of kids and the elderly, who usually visit these parks. Several people have taken to Twitter to appeal to the authorities to reopen public gardens in the city. “Two years later, seems like we have learned nothing about the risks of outdoor vs indoor activities. Indoor activities are open (good)... but parks and walking tracks are closed again,” tweeted Amit Paranjape, an entrepreneur. He also tagged BJP MLA Siddharth Shirole, Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol, and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar in the tweet. According to Paranjape, public gardens are very important for physical and mental health for everyone and outdoor spaces are much less risky as compared to crowded indoor places. “Public parks and walking tracks provide a good place for people of all age groups to get fresh air, walk or light exercise, and for children to play some games,” he said. Few others have demanded the reopening of public parks due to lack of public space for daily runners. “Aai’s friend walking on the dug-up Prabhat road had a fall. She went to a hospital which increased her chances of contracting the coronavirus. She lives alone. Chances are that the fall wouldn’t have occurred if she were walking inside KNP (Kamala Nehru Park). Open the parks,” read a January 17 tweet by Shilpa Godbole, who works as a marketing consultant for a sports apparel brand. Some also questioned PMC’s decision to keep restaurants and malls open while shutting down public gardens. “Outdoor parks and swimming pools bring in no revenue to the government. Govt can show it’s taking actions without any loss of revenue,” read another tweet. “We only follow the guidelines that have been introduced by the Maharashtra state government and as per those guidelines all public gardens in the state have been closed,” said Ashok Ghorpade, chief garden superintendent, PMC. Kids come to play in these parks and the risk of spread of the virus lingers, Ghorpade said. “Gardens and public parks have gym and exercise equipment. Sanitising them all the time is a difficult task and the danger of spread of virus remains,” the head of PMC garden department said. s||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/puneites-demand-reopening-of-gardens-101642530653007.html
19-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi shivers for sixth consecutive day, IMD says relief likely soon||Parts of Delhi recorded cold day conditions for the sixth consecutive day on Tuesday and overcast skies and low clouds hung over the city even as India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted that the cold is likely to abate during the next 24 hours followed by a rain over Delhi and other cities in northwest India between January 21 and 23.Delhi recorded a drop in the maximum temperature on Tuesday with Safdarjung, Delhi’s base observatory, recording a high of 15.4 degrees – four notches below this time of the year. It was 16.1 degrees on Monday. Jafarpur was yet again Delhi’s coldest location, with a maximum of 12.8 degrees. IMD said that fog at the upper-level of the atmosphere that is currently stretching across the entire northern plains is taking longer to dissipate, and Delhi may record a similar weather on Wednesday as well.“We are expecting cold day conditions over Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Rajasthan to last for 24 hours, and then abate gradually as the wind direction changes to northwesterly and then to easterly. But cold day conditions will intensify over Uttar Pradesh and Bihar where its been very cold. They are likely to have cold day for another three days and dense fog also. Due to approaching western disturbance there may cloudy days from January 22 to 24 when again low day temperatures may be recorded. This January we have been seeing extremely low maximum temperatures over a vast region,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre.The IMD classifies it as a ‘cold’ day when the maximum temperature is 4.5 degrees or more below normal, while the minimum is below 10 degrees Celsius. It is classified as a ‘severe’ cold day when the maximum is 6.5 degrees or more below normal. While this criteria wasn’t met at Safdarjung weather station, recordings at Palam, Narela and Jafarpur stations qualified for it being classified a cold day.During this last six days, Safdarjung has recorded the lowest maximum of 14.8 degrees on Sunday -- the same day when the maximum dropped to 10.7 at Narela station. “For Wednesday, the maximum is expected to be around 16 degrees at Safdarjung, making for another possibly cold day in parts of Delhi. Even on Thursday, the maximum will only be around 17 degrees and from Friday night, we can expect rain, which will help reduce the maximum temperature. Light showers are expected on Saturday, while Friday and Sunday may also witness a drizzle,” Jenamani said.In its national weather bulletin, IMD said that cold day to severe cold day conditions prevailed in many parts of Uttar Pradesh and in some parts over Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and cold day conditions were recorded in some parts of Punjab and isolated pockets over Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-shivers-for-sixth-consecutive-day-imd-says-relief-likely-soon-101642529994372.html
19-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi: JNU students protest after PhD student molested on campus||Dozens of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) students on Tuesday evening staged a protest outside the central varsity’s North Gate, demanding swift action against a biker who allegedly sexually harassed a PhD scholar on the campus on Monday night. According to students, the woman student was taking a late night stroll on the campus when a motorcyclist sexually harassed her. Police said efforts are on to identify and arrest the suspect.According to police, they were alerted about the incident after the woman made a call to the police control room. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP, south-west) Gaurav Sharma and the station house officer of Vasant Kunj police station immediately reached the campus to investigate the matter.Sharma said they received the woman’s call around 11.45pm. “We rushed to the spot and found that the woman was taking a stroll on the campus and was on the East Gate Road when a biker came from within the campus and tried to molest her. When she raised the alarm, the suspect managed to escape and disappeared within the campus itself,” he said.Sharma said an FIR under sections 354 (A) (sexual harassment) and 354 (B) (assault or use of criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered on the woman’s complaint and efforts are on to nab the suspect.On Tuesday evening, the JNU students’ union said the incident was “an attempt to rape” and that it took place near the V-C house. “Cases of stalking and harassment have increased on the campus due to which women now feel uncomfortable and unsafe stepping out at night. The private agency hired to look after security on the campus has failed to ensure the safety of students on campus,”the student body said. Renewing its demand for the re-establishment of the Gender Sensitisation Committee Against Sexual Harassment (GSCASH), the JNUSU said, “The latest incident brings to light the failure of the JNU administration that dismantled the GSCASH and replaced it with an inefficient body called the ICC (Internal Complaints Committee). The incident also calls forth the need to reinstate the democratically elected GSCASH to fight against sexual harassment and to sensitise people on campus regarding gender and gender-based crimes.” Both left and right-leaning student groups such as AISA, SFI, BAPSA, and ABVP condemned the incident and sought swift action from the police. “It is extremely concerning that such a grievous incident occurred on campus and the JNU administration has shown a callous attitude and is yet to issue any statement in support of the survivor. This shows the utter disregard and lackadaisical approach with which the JNU administration and Delhi police handle gender-related crimes,” AISA said in a written statement. Until Tuesday evening, the JNU administration was yet to issue any statement in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhijnu-students-protest-after-phd-student-molested-on-campus-101642529272801.html
19-01-2022||Delhi||With special drive, Delhi’s 3 jails race to bring inmates under vaccine net||Under the Delhi government’s special vaccination campaign for prisoners, a majority of inmates lodged inside the Capital’s jails, including those with life sentences, have been vaccinated because everyone has the right to life under the Constitution, officials said Tuesday.In Delhi’s largest jail--Tihar--almost 90% of the inmates have received the first Covid vaccine dose, while 85% of the inmates in Rohini Jail have received the first dose. In Mandoli Jail, almost 84% of the inmates have received the first dose, according to jail authorities.Delhi’s three prison complexes have been badly hit during the current wave of the pandemic (dominated by the Omicron variant of the coronavirus) as well as in the past. The jails can accommodate 10,024 inmates, but currently house around 18,000 inmates, thus making social distancing challenging.Vaccination against Covid-19 is crucial for protection from the virus, according to experts and real-world evidence from many countries. There has been negligible resistance towards vaccination from inmates, but a group of 150 Nigerian inmates in Rohini Jail are refusing to take the jab and authorities said they are still trying to convince them.Women inmates, including those pregnant and lactating, have also been administered the vaccine--there has been no side effect so far, authorities said.According to authorities, prisoners released before being administered the second dose of the vaccine are given certificates of the first dose to facilitate them in receiving the second dose.Since the total number of inmates constantly changes with daily arrivals and departures, authorities said it is challenging to achieve 100% first-dose vaccination. District authorities said they are coordinating with the jail authorities to ensure 100% first- and second-dose coverage of all inmates at the earliest.“The jails are very close to achieving 100% first-dose coverage. Since new inmates arrive every day and the total number of inmates constantly changes, 100% vaccination coverage is challenging. Inmates jabbed in the jails are counted as vaccinated, while those vaccinated before arriving in jail are not immediately counted as vaccinated-- thus the vaccination coverage as compared to the total inmate population keeps changing on a day-to-day basis. As compared to a month ago, a majority of the inmates who arrive in the jails now are already partially or fully vaccinated. Efforts are being made to immediately update the vaccination coverage status of prisoners upon arrival,” a Delhi government official, who did not want to be named, said.A North district administration official said that the district administration is coordinating with the Rohini Jail authorities to complete 100% first-dose vaccination as soon as possible. “A vaccination camp is being organised in the jail premises on Wednesday where we will try to vaccinate as many remaining people as possible,” the official said.Since the prisoners do not have access to mobile phones, and some do not have identity proof either, jail authorities create special session sites on Co-WIN by using the identities and mobile phone numbers of medical officers to vaccinate such inmates.An official from the West district, where Tihar Jail is located, said since inmates are not allowed mobile phones, “it was decided to vaccinate the prisoners by using the “facilitator option” in Co-WIN. Vaccination for prisoners started on March 23, 2021, and since then we have administered over 16,000 doses– around 11,200 first doses and 4,850 second doses. The prisoners also include women, some of whom are pregnant or lactating. About 428 women prisoners have been vaccinated, of whom two were pregnant and four were lactating mothers,” the official said.In Tihar Jail, booster doses are also being administered to those eligible-- so far 625 doses have been administered, authorities said.An official said that the Rohini Jail authorities, with the assistance of the district magistrate (North) are taking all steps to ensure all inmates are vaccinated as soon as they enter the jail. “Since April 2021, nearly 84% of the inmates have been vaccinated with single doses. Vaccination camps are organised to vaccinate the inmates regularly,” the official said.All district magistrates have asked jail authorities to administer the second dose of the vaccine to eligible inmates at the earliest so that they are better protected against Covid-19.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital, said vaccinating jail inmates is important because they are living in overcrowded and poor hygienic conditions. “Such inmates should be vaccinated on priority. However, they should be encouraged to adopt Covid-appropriate behaviour, and should be asked to quit tobacco, and exercise and meditate regularly,” said Dr Kishore.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the epidemiology and communicable diseases department in Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said it was imperative to be careful of an outbreak of cases in jails.“Jails and prisons have been severely affected by the Covid-19 pandemic in many countries. In the US, more than 40 of the 50 largest clustered outbreaks in the country have occurred in jails and prisons. Compared with the general population, the number of Covid-19 cases in jails is almost 5-6 times higher. Outbreaks in jails spread rapidly and uncontrollably. Once the virus enters these facilities, many of which are already overcrowded, it is almost impossible to maintain the recommended 6-feet safe distance. Ventilation is inadequate. Quality face masks may not be easily available. Further, there may not be any facility for quarantining or isolating exposed individuals. In such conditions, providing Covid-19 vaccine would be beneficial to the inmates, and help prevent severe illness and death among the vaccines,” Dr Kant said.
19-01-2022||Delhi||Weather forecasts in Delhi to get sharper with third doppler radar||Forecasts of rain and thunderstorms in Delhi are set to become more accurate, with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) installing a third doppler weather radar (DWR) system for the capital at Ayanagar last week. Two such radars are already functioning at Palam (2010) and Lodhi road (2012). While the Ayanagar DWR has the smallest area of influence among the three, covering a radius of around 100 kilometres, it is also the most precise and will now be used in combination with the DWR at Lodhi road, which was being utilised to predict rain and thunderstorms in Delhi.DWRs operate within the S, C and X bands of the microwave spectrum, allowing wavelengths ranging from 2.4 to 15 cm to be sent out to detect different weather systems. While the Ayanagar’s DWR has an X-band radar, the Lodhi road one uses a C-band, and the Palam radar, S band.Met officials say each radar fulfills a different function, with the one at Palam having the longest wavelength (7.5-15 cms) and the biggest radius of around 400 kilometres, allowing IMD to track severe weather events occurring further away from Delhi NCR, but which could potentially impact flights into and out of the capital. These also track wind shear, cumulonimbus clouds (CB) and thunderstorms and dust storms farther away.In comparison, the DWR at Lodhi road has a shorter wavelength of 3.8cms to 7.5 cms, allowing IMD to identify weather events within a 250 km radius, including intensity of winds and the type of precipitation -- whether it is rain or hail.R.K Jenamani, scientist at IMD told HT that the Ayanagar DWR, which has the shortest wavelength, ranging from 2.4 to 3.8 cms, will now be used in combination with the Lodhi road DWR to give rain and risk-based warnings at the ward and street level.“This is the most precise out of the three and is aimed at giving precise warnings for rainfall, thunderstorm, squall or hail activity within Delhi. While having a smaller radius, the data from this radar will be able to capture thunderstorm and heavy rainfall activity at a higher resolution and will help in identifying areas and the depth of inundation in real-time and for each location,” added Jenamani.IMD uses its nowcast feature to issue a weather warning related to rain or hail that could occur in a region within the next two or three hours. Jenamani says the Ayanagar DWR will make these warnings more precise. “Earlier, the forecast would state which parts of Delhi will be impacted by rain, but through this, exact areas at the street level can also be mentioned. It is possible only a few wards receive heavy rainfall in Delhi and we will be able to forecast that.”Navdeep Dahiya, an amateur weather who runs ‘Live Weather of India’ and analyses weather across northern India, says that a radar with a smaller 100-km radius can display specific parts of Delhi and allow for sharper forecasts. “Earlier, the radar (being used( was much wider and covering a larger area, so forecasting for a small area like Delhi and its districts was extremely difficult. The forecasts made were valid for a larger area such as entire south Delhi, but with this, forecasts, such as chances of rain at Connaught Place will be possible.”The Ayanagar DWR’s installation was announced as part of the IMD’s 147th foundation day on Friday. The same day, similar radars were also commissioned in Leh, Mumbai and Chennai. These radars have been designed and developed indigenously by IMD and the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO). While the doppler radar at Mumbai, the city’s second, is a C-band radar, the one installed in Chennai is an X-band radar similar to Delhi and is the southern city’s third, covering an area in a 150-km radius. The doppler installed at Leh is at the highest altitude anywhere across the country. With this, India now has 33 operational DWRs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/weather-forecasts-in-delhi-to-get-sharper-with-third-doppler-radar-101642528373040.html
19-01-2022||Lucknow||Ensure entire eligible population is given 1st dose of Covid vax by Jan 25: UP CM||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh had so far seen a single-day peak of 17,000 fresh cases in the current wave of the pandemic as compared to 38,000 cases in a day during the second wave. Lower positivity rate and comparatively decreased virulence of the Omicron variant indicated that the infection was well in control in the state, said chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday.He asked officials to ensure that the entire eligible population was administered the first dose of Covid vaccine by January 25. “At present, very few people are requiring hospitalisation. Most patients are recovering in home isolation with medical consultations,” he said during the virtually held Covid-19 review meeting with Team-9, a team of top UP government officers involved in Covid management.However, he had a word of caution over the elderly, people with co-morbidities, children and pregnant women. “The infection might take a serious turn in these categories of people, so there is a need to protect them from Covid infection,” he told officers. He asked nigrani samitis (monitoring committees) to stay alert in tracking such cases.He asked officers to ready at least one dedicated Covid hospital in each district and fully activate the Integrated Covid Control Centres.Yogi said in the last 24 hours, UP recorded 14,803 fresh infections with a total active count of 1.01 lakh.“Till yesterday, 23.43 crore vaccine doses were administered and 8.86 crore people got both their doses,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ensure-entire-eligible-population-is-given-1st-dose-of-covid-vax-by-jan-25-up-cm-101642528192461.html
19-01-2022||Lucknow||My predecessors had ‘fear’ of visiting Noida, says Yogi||GREATER NOIDA Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday took a jibe at the opposition, saying his predecessors had a “fear of visiting Noida in Gautam Buddh Nagar” during their terms at the helm of the state as they had no agenda for the welfare and economic well being of people.Adityanath was referring to a “superstition” among previous state governments that if the sitting chief minister visited Gautam Buddh Nagar district, their government would collapse or they would not be re-elected.“The district is of prime importance as it is close to the National Capital and there is frequent movement of people across the state borders. My predecessors used to shy away from visiting this district as their own life and position of power were more important to them than the people of this area. However, I am thankful that I got the opportunity to visit this district many times,” he said while reviewing the Covid situation at Gautam Buddh Nagar’s Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS). This was his first visit to the 500-bed hospital in the Kasna region.The CM’s visit comes ahead of the UP Assembly elections slated to begin from February 10. Yogi Adityanath lauded the efforts of the state and central governments to ensure better Covid management during the first and second waves of the pandemic.“After taking control of Covid situation during the first wave, we witnessed oxygen crisis across the country during the second wave. Looking at the situation, the Centre made all possible efforts to supply oxygen to all parts of the country, via railways as well as airways. In UP, 550 new oxygen plants have been added, of which 11 are in Gautam Buddh Nagar,” he said.Adityanath said UP had achieved over 95% coverage of first dose of the vaccine and 62% coverage of the second dose.“UP has a target of vaccinating 1,40,00,00 children between the age of 15 and 18, of which we have already given the first dose to 62,83,00 teenagers. On the other hand, 52,900 beneficiaries have been given the precautionary dose in the state so far,” he added.Talking about Gautam Buddh Nagar, Adityanath lauded the efforts of the district health department for completing 100% first dose coverage of the Covid vaccine.“This district has carried out the vaccination drive very efficiently, as it has already completed 100% coverage of the first dose of the vaccine while the second dose coverage is 92%. Among 15-18 age group, 1,16,00 doses have been administered while 46% coverage of the precautionary dose has been achieved,” said the CM.Adityanath also appreciated the efforts of frontline workers, healthcare workers, administration, health department and local surveillance teams comprising ASHA and Anganwadi workers in controlling the spread of Covid-19 infection in the district.“Last year, we were anticipating that the third wave of Covid would hit us in August-September, 2021. However, we were able to control that. Now, the Omicron variant of Covid has spread rapidly across the country, but if we look at hospitalization figures, less than 1% of the infected cases require hospitalization. In UP, only 0.5% of the total active Covid cases are hospitalized. Similarly in Gautam Buddh Nagar, of the 9,500 active cases, only 200 are under hospitalization. In fact, even these cases are those patients who are suffering from other comorbidities,” the CM said while addressing the media.He added, “The third wave is less harmful as compared to the second. But it is a disease and we have to save children, women and senior citizens. For that, we have also installed 5,500 public address systems to give out public awareness messages. People should avoid going to crowded places. We are hopeful that we will be successful in saving lives and livelihoods during this third wave too.”At GIMS, Adityanath inspected the flu out-patient department (OPD) , control room and vaccination area. “He also interacted with patients admitted to the isolation ward and inquired about the state of heath facilities available at the hospital. GIMS is an L-2 category hospital that has 500 beds. Of these, 450 are Covid beds and currently 54 beds are occupied by Covid patients,” said Dr (Brig) RK Gupta, director, GIMS.After a review of Covid situation at GIMS, the chief minister visited Kayampur village five kilometers away. Here, he interacted with the local surveillance team (nigrani samiti) at a government school in the village.“Local health teams have done exceptional work in the last two years during the Covid pandemic and I thank them for their service. The focus of health teams should now be to ensure full coverage of precautionary dose of the Covid vaccine and vaccination for teenagers in 15-18 age group,” he told the workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/my-predecessors-had-fear-of-visiting-noida-says-yogi-101642611082692.html
19-01-2022||Bangalore||In marginal dip, Karnataka sees over 40,000 new Covid-19 cases; positivity rate nears 19%||Daily Covid-19 cases in Karnataka, as well as its capital Bengaluru, declined marginally on Tuesday, with the state logging 40,499 fresh infections, including 24,135 in the city, data shared by state health minister Dr Sudhakar K showed. A day ago, as many as 41,457 people tested positive, of which 25,595 were from the metropolis. Daily new cases hover around 40k today in Karnataka: ◾New cases in State: 40,499◾New cases in B'lore: 24,135◾Positivity rate in State: 18.80%◾Discharges: 23,209◾Active cases State: 2,67,650 (B'lore- 184k)◾Deaths:21 (B'lore- 05)◾Tests: 2,15,312#COVID19 #OmicronFresh fatalities were recorded at 21, as against 20 on Tuesday. Bengaluru accounted for five new deaths, while on January 18, seven patients passed away in the city due to the viral illness.Also Read | K'taka warns medical practitioners against spreading misinformation on Covid-19The data further showed that 23,209 more people were discharged after recovering from the virus, while active cases rose to 267,650 from 250,381. The state capital has total 184,000 active cases, while the corresponding figures a day ago were 178,000. Meanwhile, the test positivity rate (TPR) was recorded at 18.80 per cent as the latest daily infections were from 215,312 samples tested for Covid-19. On Tuesday, the TPR was recorded at 22.30 per cent, with a total of 185,872 tests conducted.Also on Wednesday, the Karnataka government issued revised guidelines pertaining to testing, isolation and quarantine of Covid-19 positive people. “For general population, patients in home isolation shall be released after at least seven days have passed after testing positive and there is no fever for three preceding and successive days; there's no need for re-testing,” a government circular read. #COVID19 | Karnataka Govt revises guidelines for testing, isolation & quarantine. For general population, patients in home isolation shall be released after at least 7 days have passed from testing positive & no fever for 3 preceding & successive days; no need for re-testing. pic.twitter.com/tPTmF2wVEHChief minister Basavaraj Bommai, who has recovered from Covid-19, will chair a meeting on Friday to review the restrictions which are currently in effect across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/in-marginal-dip-karnataka-sees-over-40-000-new-covid-19-cases-positivity-rate-nears-19-101642600696706.html
19-01-2022||Other||Migrant workers stuck in Mali expected to begin returning home this week||RANCHI: Thirty-three migrant workers from Jharkhand stuck in the African country of Mali are expected to begin returning home this week as their employer will pay their pending salaries within five days following the Indian embassy’s intervention.“It has been agreed that the company would pay our two-month salary out of that of pending wages of three and half months. The rest of the amount would be used to buy our air tickets from Bamako to Ranchi. Since Covid protocols are in place, the air tickets would be provided in batches for the earliest possible flights to India. Till then the company would take care of our needs,” said Dilip Mahto, one of the workers.The migrant workers have been stuck in Mali’s capital Bamako without salaries for three months as their contractor fled Mali with their passports.Jharkhand minister Jagarnath Mahto earlier appealed to external affairs minister S Jaishankar to intervene in the matter. Union minister Annapurna Devi also raised the issue with the external affairs ministry.The first batch of workers is likely to take their flight back home on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/migrant-workers-stuck-in-mali-expected-to-begin-returning-home-this-week-101642582458819.html
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||PU senate: Seven members from arts college constituency notified||The vice-president of India, who is also the chancellor of Panjab University (PU), on Tuesday notified the seven members elected to the varsity senate from the constituency of teachers of affiliated arts colleges. The election for the constituency was held last year, however, the members had yet to receive the notification. A gazette notification for the same was issued with the list of members, which included Inderpal Singh Sidhu, Harpreet Singh Dua, KK Sharma, Shaminder Singh Sandhu, Jagdeep Kumar, Jagdish Chander and Jagtar Singh.The term of the notified members extends up to October 31, 2024. Eight members are elected from the constituency of teachers of affiliated arts colleges to PU senate, however, the election of one candidate – Tarun Ghai – was declared ineligible by the varsity’s vice chancellor in November after a candidate of the same constituency questioned his candidature.Faculties constituency yet to be notifiedThe six elected candidates from the constituency of faculties, however, have not been notified yet. All the candidates belong to the Goyal group and are former senators. Their notification had earlier been delayed as multiple petitions questioning their election had been filed. The notification for 36 nominated members was issued in September, followed by another notifying an additional 35 members in December. The senate polls, which were to be held in 2020, where held from August last year and ended in October.The senate is a 91-member apex governing body of the university. While 36 members of the senate are nominated by the vice-president of India, two are nominated from the Punjab assembly, six are ex-officio members and the remaining 47 are elected from the eight constituencies. The senate recently held a meeting on January 8 following a two-year gap.
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||Private sector job quota law: Farm trade, short term labour, IT, start-ups to be exempted, says Dushyant||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Tuesday said trades related to agriculture activities including production and packaging of farm products will be exempted from hiring 75% local persons under the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act.The deputy chief minister, who addressed a press conference, said hiring of short-term (for 45 days) labour for activities including harvesting and construction, sowing of crops, embroidery, primary works related to fruits, vegetables, tea leaves, coffee, fish, animals will also be exempted.Dushyant reiterated that new start-ups and new IT/ITES companies will also be given exemption for two years from hiring 75% local persons. He said the state government is open to exempting industries such as brick kilns, where engaging workers from outside the state is essential.The controversial piece of legislation – the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Bill – passed by the assembly on November 5, 2020 and assented to by the governor on March 2, 2021, provides for 75% reservation in private sector jobs to those having a resident certificate (domicile). The law will be applicable for a period of 10 years.The state government has also relaxed the residency (domicile) requirement from 15 to five years for a person to get a bona fide resident certificate in state to provide flexibility to the private companies in hiring. The law modelled on the lines of a law enacted by YS Jaganmohan Reddy government in Andhra Pradesh has been termed regressive by India Inc.The deputy chief minister said industries having more than 10 employees will need to register on the designated portal and hire 75% locals. He said so far, more than 22,000 companies and 3,280 job aspirants have got their registration done.The private sector job quota move was piloted by Dushyant’s Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), the coalition partner of the BJP, in Haryana. Initially, the controversial piece of legislation did not find much support from the BJP quarters. In fact, Khattar had once sounded non-committal on the prospect of enacting such a law. Even the BJP-led government at the Centre has a different view on such a law.Dushyant on Tuesday said some industrial associations have moved court challenging the law and he will try to convince these associations to withdraw their petitions.He said to ensure that job aspirants do not have to run around to get the domicile certificate, the state government has decided Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP) can be used by the candidates for authenticating the domicile credentials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/private-sector-job-quota-law-farm-trade-short-term-labour-it-start-ups-to-be-exempted-says-dushyant-101642533537696.html
19-01-2022||World||Explained: Why major airlines suffered disruptions due to US 5G 'nightmare'||Multiple airlines had their services affected on Wednesday, with dozens of flights getting cancelled or rescheduled, as the on-off rollout of 5G mobile in the United States triggered what an airline pilot called a “nightmare” of scheduling for carriers coming to terms with rapidly changing airplane restrictions.BackgroundA dispute between airlines and telecom companies in the US has been going on for weeks now over the speed of deployment of 5G mobile services in the country.US airlines and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) have said frequencies and transmission strength being deployed in the country could interfere with the precise height readings needed for bad-weather landings on some jetliners. The tensions have also been mirrored by regulators of other economically sensitive industries.What caused the latest outage?A decision by two US wireless carriers – AT&T and Verizon Communications – to delay switching on the powerful new 5G telecom masts near key airports came too late to avoid a ripple of cancellations on Wednesday.Airlines across Asia and several in the Middle East and Europe said they were cancelling some flights or switching models, with much of the initial disruption hitting the Boeing 777, for decades a workhorse of long-distance air travel.Dubai's Emirates, the largest user of the Boeing mini-jumbo, kicked off a slew of industry cancellations or aircraft changes late on Tuesday, saying it would suspend nine US routes.Why are airlines afraid?The C-Band frequencies used for 5G networks are close to those used by the altimeters of airplanes.US telecom operators were allocated frequencies between 3.7 and 3.98 gigahertz for their 5G networks -- a right that cost the companies tens of billions of dollars.But the aviation sector is concerned that the frequencies used by the mobile companies are too close for comfort to those used by aircraft's radio altimeters, which operate between 4.2 and 4.4 GHz.Altimeters measure the distance between an aircraft and the ground, a vital instrument when landing at night or during bad weather."The concern is that the smaller gap between the upper 5G frequency in the US and these frequencies is small enough to potentially cause interference as aircraft are on approach to land," Nigel Linge, a telecommunications professor at the University of Salford in the UK, told AFP.What have US authorities decided?Aircraft makers Airbus and Boeing had voiced concerns about the potential risks of interferences to the US transportation secretary in December.The 5G rollout was then delayed until January 19 following a request from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to ensure the system is safe."If there's the possibility of a risk to the flying public, we are obligated to restrict the relevant flight activity until we can prove it is safe," the FAA says on its website.The FAA approved two models of radio altimeters and gave the green light to 48 of the 88 US airports most directly linked to 5G risks.Other countries at risk?The concerns are confined to the United States."It's not a global or European issue. It's really an issue specific to the use of 5G and its rollout in the United States in terms of frequency bands and power," Airbus chief Guillaume Faury said earlier this month.In Europe, 5G networks were given C-Band frequencies ranging between 3.4 and 3.8 GHz, thus providing more distance to those used by aircraft."Europe has been transmitting 5G on their frequencies for many months and no reports of problems have been made in respect of airlines," Linge said.South Korea, a leader in the new-generation mobile technology, gave 5G networks a ceiling of 3.7 GHz.But the US telecom industry's lobby group, CTIA, has pointed to another example: Japan, where 5G networks have been given a frequency spectrum as high as 4.1 GHz."There have been no claims of interference" in Japan, the CTIA has said.What are the measures to mitigate risks?In France, buffer zones were created around 17 large airports, restricting the strength of 5G signals and ensuring mobile base station antennas do not broadcast upwards, according to French authorities.The areas extend several kilometres from landing trips.The FAA says the mitigation measures in the US are partly similar to those in France, with "significant differences".The buffer zones for US airports only protect the last 20 seconds of flight, compared to 96 seconds in France, according to the FAA.The temporary lower power levels in the United States are 2.5 times higher than in France. And in the United States, mobile base station antennas are not required to be tilted downward, the FAA says.(Information sourced from Reuters and AFP)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/major-airlines-disrupted-worldwide-by-us-5g-nightmare-what-are-the-concerns-101642604015188.html
19-01-2022||World||China forced return of nearly 10,000 nationals in overseas crackdown, says report||China has coerced nearly 10,000 Chinese overseas nationals to return since 2014 using means and methods outside the justice system, a new report by the Spain-based rights group Safeguard Defenders said.The figure could be the “tip of the iceberg”, the group has said, given that China is increasingly pursuing its nationals aggressively overseas.The report said China is expanding its policing powers overseas and conducting illegal operations on foreign soil.The Chinese foreign ministry dismissed the report, saying the drive to bring back fugitives is part of the government’s anti-corruption campaign, carried out overseas with international consensus. “Combating transnational corruption crimes through cooperation is an international consensus,” foreign ministry spokesperson, Zhao Lijian said on Wednesday.“This is a just cause that has won full support from the Chinese people and wide praise from the international community,” Zhao added.Zhang was repeating China’s official narrative: The targets are people wanted by the Chinese judicial system as part of President Xi Jinping’s ongoing anti-corruption drive.The Safeguard Defencers’ report from Spain, however, paints a grim picture, detailing cases where those who criticised the ruling Communist Party of China (CPC) had relatives in the country harassed and detained in attempts to coerce them to return. “Through two programmes, Operation Fox Hunt and Operation Sky Net, targeted individuals were pressured to return to China against their will due to a combination of non-judicial methods, including kidnappings, harassment and intimidation,” the report said.“With the Chinese diaspora growing at an ever faster rate as more people seek to leave China... Beijing has never been more motivated to expand the powers of its security forces overseas,” the report said.The group cited government data in its estimate that almost 10,000 Chinese nationals had been forcibly returned since 2014.Official figures from the government’s anti-graft watchdog show Beijing returned around 2,500 targeted individuals in the past two years, according to agency reports.But the numbers do not include suspects apprehended for non-economic crimes or those who are not members of China’s ruling Communist Party.The NGO’s report alleges intimidation of suspects’ family members in China is widespread and Chinese agents are sent to threaten targets in foreign countries.Sometimes overseas nationals are lured to third countries that have extradition agreements with China, the rights group said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-forced-return-of-nearly-10-000-nationals-in-overseas-crackdown-says-report-101642603521606.html
19-01-2022||World||Taslima Nasreen ‘resurrected’ by Facebook after it ‘memorialised’ her account||Controversial Bangladesh-born author Taslima Nasreen tweeted to inform she has been ‘resurrected’ on Meta Platforms, formerly known as Facebook, after her account on the social media site was ‘memorialised’ by the Menlo Park, California-headquartered company.“Resurrected on facebook,” Nasreen tweeted on January 18, ending the post with a winking smiley. Resurrected on facebook. 😉On Tuesday, she tweeted that Facebook has ‘killed’ her. “I am alive. Not even sick or bedridden or hospitalized, but facebook memorialized my facebook account.” #Facebook killed me. I am alive. Not even sick or bedridden or hospitalized, but facebook memorialized my facebook account.In a subsequent tweet, she posted the screenshot of her ‘memorialised’ Meta account. “@Meta, @fb security @facebookapp @MetaNewsroom @Facebook I am very much alive. But you memorialized my facebook account. What a sad news! How could you do that? Please give me back my account,” the author, who has been living in exile since 1994, requested.  😮 @Meta @fbsecurity @facebookapp @MetaNewsroom @Facebook I am very much alive. But you memorialized my facebook account. What a sad news! How could you do that? Please give me back my account. pic.twitter.com/mwZNbcOopyThe writer, who left her home nation due to troubles over her controversial novel ‘Lajja,’ also claimed that ‘Jihadists are celebrating my death, eating and distributing sweets, as facebook declared I am dead and memorialized my fb account.’
19-01-2022||World||2021 was among the seven hottest years on record, says UN body||NEW DELHI: Last year was one of the seven hottest years on record, the World Meteorological Organization (WMO), a United Nations body, said on Wednesday.Although La Niña conditions between 2020 and 2022 had a cooling effect on the global average temperatures, 2021 was still one of the seven hottest years on record, six international data sets consolidated by the WMO have revealed. La Niña refers to a large-scale cooling of the ocean surface temperatures in the central and eastern equatorial Pacific Ocean. It has a temporary global cooling effect.The average global temperature last year was 1.11 (± 0.13) degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels, spanning the period from 1850 to 1900. Last year was the seventh consecutive year, starting with 2015, when the global average temperature was more than 1 degree Celsius above pre-industrial levels, the data sets compiled by the WMO show.The Copernicus Climate Change Service estimated that 2021 was the fifth hottest year on record, and marginally hotter than 2015 and 2018. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and Berkeley Earth found that 2021 was the sixth hottest year on record. Nasa GISTEMP and HadCRUT also said that 2021 was the sixth hottest year on record. Data from the Japanese Meteorological Agency (JMA) Reanalysis Rank 2021 show that last year was indeed the seventh hottest year on record.Also Read: Centre lists districts vulnerable to climate crisis in 1st weather hazard atlasThe differences in the data sets indicate the margin of error for calculating the average global temperature. Since the 1980s, each decade has been hotter than the previous one, according to the data put together by the UN body, and the trend is likely to continue.The hottest seven years have all been recorded since 2015, with 2016, 2019 and 2020 topping the list. A strong El Niño event occurred in 2016, which had sparked record global average warming.“Back-to-back La Niña events mean that 2021 warming was relatively less pronounced compared to recent years. Even so, 2021 was still warmer than previous years influenced by La Niña. The overall long-term warming as a result of greenhouse gas increases is now far larger than the year-to-year variability in global average temperatures caused by naturally occurring climate drivers,” said WMO secretary-general Petteri Taalas.“The year 2021 will be remembered for a record-shattering temperature of nearly 50 degrees Celsius in Canada, comparable to the values reported in the hot Saharan desert of Algeria, exceptional rainfall, and deadly flooding in Asia and Europe as well as drought in parts of Africa and South America. Climate change impact and weather-related hazards had life-changing and devastating impact on communities on every single continent,” Taalas said.Last year was also the fifth hottest during the past 121 years for India, after 2016, 2009, 2017 and 2010, according to the Annual Climate Statement 2021 released by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) last week.The annual mean air temperature was 0.44 degrees Celsius above normal in 2021, while in 2016, it was 0.71°C above normal; 0.55°C in 2009; 0.54°C in 2017 and 0.53°C in 2010.“This is certainly an impact of global warming. The fact that the most recent years after 2000 are recorded to be the warmest years is not just true for India but also globally. That is why we are preparing better forecast strategies in view of global warming,” said M Mohapatra, director general of the IMD.The Paris Agreement aims to hold the increase in the global average temperature to well below 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels while pursuing efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/2021-was-among-the-seven-hottest-years-on-record-says-un-body-101642585339685.html
19-01-2022||World||Explained: Why Tonga volcano eruption was so big and what's next||People around the world looked on in awe at the spectacular satellite images of an undersea volcano erupting in a giant mushroom cloud in the Pacific. Many wondered why the blast was so big, how the resulting tsunami traveled so far, and what will happen next. New Zealand scientists Shane Cronin, a volcanology professor at the University of Auckland, and Emily Lane, a tsunami expert at the National Institute of Water and Atmospheric Research, help explain.Explosive but briefThe eruption on Saturday was incredibly explosive but also relatively brief. The plume rose into the air more than 30 kilometers (19 miles) but the eruption lasted only about 10 minutes, unlike some big eruptions that can continue for hours. Cronin said the power of the eruption of the Hunga Tonga Hunga Ha’apai volcano ranks among the world's biggest over the past 30 years, and the height of the plume of ash, steam and gas was comparable with the huge 1991 eruption of Mount Pinatubo in the Philippines, which killed several hundred people.Why so big?The magma inside the volcano was under enormous pressure and had gasses trapped within it. A fracture in the rock likely induced a sudden drop in pressure, allowing the gas to expand and blast the magma apart. Cronin said the crater was sitting about 200 meters (650 feet) below the sea surface, a kind of Goldilocks depth for a big explosion in which seawater pours into the volcano and turns instantly into steam, adding to the rapid expansion and energy of the explosion. Any deeper and the extra pressure of the water would have helped contain the eruption.Explained: Scientists struggle to monitor Tonga volcano after massive eruptionFarflung tsunamiMany scientists were surprised that a single eruption could produce a Pacific-wide tsunami of about 1 meter (3 feet) that smashed boats in New Zealand and caused an oil spill and two drownings in Peru. Lane said that oceanwide tsunamis are usually triggered by earthquakes that extend across huge areas rather than from a single volcano, essentially a tiny dot in the ocean. She said other factors may have been at play, such as an underwater flank of the volcano collapsing and displacing water. She said one interesting theory is that the shock wave, or sonic boom, from the volcano that traveled twice around the world may have pumped more power into the tsunami waves.Tonga mainly sparedAnother mystery is why the tsunami wasn't bigger and more destructive in Tonga, which sits almost on top of the volcano.“That's the million dollar question,” Cronin said. “Looking at the images so far, the level of devastation is less than I was fearing.”Authorities by Wednesday had confirmed three deaths in Tonga, with concerns remaining about people on some of the hard-hit smaller islands. Dozens of homes were destroyed.Lane said that Tongans at least got some warning, both from the increased activity at the volcano the day before the eruption and from the incredibly loud bang when it erupted but before the tsunami hit, allowing many to scramble to higher ground. She said reefs, lagoons and other natural features may also have protected parts of Tonga, while amplifying the waves in certain areas.Falling ashThe ash that has coated Tonga is acidic but not poisonous, Cronin said. Indeed, he has been advising Pacific responders that people may still be able to drink from their rainwater supplies even if some ash has fallen in, which will make the water more acidic and salty. He said it was a question of applying the taste test and if water became scarce, it would be better drinking ash-tainted water than stagnant water that might be contaminated with bacteria. New Zealand and other nations are trying to get water and other supplies to Tonga as quickly as possible. Cronin said all of Tonga's soil comes from volcanic ash and the latest dump of ash would quickly wash into the ground and make the nation more fertile.No global coolingHuge volcanic eruptions can sometimes cause temporary global cooling as sulfur dioxide is pumped into the stratosphere. But in the case of the Tonga eruption, initial satellite measurements indicated the amount of sulfur dioxide released would only have a tiny effect of perhaps 0.01 degree Celsius (0.02 Fahrenheit) global average cooling, said Alan Robock, a professor at Rutgers University.What's nextCronin envisions two main scenarios for the volcano. The first is that it has exhausted itself for now and will go quiet for the next 10 to 20 years as magma slowly returns. A second scenario is that new magma rises up quickly to replace that which exploded, in which case there might be ongoing eruptions. But he believes the cracks and rifts caused by Saturday's big explosion will allow more gas to escape, and subsequent eruptions won't be as big, at least for now. Both Cronin and Lane agree there needs to be much better monitoring of the volcano — and others in Tonga — to help better predict future events.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/explained-why-tonga-volcano-eruption-was-so-big-and-what-s-next-101642572448039.html
19-01-2022||World||Beijing adds 3 more Covid-19 cases weeks ahead of Winter Olympics||China's capital Beijing has reported three more Covid-19 cases since Monday, weeks before the Winter Olympics are scheduled to kick off in the capital on February 4.Health authorities have been stepping up anti-epidemic measures such as locking down places where the three visited recently and carrying out PCR tests targeting those who may have come into contact with the infected people, raising tensions in the city, Kyodo News reported.Beijing on Saturday reported the first local infection of the highly transmissible Omicron variant, involving a person who had visited multiple malls and restaurants in the previous 14 days. The person had not left the city since the start of this year, reported Taipei Times.The Covid-19 Omicron variant has been cropping up across China in recent days, including in major port cities like Dalian and Tianjin.Meanwhile, China on Monday announced that it will restrain selling tickets to the general public for the Beijing Winter Olympics and Paralympics.As per the organizers, the move comes amid community infections of the highly contagious Omicron coronavirus variant that have been expanding in China, reported Kyodo News.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/beijing-adds-3-more-covid-19-cases-weeks-ahead-of-winter-olympics-101642568190559.html
19-01-2022||World||Russia can invade Ukraine at any moment, warns US||WASHINGTON: In a clear escalation of the tensions over Ukraine, the United States warned on Tuesday that Russia could, at any point, attack Ukraine. But while terming it an “extremely dangerous” situation, Washington kept the doors for diplomacy open with Moscow – with US secretary of state Antony Blinken speaking to his Russian counterpart, Sergey Lavrov, and both leaders agreeing to meet in Geneva this week.White House press secretary, Jen Psaki, blamed Russian President Vladimir Putin or having created the crisis by amassing 100,000 Russian troops along Ukraine’s border, and added, “This includes moving Russian forces into Belarus recently for joint exercises and conducting additional exercises on Ukraine’s eastern borders. Let’s be clear. Our view is that this is an extremely dangerous situation. We are now at a stage where Russia could, at any point, launch an attack in Ukraine…That’s more stark than we have been.”Psaki reiterated the US position that Russia would face “severe consequences” if it chose not to pursue the diplomatic path.Blinken will first visit Ukraine – where, according to a senior state department official, he planned to emphasise “US support for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine”. He will then visit Germany – where, according to the same official, Blinken will continue intensive consultations with European allies and partners “as part of our unified response to Russia’s actions”. Also Read: Russia moves more troops westward amid Ukraine tensionsOn Friday, he will meet Lavrov in Geneva. The senior official said, “The United States does not want conflict. We want peace. President Putin has it in his power to take steps to de-escalate this crisis so the United States and Russia can pursue a relationship that is not based on hostility or crisis.”In recent weeks, US officials have stepped up their warnings over Russian actions. Recent talks held between the US and Russia bilaterally in Geneva, between NATO and Russia in Brussels, and under the auspices of the Organisation of Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) – of which both US and Russia are members – in Vienna failed to break the stalemate.The latest trigger for the crisis is Russian troop movement to Belarus. A second senior state department official said, “Reports of Russian troop movements towards Belarus, which these movements are supposedly under the auspices of regularly scheduled joint military exercises, are concerning. The timing is notable, and of course raises concerns that Russia could intend to station troops in Belarus under the guise of joint military exercises in order, potentially, to attack Ukraine from the north.”The official claimed that Belarus’s upcoming changes to its constitution included “language that could be interpreted as paving the way for Russia to garrison forces on Belarusian territory”; this could indicate Belarus’s plans to “allow Russian conventional and nuclear forces” to be stationed on its territory. The official added that more than a question of Kremlin’s intent, the issue was of capabilities. “What it represents is an increased capability for Russia to launch this attack, increased opportunity, increased avenues and increased routes.”The first official said that the US was concerned that Russia was creating a pretext for an invasion. “This idea that Russia could be laying the groundwork to have the option of fabricating a pretext for invasion – whether it’s through sabotage activities, information operations, or troop movements – this is something we are paying very close attention to.” Giving a more specific timeline, the official said, “Russian military plans to begin activities several weeks before a military invasion are something we have been watching closely, and our assessment has been that could happen anytime between mid-January and mid-February.” The Pentagon, while reiterating that Russians showed no signs of de-escalating, appeared more circumspect about Putin’s ultimate goal. Pentagon press secretary John Kirby told reporters, “It would be difficult for us to say with specificity and certainty what we know Mr. Putin is driving at here. He clearly is building up a force posture there that provides him multiple options. It’s just difficult to know right now what options he’s going to choose and we still don’t believe that he’s made a final decision.”
19-01-2022||World||Website for free Covid tests launched in US. How does it work?||Under criticism after weeks of shortages, President Joe Biden's administration is working to make Covid-19 rapid test kits more available and accessible to Americans by boosting supply and lowering costs. A new federal website to request free test kits officially launches Wednesday — but was available to use Tuesday — with the first shipments going out to U.S. households by the end of the month. In addition, most Americans are now able to get reimbursed for tests that they purchase.Key details about the new programs:How can I request a free test?Free tests can be ordered at covidtests.gov or at usps.com/covidtest. The first tests will ship by the end of January. The White House says “tests will typically ship within 7-12 days of ordering” through the U.S. Postal Service. USPS reports shipping times of 1-3 days for its first-class package service in the continental United States. Shipments to Alaska, Hawaii, Army Post Office (APO), Fleet Post Office (FPO) and Diplomatic Post Office (DPO) addresses will be sent through Priority Mail.Importantly, given the shipping and process times, Americans will need to request the tests well before they meet federal guidelines for requiring a test.Does the website work?The White House emphasized that the website was in “beta testing" when it made tests available for ordering for the first time on Tuesday. At points, more than 750,000 people were accessing the website at the same time, according to public government tracking data, but it was not immediately known how many orders were placed.There were isolated reports Tuesday afternoon of issues relating to the website’s address verification tool erroneously enforcing the four-per-household cap on apartment buildings and other multi-unit dwellings. A spokesperson for the Postal Service said in a statement that the error was “occurring in a small percentage of orders.” He said any user needing assistance could file a service request at emailus.usps.com/s/the-postal-store-inquiry or contact a help desk at 1-800-ASK-USPS.When should I test?The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends at-home testing when people experience COVID-19 systems including fever, cough, sore throat, respiratory symptoms and muscle aches; five days after a potential COVID-19 exposure; or as part of test-to-stay protocols in schools and workplaces.How many tests can I order from the website?The White House says that “to promote broad access," shipments from covidtests.gov will initially be limited to four rapid tests per residential address, no matter the number of occupants.Is there another way to get a test kit for free?Starting on Jan. 15, private insurers have been required to cover the cost of up to eight at-home rapid tests per month per insured person, under a new Biden administration rule.People have the option of buying tests at a store or online, then seeking reimbursement from their health insurance provider. Insurers are being incentivized to work with pharmacies and retailers to develop plans to cover the cost of the tests with no out-of-pocket cost to customers, but those programs will not be immediately widespread.Those with public health insurance through Medicare, or without insurance, are being directed to covidtests.gov to order tests or to community health centers in their area offering free testing.How will I be reimbursed?The Biden administration says the procedures will differ from insurer to insurer, and it is encouraging Americans to save receipts from rapid test purchases for later reimbursement and to reach out to their insurance providers for information.Critically, the requirement only covers purchases on or after Jan. 15. Insurers are not expected to retroactively reimburse the cost of tests purchased earlier.What are other testing options?The Biden administration is emphasizing that the website is just one tool for Americans to access COVID-19 testing. Millions of free tests are available at participating pharmacy locations, community health centers and Federal Emergency Management Agency-backed sites in some parts of the country experiencing a surge in cases.Which home test will I get?That will vary. The federal government has secured more than 420 million tests for distribution through covidtests.gov already, with plans to increase the order to 1 billion tests in the coming weeks. All of the tests supplied will be authorized by the Food and Drug Administration and are capable of detecting the more-transmissible omicron variant of Covid-19, which is the dominant strain in the U.S. While they are packaged differently and may use slightly different procedures, officials said, the test mechanisms of detection and effectiveness are generally the same. All tests will come with detailed instructions.Why is Biden buying these test kits?It represents an acknowledgement by the president that the administration needs to do more to increase access to Covid-19 testing, which is an important tool to help slow the spread of the coronavirus.In cases where infected people show symptoms or not, testing is the only way to find out if they have the virus so they can avoid being out and about and potentially spreading disease.Demand for test kits soared as the holidays neared and people grew eager to test themselves and their families before traveling and as the omicron variant spread rapidly in just a few weeks to become the dominant strain in the U.S.Biden's promise of 1 billion test kits is in addition to the administration's earlier pledge to send 50 million rapid tests to community health centers across the country.How much will the program cost?The White House estimates the cost of purchasing and distributing the first 500 million tests at about $4 billion. That will be paid for with money from the $1.9 trillion coronavirus relief bill Biden signed into law in March.Will the government program make it harder for me to find a test at the drugstore?White House officials say the covidtests.gov tests are coming from new manufacturing capacity and should not interfere with existing supplies that drugstores, health clinics and state governments are relying on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/website-for-free-covid-tests-launched-in-us-how-does-it-work-101642557867193.html
19-01-2022||World||Hong Kong to cull 2,000 hamsters amid Covid-19 risk||In Hong Kong, some hamsters tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at a pet store and authorities will now cull as many as 2,000 rodents "as a precautionary measure". Officials will also stop the sale and import of rodents in the city. The move came after one of the employees of the pet shop contracted the disease.According to the reports, authorities are also working to track customers who purchased hamsters from the affected store after January 7 and are asking the owners to quarantine as per the mandate. They will also undergo a mandatory Covid test.Authorities acknowledged that there is “no evidence” that pets can transmit the coronavirus to humans, but for now, they would not rule out the possibility. They are "acting out of caution even though there was no evidence domestic animals can infect humans," Health secretary Sophia Chan said in a news conference.The thousands of hamsters will be culled in a humane manner, authorities have said. Other pet stores in the nearby areas are also asked to stop selling hamsters in Hong Kong.Speaking on the matter, agriculture, fisheries and conservation department director Leung Siu-fai said the Hong Kong hamsters had to be put down as it was impossible to quarantine and observe each one.He also asked people to "avoid kissing" their pets. "Pet owners should keep a good hygiene practice, including washing hands after touching the animals, handling their food or other items, and avoid kissing the animals," Leung said, as per Reuters report.Around the world, Covid-19 in dogs and cats have been reported since the emergence of the virus in 2019. However, scientists say there is no evidence animals play a major role in human contagion.Last year, Denmark culled millions of minks to curb Covid-19 mutations. Mink easily become infected by Covid-19 and infection is exacerbated because they are bred in large numbers and kept in cramped living conditions, the World Health Organization has said. The mammal is also expected to host future mutations.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-to-cull-2-000-hamsters-amid-covid-19-risk-101642559379724.html
19-01-2022||World||US Supreme Court to determine fate of $30 mn Pissarro painting looted by Nazis||The US Supreme Court on Tuesday weighed the fate of a painting by Camille Pissarro looted by the Nazis in 1939 and currently on display at a gallery in Spain.The 1897 painting, "Rue Saint-Honore in the Afternoon. Effect of Rain," like some other works by the French impressionist, is at the heart of a long legal battle with international ramifications.The painting, now estimated to be worth around $30 million, once belonged to Lilly Cassirer Neubauer, a member of a prominent German Jewish family.Neubauer was forced to hand it over for a pittance to the Nazis in 1939 in exchange for the visa which allowed her to leave Germany.The Neubauer family lost track of the painting after World War II and accepted compensation of $13,000 from the German government in 1958 but did not waive their rights to the artwork.The painting changed hands several times in the ensuing decades before ending up with the Thyssen-Bornemisza museum in Madrid.It was acquired in 1976 by Baron Hans-Heinrich Thyssen Bornemisza, heir to the Thyssen industrial group, from the Stephen Hahn Gallery in New York.Claude Cassirer, Neubauer's grandson, discovered in 2000 that the painting was on display in Madrid and launched legal efforts in Spain and California to recover it.Cassirer died in 2010 at the age of 89 but his children, David and Ana, have pursued the court challenges.After suffering defeats in courts in Spain and California, the Supreme Court represents their final hope.The highest US court will decide whether Spanish law or US state law applies in the case.Under Spanish property law, a purchaser is not required to return an item if it was not known at the time that it may have had illegal origins and they have possessed it for at least six years."At no point were the Baron's title to the painting nor his good faith in its acquisition called into question," according to a statement by the museum.Under California law, a looted or stolen item cannot be passed on even if it was purchased in good faith.The court heard technical arguments on Tuesday as to which law should apply and is expected to render its decision in several months.The Nazis are estimated to have plundered some 600,000 artworks in Europe, according to a US congressional report, and courts on both sides of the Atlantic have regularly heard cases designed to restore items to their original owners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-supreme-court-to-determine-fate-of-30-mn-pissarro-painting-looted-by-nazis-101642552850230.html
19-01-2022||World||US finds more cases of highly pathogenic avian influenza of H5N1 in wild birds||The US department of agriculture on Tuesday reported two more cases of highly pathogenic avian influenza in wild birds, days after it detected the first case of a Eurasian H5 type of the virus since 2016. Two cases of Eurasian H5 avian influenza have been detected in Colleton County of South Carolina while one case has been reported from Hyde County in North Carolina.All three cases — reported in American wigeon, blue-winged teal, and northern shoveler — are of the H5N1 strain which has caused a wave of bird flu outbreaks in poultry across Europe and Asia. Even as H5N1 is one of the few bird flu strains that has passed to humans, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention considers the risk to the general public to remain low.The animal and plant health inspection service (APHIS) said in a release that no human infections with Eurasian H5 viruses have been reported in the United States. As a precautionary measure, poultry and eggs should be properly handled and cooked to an internal temperature of 165˚F at which bacteria and viruses get killed.The US agency has advised people to minimise direct contact with wild gloves by using gloves since wild birds can get infected with H5N1 without appearing sick.“If contact occurs, wash your hands with soap and water, and change clothing before having any contact with healthy domestic poultry and birds. Hunters should dress game birds in the field whenever possible and practice good biosecurity to prevent any potential disease spread,” the release said.The USDA has advised poultry producers to prevent contact between their birds and wild birds, and report sick birds or unusual bird deaths to state or federal officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-finds-more-cases-of-highly-pathogenic-avian-influenza-of-h5n1-in-wild-birds-101642549632271.html
19-01-2022||World||All homes on one of Tonga's islands destroyed, three dead||All the homes on one of Tonga's small outer islands have been destroyed by a massive volcanic eruption and tsunami, with three people so far confirmed dead, the government said on Tuesday in its first update since the disaster struck.With communications, information on the scale of the devastation after Saturday's eruption had so far mostly come from reconnaissance aircraft.But the office of Prime Minister Siaosi Sovaleni said in a statement that every home on Mango island, where around 50 people live, had been destroyed, only two houses remained on Fonoifua, and Namuka island had suffered extensive damage.Tonga’s deputy head of mission in Australia, Curtis Tu’ihalangingie, earlier said pictures taken by the New Zealand Defence Force (NZDF) showed "alarming" scenes of a village destroyed on Mango and buildings missing on Atata island, which is closer to the volcano."People panic, people run and get injuries. Possibly there will be more deaths and we just pray that is not the case," Tu’ihalangingie told Reuters.Sovaleni's office said a 65-year-old woman on Mango and a 49-year-old man on Nomuka island had been killed, in addition to the British national whose body was found on Monday. A number of injuries were also reported.Tsunami waves reaching up to 15 metres hit the Ha’apia island group, where Mango is located, and the west coast of Tonga’s main island, Tongatapu, the office said. Residents were being moved to evacuation centres as 56 houses were destroyed or seriously damaged on that coast.Atata and Mango are between about 50 km and 70 km from the Hunga Tonga-Hunga Ha'apai volcano, which sent tsunami waves across the Pacific Ocean when it erupted with a blast heard 2,300 km (1,430 miles) away in New Zealand.ASH COVERSatellite images from Sunday show the caldera of Hunga Tonga-Hunga Ha’apai has collapsed and the island has lost a substantial percentage of its initial surface area, said the U.N. Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA).A rescue operation began on Sunday for Atata, which has a population of about 100 people, with an evacuation under way."Challenges to sea and air transportation remain due to damage sustained by the wharves and the ash that is covering the runways," the PM's office said.A thick layer of ash blankets the islands, the aerial images provided to Tonga by New Zealand and Australia showed.The archipelago's main Fua’amotu International Airport was not damaged but the ash was having to be manually cleared from the runway, with the earliest opening being on Wednesday, the OCHA said.As well as the damage locally, scientists say the eruption could have a long lasting impact on coral reefs, coastlines and fisheries in the wider region, as well as causing acid rain.Parts of Peru's coast were dirtied by oil spilled from a discharge ship rocked by waves caused by the eruption, Peruvian Environment Minister Ruben Ramirez said.Clean water sources remain a concern and Tonga's government has advised people to drink only bottled water as sources may be contaminated with ash, debris and the sea, the OCHA said.The Tongan navy has deployed with health teams and water, food and tents to the Ha'apai islands, with more aid sent on Tuesday, the prime minister's office said.The NZDF images, posted on Facebook and confirmed by Tu’ihalangingie, showed tarpaulins being used as shelter on Mango, one of the kingdom's 176 islands.UNDERSEA CABLETonga is expected to issue formal requests for aid soon but in the meantime New Zealand said two ships, HMNZS Wellington and HMNZS Aotearoa, had set off with water supplies, survey teams and a helicopter. UN teams are on standby, the OCHA said.Australian Foreign Minister Marise Payne said C-130 aircraft from Australia could deliver humanitarian assistance including water purification kits, while the HMAS Adelaide, which would take five days to get to Tonga, was ready to take engineering and medical teams and helicopter support.The PM's office said some limited communications had been made with satellite phones, but some areas remained cut off.For families waiting for news, the silence was deafening. "The worst fear is always that you're not going to see the people that you love again," said Seini Taumoepeau, a Tongan-Australian in Sydney who has relatives across the islands.International mobile phone network provider Digicel has set up an interim system on the main island using the University of South Pacific’s satellite dish, New Zealand said.Subcom, a U.S. based private company contracted to repair subsea cables in the Asia-Pacific, said it was working with Tonga Cable Ltd to repair the link that runs from Tonga to Fiji.Samiuela Fonua, the chair of Tonga Cable, said there were two cuts in the undersea cable that would not be fixed until volcanic activity ceased, allowing repair crews access.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/all-homes-on-one-of-tonga-s-islands-destroyed-three-dead-101642550207016.html
19-01-2022||World||Xi Jinping’s Covid defense gets weaker with every Omicron case||More than two years into the pandemic most countries are striving to live alongside Covid, accepting the virus as part of everyday life. China, where the pathogen first emerged, exists in an alternate reality, wedded to a zero-tolerance strategy that’s growing harder to maintain.Despite firmly closed borders and a vaccination rate near 90%, the highly transmissible omicron variant has been reported in seven out of 31 provinces and all of China’s biggest cities. Port disruptions and citywide shutdowns are increasingly common, and on Monday, the government signaled it’s bracing for more: The central bank cut its key interest rate after the economy posted its weakest quarter since the beginning of the pandemic.The human costs are rising, too. In the city of Xi’an, at least two people died and two women miscarried, barred from medical treatment by zealous enforcement of Covid lockdown protocols that began just before Christmas. The official tally of daily infections there, on the other hand, remains in the dozens, with zero deaths.“I understand they take these measures to keep everybody safe,” said He Kun, a 55-year-old general manager of an electric vehicle company just outside Xi'an. “If it takes a month or so I think that's OK. But if it lasts half a year, then everyone will lose their job and companies will shut down.”In the most literal sense, China hasn’t been Covid Zero for months, and with every new mutation, the stakes rise for President Xi Jinping and the rest of the world. On a list of the top global political risks in 2022, the Eurasia Group put the failure of China’s pandemic strategy at No. 1.The country won’t be able to fully keep out omicron and subsequent mutations, the report predicted, requiring more lockdowns and further disruption of the supply chain: “Low growth, high inflation, and growing inequality will exacerbate public frustration with governments and stoke political instability to a degree we haven’t seen since the 1990s,” the report said.The spread of the delta and omicron variants make that conflagration increasingly likely. Goldman Sachs and Nomura have predicted China will stay the course through late 2022 — after Xi is expected to secure an unprecedented third term — and possibly into spring 2023.At such a politically sensitive moment, Xi hasn’t wavered from a strategy that, by Beijing’s accounting, has worked. Cases have been at or near zero once the initial outbreak in Wuhan ended. The delta variant breached China’s border controls in May and flare-ups followed, but according to official reports, daily domestic cases have mostly stayed under 200. In the past two years, Chinese authorities have reported fewer than 5,000 Covid deaths, compared with 831,000 fatalities in the U.S., a country one-quarter the size.As a result, China’s population has almost none of the natural immunity that previous waves of infection have conferred on survivors elsewhere, making Chinese people reliant entirely on their vaccines for protection. The omicron variant may be relatively mild, but it’s also much more transmissible. A small number of cases could trigger an outbreak that sets the whole country’s immune system on fire.Meanwhile, the government has criticized policymakers elsewhere, saying they’ve prioritized normality over human lives. A recent editorial in the state-backed China Daily slammed the countries that have “succumbed to the notion of the survival of the fittest to justify their lack of fortitude and failures of governance.”“China holds firm to the belief that each life counts,” it concluded. “It will do all it can to ensure none of its people are left to fend for themselves and no one is left behind in the fight against the virus.”Through the first 18 months of the pandemic, China’s Covid Zero measures let most people return to their pre-pandemic lives and, while the rest of the world suffered shortages and job losses, China pulled off a swift, enviable recovery. Even with the occasional abrupt and unpredictable factory shutdown, the nation’s companies set a record for exports in the first 10 months of 2021, with shipments up 31% by value compared with the same period a year earlier.Keeping the country Covid-free got harder after the delta variant cropped up in May. On the border with virus-ravaged Myanmar, the town of Ruili went so far as to install spiked iron wire atop its border fence to deter unsanctioned border crossers who might be carrying coronavirus. Still, Covid cases still triggered four lockdowns in seven months, and the curbs forced many small businesses to close. Residents lived with frequent testing, no exceptions: one of the city’s youngest residents, a two-year-old, was swabbed for Covid as many as 74 times, local media reported.Ruili boasted a vaccination rate around 97% and reported zero Covid deaths in 2021. “Every lockdown is a severe emotional and material loss,” Dai Rongli, the town’s former deputy mayor and now a senior executive at a state-owned rail construction firm, wrote on his social media account. “Every battle against Covid adds a layer of unhappiness.”Over the summer, periodic shutdowns and transit delays mostly tapped into citizens’ well-developed sense of patriotic duty. By mid-October, the country’s streaks of zero-case days were gone, and the efforts to stop the virus’ spread turned increasingly hardcore. On Halloween, Shanghai Disneyland detained 34,000 guests for mass testing after a park visitor tested positive. A small county in eastern China responded to a single case by turning its traffic lights red, permanently, to keep people from moving around.When a Beijing teacher and student tested positive in November, the government ordered snap lockdowns for hundreds of students and staff. Anxious parents waited outside the schools through the night. Some eventually brought pillows and blankets to join their kids in quarantine.In December, the delta variant hit Xi’an, China’s 10th biggest city, and the government response triggered new wrath. Authorities banned people from shopping for groceries, then failed to deliver food to residents. Some started trading with neighbors, swapping cigarettes for instant noodles and other shelf-stable foods. One tearful woman posted a video online, pleading with local Covid containment staff to let her leave her apartment to buy period supplies.Two pregnant women miscarried after hospitals refused to let them in, citing Covid containment protocols. A man in his 60s died after suffering a heart attack. He was turned away by several hospitals because he hadn’t taken a Covid test. By the time he took one and it came back negative, it was too late.All that, even before omicron emerged. The new variant cropped up first in Tianjin, next to Beijing, then in Anyang in Central China, then in the northeastern port city of Dalian. The Tianjin local government ordered citywide Covid testing, closing companies and government offices for half a day. Toyota and Volkswagen halted production at their factories in the city to accommodate mandatory testing campaigns. Airbus, which has a major aircraft assembly hub in the city, also warned of omicron's impact on its production and demand in China.Now omicron cases have been reported in Beijing, Shanghai and Shenzhen. The Lunar New Year holidays, traditionally China’s biggest travel season, are less than two weeks away, and local governments have warned residents that if they leave, Covid containment measures might block their return. Transportation services are suspended in places with confirmed cases. Testing is mandated, creating long lines in in bitter winter weather. Workers tasked with enforcing the curbs and testing are also under increasing strain; some have reported passing out from stress and long hours.Part of China’s problem lies with its vaccines. Initially, China led the world in the race for a Covid vaccine. By early 2020, pharmaceutical companies Sinovac and Sinopharm were testing shots based on small, inactivated doses of the virus, and China was the first to approved them for front-line workers.Later that year, China started to ship hundreds of millions of doses around the world, making its shots the mainstay of inoculation programs in Indonesia, Chile, Brazil, the U.A.E. and elsewhere. Efficacy rates for Sinovac’s CoronaVac in particular ranged wildly in different trial sites, but the inactivated vaccines offered decent protection against severe disease and death. Crucially, they were widely available to the developing world at a time when the U.S. and European countries had cornered the market on the newer, more effective mRNA vaccines.Through the first six months of 2021, Sinovac recorded $11 billion in revenue, a whopping 161% increase over the same period a year earlier. It also warned that the future isn’t likely to be so rosy, nodding to the competition from more effective foreign shots that use newer technologies.The emergence of new variants raises fresh questions as to how well China’s vaccines are holding up, and so far, there’s no definitive answer. Research from Hong Kong University concluded even three doses of Sinovac's inactivated shot produced insufficient antibodies to prevent infection against the new variant. But a preliminary study from Chile, where more than half the vaccines come from China, found that Sinovac’s jab does trigger a cellular immune response, which indicates that the shot should still shield against severe disease caused by omicron.  “The scientific and clinical evidence undoubtedly makes CoronaVac an excellent candidate to be applied as a second booster dose,” said Alexis Kalergis, a professor at the Universidad Católica de Chile and director of the Millennium Institute on Immunology and Immunotherapy. “Even more so when worldwide there has been an increase in cases due to the omicron variant, and we must maintain a high immune response to be protected.”As countries like Australia and Singapore have learned, the transition away from Covid Zero is rough. There’s no clear path for China. By one official estimate, the strategy has avoided 1 million deaths and 50 million illnesses. While the new variant has been relatively mild in the countries where it’s spread, those are also places with some preexisting immunity from infection or inoculation, and even then, the virus has still spread quickly and widely enough to clog hospitals.Liang Wannian, the senior official who’s led the national pandemic response since 2020, said stronger efforts are needed to fight omicron, but others would like to consider the end-game. China should learn from how others are opening up and consider changing tacks when the cost of Covid Zero outweigh the benefits, Zeng Guang, the former chief epidemiologist at the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention said in an interview with domestic media in August. Hu Xijin, an influential commentator who recently retired from his editor-in-chief post at the state-backed Global Times, also pointed out that Chinese people have legitimate concerns about the policies that aren’t being addressed, warning that support for measures will wear thin.Pharmaceutically, China doesn’t have many immediate options. It could offer third or even fourth doses of the inactivated vaccines. The mRNA vaccines from Pfizer and BioNTech have also cleared regulatory review in China and could, in theory, be offered as boosters. But politically, making the Western vaccines available now would undermine China’s narrative of self-reliance and the superiority of homegrown technology. The Communist Party would also want reciprocity – if China approves a foreign vaccine, it would want the same treatment for its shots.The government is more likely to wait for a new inactivated vaccine that targets omicron specifically, similar to how the flu vaccine is tailored each year. “Get it approved fast,” said Jin Dong-Yan, a virologist at Hong Kong University. “This is a very mature vaccine platform – even if there are challenges, they can be addressed.”Longer term, China has an mRNA vaccine in late-stage trials overseas, and a separate domestic study is looking at the additional protection it might offer as a booster. Sinopharm also has a new vaccine based on recombinant protein technology that’s been approved in the U.A.E. A dose of that shot adds protection against omicron for people who have had two doses of inactivated vaccines, the company says.China’s latest economic results and the reaction by the central bank show how much strain the government is under. Beijing’s longer-term goals call for stronger domestic consumption, less dependence on overseas demand. Covid Zero has given it the opposite. Even if domestic demand weren’t flagging, the strategy increases China’s dependence on exports. It’s bad timing – the rest of the world has begun to spend money on services again – and it makes the country more vulnerable to tariffs and trade policy, not less.Frustration is rising among Chinese citizens, but for now, there’s little they can do but wait. With worsening outbreaks, the consequences for rule-breakers have grown harsher. Last week, three people were sentenced to four-plus years in prison for violations that, the government said, led to a Covid outbreak. “I just keep watching what's going and following the rules,” said He Kun, the automaker in Xi’an. The lockdown measures there meant he couldn’t get critical parts — truck drivers didn’t want to get caught making deliveries in an outbreak zone — and his company missed its production and sales targets in December and January. “If you operate in China then you have to obey the laws of this country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/xi-jinping-s-covid-defense-gets-weaker-with-every-omicron-case-101642549702268.html
19-01-2022||World||Microsoft to buy gaming giant Activision Blizzard for $69 bn||Microsoft on Tuesday announced a landmark $69 billion deal to buy US gaming giant Activision Blizzard, betting big on the prospects of the video game market by scooping up the scandal-hit "Call of Duty" maker.Acquiring the troubled but highly successful Activision will make Microsoft the third-largest gaming company by revenue, behind Tencent and Sony, Microsoft said -- a major shift in the booming gaming world.If the deal is confirmed, it will be the largest acquisition in the industry, far ahead of Take-Two's $12.7 billion purchase of Zynga announced last week."Gaming is the most dynamic and exciting category in entertainment across all platforms today and will play a key role in the development of metaverse platforms," Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella said, referring to the virtual reality vision for the internet's future.Activision, the California-based maker of "Candy Crush," has been hit by employee protests, departures, and a state lawsuit alleging it enabled toxic workplace conditions and sexual harassment against women.Over the past seven months, the company has received about 700 reports of employee concerns over sexual assault, harassment or other misconduct, The Wall Street Journal has reported. In some cases, separate reports about the same incident have been received.Nearly 20 percent of Activision Blizzard's 9,500 employees have signed a petition calling for CEO Bobby Kotick to resign.Kotick will continue to serve as CEO of Activision Blizzard, but is expected to depart after the deal closes, the Journal reported.The transaction -- which is expected to be finalized by June 2023 -- is subject to customary closing conditions, regulatory review and approval from Activision Blizzard's shareholders."Acquiring Activision will help jump start Microsoft's broader gaming endeavors and ultimately its move into the metaverse, with gaming the first monetization piece of the metaverse in our opinion," Wedbush analysts said after the news broke."With Activision's stock under heavy pressure (CEO related issues/overhang) over the last few months, Microsoft viewed this as the window of opportunity to acquire a unique asset that can propel its consumer strategy forward."- Troubled Activision -This would be the largest buyout ever for the Redmond, Washington-based giant, well ahead of LinkedIn in 2016 for $26.2 billion."This is the largest acquisition in the games industry to date, said Daniel Ahmad, an analyst at Niko Partners. "An acquisition of this nature is a clear endorsement of the importance of the games industry globally."Microsoft has just marked 20 years of the "Halo" video game franchise that turned its Xbox console into a hit.Xbox remains a key player in a video game industry now thought to be larger than the movie sector, with market research firm Mordor Intelligence valuing it at $173.7 billion in 2020.The sector is booming with publisher Take-Two announcing a deal last week to acquire "Farmville" creator Zynga for $12.7 billion, in a major mobile gaming push by the maker of "Grand Theft Auto."Troubles, meanwhile, have stacked up for Activision over its sex harassment and discrimination scandal.In July, California state regulators accused the company of condoning a culture of harassment, a toxic work environment, and inequality.In September, the US Securities and Exchange Commission launched a probe into the company over "disclosures regarding employment matters and related issues."And two months later, the Journal reported that Kotick, accused of mishandling the harassment complaints, had signaled he would consider stepping down if he failed to quicky fix the company culture. He has led Activision for more than three decades.Late last year, chief operating officer Daniel Alegre pledged a 50 percent increase in the number of female and non-binary staff over the next five years so that they will account for more than a third of Activision's workers.Nadella spoke of safety and inclusivity in his statement announcing the Activision deal."We're investing deeply in world-class content, community and the cloud to usher in a new era of gaming that puts players and creators first and makes gaming safe, inclusive and accessible to all," he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/microsoft-to-buy-gaming-giant-activision-blizzard-for-69-bn-101642545896313.html
19-01-2022||World||Russia moves more troops westward amid Ukraine tensions||Russia is a sending an unspecified number of troops from the country’s far east to Belarus for major war games, officials said Tuesday, a deployment that will further beef up Russian military assets near Ukraine amid Western fears of a planned invasion.Amid the soaring tensions, the White House warned that Russia could attack its neighbor at “any point,” while the UK delivered a batch of anti-tank weapons to Ukraine.Russia's Deputy Defense Minister Alexander Fomin said the joint drills with Belarus would involve practicing a joint response to external threats.Ukrainian officials have warned that Russia could launch an attack on Ukraine from various directions, including from its ally Belarus.The US again stressed its concern Tuesday, with White House press secretary Jen Psaki describing the Russian forces' move into Belarus as part of as “extremely dangerous situation.”“We’re now at a stage where Russia could at any point launch an attack in Ukraine,” she said.A series of talks last week between Russia, the US and NATO failed to quell the tensions over Ukraine. US Secretary of State Antony Blinken will meet his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov in Geneva on Friday in another attempt to defuse the crisis.Ukraine's Defense Ministry said Tuesday it has received a shipment of anti-tank weapons from the UK, noting that they will help “strengthen our defense capability.” The statement didn't say how many weapons were delivered.Russia already has started moving troops for the war games in Belarus. Fomin said it would take through Feb. 9 to fully deploy weapons and personnel for the Allied Resolve 2022 drills, which are expected to take place Feb. 10-20.Fomin didn't say how many troops will be involved in the drills, but mentioned that Russia will deploy a dozen Su-35 fighter jets and several air defense units to Belarus. The deployment would bolster an estimated 100,000 Russian troops with tanks and other heavy weapons who are already amassed near Ukraine in what the West fears could be a prelude to an invasion.Russia has denied an intention to attack its neighbor but demanded guarantees from the West that NATO will not expand to Ukraine or other ex-Soviet nations or place its troops and weapons there.Washington and its allies firmly rejected Moscow’s demands during Russia-US negotiations in Geneva and a related NATO-Russia meeting in Brussels last week.Fomin said the drills in Belarus, which involve an unspecified number of troops from Russia's Eastern Military District, reflect the need to practice concentrating the country's entire military potential in the west."A situation may arise when forces and means of the regional group of forces will be insufficient to ensure reliable security of the union state, and we must be ready to strengthen it," Fomin said at a meeting with foreign military attaches. “We have reached an understanding with Belarus that it's necessary to engage the entire military potential for joint defense.”Belarus' authoritarian president, Alexander Lukashenko, said the joint maneuvers will be conducted on Belarus’ western border and also in the country’s south, where it borders Ukraine.Amid the tensions, Ukraine's Defense Ministry said Tuesday it was speeding up efforts to form reserve battalions that would allow for the rapid deployment of 130,000 recruits to expand the country's 246,000-strong military. The battalions from the newly formed Territorial Defense Forces could include reservists from aged 18 to 60.The United States and its allies have urged Russia to deescalate the situation by calling back the troops amassed near Ukraine.“In recent weeks, more than 100,000 Russian troops with tanks and guns have gathered near Ukraine without an understandable reason, and it’s hard not to understand that as a threat,” German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock told reporters Tuesday after talks in Moscow with her Russian counterpart, Lavrov.Lavrov responded by restating Moscow's argument that it's free to deploy its forces wherever it considers it necessary on its territory.“We can’t accept demands about our armed forces on our own territory,” Lavrov said, adding that “troops’ training is something that every country does.”“We aren’t threatening anyone, but we are hearing threats to us," he added. "We will decide how to react depending on what specific steps our partners will take.”Baerbock emphasized that the West was ready "for a serious dialogue on mutual agreements and steps to bring everyone in Europe more security.”NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg met with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz in Berlin on Tuesday. He said “the main task now is to make progress on the political way forward” to prevent a military attack against Ukraine.“NATO allies are ready to meet with Russia again, and today I have invited Russia and all the NATO allies to attend a series of meetings in the NATO-Russia Council in the near future to address our concerns but also listen to Russia’s concerns," Stoltenberg said.He added that NATO “in the near future” will deliver its written proposals in response to Russian demands and "hopefully we can begin meeting after that.”“We need to see what Russia says, and that will be a kind of pivotal moment,” the NATO chief said.Lavrov, meanwhile, reaffirmed that Russia wants a quick Western answer to its demand for security guarantees that would preclude NATO's expansion to Ukraine and limit its presence in Eastern Europe. He repeated that in a phone conversation with Blinken, who will visit Ukraine on Wednesday and meet with Lavrov on Friday.Lavrov also urged Blinken “not to spread speculation about the alleged ‘Russian aggression’ being prepared," the Russian Foreign Ministry said.Speaking on a visit Tuesday to Ukraine, Canadian Foreign Minister Mélanie Joly denounced the Russian troop buildup as unacceptable. She noted Canada's efforts to help train Ukraine's military, adding that it's currently considering Ukraine's demand to provide it with military equipment and will make “a decision in a timely manner.”Russia annexed the Crimean Peninsula from Ukraine in 2014 after the ouster of Ukraine’s Moscow-friendly leader and also threw its weight behind a separatist insurgency that took over large sections in eastern Ukraine. More than 14,000 people have been killed in nearly eight years of fighting there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-moves-more-troops-westward-amid-ukraine-tensions-101642536455561.html
19-01-2022||World||AT&T agrees to delay 5G implementation near some airports in US||AT&T will delay activating its 5G network on a "limited number of towers" near some airport runways following warnings from US airlines, a spokesperson for the telecommunications company said Tuesday.The move comes after the chief executives of the largest airlines in the United States warned Monday of a "catastrophic disruption" to travel and shipping operations if the rollout set for Wednesday went as planned. Verizon did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Verizon and AT&T have already twice delayed the launch of their new C-Band 5G service, due to warnings from airlines and aircraft manufacturers concerned that the new system might interfere with the devices planes use to measure altitude.AT&T described its latest move as voluntary and temporary, and added it is working with airline industry and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) "to provide further information about our 5G deployment, since they have not utilized the two years they've had to responsibly plan for this deployment," the AT&T spokesperson said."We are launching our advanced 5G services everywhere else as planned with the temporary exception of this limited number of towers."The FAA said Sunday it had approved some transponders to be safely operated within areas where 5G will be deployed, clearing "as many as 48 of the 88 airports most directly affected by 5G C-Band interference."But the airlines are worried that the remaining limitations at those airports, as well as a large amount of equipment still uncertified, could trigger a crisis that would ground thousands of flights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/att-agrees-to-delay-5g-implementation-at-some-airports-101642531911435.html
19-01-2022||World||Pak sent ISI official to Turkey to meet Afghan leaders, offer talks with Taliban||A senior Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) official recently travelled to Turkey to convey to Afghan political leaders an offer from Pakistan to host them for talks with the Taliban, people familiar with the matter said.The ISI official, who was in Turkey during December, was in contact directly with several Afghan leaders, including former ministers, or with their aides to convey the offer from Islamabad. Significantly, most of the leaders contacted by the intelligence operative are perceived to be anti-Taliban or friendly towards India.Among the leaders the ISI official reached out to were Abdul Rasul Sayyaf, former foreign minister Salahuddin Rabbani and Abdul Rashid Dostum, the people cited above said. It was not immediately clear how the Afghan leaders, who view the Pakistani leadership with deep suspicion, responded to the overture from Islamabad.Sayyaf, believed to be in his mid-70s, moved to New Delhi following the fall of the Ashraf Ghani government and the takeover of Kabul by the Taliban in mid-August 2021. He left India for Turkey only last month as he believed more could be done to forge an anti-Taliban movement by networking with other Afghan leaders already in that country.Dostum is perceived as a key player in efforts to put together a government-in-exile or to create a resistance force in Afghanistan.The fresh move by Pakistan appears to be aimed at completely shutting out India as a player in Afghanistan, the people cited above said. After an interregnum of several months following the Taliban takeover, the Indian side recently resumed contacts with elements from the former government of Ashraf Ghani and other political leaders who fled Afghanistan, the people added.Pakistan’s foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi has been criticised by Afghan politicians for acting like “Afghanistan’s foreign minister” by advocating on behalf of the Taliban setup, which is yet to be formally recognised by any country.The move by Pakistan also came ahead of a visit this month by Taliban acting foreign minister Amir Khan Muttaqi to Iran, where he met Ahmad Massoud, who heads the National Resistance Front (NRF), and former minister Ismail Khan and urged them to end their resistance and return to Afghanistan. Muttaqi has said he assured the Afghan leaders that they could “come back to live freely and safely in Afghanistan”.“Clearly, the Taliban want to shut down any form of resistance and their backers in Pakistan are seeking to bolster these efforts,” one of the people cited above said.Sameer Patil, senior fellow at the Observer Research Foundation, said the effort by the ISI shows “who is the real driver in shaping political developments in Afghanistan post-August 2021”.“This appears to be a response to the international criticism that the Taliban’s interim cabinet is not inclusive and didn’t have representation from other Afghan factions. This is an effort to suss out a response from the other factions on how amenable they are to cooperate with the Taliban,” Patil said.
19-01-2022||World||WHO says ‘no evidence at all’ healthy kids need booster shots against Covid||World Health Organisation (WHO) chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan on Wednesday said there is “no evidence at all” that healthy children and adolescents need booster doses against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Addressing a press conference, Swaminathan said that while there seems to be some waning of vaccine immunity over time against the rapidly spreading Omicron variant of the coronavirus, more research needs to be done to ascertain who needs booster doses.“There is no evidence right now that healthy children or healthy adolescents need boosters,” she said. “No evidence at all.”The statement from the WHO chief scientist comes as a direct challenge to Covid-19-related measures that several countries are adopting, including the initiation of a separate vaccination schedule for booster shots in view of the waning immunity from the primary dosages.The United States is leading the drive on administering booster doses to kids, as the country's top regulator, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), approved earlier this month the use of a third dose of the Pfizer and BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine as a “booster” shot for children aged 12 to 15 years.Israel, too, is offering booster doses to children aged 12 years amid criticisms from opposing quarters that claim booster shots are just profit-making ventures for pharmaceutical companies.Last week, Germany became the latest country to join the list with its drug regulator recommending a booster shot for all children aged between 12 and 17 years. Another European nation, Hungary, has also authorised similar booster shots for its adolescent population.The WHO has, however, not completely dismissed the need for administering booster shots to certain vulnerable sections of the population. Swaminathan said a group of leading experts will meet later this week to consider the specific question of how countries should consider giving boosters to their populations.“The aim is to protect the most vulnerable, to protect those at the highest risk of severe disease and death,” she said. “Those are our elderly populations, immuno-compromised people with underlying conditions, but also healthcare workers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-says-no-evidence-at-all-healthy-kids-need-booster-shots-against-covid-101642581732258.html
19-01-2022||India||Anurag Thakur warns of blocking sites, YouTube channels ‘conspiring against India’||Union minister Anurag Thakur said on Wednesday any website or YouTube channel that is found to “conspire against India” will be blocked.The information and broadcasting minister’s statement came while talking about action initiated against 20 YouTube channels and two websites for allegedly spreading anti-India propaganda and fake news.Thakur said the government will continue to take such action against those "hatching conspiracy” against the country.“I had ordered action against them… I am happy that many big countries took cognisance of it. YouTube also came forward and took action to block them,” Thakur was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.In December last year, the I&B ministry in a "closely coordinated" effort with intelligence agencies, had ordered the blocking of the channels and two websites.In a statement, the ministry had said these outlets belonged to “a coordinated disinformation network” operating from Pakistan and spreading fake news about various “sensitive subjects related to India".The channels were used to post "divisive content in a coordinated manner on topics like Kashmir, Indian army, minority communities in India, Ram Mandir, General Bipin Rawat, etc", it had said.“In future too, action will be taken to block any such account hatching conspiracy against India, spreading lies and dividing society,” Thakur said.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minister-warns-of-blocking-sites-youtube-channels-conspiring-against-india-101642611681319.html
19-01-2022||India||New species among lakhs of migratory birds bring cheers in Kashmir||SRINAGAR: Lakhs of migratory birds have arrived in the wetlands and lakes of Kashmir including some 10-20 new or rare species bringing cheer among the wildlife experts and bird watchers. The valley received widespread snowfall in December and January attracting the winged guests from Europe and Central Asia who keep their date with the Himalayan region by and large every winter. Wildlife warden, wetlands, Ifshan Dewan said that more than 3.5 lakh birds are currently present at Srinagar’s biggest wetland, Hokersar while the number will be 2.5 lakh at Hygam wetland in north Kashmir’s Baramulla. Last winter the water level at Hokersar reduced to alarming levels owing to excavation of a flood channel drying up a large part of the wetland. “Last year the arrival of birds was affected owing to lower water level at Hokersar but this year we made timely intervention by doing necessary work on bunding and breaches which helped in retention of water,” Dewan said. Kashmir has some 400 water bodies, out of which the officials and avian watchers observe birds in some 25 big and notified water bodies. Presently, the valley has nine wetlands out of the total 13 in Jammu and Kashmir. Shalbough, located in central Kashmir’s Ganderbal district, is the biggest wetland spread over 16 sq km while Hokersar on the city outskirts is around 13.5km and Hygam wetland in north Kashmir is spread across 9km. Chatlam wetland is in south Kashmir’s Pampore. Dewan said that the water level at Shalboug was good but the number of birds arriving was less so far. “The birds have a habit of arriving late at Shalbough, mostly by January end and February. In Pampore also, the number of birds is good,” she said. The birds traverse from the colder areas of the world flying over continents in flocks. They come from Europe, Central Asia, China and Japan to spend the winter in the waters of the Himalayan valley. Mostly the birds which arrive here every year are Mallards, Greylag Geese, Pochards, Common tails, Shovellers, Pintails and Gharwals which visit the region between October and April. Dewan said that they have sighted some new species this year. “This year we have reports of sightings of some 10-20 new species especially Whooper Swan and Waders. Last year also we had some new species,” she said. “These would be sighted very rarely here,” she said. She said that the department is going for a census by the end of February. “We are going for the annual waterfowl census in February to determine the exact type and number of birds. That will clear the picture,” she said. For the past two years the department’s census reports are pegging the number of birds at 8-10 lakhs who arrive here annually. The wetlands in Kashmir witnessed large scale encroachment and poaching of migratory birds during the early years of militancy but now the vigilance has been stepped up and the encroachments have also come down to a large extent. Dewan said that they have established control rooms in various lakes to stop poaching of birds. “Poaching does happen but we have established control rooms at Hokersar, Wular, Dal and Shalbough which work 24 × 7. There is constant patrolling and whenever we get information of any poaching incident, our teams reach the spot,” she said. “The birds don’t stick to wetlands only, they keep on moving from one water body to another,” she said. The official wants people in Kashmir to prove their hospitality to these birds like they are famous for their behavior towards tourists and visitors. “These migratory birds are also our guests and we should respect them as well as we are known for hospitality towards humans. We tend to throw our solid wastes in these water bodies making it difficult for the birds as well as the caretakers to clean the mess,” she said. “These are our assets and should be protected for our future generation”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-species-among-lakhs-of-migratory-birds-bring-cheers-in-kashmir-101642610904142.html
19-01-2022||India||SEC recommends Covaxin, Covishield for full market authorisation: Report||The subject expert committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) on Wednesday recommended regular market approval for Covaxin and Covishield, the two most widely used jabs in the national vaccination drive against Covid-19, news agency PTI has reported, citing official sources.Also Read | Serum Institute of India applies for full approval of Covishield Covid vaccineThe development comes just days after the SEC, on January 14, sought more data from the two manufacturers--Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech (Covaxin) and Pune-based Serum Institute of India (Covishield)--for approval for full market authorisation.Also Read | Govt seeks more data for full market clearance to Covishield, CovaxinA full market authorisation is granted when a vaccine is deemed safe and effective for most people who are inoculated with it. Such an approval is authorised after submission and review of full data from phase 1, 2 and 3 trials of the jab.On the other hand, an emergency use authorisation (EUA) is given after studying data from phase 1 and 2, when regulators conclude that benefits of a vaccine far outweigh risks. All Covid-19 vaccines currently in use in India, including Covaxin and Covishield, have emergency use authorisation (EUA) from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI).On January 3 last year, both jabs received EUA; the nationwide inoculation drive began on January 16. Bharat Biotech's Covaxin is India's first indigenous vaccine against Covid-19, while Serum Institute locally manufactures Britain's AstraZeneca-Oxford jab as ‘Covishield.’More than 1.58 billion (158 crore) doses have been administered nationally thus far, of which, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard, more than 7.6 million were administered in the last 24 hours. The vaccination drive, for the most part, was open for those aged 18 and above; however, on January 3 this year, it was expanded to include the 15-18 age group as well.From January 10, healthcare workers, frontline workers and senior citizens with comorbidities became eligible for a ‘precautionary’ or booster shot.Also Read | Home vaccinations for teens, third dose beneficiaries soon: CentreBoth announcements were made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in an address to the nation last Christmas Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-covishield-recommended-for-full-market-authorisation-report-101642608678718.html
19-01-2022||India||The near-miss at Bengaluru airport: All you need to know||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has initiated a probe into the near-miss that took place at Bengaluru's Kempegowda International Airport on January 7. The incident involved two flights of the same carrier, the Gurguram-headquartered IndiGo, with one leaving for Kolkata, and the other departing for Bhubaneswar.Here's all you need to know:(1.) According to DGCA officials, Indigo's flight 6E455 to Kolkata and 6E246 to Bhubaneswar were given all-clear to take off at the same time. The aviation regulator has attributed this to a possible miscommunication between air traffic controllers (ATCos).(2.) The DGCA noted that the airport's South runway, which was being used for landings, was closed at some point during the day. This meant that the North runway, which runs parallel to the South, from where departures were taking place, was now handling arrivals as well.(3.) This closure of the South runway was not communicated to the air traffic controllers, leading to the two planes being cleared to take off at the same time, the body said in its preliminary report.(4.) An approach radar controller noted the two flights moving towards each other and immediately conveyed this to pilots on each plane. The pilots diverged at the last minute, thus preventing the collision. (5.) According to an NDTV report, the two aircraft were at an altitude of 3000 feet. The same report said as many as 238 passengers and six crew were onboard the Bhubaneswar-bound flight, while the Bengaluru flight was carrying 176 passengers and six crew. It identified the approach radar controller as forty-two year old Lokendra Singh.(6.) The DGCA further said the incident was not recorded in any logbook, nor was it reported by the Airports Authority of India (AAI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-near-mishap-at-bengaluru-airport-all-you-need-to-know-101642604860714.html
19-01-2022||India||Hindu families in MP village threaten to migrate due to alleged harassment||BHOPAL/RATLAM: Two days after a fight between two villagers, more than 25 families of Surana village in Ratlam district threatened to migrate from the village as they alleged harassment by members of a community for the past two-and-a-half years. Biplank police registered cross FIRs against two villagers Mukesh Jat, who is also claimed to be a coordinator of a Hindu outfit, and Mayur Khan for abusing and beating each other on January 16. Upset with cross FIRs, the families who belong to Jat community wrote on the walls of their houses that these houses are on sale as they are posing a security threat and want to migrate from the village, locals said. “They played objectionable music and took out rallies. Women didn’t feel safe due to them. They are harassing us mentally and when we go to the police station, police officers don’t take any action. On January 16, Mayur Khan with more than 100 people came to my house and abused me. He threatened me and asked me to leave the village,” said Mukesh Jat. “When I filed FIR, the police registered a case against me too. We don’t feel safe here in the village,” he added. Another villager, Omprakash Patel said, “A few members of Muslim community are harassing us. They mock us and scare us and shout abusive words to us. They throw garbage near our houses and spit in front of houses. They are terrorising our children.” A group of representatives met district collector Kumar Purshottam and asked for allocating a piece of land in some other village because they feel unsafe in the village and can’t live here. However, the Muslim community members said a group of people especially Mukesh Jat is trying to communalise every trivial issue. “For the past two years, Mukesh Jat with a few others is trying to create communal tension in the village. He filed at least half a dozen complaints against Muslim community members. On January 16 too, he fought with me and later filed a fake complaint against me,” said Mayur Khan. After the matter came to light, home minister Narottam Mishra took cognizance and said, “It is our duty to maintain peace and harmony in our state. The issue of Surana village is serious and nobody needs to feel scared. The administration will resolve this matter.” After the home minister’s order, Ratlam district collector Kumar Purshottam and superintendent of police Gaurav Tiwari held a meeting with villagers. District collector Purshottam said, “Distrust has been increased among villagers towards each other due to some small issues. We are trying to resolve it.” “The villagers said they feel unsafe due to regular fight and harassment so we have decided to form a committee of six members that include Sub-divisional magistrate and sub-divisional officer of police with two members of each community. They also said that people are encroaching upon their land so the encroachment will be cleared within a month,” said the collector. SP Gaurav Tiwari said, “A police outpost will be set up in the village where 10 police personnel will be present always to maintain law and order.” “The village doesn’t have any history of communal tension but for the past few months some anti-social elements are creating trouble so we are also taking action under National Security Act (NSA) against criminals,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hindu-families-in-mp-village-threaten-to-migrate-due-to-alleged-harassment-101642607424347.html
19-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: BJP wins 384 seats in Maharashtra local body elections, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.BJP wins 384 seats in nagar panchayat polls, jabs Uddhav Thackeray over Sena tallyThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday ended up with the maximum number of seats in Maharashtra’s local body elections in semi-urban and rural areas. Read moreDelhi woman, her 4 kids die after choking on toxic fumes from stoveAccording to a senior police official, the place where the incident occurred was a rented accommodation inhabited by one Mohit Kalia (35), his wife Radha and their four children – two daughters and two sons. Read moreIn marginal dip, Karnataka sees over 40,000 new Covid-19 cases; positivity rate nears 19%Daily Covid-19 cases in Karnataka, as well as its capital Bengaluru, declined marginally on Tuesday, with the state logging 40,499 fresh infections, including 24,135 in the city. Read moreVirat Kohli breaks Sachin Tendulkar's record for massive Indian feat; surpasses Ganguly, Dravid to go 2nd in elite listKohli, playing in his first ODI since being succeeded by Rohit Sharma as the full-time captain of the limited-overs side, went past Sachin Tendulkar as well as skippers Sourav Ganguly and Rahul Dravid for two incredible records. Read moreWhen Rajinikanth praised Dhanush as a 'good son-in-law', said he ‘takes good care of his wife’A video of Rajinikanth praising his son-in-law Dhanush is being shared online. Dhanush and Aishwaryaa Rajinikanth announced their separation on Monday night. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bjp-wins-384-seats-in-maharashtra-local-body-elections-and-all-the-latest-news-101642600261326.html
19-01-2022||India||Cabinet approves tenure extension of National Commission for Safai Karamcharis||NEW DELHI: The union cabinet on Wednesday approved the extension of the National Commission for Safai Karamcharis (NCSK) for three years with effect from April 1, 2022. Union minister Anurag Thakur while announcing the cabinet decisions said, “The union cabinet, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, on Wednesday has approved the extension of the tenure of the National Commission for Safai Karamcharis for three years from April 1, 2022. Now it will remain in effect till March 31, 2025.” “The commission is responsible for giving recommendations to the government regarding specific programmes for welfare of Safai Karamcharis, study and evaluate the existing welfare programmes for Safai Karamcharis, investigate cases of specific grievances etc. Modi government is determined to work for the welfare of safai karamcharis,” he said. The commission was established in 1993 as per the provisions of the NCSK Act initially for the period upto March 31,1997. Later the validity of the Act was extended for five years and then again for two years i.e up to February 29, 2004. After that it was lapsed and the tenure of the commission was extended as a non-statutory body under the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment. The tenure of the Commission was being extended from time to time through government resolutions. The present tenure is valid upto March 31, 2022. “The total implication of the extension for three years will be approximately Rs.43.68 crore,” the government said in a statement. The major beneficiaries under the commission are the Safai Karamcharis and identified manual scavengers in the country. According to the government data, there were 58,098 manual scavengers identitied in the country as on December 31, 2021. “Though the government has taken many steps for the upliftment of the Safai Karamcharis, the deprivation suffered by them in socio-economic and educational terms is still far from being eliminated. Although manual scavenging has been almost eradicated, sporadic instances do occur. Hazardous cleaning of sewer/septic tanks continues to be an area of the highest priority for the government. Hence, the Government feels that there is a continued need to monitor the various interventions and initiatives of the government for welfare of Safai Karamcharis and to achieve the goal of complete mechanization of sewer/septic tanks cleaning in the country and rehabilitation of manual scavengers,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-approves-tenure-extension-of-national-commission-for-safai-karamcharis-101642602862543.html
19-01-2022||India||Shiv Sena-NCP announce alliance for Goa polls 2022||PANAJI: The Shiv Sena and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) who are partners in Maharashtra government have announced a pre-poll alliance for the Goa assembly elections. Shiv Sena’s Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut and NCP’s Praful Patel said that the two parties will go without the Congress and hope for post-poll arrangements with non-BJP parties. “We had thought that we should extend the MVA (Maha Vikas Aghadi) from Maharashtra to Goa. Congress should play the major role and we (NCP and Shiv Sena) would contest some seats,” Patel said. The two parties are looking at contesting around a dozen of the 40 seats. “In Goa there is a lot of confusion on the ground. There are BJP, Congress, TMC, AAP and other parties and in this overall confusion, NCP and Shiv Sena, though we may not be in a position to form a government, will have a respectable number of seats where we will have an important role to play in formation of a like-minded government,” Raut said. The Goa state NCP leadership was hopeful of an alliance with the Congress. Local leader José D’Souza claimed that talks stalled after initial progress was made. The NCP and the Congress had an alliance for the 2017 and 2012 assembly polls. Since then the NCP’s presence has been reduced to zero seats in the Goa legislative assembly. It won one seat in 2017, but the MLA Churchill Alemão switched to the Trinamool Congress. The Shiv Sena has never won a seat in Goa despite contesting successive elections either as independents or through alliance arrangements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-ncp-announce-alliance-for-goa-polls-2022-101642602561484.html
19-01-2022||India||Eye on Uttarakhand polls, late CDS Gen Bipin Rawat's brother Vijay Rawat joins BJP||Colonel (retd) Vijay Rawat, brother of India's late Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, on Wednesday, joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Delhi in the presence of Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami and other senior party functionaries.The development comes hours after the retired colonel met the Uttarakhand chief minister in Delhi, and triggered a buzz over him joining the saffron camp ahead of the upcoming Assembly polls in the hill state.“In case they ask me, I will serve the people of Uttarakhand,” colonel (retd) Rawat had said when asked about his joining the BJP.After formally being inducted into the party, Rawat said Prime Minister Narendra Modi's “vision and far-reaching thought process” inspired him and others into working hard for the nation.Late Chief of Defence Staff (CSD) General Bipin Rawat's brother retired Colonel Vijay Rawat joins BJP at party headquarters in New Delhi. https://t.co/lUTFq4b5S9“I am grateful to have been given the opportunity to join the BJP,” said the retired colonel, addressing a press conference. “My father was with the BJP after retiring and now I have received a chance to do the same.”He had also said Dhami's vision for the state “matches with what my brother (the late CDS) had in his mind”.CDS Rawat, who hailed from Pauri Garhwal in Uttarakhand, died in a helicopter crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on December 8 along with 13 others, including his wife Madhulika.Election to the 70-member Uttarakhand assembly is scheduled to be held on February 14. The counting of votes will be done on March 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eye-on-uttarakhand-polls-late-cds-gen-bipin-rawat-s-brother-vijay-rawat-joins-bjp-101642594251255.html
19-01-2022||India||SC to consider hearing PIL against EVMs, lawyer wants ballot papers back for state polls||The Supreme Court on Wednesday agreed to consider hearing an application challenging the Constitutional validity of the usage of electronic voting machines (EVMs) in place of ballot papers for elections across the country.A petition was filed in the top court by a lawyer in his personal capacity challenging a provision of the Representation of People Act that had led to the introduction of EVMS.A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, heard the submissions of lawyer M L Sharma, that the public interest litigation (PIL) required hearing in view of upcoming assembly elections in the five states of Uttar Pradesh, Goa, Punjab, Manipur and Uttarakhand. The lawyer further demanded that the elections be held through ballot papers.“We will see it... I may list it before some other bench as well,” the CJI was quoted as saying.According to a PTI report, Sharma said Section 61A of the Representation of People Act, which permitted the use of EVMs, was not passed by Parliament and, hence, cannot be imposed.“I have filed the petition which is supported with the evidence on the record. A judicial note can be taken note of the case...let the election be held through ballot papers,” the lawyer said.The plea, which made the Union Law ministry a party, sought declaration of the provision as “void, illegal and unconstitutional” as there was no provision of EVM.The upcoming assembly polls are scheduled to be held between February 10 and March 10.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-consider-hearing-pil-against-electronic-voting-machines-101642593891993.html
19-01-2022||India||Blast in AC compartment of INS Ranvir led to death of 3 sailors: Officials||NEW DELHI: The blast onboard Indian Navy destroyer INS Ranvir that killed three sailors and left 11 injured on Tuesday took place in the ship’s air conditioning compartment and was possibly linked to Freon gas leak, officials familiar with the matter said on Wednesday. The three men who perished were in an adjacent compartment when the explosion took place on Tuesday evening, the officials said. In a statement, the Indian Navy on Wednesday identified the deceased men as Master Chief Petty Officer (MCPO) I Krishan Kumar, MCPO II Surinder Kumar and MCPO II AK Singh. An MCPO I is equivalent to a Subedar Major in the army, while an MCPO II is equivalent to a Subedar. Navy chief Admiral R Hari Kumar and all personnel of the Indian Navy extended their condolences to the families of the three men. “We fully stand by with the families in this difficult time,” the Navy’s statement added. The incident took place at the Naval Dockyard in Mumbai. The ship’s crew responded immediately and quickly brought the situation under control, the navy said on Tuesday, adding that no major material damage to the destroyer was reported. INS Ranvir was on a cross-coast operational deployment from the Visakhapatnam-based Eastern Naval Command since November 2021 and was due to return to its base port, officials said. The navy has instituted a board of inquiry to investigate the cause of the accident. Manned by a crew of 30 officers and 310 sailors, INS Ranvir was commissioned into the Indian Navy in April 1986. The destroyer, built in erstwhile Soviet Union, has a displacement of 5,000 tonnes, length of 146 metres, beam of 15.8 metres and top speed of 30 knots. It is armed with a variety of weapons including surface-to-surface missiles, surface-to-air missiles, anti-aircraft guns and torpedoes. INS Ranvir is among the warships commanded by Admiral Kumar in his 38-year military career.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blast-in-ac-compartment-of-ins-ranvir-led-to-death-of-3-sailors-officials-101642593740732.html
19-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Covid cases in Mumbai under control, BMC tells HC and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 infections in Mumbai under control, BMC tells Bombay high courtThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday told the Bombay high court that the Covid situation in Mumbai and surrounding areas is under control as the daily count of new Covid-19 infections has gone down from around 20,000 just 10 days back to 7,000 on Tuesday, and that there is no need to panic. Read more‘What if Channi’s premises were…’: AAP on ED raids on Punjab CM’s nephewThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday took a jibe at Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi over the raids carried out by the Enforcement Directorate on the premises of his nephew Bhupinder Singh alias Honey. Read moreSC dismisses Rajgir landowners’ petition seeking revised compensationThe Supreme Court has dismissed the special leave petitions (SLPs) on merit﻿ and disposed of pending applications of land owners against the April 22, 2019 Patna high court order related to landowners’ claim of higher compensation for their land acquired in Rajgir. Read more2021 was among the seven hottest years on record, says UN bodyLast year was one of the seven hottest years on record, the World Meteorological Organization (WMO), a United Nations body, said on Wednesday. Read moreEar infections on rise during winters; expert tips to followApart from the many health issues triggered by winter season, ear infections in people of all age groups is on rise these days. Many people are being diagnosed with middle and inner ear infections which are generally caused by inflammation from a bacteria or virus. Read moreBoss’ comment on her tattoos leaves woman ‘shocked’ but in a good wayTattoos, despite being a very commonly used form of body modification, have a lot of stereotypes associated with them. People also often take to social media to share their stories regarding the same. Read moreMahindra joins hands with Hero Electric to manufacture electric two-wheelersElectric two-wheeler manufacturer Hero Electric has announced a joint venture with the Mahindra Group today to manufacture electric vehicles for India together. Read moreFardeen Khan tests positive for Covid-19: ‘Fortunately I am asymptomatic’; fans wish for his ‘speedy recovery’Actor Fardeen Khan revealed on Wednesday that he has tested positive for Covid-19. The actor also added that he is asymptomatic. Read moreIND vs SA: Jasprit Bumrah ends 925-day wait with wicket of Janneman Malan in Paarl ODIJasprit Bumrah gave his team the perfect start with the wicket of Janneman Malan in the third over of the first ODI between India and South Africa in Paarl. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-covid-cases-in-mumbai-under-control-bmc-tells-hc-101642591987592.html
19-01-2022||India||Mulayam Singh Yadav’s daughter-in-law joins BJP||LUCKNOW: Ending days of speculation, Aparna Yadav, the younger daughter-in-law of Samajwadi Party (SP) patron Mulayam Singh Yadav, joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Delhi on Wednesday. She was inducted into the party in presence of deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya and Uttar Pradesh BJP chief Swatantra Dev.“Aparna ji ka bhajapa parivar main swagat hai (Aparna, welcome to the BJP family),” tweeted chief minister Yogi Adityanath.Aparna Yadav praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi and said she was drawn to the BJP’s “India first” ideology and would commit herself to “worship of the nation”.She was inducted into the party days after 14 important leaders, mainly from Other Backward Classes (OBCs), defected from the BJP to the SP.While welcoming her into the party, BJP leaders repeatedly referred to Aparna Yadav as “honourable leader Mulayam Singh’s daughter-in-law”.In Lucknow, SP chief Akhilesh Yadav said his father spoke to Aparna Yadav and attempted to stop her from joining the BJP. He wished her well.Aparna Yadav said the BJP leadership would take a call on from where she would contest and the regions, she may be sent for campaigning for the Uttar Pradesh polls.Maurya said Akhilesh Yadav “is not successful even in his family” while Dev said Aparna Yadav’s joined the BJP as she knew the party cared about the safety of women.Aparna Yadav is the wife of Prateek Yadav, Akhilesh Yadav’s half-brother. In 2017, she contested the elections from Lucknow Cantt seat as SP candidate but lost to BJP’s Rita Bahuguna Joshi.BJP leader Daya Shankar Singh, who accompanied Aparna Yadav to Delhi, said her joining was in the works for almost a month.Aparna Yadav met BJP chief JP Nadda and Adityanath after joining the party.
19-01-2022||India||Kerala vlogger Sreekanth Vettiyar booked for rape||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Kerala police on Tuesday filed a rape case against Malayalam vlogger Sreekanth Vettiyar.The survivor, a resident of Pathanamthitta, posted about the incident on social media and a week later she formally filed a complaint against him at a police station in Kochi. Police said Vettiyar, also a comedian, is missing after the case was registered. In her social media post, the woman said she was known to him for many years and he invited her to a flat in Kochi on the pretext of celebrating his birthday and she was raped brutally. She said he later promised to marry her but was incommunicado later. She said after she posted her bitter experience on social media, a couple of other women also shared similar experience and she thought it fit to approach the police. “He manipulated me several times to ensure that I will not open up about the crime. The mental trauma I faced in the last couple of months was unexplainable. The criminal involved in the crime is roaming around freely and he gives lengthy lectures on liberalism and modern attitude,” said the woman in her post in Malayalam. She alleged that he also extracted money from her a couple of times. A senior officer of the central police station in Ernakulam said he was booked under Section 376 (2) of the Indian Penal Code (rape) and investigation was on. Police said the survivor’s statement will be recorded before a court later and they will move an application for this. They are also planning to approach other victims as well. Vettiyar is a content creator and his social media page “Vettiyar Trolls” has wide viewership. There are reports that he allegedly tricked other women offering role in one of the movies he was planning to make.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-vlogger-sreekanth-vettiyar-booked-for-rape-101642591460433.html
19-01-2022||India||Dozens of trainee IAS officers test positive for Covid-19||MUSSOORIE: At least 85 trainee Indian Administrative Services (IAS) officers and faculty members tested positive for Covid-19 at Mussoorie’s Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (LBSNA) on Wednesday.Rajiv Dikshit, nodal health officer, Dehradun, said the number could rise and that the trainees were tested after arriving at the academy via Dehradun on Sunday.The administration has created a containment zone on the academy campus.As many as 489 civil services officers of the 96th foundation course and faculty members were part of a field study and research programme that began on December 27. IAS trainees visited villages near international borders across the country before getting infected. They have been directed to home isolate and seek necessary medication.Earlier, 54 Covid-19 cases were reported at the academy in November 2020.Apart from the cases at the academy, the situation is under control in Mussoorie. At least 50 Covid-19 cases have been reported over the past two days and all of the infected persons have been advised to stay quarantined at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dozens-of-trainee-ias-officers-test-positive-for-covid19-101642590740603.html
19-01-2022||India||SC dismisses Rajgir landowners’ petition seeking revised compensation||PATNA: The Supreme Court has dismissed the special leave petitions (SLPs) on merit﻿ and disposed of pending applications of land owners against the April 22, 2019 Patna high court order related to landowners’ claim of higher compensation for their land acquired in Rajgir. The apex court order earlier this month has saved over ₹3000-crore of the central and Bihar governments, as it has set at rest the controversy over claim of huge amount as enhanced compensation for land by the landowners of Rajgir. A number of land owners at Rajgir whose lands were acquired by the district authorities of Nalanda for construction of the ordinance factory under Ministry of Defence filed several writ petitions, claiming higher compensation. “As a result of this, the Bihar Land Acquisition Rehabilitation and Resettlement Authority/ Tribunal, Patna, headed by a district judge, had earlier passed the Award in the year 2018 for payment of more than four times the value of land with interest for around more than one thousand acres of land and started recovery proceedings against the State Government and Central Government under which more than Rs. 3000 Crores was required to be paid,” said former additional solicitor general (ASG) of India SD Sanjay. The then ASG, Sanjay advised the Defence Ministry to file an appeal before the division bench of the Patna high court even though there was more than three years of delay. “I was convinced that since the acquisition was completed before coming into force of the new land acquisition Act, the earlier order of the single-judge was not appropriate and consequently the Award passed by the Land Tribunal suffered from error of law,” he added. The Division Bench of Patna high court presided by the then Chief Justice AP Sahi and Justice Anjana Mishra vide its detailed judgment on April 22, 2019 allowed the appeal of Union of India and set aside not only the judgment of single judge but also the award wrongly enhancing the compensation many times the value of the land which in all would have been more than ₹3000 Crores to be shared by the central and the state governments. “Thereafter the land owners preferred appeal before the Supreme Court which was heard by a bench presided over by Justice AN Khanwilkar and Justice CT Ravi Kumar, which after considering the judgment of Patna high court, dismissed the appeal on merits,” Sanjay said. 
19-01-2022||India||CDS Rawat's brother to join BJP? Here's what he said on meeting Uttarakhand CM||Colonel (retd) Vijay Rawat, brother of India's late Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, on Wednesday, met Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami leading to speculation that he might join the ruling the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ahead of the forthcoming assembly polls in the hill state.The retired colonel met the Uttarakhand chief minister in Delhi, following which he said, “I like his (Dhami's) vision for the state. It matches with what my brother (the late CDS) had in his mind.”When asked about his joining the saffron camp, he said, “In case they ask me, I will serve the people of Uttarakhand.”I like his (Uttarakhand CM) vision for State. It matches what my brother (late CDS Bipin Rawat) had in his mind. BJP has same mindset. In case they ask me, I'll serve people of Uttarakhand (will you join BJP?): Late CDS Gen Bipin Rawat’s brother Colonel Vijay Rawat (retired) https://t.co/6U7uBLWphRThe Uttarakhand chief minister, too, took to his personal handle on Twitter to salute the service to the nation done by the Rawat family.“Today in Delhi, met Col. Vijay Rawat ji, brother of the first CDS of the country and the pride of Uttarakhand Late Bipin Rawat ji,” wrote Dhami on Twitter. “We salute the service to the nation done by Bipin Rawat ji and his family. I will always work to transform Uttarakhand according to their dreams.”आज दिल्ली में देश के प्रथम CDS और उत्तराखण्ड के अभिमान स्वर्गीय श्री बिपिन रावत जी के भाई कर्नल विजय रावत जी से भेंट की। बिपिन रावत जी व उनके परिवार द्वारा की गई राष्ट्रसेवा को हमारा नमन है। मैं सदैव उनके सपनों के अनुरूप उत्तराखण्ड बनाने हेतु कार्य करता रहूंगा। pic.twitter.com/iACim4sNqGCDS Rawat, who hailed from Pauri Garhwal in Uttarakhand, died in a helicopter crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on December 8 along with 13 others, including his wife Madhulika.In the days following his death, it was revealed that the four-star general of the Indian Army had a bunch of unfulfilled plans in service to the nation, including the setting up of more than a few ‘sainik schools’ across India to help underprivileged students prepare themselves for the armed forces.Remembering the late CDS, Dhami said, “On the strength of his (General Rawat's) extraordinary talent, hard work, and indomitable courage and bravery, he rose to the highest post of the army and gave a new direction to the security systems of the country and the Indian Army. Uttarakhand has also suffered a great loss due to his sudden demise. We all will always be proud of this great son of ours.”Now, the potential inclusion of the late CDS’ brother into the BJP fold ahead of the forthcoming assembly elections is likely to provide the party with an additional electoral edge.Polls to elect the 70-member Uttarakhand assembly are scheduled to be held on February 14. The counting of votes will be done on March 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cds-rawat-s-brother-to-join-bjp-here-s-what-he-said-on-meeting-uttarakhand-cm-101642587756205.html
19-01-2022||India||Odisha begins trial run of OmiSure test kit for fast detection of Omicron variant of Covid||Odisha on Wednesday started the trial run of ‘OmiSure’ RT-PCR test kits for early detection of the Omicron variant of Covid-19. OmiSure is developed by Tata Medical and Diagnostics Ltd in partnership with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).On January 10, Odisha had placed an order to procure 5 lakh ‘OmiSure’ kits, becoming the first-ever state in India to buy the kit that would detect the fast-spreading variant. In the first phase, the state has received 30,000 kits.Officials said the OmiSure kit can detect Omicron in nasopharyngeal/oropharyngeal specimens during the RT-PCR tests. It is compatible with all standard RT-PCR machines.“The trial run of the OmiSure kits were in progress. It will be first used for internal study and the kits will then be dispatched to districts reporting a higher number of cases,” Bijay Mohapatra, the state’s director of health services, told news agency PTI.Mohapatra said OmiSure will be first used in Berhampur, Cuttack, Rourkela and Bhubaneswar cities of Odisha, besides districts recording a high Covid-19 positivity rate. As per official data on Tuesday, Sundargarh had recorded the highest test positivity rate (TPR) of 36.1 per cent, followed by Khurda at 31.1 per cent. Twenty-five districts in Odisha are in the red zone with TPR above 7.5 per cent, PTI further reported.Odisha has, so far, reported 202 Omicron cases since the variant was detected in the country in December last year. On January 7, the state reported its first death due to Omicron which was also the second death across India.Meanwhile, the daily Covid-19 tally in the state continued an upward trend with 11,607 infections recorded on Tuesday, pushing the caseload to 11,67,094. Six more patients died and the toll climbed to 8,494. Tuesday’s fatality count has been the highest in more than three months.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-begins-trial-run-of-omisure-test-kit-for-fast-detection-of-omicron-101642580857937.html
19-01-2022||India||PM Modi to host first ever India-Central Asia Summit in virtual format on Jan 27||NEW DELHI: India on Wednesday announced that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will host the first India-Central Asia Summit in a virtual format on January 27 as part of the country’s engagement with the extended neighbourhood. The development follows the government’s decision to go ahead with Republic Day celebrations on January 26 without any foreign leader as chief guest because of a surge in Covid-19 infections. The Indian side had earlier invited the leaders of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan to be chief guests, though no formal announcement was made by any of the countries. The external affairs ministry said the presidents of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan will participate in the virtual summit, described as the “first engagement of its kind between India and the Central Asian countries at the level of leaders”. The summit reflects New Delhi’s growing engagement with the Central Asian states, part of India’s “extended neighbourhood”, and is symbolic of the importance attached by leaders of India and Central Asia to a comprehensive and enduring partnership, the ministry said. At the summit, the leaders are expected to discuss steps to take India-Central Asia relations to newer heights, and exchange views on regional and international issues, “especially the evolving regional security situation”, the ministry said. Watch: Indian Navy personnel groove to music at Republic Day rehearsalModi had visited all the Central Asian states in 2015, and there have been exchanges at high levels at bilateral and multilateral forums. The India-Central Asia Dialogue at the level of foreign ministers, the third meeting of which was held in New Delhi in December, has given impetus to relations between the two sides. “The participation of the secretaries of national security councils of Central Asian countries in the Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan held in New Delhi on November 10, 2021 outlined a common regional approach on Afghanistan,” the external affairs ministry said. This is the second year in a row that the Republic Day celebrations have been affected by the fallout of the Covid-19 pandemic. The rapid spread of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus in the past few weeks and recent violent protests in Kazakhstan, which resulted in the death of more than 220 people, were factors that went against the participation of the Central Asian leaders, people familiar with the matter. Last year, India went ahead with truncated Republic Day celebrations without a chief guest after UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson called off his visit at the last minute because of the rapid spread of a strain of the coronavirus in Britain. It is extremely rare for the Republic Day celebrations, seen as a high point in the country’s diplomatic calendar, not to have a chief guest.
19-01-2022||India||Covid 3rd wave: Another 2-3 weeks? 10 things SBI report on pandemic reveals||The SBI (State Bank of India) Research report on the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic says the ongoing wave is likely to stretch another three weeks maximum. The optimism comes from the massive decline in new caseloads in the top 15 districts which had the maximum infections, the report published on Tuesday said. India on Wednesday over 2.82 lakh new infections taking the number of active cases to 18,31,000, the highest in 232 days.Here are 10 points the SBI report says about Covid third wave in India1. Mumbai reached its peak on January 7 when it reported 20,971 cases, the report said.2. Pune and Bengaluru are still showing an increase in daily new numbers. If other districts also implement strict measures and control the spread, then the national peak may come within 2-3 weeks after the Mumbai peak.Covid 3rd wave: India unlikely to cross 4 lakh cases per day, scientists project3. New cases in the top 15 districts, including 10 major cities, have declined to 37.4 in January 2022 from 67.9 in December 2021. 4. This decline is complemented by the increase of new cases being reported from districts. The overall share of rural districts in new cases has increased to 32.6% in January 2022 from the 14.4% in December 2021.5. The rural share of these new cases are coming from Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Bihar, Jammu and Kashmir, Odisha and Rajasthan.6. On the vaccination front, the SBI report said Andra Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana and Uttarakhand have already vaccinated more than 70% of their eligible population with double doses. Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand are still lagging. 7. In other countries, the peak of a wave arrived within 54 days after cases started to increase, in general. Present peak time cases on an average are 3.3 times higher than the previous peak, the report said.8. Among the top 15 districts, which contributed majorly to India's daily caseload, Delhi, North 24 Parganas and Mumbai reached their peak, the report said.9. During the second wave of the pandemic in April-May 2021, the peak came at different dates. Mumbai had reached the peak of the 2nd wave first, 26 days before the national peak.10. According to the SBI Research report, Delhi reached the 3rd wave peak on January 13 the day on which it reported over 28,000 cases. During the 2nd wave, Delhi had reached its peak 16 days before the national peak.The trend of metro cities reaching the peak before districts continues in the third wave too, the report indicated. Peak refers to the worst Covid-19 situation in a state or a city after which the daily number of cases, positivity rates etc start going down. This can happen when the spread can be contained by maintaining Covid appropriate behaviour, restrictions on movement, vaccination etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-3rd-wave-another-2-3-weeks-10-things-sbi-report-on-pandemic-reveals-101642578733626.html
19-01-2022||India||Suspension of regular international commercial flights extended till Feb 28||NEW DELHI: The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Wednesday extended the suspension of regular international commercial flights till February 28. “The competent authority has decided to extend the suspension of scheduled international commercial passenger services to/from India till 2359 hrs IST of February 28, 2022,” said a DGCA circular stated. It added the restriction will not apply to international cargo operations and other flights the DGCA has approved.The Covid-19 pandemic prompted the suspension of passenger flights in March 2020. International commercial flights resumed from July 2020 under air bubble arrangements, which India has with over two dozen countries. “Flights under air bubble arrangement will not be affected,” said the DGCA circular. The full resumption of flights was postponed last month after several countries reimposed travel bans in view of the threat from the Omicron variant of Covid-19. The flights were earlier scheduled to fully resume from December 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suspension-of-regular-international-commercial-flights-extended-till-feb-28-101642579879339.html
19-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Around 207 million estimated to be unemployed in 2022, says report and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.52 million job deficit, 21 million more unemployed in 2022: ReportA return to the pre-pandemic performance of the global labour market is likely to remain elusive for much of the world in the coming years, the International Labour Organization (ILO) has said. Read morePalanquins carry women to hospital from remote, hilly Bengal villagesPasalam Dukpa, 22, a resident of a remote village in the Buxa Tiger Reserve in West Bengal’s Alipurduar, was lucky to have reached a local hospital on January 14 to give birth to a girl. Read moreWe fully stand by with kin: Navy chief condoles of lives in INS Ranvir blastChief of Naval Staff Admiral R Hari Kumar on Wednesday condoled the loss of three navy personnel who were killed onboard INS Ranvir on Tuesday evening. Read moreBeijing adds 3 more Covid-19 cases weeks ahead of Winter OlympicsChina's capital Beijing has reported three more Covid-19 cases since Monday, weeks before the Winter Olympics are scheduled to kick off in the capital on February 4. Read more'In T20 WC they failed to make early inroads': Salman Butt makes big prediction on two India bowlers for SA ODIsTeam India will return to the ODI action on Wednesday when the side takes on South Africa in the first of the three-match series in Paarl. Read moreTata Tiago CNG, Tigor CNG launched. Price, specs and mileage details hereTata Motors on Wednesday has launched CNG variants of Tiago and Tigor. Tata Tiago CNG price starts at ₹6.09 lakh (ex-showroom), while the Tata Tigor CNG price starts at ₹7.69 lakh (ex-showroom). Read moreWoman stands atop Burj Khalifa again in new Emirates ad. Video ends with a twistIf you are a regular user of the Internet, chances are you have seen the advertisement by Dubai-based airlines Emirates involving Burj Khalifa that went crazy viral online. Read moreBharti Singh calls herself 'India's first pregnant anchor', says Colors is making two people work but paying for oneComedian-host Bharti Singh is feeling proud to be able to work in her pregnancy and calling herself ‘India’s first pregnant anchor'. She will be seen hosting the new reality show Hunarbaaz Desh Ki Shaan, along with husband Haarsh Limbachiyaa. Read moreWatch| Indian Navy personnel groove to music at Republic Day rehearsal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-around-207-million-estimated-to-be-unemployed-in-2022-101642576628173.html
19-01-2022||India||Scheduled international flights to remain suspended till February 28||Scheduled international commercial flights to and from India will remain suspended till February 28, Director General of Civil Aviation said in a fresh order on Wednesday. Flights under air bubble arrangements will not be affected, the DGCA said. The decision comes as the world is braving a fresh wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, driven by Omicron, the latest variant of the SARS-CoV-2.In November 2021, the Centre decided to resume scheduled international flight operations from December 15. The emergence of Omicron threw a spanner in the plan and the government withdrew the decision to resume scheduled international flights days before January 15.Scheduled international flights have been suspended in India from March 23, 2020, two days before a nationwide lockdown was imposed in the country. The suspension was extended every month allowing emergency international travel under the air bubble agreements.India reports 2,82,970 new Covid cases, active cases highest in over 7 monthsIndia has air transport bubbles with Afghanistan, Australia, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Canada, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Germany, Iraq, Japan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Maldives, Mauritius, Nepal, Netherlands, Nigeria, Oman, Qatar, Russia, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Seychelles, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Switzerland, Tanzania, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, US and Uzbekistan. The agreements allow both-way air travel under some terms and conditions. No direct air travel is allowed to countries not covered under air travel bubble agreements. International air travel has come on the radar as Omicron, the variant first detected in South Africa on November 24, 2021, travelled to India through international travellers. The first Omicron cases were international travellers which prompted Delhi, West Bengal to raise demand for banning international flights from countries worst-affected by Omicron. Flights under the air bubble agreement were not banned but India identified some countries as 'at-risk'. The list includes all countries of Europe, including the UK, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Ghana, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Tanzania, Hong Kong, Israel, Congo, Ethiopia, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Nigeria, Tunisia and Zambia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scheduled-international-flights-to-remain-suspended-till-february-28-101642576249777.html
19-01-2022||India||Muzaffarabad-Yarkand road makes Siachen demilitarization unworkable||On January 12, three days before the Army Day, Chief of Army Staff Gen Manoj Mukund Naravane replying to a question on his views on the demilitarization of Siachen Glacier said that the Indian Army was not averse to it but the precondition for that was that Pakistan accepted the 110 km actual ground position line north of NJ 9842. The Army chief was responding to questions which were submitted in advance.Gen Naravane said, “We are not averse to the demilitarization of the glacier but the pre-condition for that is to accept the AGPL. Pakistan has to accept what are their positions and what are ours, and both of us have to sign on the dotted line before any kind of disengagement takes place. What is happening in eastern Ladakh is quite similar…first disengagement, then de-induction and de-escalation, which is another way of saying demilitarization.While Gen Naravane spelt out the Indian Army’s position on the issue, the matter has become far more complicated for national security planners with Pakistan and China proposing a road connecting Yarkand in Sinkiang to Muzaffarabad in Pakistan Occupied Kashmir through Shaksgam Valley, a 5193-square-kilometres territory that Pakistan illegally ceded to China in 1963. The Shaksgam Valley lies in the trans-Karakoram range watershed.Area maps clearly show that Rimo Glacier, Teram Shehr Glacier and the Siachen Glacier are located within the Indian union territory of Ladakh. The adjoining areas of these glaciers are PLA dominated territories like Shaksgam Valley and Yarkand Valley in the north and PoK in the west in addition to the warlike deployments by the PLA in Aksai Chin opposite Daulet Beg Oldi sector in the east. The PLA has a history of aggressive transgressions into what the Army calls sub-sector north and it is adamant in blocking the Indian Army patrols in Depsang Bulge south of DBO with massive brigade-level deployments at Tein Wein Dein (TWD) across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) facing DBO Indian post. Although the Army Chief is in the knowledge of these facts, the proposed Muzaffarabad-Shaksgam-Yarkand Valley road will not only boost the military interoperability between two iron brothers but also pose a two-front threat to Indian forces in the sub-sector north.The Indian Army controls the Saltoro Ridge that provides ingress into Siachen Glacier since 1984 post-Operation Meghdoot. Siachen Glacier is located in the eastern Karakoram range, just northeast of NJ 9842, where the Line of Control between India and Pakistan ends. Teram Shehr and Rimo Glaciers are located East of Siachen glacier and south of Shaksgam and Yarkand Valley, where the PLA has deployed nuclear missiles. These glaciers under Indian control not only provide access to Shaksgam Valley and Yarkand Valley but also provide depth to defence of Siachen and DBO sector.The military situation in the area is quite precarious with China building all-weather access to Pakistan via Karakoram Pass, just 18 km from DBO plateau, and trying to militarily impose India rejected 1959 line on the LAC in Ladakh. All-weather friend of China, Pakistan is proposing the Muzaffarabad-Yarkand Valley road so that it can put pressure on the Indian positions on Siachen in the name of trade with China.Under the circumstances, it would be militarily prudent for Indian Army to put the demilitarization of Siachen on the back-burner till such time the Chinese PLA agrees to respect the Ladakh LAC and restores April 2020 status quo ante as well as allow India unhindered rights to patrol Depsang Bulge and Charding Nullah Junction (CNJ) in Demchok sector. Faced with a two front threat from iron brothers, demilitarization of Siachen at this point is an unworkable idea.(Disclaimer: The map used in the story is for representational purposes only)
19-01-2022||India||Crop residue burning contributes to secondary particulate matter: Study||NEW DELHI: Crop residue burning in October and November contributed to around 31% of PM 2.5 concentrations (in the range of 15% to 47%) in Delhi and around 21% in the range of 6% to 36% in Kanpur during those months in 2013 and 2014, according to a new research paper.The paper by Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kanpur scientists Pavan K Nagar and Mukesh Sharma was published in Elsevier journal on January 5. It used a Weather Research and Forecasting model coupled with Chemistry and another hybrid chemical transport model to study the impact of crop residue burning from October to November in 2013 and 2014. During the study period, the contribution of crop residue burning to PM 2.5 concentration was on an average 72 micrograms per cubic metres in Delhi and 48 micrograms per cubic metres in Kanpur. The average PM2.5 concentration was 246 micrograms per cubic metres (in the range of 117 to 375) in Delhi and 229 micrograms per cubic metres (in the range of 115 to 343) in Kanpur during October and November.Air quality monitoring for PM 2.5 was carried out at four sites (Rohini, Okhla, Dwarka, Vasant Kunj) in Delhi in November and December of 2013. In Kanpur, it was carried out at IIT during November–December (2013) and October to December in 2014.Delhi and Kanpur are among the cities directly affected by crop residue burning in places such as Punjab and HaryanaAlso Read | Farm minister says crop-burning to be decriminalised, farmers suspend Parliament march“One of the significant findings of this study is that crop residue burning contributes to secondary particulate matter. We found that vapours and gases like sulphur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, non-methane hydrocarbons and non-methane volatile organic compounds convert to particulate matter through photochemical reactions as they travel through the Ganga basin. This is why their contribution to PM 2.5 concentrations is high. Normally we only account for primary particulate matter emissions from crop residue burning,” said Sharma. “The paper also highlights how the gases and particulate matter from crop residue burning can travel long distances up to Kanpur.”In India, the crop residue burning emissions decreased by 1.5% in 2015 and 3% in 2020 compared to 2010, according to a study referred to in the paper. Crop residue burning periods in India are April–May (Rabi crop) and October–November (Kharif crop).In Punjab and Haryana, paddy residue is burned during October and November and causes a dramatic increase in air pollution levels.“We also found during our analysis that contribution from crop stubble fires during October and November to PM 2.5 concentrations was 25 to 30%. But it varies a lot depending on weather conditions and number of fires,” said VK Soni, who heads India Meteorological Department’s environment and research centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crop-residue-burning-contributes-to-secondary-particulate-matter-study-101642571118252.html
19-01-2022||India||India reports 2,82,970 new Covid cases, active cases highest in over 7 months||India's daily coronavirus (Covid-19) infections jumped to 2,82,970 as the country saw a spike after a few days of marginal dip in daily tally. With this, the overall rally reached 3,79,01,241 including 8,961 cases of the Omicron variant, according to the data published on the Union health ministry's website. There has been an 0.79 per cent increase in Omicron cases since Tuesday, the ministry informed.The death toll reached 4,87,202 after over 400 people succumbed to the viral disease, the data also showed.As of Wednesday morning, the country has a total of 18,31,000 active cases, the highest in the last more than seven months. According to the data, the active cases currently account for 4.83 per cent of the total caseload.The national recovery rate stood at 93.88 per cent. Over the last 24 hours 1,88,157 people recuperated from the viral respiratory disease. Total recoveries now stand at 3,55,83,039.As per the data, the daily positivity rate is at 15.13 per cent, while the weekly positivity rate is at 15.53 per cent.On the vaccination front, the authorities have administered 158.88 crore doses under the nationwide vaccination drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-2-82-970-new-covid-cases-active-cases-highest-in-over-7-months-101642567103164.html
19-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Cold day conditions to abate in most of northwest India, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Cold day conditions to abate in most parts of northwest IndiaCold conditions marked by significantly low day temperatures are likely to abate in most parts of northwest India and are expected to be followed by a two-day wet spell from January 21, said the India Meteorological Department. Read more…Russia can invade Ukraine at any moment, warns USIn a clear escalation of the tensions over Ukraine, the United States warned on Tuesday that Russia could, at any point, attack Ukraine. But while terming it an “extremely dangerous” situation, Washington kept the doors for diplomacy open with Moscow – with US secretary of state Antony Blinken speaking to his Russian counterpart, Sergey Lavrov, and both leaders agreeing to meet in Geneva this week. Read more…‘Mann is Senapati..': Raghav Chadha on why AAP’s move will help it clinch PunjabEnding weeks of speculation, Aam Aadmi Party became the first political party in Punjab to announce Bhagwant Mann as their chief ministerial candidate. It has ended, a 2-time MP from Sangrur – Bhagwant Mann’s 5-year wait. AAP’s Raghav Chadha in conversation with Hindustan Times’ Aditi Prasad revealed how Bhagwant Mann matured as a politician in Punjab and why he was an apt choice for Aam Aadmi Party in the state. Read more…‘Dravid remains composed, Kohli is aggressive’: Ex-PAK opener points ‘compatibility issue’ behind Virat's decisionVirat Kohli shocked the world when he announced to step down from Test captaincy via a post on social media. In a long emotional post, the 33-year-old expressed his gratitude towards BCCI, the former coach Ravi Shastri and MS Dhoni, bringing an end to a glorious seven-year-old chapter. Read more…Soha Ali Khan says dinner-table conversations with Saif Ali Khan, Kareena Kapoor and Kunal Kemmu are about ‘inheritance’Soha Ali Khan gave a witty answer when asked about the kind of conversations she has with her husband Kunal Kemmu, brother Saif Ali Khan and sister-in-law Kareena Kapoor when they get together for dinner. She joked that they discuss ‘inheritance’. Read more…Shruti Seth performs Downward Dog variation with a yoga chair. Video insideShruti Seth is back to her fitness routine in full form. The actor, who is a fitness enthusiast, keeps sharing snippets of her yoga routine on her Instagram profile on a regular basis. Shruti swears by high-intensity workouts and yoga and her Instagram profile is a plethora of glimpses of the same. Read more…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-cold-day-conditions-to-abate-in-most-of-northwest-india-and-all-the-latest-news-101642561194729.html
19-01-2022||India||Mumbai blasts perpetrators given state protection in Pak; enjoyed 5-star hospitality: India at UN||India at the UN said on Tuesday that the crime syndicate responsible for the 1993 Mumbai bomb blasts was not just given state protection but it also enjoyed a five-star hospitality, in a veiled reference to the D-company head Dawood Ibrahim believed to be hiding in Pakistan.India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti told the International Counter Terrorism Conference 2022 organised by the Global Counter Terrorism Council that linkages between terrorism and transnational organised crime must be fully recognised and addressed vigorously.“We have seen the crime syndicate responsible for the 1993 Mumbai bomb blasts not just given state protection but enjoying 5-star hospitality,” he said.Tirumurti’s remarks were a thinly-veiled reference to D-Company and its head Ibrahim, believed to be hiding in Pakistan.In August 2020, Pakistan had for the first time acknowledged the presence of Ibrahim on its soil after the government imposed sweeping sanctions on 88 banned terror groups and their leaders which also included the name of the underworld don wanted by India.Tirumurti said that the UN sanctions regimes, including the 1267 Al-Qaida Sanctions Committee, are pivotal to the international efforts in preventing terror-financing, terrorist-travel and access to arms by the terrorist organisations.He, however, voiced concern that the implementation of these measures remains challenging.“It is critical that all sanctions regimes established by the Council ensure due process in their working procedures and decision-making. The decision-making process and listing/delisting measures should be objective, swift, credible, evidence based and transparent, and not for political and religious considerations,” the Indian Ambassador said.He said that a recent report of the Monitoring Team (MT) on the asset freeze exemption procedures pursuant to resolution 2560 (2020) points to the lacunae of asset freeze measures by member states, partly due to deficiencies in the existing guidelines of the Committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-blasts-perpetrators-given-state-protection-in-pak-enjoyed-5-star-hospitality-india-at-un-101642559850137.html
19-01-2022||India||Lok Sabha seeks reports on economic use of paper||NEW DELHI: The Lok Sabha secretariat last week asked its branches to furnish quarterly reports on the economic use of paper as Parliament seeks to go greener.“It is...brought to the notice of all concerned that the requisite quarterly reports for the last two quarters of 2021 are yet to be received from a large number of branches, sections, units thereby hindering follow-up action,” said a Lok Sabha circular.Officials said the reports are to be furnished by January 21 and then the reduction in the use of paper would be part of the annual report of the Lok Sabha secretariat.The Parliament complex has gone greener with the use of electric cars, battery-driven golf carts, and LED lamps.The use of paper is already restricted in Parliament as many notices, bulletins, and reports are now published online. A new app has been created for lawmakers to submit online notices and upload questions for the Question Hour, etc. Earlier, they had to fill up forms or submit written notices.The new Parliament building would also be greener with many eco-friendly features.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lok-sabha-seeks-reports-on-economic-use-of-paper-101642561517964.html
19-01-2022||India||Covid 3rd wave: India unlikely to cross 4 lakh cases per day, scientists project||The latest analysis of the Covid-19 situation by scientists reveals that the overall peak of the third wave in India will arrive on January 23 but the daily case is unlikely to cross 4 lakh. Delhi, Mumbai have already reached their peak earlier in the second week of January, the Sutra model of Covid tracker said.IIT professor Manindra Agrawal, one of the researchers of the Sutra consortium that has been working with Covid numbers since the beginning of the pandemic, said the trajectories have been changing across the country. There might be two reasons for that: One, the spread of Omicron among those with less immunity has slowed down as the population group is now exhausted. Finally India. Trajectory with data up to 11th indicates the peak on 23th Jan with nearly 7.2 lakh cases per day. Actual trajectory is already deviating significantly, and actual peak is unlikely to cross 4 lakh cases/day. pic.twitter.com/2aUdatnuhYGiving a statewise picture of the peak of the ongoing third wave, the model revealed that Mumbai reached its peak on January 12 and the numbers are now decreasing rapidly. Delhi peaked on January 16 and Kolkata on January 13. Bengaluru will reach its peak on January 22. According to the finding, Maharashtra, Gujarat and UP are predicted to peak on Jan 19, Assam on January 26.Also Read: What Omicron peak in India could look like in terms of daily cases, bed requirement, experts predict"Hospitalisations continue to be very low. Uttar Pradesh, I understand, has less than 1% reported cases needing hospitalisation," Prof Agrawal noted.India on Tuesday recorded 2.38 lakh cases continuing the decrease of the daily cases after reaching the highest of 2.6 lakh a few days ago.Delhi authorities have been hinting at the plateau as the national capital saw its daily cases stabilising. On Tuesday, Delhi recorded 11,684 new infections and on Monday, the 24-hour tally was 12,527. On January 13, Delhi reported 28,867 Covid cases, the sharpest single-day spike.Covid 3rd wave peak in these states and cities:Assam: January 26Bihar: January 17Uttar Pradesh: January 19Haryana: January 20Gujarat: January 19Maharashtra: January 19Karnataka: January 23Andhra Pradesh: January 30Tamil Nadu: January 25Bengaluru: January 22Kolkata: January 13Delhi: January 16Mumbai: January 12This is a mathematical projection by the Sutra consortium calculated based on Covid data. The Covid situation on the ground is evolving.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-3rd-wave-india-unlikely-to-cross-4-lakh-cases-per-day-scientists-project-101642552674894.html
19-01-2022||NA||Breaking highlights: 12 more Mumbai Police personnel test positive for Covid-19||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:12 more policemen test Covid-19 positive in Mumbai12 policemen tested Covid-19 positive in Mumbai in the last 24 hours. Active cases 1246; thus far, a total of 10,678 policemen have tested positive, while 127 have died in the city: Mumbai PolicePM Modi to address Brahma Kumaris' programme tomorrowAt 10:30am tomorrow, 20th January, will be joining a programme of the Brahma Kumaris where they will start their Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav celebrations. Will also flag off various initiatives being organised by them: Narendra Modi, Prime Minister‘Bomb threat’ call received at CRPF HQs, say Delhi PoliceBomb threat call received at CRPF headquarters, this evening. Nothing suspicious was found, call declared as 'hoax', caller being searched: Delhi PoliceAfter 5 straight dips, Delhi sees rise in daily Covid-19 casesDelhi reports 13,785 new Covid-19 cases, 17.9% higher than yesterday's daily tally of 11,684, a health department bulletin shows.Lata Mangeshkar, Covid-19 positive, remains in ICULata Ji is still in ICU, we are trying our best to ensure she recovers soon. Pray for her recovery: Dr Pratit Samdani, Breach Candy Hospital, MumbaiMumbai logs 6032 new Covid-19 cases and 12 deathsMumbai reports 6032 new Covid-19 cases, 12 deaths and 18,241 recoveries, data shared by its civic body, the BMC, shows.Karnataka revises guidelines for testing, isolation and quarantineFor general population, patients in home isolation shall be released after at least 7 days have passed from testing positive and no fever for 3 preceding and successive days; no need for re-testing: Karnataka govt‘Most Covid-19 curbs to be lifted’: Boris JohnsonPrime Minister Boris Johnson announces UK is lifting most Covid-19 restrictions.Kerala logs over 34,000 new Covid-19 cases and 49 deathsKerala sees 34,199 new Covid-19 cases, 8193 recoveries and 49 related deaths. Active caseload at 168,383 and toll at 51,160.Ahead of U'khand polls, General Bipin Rawat's brother joins BJPColonel (retired) Vijay Rawat, brother of late CDS General Bipin Rawat, joins BJP ahead of next month's assembly polls in Uttarakhand.Over 10,000 new Covid-19 cases in Andhra PradeshAndhra Pradesh reports 10,057 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours; active caseload at 44,935.Andhra Pradesh revises rate for RT-PCR testing by pvt labsAndhra Pradesh government revises and fixes at ₹350 the rate for RT-PCR testing to be charged by private laboratories.Puducherry reports 1849 new Covid-19 cases and 3 deathsPuducherry reports 1849 new Covid-19 cases, 895 recoveries and 3 deaths in the last 24 hours. Active cases in UT at 11,344.Union Cabinet extends tenure of sanitation workers' bodyThe Union Cabinet has approved the extension of tenure of the National Commission for Safai Karamcharis for three years beyond 31st March 2022: Anurag Thakur, I&B minister‘False alarm’: Delhi Police on bomb threat in TrilokpuriFalse alarm. The bags have personal items, and not IED or other explosives: Sagarpreet Hooda, Joint CP (eastern)2 ‘unidentified bags’ found in Delhi's Trilokpuri, say policeWe have received a call from the Trilokpuri area regarding two unidentified bags. The investigation is underway: Delhi PolicePM Modi to host 1st meeting of India-Central Asia SummitPrime Minister Narendra Modi will host the first meeting of the India-Central Asia Summit, with the participation of the Presidents of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan, in a virtual format on 27 January: MEA pic.twitter.com/NTZmb3zV68Prime Minister Narendra Modi will host the first meeting of the India-Central Asia Summit on January 27, the external affairs ministry said on Wednesday. According to an official statement, the interaction will be held virtually will see participation from Presidents of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. Will guarantee a corruption-free Goa, says AAP CM candidate PalekarI'm guaranteeing you a corruption-free Goa. We will get back Goa's lost glory, a Goa everyone dreamt of. I will keep every word that I have said and that is my guaranty: Amit Palekar, AAP CM candidate for Goa Assembly election, 2022 pic.twitter.com/lYQAQDiEesAmit Palekar, the Aam Aadmi Party's (AAP's) candidated for Goa, said on Wednesday that he will guarantee a corruption-free state if the AAP is voted to power. Suspension of scheduled int'l flights to & from India extended till Feb 28pic.twitter.com/5KCcDlZHMXAAP names Amit Palekar as CM candidate for Goa assembly pollsThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) announced on Wednesday that Amit Palekar will be the party's chief ministerial candiate for the upcoming assembly elections in Goa. Daily Covid cases declining in Maharashtra, says health ministerMaharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday that daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are declining in the state, adding number of patients getting hospitalised are less. “We are using our full potential to increase testing and vaccination coverage,” Tope said while speaking to reporters. Antony Blinken arrives in Ukraine as US-Russia tensions escalateSecretary of State Antony Blinken arrived in Ukraine on Wednesday and will meet President Volodymyr Zelenskyy amid escalating tensions between the United States and Russia. SC summons Andhra Pradesh, Bihar for non-payment of ex-gratia to kin of Covid victimsThe Supreme Court on Wednesday summoned the chief secretaries of Andhra Pradesh and Bihar for the non-payment of ex-gratia to the families of Covid-19 victims despite earlier orders, according to news agency ANI. The apex court has asked the chief secretaries of both states to be present in a virtual hearing at 2pm. Over 158.46 crore vaccine doses provided to states/UTs, says GovtMore than 158.46 crore #COVID19 vaccine doses have been provided to states/UTs; over 12.84 crore balance & unutilized vaccine doses are still available with States/UTs to be administered: Union Health MinistryThe Union health ministry said on Wednesday that more 158.46 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to states/UTs till now. Mulayam Singh's daughter-in-law Aparna joins BJPMulayam Singh Yadav's daughter-in-law Aparna Yadav on Wednesday joined the BJP, weeks ahead of the assembly elections in Uttar PradeshGermany's daily Covid-19 tally tops 1,00,000Daily cases in Germany crosses the 1,00,000 mark in the last 24 hours, news agency AFP reported on Wednesday citing the country's health authorities. India reports 2,82,970 new Covid cases, 441 deaths in last 24 hoursIndia reports 2,82,970 Covid cases and 441 deaths in the olast 24 hours. Active case: 18,31,000Daily positivity rate: 15.13%Lok Sabha seeks reports on economic use of paperThe Lok Sabha secretariat last week asked its branches to furnish quarterly reports on the economic use of paper as Parliament seeks to go greener. Read More28 Mumbai police personnel test positive for Covid-19 in last 24-hoursMumbai Police says 28 of its personnel tested positive for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the number of active cases in the force to 1,273.China nears completion of key bridge across PangongA bridge being built by China across the Pangong lake in an area claimed by India is expected to be completed in a few months and will give the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) an edge in speedily moving troops between several locations. Read MoreCovid 3rd wave: India unlikely to cross 4 lakh cases per day, scientists projectThe latest analysis of the Covid-19 situation by scientists reveals that the overall peak of the third wave in India will arrive on January 23 but the daily case is unlikely to cross 4 lakh. Delhi, Mumbai have already reached their peak earlier in the second week of January, the Sutra model of Covid tracker said. Read MoreNo foreign chief guest at R-Day as Covid-19 surgesThe Republic Day celebrations on January 26 will go ahead without any foreign leader as a chief guest, the second year in a row that India’s signature event has been affected by the fallout of the Covid-19 pandemic. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-january-19-2021-101642551617682.html
19-01-2022||India||Air India curtails India-US operations from today. What is the 5G issue?||Air India on Tuesday announced that it has curtailed its operations to the US starting from January 19 in view of the deployment of the 5G communications by the US, which has already upset the schedules of many other airlines. According to reports, following the warning of the airlines, the US telecommunication giants have now decided to temporarily limit 5G services around some airports.The Air India flights which have been cancelled on January 19 are AI101/102 DEL/JFK/DEL, AI173/174 DEL/SFO/DEL, AI127/126 DEL/ORD/DEL, AI191/144 BOM/EWR/BOM, the airline tweeted on Tuesday.#FlyAI: Due to deployment of the 5G communications in USA,we will not be able to operate the following flights of 19th Jan'22:AI101/102 DEL/JFK/DELAI173/174 DEL/SFO/DELAI127/126 DEL/ORD/DELAI191/144 BOM/EWR/BOM Please standby for further updates.https://t.co/Cue4oHChwxWhat is the 5G issue?As US telecom giants have decided to rollout 5G technology providing fliers with faster internet access, the airline industry said it might have a catastrophic impact and the technology could interfere with sensitive airplane instruments. 5G should not be rolled out in the runways, the airlines said. US telecom companies AT&T and Verizon said their technology is safe and is being used in many other countries. But as the conflict could not be resolved, they said they would limit the rollout of the technology near certain airports.US aviation regulator Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) had on January 14 said that “5G interference with the aircraft's radio altimeter could prevent engine and braking systems from transitioning to landing mode, which could prevent an aircraft from stopping on the runway”.Apart from Air India, Emirates, Japan's two major airlines, All Nippon Airways and Japan Airlines said they would curtail Boeing 777 flights. British Airways opted to switch aircraft on some flights to Los Angeles to an Airbus A380 from the usual Boeing 777 service, Reuters reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-curtails-india-us-operations-from-today-what-is-the-5g-issue-101642550196315.html
19-01-2022||India||Karnataka govt warns medicos against spreading false Covid information||The Karnataka government on Tuesday sent out a stern message to all the medical practitioners against spreading any misinformation related to Covid-19 among public.“It has come to the notice of government, that a few medical practitioners, while communicating with public on various media platforms are giving incomplete, inaccurate and unsubstantiated information about Covid 19. Such information leads to confusion in public on the prevailing Covid scenario in the state and encourages them to deviate from well laid out guidelines issued by the health and revenue authorities,” the state government said in the statement.“Medical practitioners, being proficient in both clinical and public health fields, should exercise utmost care and caution while communicating with public on Covid 19,” the statement added.The government also said that any “misinformation or non-factual data” on Covid 19 shared on such any platforms would be deemed as an offence and necessary action would be initiated as per the Disaster Management and the Epidemics Act.Though the Basavaraj Bommai-led state government has tried to enforce strict rules for the common public, it has barely cracked down on the political class that continue to violate or issue statements contrary to Covid protocols.Recent remarks by senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and cabinet minister Umesh Katti — wearing of mask is a personal choice — also came under sharp criticism as people questioned why the authorities never took action against politicians holding events,including the recent foot march by Congress for Mekedatu and an MLA celebrating his birthday among events.The government has put in place night and weekend curfews along with other severe restrictions to minimise the movement of people and spread of the virus.In another notification released on Tuesday, the state government said that the respective district administrations should strictly implement containment measures. “Any person, group of people, society, association, organisation, institution, RWA, etc, violating containment measures and not complying with Covid-19 appropriate behaviour should be proceeded as per the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020 besides legal action under the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and other legal provisions as applicable,” the notification stated.It also added that the officers who do not take action against violators of containment measures will also be liable for action. Meanwhile, chief minister (CM) Basavaraj Bommai also held a meeting on Tuesday to review the progress of the vaccination drive in the state.“The CM instructed the DCs to raise the average vaccination coverage of the first and second dose to the level of state average by month end in the districts which are lagging below the state average,” read a statement by the chief minister’s office (CMO), attributing it to Bommai. The meeting with heads of district administration also saw the chief minister emphasise on protecting family members from getting infected from any Covid positive person who may be in isolation at home.“Officials are instructed to test and treat those in home isolation. Identify those with comorbidities for immediate treatment as the positivity rate is high in all districts,” he said.“As the testing is high in Karnataka, the cases reported are also high. But still we have succeeded in managing the situation. If the precautionary measures are good then the third wave can be managed properly,” the chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-govt-warns-medicos-against-spreading-false-covid-information-101642535454016.html
19-01-2022||India||2 cops deputed for Karnataka CM’s security arrested for ‘peddling drugs’||Bengaluru police on Tuesday arrested two police constables deputed for Karnataka chief minister (CM) Basavaraj Bommai for selling narcotics. The policemen identified as Shivakumar and Santhosh were attached to the Koramangala police station and were deputed as security officers at the R T Nagar residence of the CM. A police official privy to the matter said that the two constables were part of a drug racket and had been selling marijuana in the capital city.“The policemen used Dunzo, a parcel service, to procure the drugs. They used to find a location near the chief minister’s house to conduct sales so nobody would suspect them,” said a senior police officer pleading anonymity. The illegal business came to light when the two men got into a heated argument with a supplier, said police. “As the fight got louder, other policemen came to the location.Upon search, we found drugs on them. Later, they confessed that they had been purchasing drugs from a dealer,” said the officer. “The drug dealers working with the constables were identified as Amjad Khan and Akhil Raj. They have been taken into custody,” said police. The arrests come at a time when Bengaluru police have launched a massive crackdown against the drug dealers in the city. According to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), Bengaluru had reported the highest number of cases related to narcotics in the country in 2020. In 2021, the Bengaluru police had arrested 5,644 drug peddlers in 4,275 cases and seized drugs worth around ₹59 crores. 
19-01-2022||India||Year after setting up office, Tesla struggling with import duty cut||Bengaluru: Many Indian states have invited Tesla to set up shop days after its billionaire founder Elon Musk said the electric car maker is still facing a lot of challenges with the federal government. “Still working through a lot of challenges with the government,” Musk said in a post on Twitter on January 13, responding to a request for an update on the company’s much anticipated launch in the country.It has been almost a year since Tesla established an office in Bengaluru. The Karnataka government has been in talks with the US firm but its entry into India depends on the central government. Although India wants Tesla to build a factory in the country, Musk wants import duties to be slashed so that his firm can first establish a market locally.Meanwhile, other states like Maharashtra, Telangana, West Bengal, Punjab and Tamil Nadu have offered space and attractive incentives so that Tesla invests in their respective regions, which not just promises jobs but also bragging rights and a platform to use it to attract more big brands.Tesla’s entry into India is expected to encourage higher adoption of green vehicle technologies to help bring down the carbon footprint. It would be in line with the climate-friendly policy goals of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government.The offers by other states was “just posturing” as the hurdles faced by the company like high customs and import duties can only be resolved by the government of India, an official in Karnataka told HT. “We had a meeting and they are struggling with the government of India,” the official said, requesting anonymity.The Karnataka government has tried to keep the proposed investment under wraps as they believed too much coverage on the issue would adversely impact any plans by the company.Tesla last year registered a subsidiary company in India, sending out a strong indication of the Cupertino-headquartered electric vehicle maker’s plans to corner a bigger slice of the largely untapped domestic sustainable automobile market last year.Much like most of his views, Musk’s tweets got the federal and provincial governments excited at the possibility.Then chief minister of Karnataka BS Yediyurappa was asked to take down a post on Twitter in which he had announced that Tesla would soon be making EVs in the state as it would add to the challenges of the proposed investments.“With over 400 R&D centres, 45+ EV startups & an EV cluster near Bengaluru, Karnataka has emerged as EV hub of India. Mr @elonmusk, Karnataka would be an ideal destination to set up @Tesla plant. Bengaluru is already Tesla’s maiden address in India,” Murugesh Nirani, Karnataka’s minister for large and medium industries said in a post on Twitter on Tuesday, following tweets by politicians of other states over the weekend inviting Tesla to set up shop in their respective regions. Tesla India Motors and Energy Private Limited is classified as a subsidiary of a foreign company, according to its filing in the Registrar of Companies. Its registered office is in Bengaluru’s upscale Lavelle Road. The subsidiary has a paid up capital of ₹1 lakh and an authorised capital of ₹15 lakh, according to the filings. Tesla has named Vaibhav Taneja, Venkatrangam Sreeram and David Jon Feinstein as the three directors for its new entity.While the Karnataka government had laid out the red carpet for Tesla for any kind of investment, people aware of the developments had said that it would possibly be the setting up of a research and development centre in Bengaluru initially.Officials later said that they would also be scouting for space to start sales of its vehicles in India, the fourth largest automobile market in the world. Several Bengaluru-based startups have made a huge play in the EV space, which include Ola, Uber, Bounce and Vogo, among others. They have announced ambitious targets to include more EVs into their fleets.Bengaluru-headquartered Ola has invested ₹2,400 crore to set up a two-million two-wheeler EV plant in the neighbouring state of Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/year-after-setting-up-office-tesla-struggling-with-import-duty-cut-101642534915244.html
19-01-2022||India||Wearing mask is personal choice, says K’taka minister||Senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and Karnataka cabinet minister, Umesh V Katti on Tuesday courted a controversy with his remarks. Katti said that wearing masks is not mandatory and it is a personal choice, while going against his own government’s guidelines to maintain Covid appropriate behaviour.“Yesterday night, the Prime Minister said that I will not make it mandatory and (people) should take up responsibility and wear masks. In that way, it is left to that person and in the same way, me as well. I felt like not wearing it and hence did not wear it and there is no problem,” Katti said, while not wearing a mask.Katti is Karnataka’s minister for forest, food, civil supplies and consumers affairs department.His statements come at a time when Karnataka has witnessed a sharp uptick in new Covid-19 infections that has taken the active caseload to over two lakh with the onset of the third wave in the southern state.The test positivity rate in Karnataka has breached the 22% mark, highest compared to all earlier waves since March 2020.Masks and social distancing have been described by many medical experts as the best way to keep safe as it reduces the risk significantly.Karnataka on Tuesday said that it registered 41,457 new infections in a 24-hour-period, the highest single day numbers that takes the active caseload to over 2.5 lakh with Bengaluru, the largest and most populous city in the entire state, accounting for nearly 1.80 lakh of these cases.As many as 20 deaths were reported, said Karnataka’s health minister Dr K Sudhakar. The statements by Katti come even as the BJP continues to blame the Congress, the principal Opposition in Karnataka, for the steep rise in cases after the latter undertook a 10-day padayatra for Mekedatu in which hundreds and thousands participated, defying prohibitory orders.Karnataka has also reported a total of 766 cases of the Omicron variant of the virus after 287 more tested positive for the new variant on Monday.Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai who himself just recovered from a bout of Covid-19, has instructed all the district administrations to take appropriate action to contain the spread of the virus.The state government has also imposed night and weekend curfews as well as restrictions on business establishments and movement of people in the hope to contain the spread of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wearing-mask-is-personal-choice-says-k-taka-minister-101642534733982.html
19-01-2022||India||1 yr after doc’s death, engg student held on abetment charges||A year after 25-year-old Bengaluru-based doctor hanged himself, a 22-year-old engineering student from Bhopal was arrested on abetment to suicide charges, said police on Tuesday. The accused was identified as Sarthak Sathi, said the police. As per the railway police, the doctor’s body was found on August 13, last year with a suicide note. In the note, the doctor had alleged that he was cheated of ₹67,000 by an individual via social media platforms. “On examination of the deceased’s phone, it was discovered that the accused had posed as a woman online and befriended the doctor. During their conversations, the accused had sent provocative photos to the doctor and demanded the same in return. After the doctor shared his explicit photos, the accused started blackmailing him for money and threatened to leak the photos online if not paid ,” said the police.“Fearing social stigma, the doctor transferred money several times, but the accused continued to blackmail him, forcing the doctor to take the extreme step,” said the police while referring to his suicide note.“The investigation team lead by CPI & PSI Bangalore City Railway Police Station tracked the financial transactions to Bhopal and arrested the accused. He had created fake social media profiles to cheat people,” said the police. This is the second such incident reported in the city. In 2012, a resident of KR Puram in East Bengaluru, ended his life. Initially, the police and family members were clueless on the reason why he killed himself. The police said, days after the man hanged himself, miscreants contacted his elder sister on social media platform — without realising that the victim was dead — and demanded more money to ensure that the explicit video and photos are not posted online. The family lodged a police complaint. An investigation that followed resulted in the arrest of two men from Rajasthan. Meanwhile additional director general of police (ADGP), Railways, Bhaskar Rao cautioned the youth to be careful of online fraudsters. He tweeted, “Investigation of railway police revealed he was cyber blackmailed. To avoid shame, he killed himself. Accused is caught. The family is devastated. Don’t trust cyber friends.(sic)”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-yr-after-doc-s-death-engg-student-held-on-abetment-charges-101642534313032.html
19-01-2022||India||Mumbai: Three Navy personnel killed in blast at INS Ranvir||Three naval personnel were killed in a blast around 4:45 pm in the internal compartment of Indian Naval Ship INS Ranvir on Tuesday, a press release issued by the Indian Navy said. The ship is presently anchored at the naval dockyard in Mumbai.Around 11 other personnel have sustained injuries and were admitted to the Naval hospital, their condition are stable as of now, said Navy official.“The ships crew members responded immediately soon after the incident and situation was brought under control. No major material damage has been reported. It was an unfortunate incident and the naval personnel died due to injuries caused by explosion,” mentioned the press release.INS Ranvir was on cross-coast operational deployment from the Eastern Naval Command since November 2021 and was due to return to base port shortly. A Board of inquiry has been ordered to investigate into the cause, said a Navy official who did not want to be named. We cannot disclose the identity of the deceased personnel till the time their respective family members were informed about the incident, said the official. INS Ranvir is the fourth of the five Rajput class destroyer built for the Indian Navy and was commissioned in 1986.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-three-navy-personnel-killed-in-blast-at-ins-ranvir-101642533893779.html
19-01-2022||India||Leopardess, lion die in cage at Chennai zoo||A leopardess and a lion died in a cage at the zoo here due to health issues and the deaths occurred after veterinarians had taken samples from the animals to detect if they were infected by coronavirus, a senior official said on Tuesday.The leopardess named Jaya and aged 18, died due to difficulty in breathing while the five-year-old lion Vishnu died of esophageal problems, a senior zoo official told PTI. Arignar Anna Zoological Park, popularly known as the Vandalur Zoo is located in the city’s southern suburb. After nearly 70 staff of the zoo showed virus symptoms, they were quarantined and it was decided to draw samples from animals to ascertain if the infection had spread further. The deaths occurred on Monday after the veterinarians took samples from the animals. “Though the staff has already been quarantined, we suspected that the animals too would have been infected. So, we decided to perform swab test on the animals,” the senior official said. The big cats were shifted to a special cage, known as ‘squeeze cage,’ to facilitate insertion of nasal swabs to collect samples. Autopsy revealed that the female leopard died due to breathing related issues while the lion had died because of esophageal problems. The lion had not been keeping well of late and its food intake had decreased, the official said.To a question on health issues faced by animals, the official said, “animals too face health issues similar to humans. A lioness Kavitha (23), which was suspected to have died of coronavirus in June last year, died of cancer”, the official said. Samples collected from about 16 animals in the zoo as a precaution have been sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leopardess-lion-die-in-cage-at-chennai-zoo-101642533833742.html
19-01-2022||India||File report on actor Dileep’s plea to prohibit media from reporting assault case details: Kerala HC to DGP||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday directed the state police chief to file a report within two weeks on actor Dileep’s petition seeking an order to prohibit the media from publishing matters related to his trial in the actress sexual assault case.Justice Kauser Edappagath, while considering Dileep’s plea, directed the DGP to take appropriate action if there was any violation of the trial court’s order restricting the publication of matters pertaining to the case.“Police DGP shall conduct an inquiry and file a report and if any violation is committed as against the order of the sessions court, appropriate action shall be taken. Posted after two weeks,” the court said.In his petition, Dileep had stated that an “in camera trial” was mandated under 327 (2) of the Criminal Procedure Code for the offence charged against him and the printing and publishing of the proceedings were unlawful.“They (investigating and prosecuting agencies) have sponsored and resorted to media trials as the same has no accountability and can be easily sponsored especially in a period where fake news and forms of unethical journalism are prevalent and it is easy to choose a suitable media house and use their services to propagate falsehood about the trial of the case,” the petition said.Dileep in this petition also pointed out that the sessions court had earlier passed an order directing that “nobody should print or publish the proceedings in connection with the sexual assault case of an actor in 2017, except the matters permitted.The petition filed through advocate Philip T Varghese said there was a deliberate and concerted act of criminal contempt hindering the administration of justice by scandalizing the court and prejudicing the trial by publishing the proceedings of the trial conducted.The actor also submitted that not only the private tv channel but other media- including print, digital and social media are now printing and publishing matters which amounts to criminal contempt.The crime branch had on January 9 registered a case following a complaint by an investigating officer based on a purported audio clip of Dileep, which was released by a TV channel recently in which the actor was reportedly heard conspiring to attack the officials.The audio clips came out soon after a director, Balachandra Kumar, made some startling revelations against Dileep in the actress assault case through a TV channel.The victim -- an actor who worked in Tamil, Telugu and Malayalam films -- was abducted and allegedly molested inside her car for two hours by some of the accused, who had forced their way into the vehicle on the night of February 17, 2017 and later escaped in a busy area.The entire act was filmed by some of the accused to blackmail the actress.There are ten accused in the case and initially, police arrested seven people. Dileep was arrested subsequently and let out on bail later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/file-report-on-actor-dileep-s-plea-to-prohibit-media-from-reporting-assault-case-details-kerala-hc-to-dgp-101642533715051.html
19-01-2022||India||Minorities sidelined in Congress leadership, says CPI (M) leader Kodiyeri Balakrishnan||CPI(M) Kerala State secretary and senior politburo member Kodiyeri Balakrishnan on Tuesday alleged that leaders belonging to minority communities were neglected and sidelined in the Congress in line with the party scion Rahul Gandhi’s speech in Jaipur calling for establishing what he called as a rule of Hindus in the country after ousting the “Hindutva” government at the Centre.Alleging that the Congress even sidelined its prominent minority faces, including Ghulam Nabi Azad, Salman Khurshid and K V Thomas, from the national-level leadership as part of the party’s new policy, he claimed this issue was being discussed widely in the Congress organisation. Accusing the Congress of discontinuing the representation of people from minority communities in the Congress’s Kerala leadership, Balakrishnan sought to know whether the move was part of the new policy announced by Gandhi in Jaipur.“The question is whether minorities are being sidelined in the Kerala unit of the Congress as well. When K Karunakaran became the Chief Minister in 1982, veteran leader A L Jacob was made the KPCC president. When A K Antony became the Chief Minister, K Muraleedharan was elected president. When Oommen Chandy became the Chief Minister, Mullappally Ramachandran became the president”, the CPI(M) leader said and sought to know the reason for changing that norm.Slamming Balakrishnan’s statement, the Congress accused the CPI(M) of creating communal divide in society for political gains.The CPI(M) leader made the statement at a press conference here today two days after he told the CPI (M) Thiruvananthapuram district conference that the Congress which upholds secularism excluded minorities at the Kerala leadership of the party. Stating that the Congress had always appointed either KPCC chief or Leader of Opposition from minority communities, Balakrishnan had said the new changes were effected in that policy as part of Gandhi’s new version of politics. Referring to Gandhi’s Jaipur speech last month, Balakrishnan had alleged that the Congress was executing the agenda of the RSS that both the BJP and the Congress should work for Hindus. Addressing the rally against inflation in Jaipur, Rahul Gandhi had said India is a country of Hindus and not Hindutvadis who want to be in power at any cost. “I am a Hindu, not Hindutvadi,” he had said, adding that the Hindutvadis have to be ousted once again and the rule of Hindus have to be brought in the country. Leader of Opposition in the State Assembly V D Satheesan hit out at Balakrishnan by calling him “pashanam varkey”, a character of a clever beggar in a popular Malayalam drama who exploits religious sentiments of people by carrying a board with the picture of a Christian saint on one side and that of a Hindu God on the other. Describing as sub-standard and third rate the statement of the CPI(M) leader, Satheesan said not a single leader in the State politics has ever made such an irresponsible communal statement in Kerala’s political history.Attacking Balakrishnan, he alleged that the CPI(M) has never appointed anyone from the minority communities as its national secretary or Kerala State secretary in its history. He alleged that Balakrishnan was seeking to drive a wedge between the leaders belonging to the majority and minority communities in the Congress and that it would not succeed.Satheesan claimed Rahul Gandhi effectively countered the RSS by exposing its Hindutva politics in the Jaipur rally. He alleged that Balakrishnan was trying to appease the Sangh Parivar by making misleading statements.The CPI(M) in Kerala is interfering in an irresponsible way in Kerala politics and their acts are worse than that of the Communal outfits, the Congress leader alleged. The Congress had effected changes in its Kerala leadership soon after it faced a rout in the Assembly polls held in April last. Removing senior leaders Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala from the leadership, the Congress appointed K Sudhakaran as KPCC chief and Satheesan as Leader of Opposition in the State Assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minorities-sidelined-in-congress-leadership-says-cpi-m-leader-kodiyeri-balakrishnan-101642533533683.html
19-01-2022||India||TN tableau rejected by Centre will be displayed in Chennai: Stalin||With the union government rejecting Tamil Nadu’s tableau, chief minister MK Stalin on Tuesday said the same will be displayed during the Republic Day celebration in Chennai and will be taken to other major cities in the state for public viewing.The controversy over the tableau has been going back and forth between the state and the union government for two days. After West Bengal and Kerala, Stalin on Monday expressed his disappointment to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over Tamil Nadu’s tableau being rejected and sought his intervention.In response, defence minister Rajnath Singh wrote to Stalin on Tuesday explaining that Tamil Nadu was eliminated in round 3 of the expert committee’s selection process. Singh sought to remind him that Tamil Nadu’s tableaux was selected for the Republic Day parade in 2017, 2019, 2020 and 2021.Following this, Stalin in a statement said they were not called for the fourth round of meeting and no reason was given for their rejection adding that Singh’s letter also did not mention any reason which he termed as shocking.Tamil Nadu had submitted a theme “Tamil Nadu in the Freedom Struggle” depicting the renowned freedom fighters from the state VO Chidambaranar and poet Subramania Bharathiyar. The rear of the tableau had been designed to showcase a statue of Rani Velu Nachiyar riding a horse with a sword in hand and with women soldiers.“Even before Jhansi Rani flung the sword, Tamil Nadu’s Rani Velu Nachiyar became the first queen who fought against the British,” Stalin said. “Tamil Nadu’s 250-year old contribution for India’s freedom struggle is no less than any other state,” Stalin said.He said the Vellore revolution which took place half a century ago before the 1857 Sepoy Mutiny is an important beginning against the British. “We designed our tableau in a way to commemorate their contributions,” Stalin said, adding this has affected sentiments and patriotic feelings of the state’s people.
19-01-2022||India||Amid growing opposition, Bihar considers relaxation in liquor prohibition law||Faced with continued opposition, frequent hooch tragedies and harsh comments from the Supreme Court due to mounting legal cases, the Bihar government is now contemplating a relaxation in some of the stringent provisions of the anti-liquor law to provide relief for non-habitual offenders, said a senior official of the prohibition and excise department.Additional chief secretary (home) Chaitanya Prasad said the state government intends to insert new sub-sections in the Bihar prohibition and excise (amendment) Act, 2016, to scale down the penal provisions and introduce financial penalties. The amendments may be brought through an ordinance or the proposed Bihar Prohibition and Excise (amendment) Bill, 2022, during the next session of the state legislature.“Right now, inter-departmental consultations are on,” he added.The move comes after the Supreme Court dismissed the state’s batch of appeals challenging grant of anticipatory and regular bails to accused under the liquor law, saying “the prosecution of the case should be made in all earnestness to secure conviction and punishment”.“You know how much impact this law (The Bihar Prohibition and Excise Act, 2016 ) has created in the working of the Patna High Court and it is taking one year to get a matter listed there and all the courts are choked with the liquor bail matters,” chief justice of India N V Ramana had said during the hearing earlier this month.As per official statistics, nearly 25 % of the total pendency of cases in lower courts and 20% in the High Court is from prohibition related cases. In 2019, alarmed by the growing pendency, the Patna High Court had asked the state government to present a plan for how it plans to dispose these cases related to excise. Though special courts were mandated in the new law for trial of liquor related cases, they could not be set up. Later. the state cabinet cleared a proposal for setting up 74 special courts, but virtual hearing for the last two years further added to pendency and lack of production of witnesses.The proposed amendments, says the draft bill, offer to delete the section related to ‘non-compounding of offences’. Instead, it is intended to introduce a penalty, as may be notified by the state government, if anyone is found drunk at home or outside. Failure to pay penalty shall invite simple imprisonment of one month, but repeat offences may invite additional penalty or imprisonment or both. All offences shall be disposed of through summary trial by an executive magistrate not below the rank of deputy collector. All investigations in such offences will be conducted by an excise officer or a police officer not below the rank of assistant sub-inspector, says the draft bill. The proposed amendment also has a provision for release of vehicles/ animals used for carrying intoxicants or liquor by the collector upon payment of fixed penalty, failing which the collector shall proceed with confiscation proceedings.In July last year, the Patna High Court had directed that all proceedings related to confiscation of property under the prohibition law must be initiated and concluded within a period of 90 days from the date of appearance of the parties concerned and the appeal/revision, if any, be also decided within a period of 30 days from the date of initiation, failing which, the “things” (vehicle/property/ etc.) shall be deemed to have been released in terms of several orders passed by this Court in the pastThe amendments propose that any person arrested under the prohibition law shall be produced before the nearest judicial magistrate or the nearest executive magistrate within 24 hours either in person or through the medium of electronic video linkage. For seeking custody also, production of seizures will not be necessary and electronic evidence will suffice.As per the proposed amendments, all offences shall be tried by special court(s) which may be presided by a sessions judge, additional sessions judge, assistant sessions judge or judicial magistrate. The state government may, if considered necessary in the public interest and depending upon the workload of existing special courts, appoint in every district of the state, more special court(s) in consultation with the chief justice of the High Court. The state government may also, in consultation with the chief Justice, appoint retired judges to preside over the special courts.“In cases where offences are punishable with death or imprisonment for a term not less than l0 years, the report has to be filed within 90 days from the date of the registration of the case. In all other cases, the report needs to be filed within 60 davs from the date of the registration of the case,” the amendments state.Last year, the state cabinet had given its nod to the Bihar prohibition and excise rules, 2021, for greater clarity with regard to implementation of the stringent prohibition law and reduce growing number of litigations. Besides, it also made provision for permission to distilleries in the state for manufacturing of extra neutral alcohol (ENA) and ethanol. Bihar last year became the first state in the country to have its Ethanol Production Promotion Policy, 2021, which promotes new standalone ethanol manufacturing units by providing them additional capital subsidy at 15% of the cost of plant and machinery up to a maximum of ₹5 crore.
19-01-2022||India||PM to unveil statue of 11th century Vaishnavaite saint Ramanujacharya||Preparations are on full swing for the unveiling of “Statue of Equality,” the 216-ft statue of 11th century Vaishnavaite saint Sri Ramanujacharya on the 40-acre sprawling premises of Sri Chinna Jeeyar Swamy ashram at Muchintal village on the outskirts of Hyderabad on February 5.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi has agreed in principle to unveil the statue as per the request of Chinna Jeeyar Swamy, who met him on September 20. The finer details of the Prime Minister’s visit are being worked out,” Jeeyar Education Trust official Suryanarayana Yellapragada told HT.President Ramnath Kovind, Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu and several other dignitaries from across the globe were also invited for the inaugural function, which would be presided over by Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. On Tuesday, Chinna Jeeyar Swamy met Tamil Nadu Governor RN Ravi and extended him an invite for the inaugural ceremony.Telangana tourism minister V Srinivas Goud, who inspected the arrangements for the statue unveiling ceremony at the Chinna Jeeyar ashram on Sunday, confirmed that the prime minister would be unveiling the statue of Vaishnavaite saint Ramanujacharya.“The works are going at a brisk pace. Internal roads are being laid and power infrastructure works are nearing completion. It is going to be a spiritual hub or the entire world and a major tourist destination for people across the world,” Goud said.According to Yellapragada, the Statue of Equality, is the second tallest in seated position depicting Saint Ramanujacharya and was built to commemorate the 1,000 years of his birth. The total cost of the project is around ₹1,000 crore.“The 11th century saint, who fought against discrimination of people in the name of caste, colour and creed, propounded the theory of Vishishtadvaitha (qualified dualism), which says the God exists in all living beings,” he said.The 216-ft panchaloha statue, made of five metals – gold, silver, copper, brass and tin – was erected in 2017 itself, but it took four years for the completion of works on the other constructions.According to chief sculptor DNV Prasad, the statue of Saint Ramanujacharya in the seated position has been positioned on a huge lotus built over a three-storied 54-ft structure called Bhadravedi. The ground floor comprising 63,444 square feet area will have a pictorial presentation providing glimpses of Ramanujacharya’s life and his philosophy.In the second floor, there is a temple of Ramanujacharya in nearly 300,000 sq ft area, where a 120 kg gold statue of him will be installed for daily worship. And on the last floor of 14,700 sq ft, there will be a Vedic digital library and research centre.Outside the Bhadravedi, the statue will be surrounded by 108 Divya Desa Kshetras (Vaishnavite temples located across the country) built in stone in a 34-acre land around the statue.To give the project a universal appeal, ashram authorities are also contemplating installation of flags belonging to all the countries in the world, including Islamic countries. “There is no discrimination of people based on their religion and region. We want to tell the entire world through this project that all human beings are equal, irrespective of the religions they practise and ways of life they lead,” Prasad said.
19-01-2022||India||Assam, Meghalaya plan ‘give and take’ formula to solve border dispute||The decades-old border dispute between Assam and Meghalaya could be resolved using a formula of “give and take” between the two neighbouring northeastern states, people involved in ongoing negotiations have indicated.On Tuesday, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma held talks with various political parties and organisations, including student bodies, of the state to apprise them about the progress made by the two states to sort out the border issue amicably. Efforts are underway to finalise some deal soon, preferably before January 21, when Meghalaya celebrates its 50th statehood day. The CMs of both states are also expected to meet Union home minister Amit Shah sometime this week to resolve the issue.“Our efforts to resolve Assam-Meghalaya border row have started bearing fruits as 6 of the 12 areas of difference have been identified for resolution in the first phase. During an interaction, (I) briefed representatives of all political parties on the progress made so far,” Sarma tweeted on Tuesday.“The areas of difference taken up for final settlement are Hahim, Gizang, Tarabari, Boklapara, Khanapara-Pilingkata and Ratacherra. A roadmap for amicable settlement has been prepared based on recommendations of 3 regional committees with representatives from both the states,” he added.Deliberations to end the border row have been taking place between the two states, including at chief ministers’ level, since last year and it was decided that in the first phase, six of the 12 disputed areas would be addressed. Recently, regional committees of both states submitted reports on these six areas. While Sarma expressed confidence of an early solution, opposition parties in Assam, including the Congress, said that more discussion on a wider scale was needed to find a solution. “During Tuesday’s meeting we were told that a give and take formula has been agreed upon by both states to sort the dispute in the 6 areas. As part of that Assam would get 18.51 sq km of area while Meghalaya would get 18.29 sq km,” said Md. Aminul Islam, organising secretary and legislator from All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), who attended the Tuesday’s meeting. “Border disputes between states can’t be sorted at chief-ministerial level. It should be done by the Centre. Meghalaya has been encroaching our land for years. Instead of a quick-fix solution, we want the issue to be discussed in the state assembly and a resolution adopted and forwarded to the Centre,” he added. Congress MLA and leader of opposition in the state assembly, Debabrata Saikia, also informed that both states have agreed on a “give and take” formula to sort out the dispute. “We have not agreed to the proposal as this issue is needed to be discussed in detail in the state assembly. Since this is a serious matter, I urge the state government to convene an assembly session to discuss it,” he said. President of Raijor Dal and Sivasagar MLA Akhil Gogoi, who missed the meeting after testing positive for Covid-19, issued a statement opposing handing over of Assam’s land to Meghalaya and urged CM Sarma to protect the state’s boundaries. “All states have boundaries decided by the constitution and CMs of two states can’t decide on realigning those borders through meetings. Any hasty decision taken on the issue could be detrimental to Assam’s interests. I urge the Assam CM take the people of the state into confidence before arriving at any solution,” Gogoi said in the statement. 
19-01-2022||India||Action against two policemen in Chennai after law student alleges ‘custodial torture’||Two policemen have been placed on a wait list after a law student in Chennai has complained that he was subject to custodial torture after he was arrested for not wearing a face mask while riding a bike. Pictures of student Abdul Rahim’s swollen face with stitches near his left eye and blood clots on his legs have been circulating on the social media with students in the city demanding justice with the hashtag #justiceforabdul. He was arrested last Friday. In a video clip, Rahim said he was admitted to a judicial hospital on Saturday for treatment and that on Sunday he was granted bail after the section under which he was booked was altered. “Now, I’m going home. Higher officials are being helpful and they have promised me that action will be taken against those responsible,” the student said. The two accused policemen – head constable Boominathan and a grade 1 officer Uthirakumar – have been transferred from Kodungaiyur police station to another police control room where they have been placed on a wait list. “An unfortunate incident of an alleged assault on a law college student over not wearing a mask was reported at the Kodungaiyur police station on January 14,” said a police officer. Joint commissioner of police (West Zone) S Rajeswari is conducting inquiries into the case. The student had reportedly complained that the two policemen urinated on him and assaulted him. But the preliminary inquiry has revealed that the allegations pertaining to urination were not true and that this was ascertained from the student during the course of the enquiry, say police. “In depth inquiry in this regard is being conducted,” the official said.Chennai police said there were several misleading posts regarding this incident that were being posted online. “Therefore, people are requested to desist from believing such rumours. Also posting such gross untruth with malicious intent may be liable to criminal action,” a statement from city police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/action-against-two-policemen-in-chennai-after-law-student-alleges-custodial-torture-101642532993542.html
19-01-2022||India||No starvation death reported in recent years, Centre tells SC||The Union government on Tuesday informed the Supreme Court that no starvation death has been reported by any state or Union territory (UT) in the recent years, adding that the Centre cannot divert any additional funds to the states for running community kitchens. Making his submissions before a bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, attorney general KK Venugopal emphasised that the Centre is already running 131 social welfare schemes and thus, it would not be possible for them to create a separate corpus for community kitchens. The A-G told the bench, which also included justices AS Bopanna and Hima Kohli, that the onus has to lie with the states and their local bodies to provide for community kitchens out of their own resources. “We have a concern for funds. We have 131 schemes to run. There is already a huge funds going into those schemes...We can’t divert any money from the existing 131 schemes. States will have to find money themselves,” Venugopal added. The bench, however, replied that the court is not expecting the Centre to run a scheme for community kitchen but would instead want it to frame a model scheme and circulate it to all the states and UTs for their consideration. “Government of India should not take it as an adversarial issue. You must have a practical approach... Why don’t you think of some model scheme? It is difficult for us to frame a uniform scheme but the Centre could make a model scheme and leave it to the states to do the rest,” the bench asked the A-G.The top court was hearing a petition filed by Anun Dhawan and others, seeking subsidised canteens in all states and union territories to ensure food security, in the backdrop of the havoc wreaked by the pandemic.Advocate Ashima Mandla, representing the petitioner, urged the court to set up an expert committee to formulate schemes for community kitchens across the country. During the hearing, the court also referred to replies by some of the state governments, which were willing to run community kitchens if an additional 2-3% food grains were provided to them by the Centre. As Venugopal said that the issue of community kitchen may not be linked to starvation deaths in the country, the court asked if the law officer could adduce latest data to support the Centre’s affidavit that there have been no starvation deaths in recent years. “Why is it that Government of India is relying on data from 2015-16 on starvation deaths? We cannot look at this from the prism of data from six years ago. Are you willing to state that there is no starvation death except one recently reported in Tamil Nadu? What is the latest data?” it asked the A-G. A five-year-old boy reportedly died of starvation in Tamil Nadu in December 2021. The boy was found abandoned in a push cart. Venugopal had cited some news reports to point out that this was the only hunger death reported in the media but it is for the Tamil Nadu government to make categorical statements in this regard.The A—G added that states and UTs have to report deaths due to starvation and that the Centre’s affidavit was based on their reporting. “We have to depend on states for this data. They have not reported any death. Let the states file their affidavits on the latest data. We are not disputing that malnutrition exists but the question is of additional funding. Besides, the number of deaths will have to be accepted by all sides,” he added.To this, the bench asked all states and UTs to file the latest figures on starvation deaths, following which the Centre could collate the relevant information. It also urged the A-G to formulate in consultation with states and other stakeholders a ‘national model scheme’ to set up community kitchens. “We explained the AG on the intention of this court and positivity of exploring a solution. So far as logistics is concerned, it can be worked out with states. We adjourn this matter for three weeks and states can file additional affidavit on malnutrition, hunger and other issues,” stated the court in its order. 
19-01-2022||India||Telangana govt to revamp infrastructure, facilities at 26,065 schools||The Telangana government will be developing the state-run schools to make them on par with the working of corporate schools in terms of infrastructure and teaching facilities, said an official here on Tuesday.The programme – Mana Vooru, Mana Badi (Our village, our school) – was approved during the state cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday.An official familiar with the development said the programme would be implemented in 26,065 schools being run by the government and panchayat raj bodies in three phases at a total cost of ₹7,289.54 crore in a span of three years.“In the first phase, as many as 9,123 schools would be covered at a cost of ₹3,497.62 crore, for which allocation would be made in the coming budget. The schools in the first phase were chosen on the basis of enrolment of students, which was around 65%,” the official said.The cabinet approved a set of guidelines for the implementation of Mana Vooru-Mana Badi programme by the school education department. The programme would cover 12 areas of development, including digital education, modernised toilets, 100% electrification, furniture for teachers and students, building infrastructure like new classrooms, supply of safe drinking water, provision of compound walls, improved kitchens and dining halls etc.The official said district collectors have been designated to give administrative sanction for these works. In each revenue block, one agency will be chosen to do the infrastructure works. “School management committees will be formed to monitor and supervise the programme and conduct audits,” he said.“The finance department will be the nodal agency to provide funds for the programme. A social audit and accountability transparency institute will conduct the social audit on expenditure of funds,” he added.“The school premises would be kept clean and tidy, the mid-day meal programme would be improved. Focus would be laid on improving education by offering qualitative English medium education. The education department will work out an action plan in this regard,” the official said.
19-01-2022||India||ED raids Channi’s nephew in Punjab sand mining case, Congress hits out||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday raided 10 locations in poll-bound Punjab, including those linked to chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s nephew Bhupinder Singh, in connection with probes into illegal sand mining in the state, officials familiar with the matter said. The raids triggered a strong reaction from Channi and the Congress party, which accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its government at the Centre of defaming “Punjab and Punjabiyat”. ED officials, accompanied by Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel, conducted searches at various locations in Chandigarh, Rupnagar, Ludhiana, Pathankot and Mohali. An apartment belonging to Bhupinder Singh alias Honey was also raided by the agency in Mohali. Besides Honey, the central agency conducted raids on nine other people, including six mine owners and their associates. During the search, some property related documents and currency worth more than ₹6 crore was found, said the officials quoted above. “The amount of cash found at the residential premises of Bhupinder Singh in Ludhiana is around ₹4 crore and at the residential premises of Sandeep Kumar (Honey’s partner) in Ludhiana is around ₹2 crores,” said an official, requesting anonymity. The agency’s probe under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) is based on a 2018 case registered by Punjab Police on alleged illegal sand mining in the border state. The central agency had lodged an ECIR (Enforcement Case Information Report), a FIR, at its zonal office here in Jalandhar in November last year after taking over the probe.Channi condemned the raids and called it an attempt to put pressure on him ahead of elections. Punjab goes to the polls on February 20 and the Congress is looking to retain power. “It is based on a 2018 FIR, what is my connection with that, at that time I was not even chief minister. But somehow they have to target me and my ministers and attempt to put pressure, but let me say this that Punjabis never come under pressure,” Channi said. Sharing details of the case, a second ED official said that in the FIR relating to Channi’s nephew, a team comprising officials of the mining department, civil administration and Punjab Police conducted a surprise check on March 7, 2018 on the basis of a complaint received at the Rahon police station in SBS Nagar over illegal sand mining. After this, this official said it was found that several mines were excavated by various machines and mining was being carried out beyond the designated area. But the Congress rejected the charges. The chief minister referred to the ED raids on West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee’s wife, Rujira, in connection with an alleged multi-crore coal smuggling fraud case before the assembly elections in February last year. “When there were polls in West Bengal, such attacks took place on Mamata Banerjee’s relatives. Now, in the same pattern in Punjab, ED is trying to put pressure, and give trouble. An attempt is being made to create all kinds of pressure,” he told reporters in Chandigarh. “Not just on the ministers, chief minister, but pressure is being created on every Congress worker. Such an atmosphere is not good for democracy. When elections are near, they thought about conducting ED raids. But we are ready to bear all pressure, all troubles,” he added. The Congress said the people of the state would give a befitting reply to the BJP in the upcoming assembly elections. “It is an assault on Punjab, Punjabiyat. The BJP is challenging the dignity of Punjab and Punjabis,” Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said. Aam Aadmi Party chief Arvind Kejriwal alleged that the Punjab chief minister and his relatives were involved in sand mining. “It’s very sad to know that a raid is being conducted on the premises of Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s relative in connection with a case of illegal sand mining. Punjab chief minister and his relatives are involved in illegal sand mining,” he told reporters in Mohali. Union minister Gajendra Shekhawat said: “As we know, Prime Minister Modi has zero tolerance policy for corruption. But Congress has given political colour to action against corruption and also national security. The Congress and the opposition parties were left red-faced whenever such action has reached a conclusion in the past. Let the agencies work freely.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-raids-channi-s-nephew-in-punjab-sand-mining-case-congress-hits-out-101642532633399.html
19-01-2022||India||Forces gun down 4 Maoists in two separate encounters in Telangana and Chhattisgarh||Four members, including two women, of the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist) were killed in two separate encounters with security forces in Telangana and Chhattisgarh on Tuesday morning, police said.In Telangana, three Maoists, including a woman, were killed in an exchange of fire with a team of Greyhounds (elite police force of Telangana engaged in anti-Maoist operations) at Karregutta forests, near Penugolu village of Peruru police station in Mulugu district. The area lies close to Semaldoddi village of Elmidi police station in Bijapur district of Chhattisgarh.Though a top police official in Mulugu district initially said four Maoists were killed in the encounter, a statement from Mulugu superintendent of police, Sangram Singh Patil, later in the evening confirmed three bodies were recovered from the spot.Patil said the Greyhounds, along with teams of District Reserve Guard (DRG) and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) from Bijapur were holding a combing operation in Peruru, Ilmidi and Usur forest areas, bordering Telangana and Chhattisgarh, when the encounter took place. The forces’ team had received inputs about the possible presence of 40-50 armed Maoists, including senior Maoist leader and divisional committee member of Venkatapuram, Sudhakar, in the area.“At around 7 am on Tuesday, the security forces came across the rebels following which an exchange of fire erupted between the two sides. After the encounter, the bodies of three Maoists, including a woman, were recovered from the spot,” the Mulugu SP said.The bodies are yet to be identified. Police also recovered a self-loading rifle (SLR), an INSAS rifle, a Single-Bore gun, 10 rocket launchers and a kit of various articles from the spot, he added. Confirming the same, inspector general of police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P said one jawan was injured in the encounter.“A jawan belonging to Telangana Greyhounds was injured in the encounter and he was airlifted to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial government hospital at Warangal for treatment. A search is underway in the vicinity of the incident site,” he said in a statement.Meanwhile, a woman Maoist was gunned down in another encounter at Marjum area of Sukma district. “The woman killed in the encounter in Sukma was identified as Munni, who was an area committee member of Maoists, carrying a reward of ₹5 lakh on her head,” the IG (Bastar) said in his statement.A senior Telangana police official said the joint operation comprising police forces from Mulugu and Bhadradri Kothagudem districts and those from Chhattisgarh has been going on for quite some time following a tip off about the movement of top Maoists heading Vajedu, Venkatapuram, Charla and Dummugudem area committees.“We have specific inputs about the movement of the top leaders. Our operation will continue till they are neutralised,” the official said, seeking anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forces-gun-down-4-maoists-in-two-separate-encounters-in-telangana-and-chhattisgarh-101642532573695.html
19-01-2022||India||HT This Day Jan 19, 1952: Sucheta Kripalani Elected||CONGRESS CANDIDATE A CLOSE SECONDBy Our Special CorrespondentNEW DELHI- MRS SUCHETA KRIPALANI was today declared elected to the House of the People from the New Delhi constituency, being the third K.M.P.P. member returned to Parliament in the general election.The contest, in which six candidates took part, turned out to be mainly between one Congress and the K.M.P.P. Mrs Kripalni secured 47.735 votes as against Mrs Manmohini Sahgal 's 40.046 votes-a margin of 7.071 votes.The four other candidates, all independents, forfeited their deposits. They are Mr Durga Das (6,749). Mr Om Prakash Gupta (3.945), Mahant Raghbir Das (2.025) and Mr G. D. Joshi (1,657).The entire electoral strength of the New Delhi Parliamentary constituency is 184.534 votes. Of these 102.826 votes were polled: 651 were found invalid.The two-day vote-counting period saw several ups and downs in the chances of the K M.P.P. and Congress candidates Right from the polling day there were indications that Mrs K: pl ne: would w n. even Congressmen were doubtful about getting the important Parliamentary seat. But since last night. when it became known that the Congress candidate had bagged 21,000 votes in 100 of her 219 boxes, every body expected a close finish.At 1-30 p.m. today, when the counting of vote of Mrs Sahgal had finished and it was known that she had polled 40,064 votes, her victory was considered certain. A large number of Congressmen, who had collected where counting took place in Old Subzimandi, began to shout Congress jais and garlanded Mrs Sahgal to hail the Congress victory.The wrong deduction was based on the assumption, both in Congress and K.M.P P. camps, that the total poll did not exceed 85,000In this tense moment even Mrs Kripalani conceded victory to her Congress rival. She was preparing to leave the place, having taken her defeat for granted. But her election agents persuaded her to stay till the final count.BIG SURPRISEThe end of the count brought about a big surprise. The total polls exceeded the first day's calculations to which all were party, which gave the K M.P candidate her initially expected victory. It was now the turn of the large number of K.M.P.P. sympathizers and supporters to shout jais. Mrs Kripalani was garlanded and taken from Subzimandi in a big procession. As the procession moved it swelled and in Paharganj, which appears to have polled heavily in favour of Mrs Kripalani, enthusiastic scenes were witnessed. As Mrs Kripalani drove slowly in a car flowers and one-rupee currency notes rained on her. Mrs Kripalant was also taken out in procession in Rajendranagar and other areas.At night her house in New Delhi was illuminated with candlelights, and hundreds of people with garlands in ha as awaited her return." PEOPLE'S VICTORY "In an interview, Mrs Kripalani said her victory was really a people's victory and that she would strive her best to carry the people's voice into Parliament.Mrs Kripalani is leaving tomorrow for Faizabad to assist her husband, Acharya Kripalani, in his election campaign.The Chief Electoral Officer. Delhi State, today ordered resumption of counting of votes at 12-30 p.m. The counting was suspended last night when the paper-seal of one ballot-box of the Congress candidate was found broken.The Electoral Officer today examined the presiding officer and two polling officers of the booth concerned (Booth No. 184 in Mantola-Paharganj). He said he had satisfied himself that there was no deliberate tampering with the ballot-box.Counting of votes for the Parliamentary seat from Inner Delhi was postponed until tomorrow, for the electric lights in the counting hall failed this evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-jan-19-1952-sucheta-kripalani-elected-101642532436804.html
19-01-2022||India||HT THIS DAY: January 19, 1952 --Sucheta Kripalani elected, Congress candidate a close second||NEW DELHI- MRS SUCHETA KRIPALANI was today declared elected to the House of the People from the New Delhi constituency, being the third K.M.P.P. member returned to Parliament in the general election.The contest, in which six candidates took part, turned out to be mainly between one Congress and the K.M.P.P. Mrs Kripalni secured 47.735 votes as against Mrs Manmohini Sahgal ‘s 40.046 votes-a margin of 7.071 votes. The four other candidates, all independents, forfeited their deposits. They are Mr Durga Das (6,749). Mr Om Prakash Gupta (3.945), Mahant Raghbir Das (2.025) and Mr G. D. Joshi (1,657). The entire electoral strength of the New Delhi Parliamentary constituency is 184.534 votes. Of these 102.826 votes were polled: 651 were found invalid. The two-day vote-counting period saw several ups and downs in the chances of the K M.P.P. and Congress candidates Right from the polling day there were indications that Mrs K: pl ne: would w n. even Congressmen were doubtful about getting the important Parliamentary seat. But since last night. when it became known that the Congress candidate had bagged 21,000 votes in 100 of her 219 boxes, every body expected a close finish. At 1-30 p.m. today, when the counting of vote of Mrs Sahgal had finished and it was known that she had polled 40,064 votes, her victory was considered certain. A large number of Congressmen, who had collected where counting took place in Old Subzimandi, began to shout Congress jais and garlanded Mrs Sahgal to hail the Congress victory. The wrong deduction was based on the assumption, both in Congress and K.M.P P. camps, that the total poll did not exceed 85,000 In this tense moment even Mrs Kripalani conceded victory to her Congress rival. She was preparing to leave the place, having taken her defeat for granted. But her election agents persuaded her to stay till the final count. BIG SURPRISE The end of the count brought about a big surprise. The total polls exceeded the first day’s calculations to which all were party, which gave the K M.P candidate her initially expected victory. It was now the turn of the large number of K.M.P.P. sympathizers and supporters to shout jais. Mrs Kripalani was garlanded and taken from Subzimandi in a big procession. As the procession moved it swelled and in Paharganj, which appears to have polled heavily in favour of Mrs Kripalani, enthusiastic scenes were witnessed. As Mrs Kripalani drove slowly in a car flowers and one-rupee currency notes rained on her. Mrs Kripalant was also taken out in procession in Rajendranagar and other areas. At night her house in New Delhi was illuminated with candlelights, and hundreds of people with garlands in ha as awaited her return. “ PEOPLE’S VICTORY “ In an interview, Mrs Kripalani said her victory was really a people’s victory and that she would strive her best to carry the people’s voice into Parliament. Mrs Kripalani is leaving tomorrow for Faizabad to assist her husband, Acharya Kripalani, in his election campaign. The Chief Electoral Officer. Delhi State, today ordered resumption of counting of votes at 12-30 p.m. The counting was suspended last night when the paper-seal of one ballot-box of the Congress candidate was found broken. The Electoral Officer today examined the presiding officer and two polling officers of the booth concerned (Booth No. 184 in Mantola-Paharganj). He said he had satisfied himself that there was no deliberate tampering with the ballot-box. Counting of votes for the Parliamentary seat from Inner Delhi was postponed until tomorrow, for the electric lights in the counting hall failed this evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-january-19-1952-sucheta-kripalani-elected-congress-candidate-a-close-second-101642532513816.html
19-01-2022||India||TMC, Cong, AAP release separate candidate lists for Goa; tie-up ruled out||The Congress, Trinamool Congress (TMC) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday announced separate lists of candidates for the Goa assembly elections, putting to rest speculation over a grand opposition alliance to fight the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The Congress named nine candidates, TMC 11 and AAP five.The Congress party announced its third list of candidates for the polls that includes Michael Lobo, former minister in the Pramod Sawant led BJP government. Lobo will contest from the Calangute constituency that he has represented since 2012. The list also includes former MLA Prasad Gaonkar (Sanguem), who was elected as an independent in 2017 but resigned in recent weeks and joined the Congress, and Lavu Mamledar, a former lawmaker from the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) who joined the TMC but later quit the party and joined the Congress. Mamledar will contest from Marcaim against MGP supremo Ramkrishna “Sudin” Dhavalikar. Interestingly, the Congress has also announced a candidate (Anthony Fernandes) for the San André constituency, a seat that was being keenly eyed by its alliance partner the Goa Forward Party, whose candidate Jagdish Bhobe has already begun campaigning. Others on the list include Meghashyam Raut (Bicholim), Aman Lotlikar (Tivim), Vikash Prabhudessai (Porvorim), Dharmesh Saglani (Sanquelim), who will take on Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant, and Janardan Bhandari (Canacona). So far, the party has declared candidates for 28 out of Goa’s 40 assembly seats. The party has conceded two seats to the Goa Forward Party, with the latter haggling with its ally for a third seat at San André. Besides Lobo, the names of his wife Delilah, who is keen on contesting the Siolim constituency, and his aide Kedar Naik from the Saligao constituency, are yet to feature in the party’s list of candidates. Several crucial constituencies remain to be announced, including capital Panaji and Aldona in north Goa, and Benaulim, Velim and Nuvem in south Goa, among others. “Let us work together to bring back @INCGoa Government in Goa. Let us work hand in hand to Protect Identity of Goa,” leader of opposition Digambar Kamat tweeted. The decision of the Congress to field its own candidate in the San André constituency has prompted Jagdish Bhobe to resign from the Goa Forward Party and join the TMC. By evening, Bhobe became the TMC’s candidate for the constituency as part of the first list of candidates declared. The TMC’s list includes former Goa chief ministers Churchill Alemão (Benaulim), and recently elected Rajya Sabha MP Luizinho Faleiro, who will contest against Goa Forward Party chief Vijai Sardesai. Alemão’s daughter Valanka will be the party’s candidate from Navelim that until recently was represented by Faleiro. Other names on the list include Sandeep Vazarkar (Porvorim), Kiran Kandolkar (Aldona), Samil Volvoikar (Cumbarjua), Ganpat Gaonkar (Poriem), Gilbert Rodrigues (Cortalim), José Cabral (Nuvem) and Jorson Fernandes (Cortalim). The party also announced the setting up of its state executive committee that will be headed by Kiran Kandolkar. The TMC was earlier angling for an alliance with the Congress, overtures that were rejected by the Congress.Besides the Congress and TMC, the AAP too announced its fourth list of candidates, taking the total number of its candidates to 30.The AAP announced the names of Lincoln Vaz (Margao), Nonu Naik (Priol), Gabriel Fernandes (Curchorem), Raul Pereira (Quepem) and Manoj Ghadi Amonkar (Sanquelim), while extending support to Chandrakant Shetye, a probable candidate who has been offered a ticket by both the Congress and the BJP.The party has announced that it will be going it alone in the polls, but that it was open to a post-poll alignment with non-BJP parties in the event that such an arrangement is necessitated after the results are declared.Goa goes to the polls on February 14 to elect members to its legislative assembly. The counting will be held on March 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-elections-tmc-aap-congress-release-separate-list-of-candidates-alliance-ruled-out-101642532395531.html
19-01-2022||India||Supreme Court commutes death citing haste in trial judge decision||Not giving an accused a fair opportunity to defend himself amounts to travesty of justice, held the Supreme Court as it commuted the death sentence awarded to a man in Madhya Pradesh who raped and killed a minor girl in April 2017.Noting the haste with which the accused was convicted and sentenced on the same day by the trial judge, a bench headed by justice L Nageswara Rao said, “It is travesty of justice as the appellant was not given a fair opportunity to defend himself. This is a classic case indicating the disturbing tendency of trial courts adjudicating criminal cases involving rape and murder in haste. It is trite law that an accused is entitled for a fair trial which is guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India.”However, considering the barbaric and savage manner of the crime and the tender age of the victim who was suffocated to death, the bench directed the appellant to remain in jail for 30 years without remission.The incident took place in the intervening night of April 14-15, 2017 when the victim went missing while she was returning from a house function with her parents and two brothers. Her body was recovered the other day with severe injuries on her private parts and body. There were two persons who committed the ghastly crime but as the appeal was pending, one accused died leaving the appellant to pursue the appeal.The bench, also comprising of justices BR Gavai and BV Nagarathna, noted that both the trial court and Madhya Pradesh high court considered the gravity of the crime and sentenced the appellant to death without considering the mitigating circumstances and probability of reformation and rehabilitation, considered essential yardsticks while deciding punishment in offences carrying death sentence. In the present case, the appellant was charged with murder which is punishable with death. Besides, he was convicted for other provisions under the Indian Penal Code and Section 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO).“The appellant was aged 25 years on the date of commission of the offence and belongs to a scheduled tribe community, eking his livelihood by doing manual labour. No evidence has been placed by the prosecution on record to show that there is no probability of rehabilitation and reformation of the Appellant and the question of an alternative option to death sentence is foreclosed. The Appellant had no criminal antecedents before the commission of crime for which he has been convicted. There is nothing adverse that has been reported against his conduct in jail,” the top court said.“The death sentence requires to be commuted to life imprisonment. However, taking into account the barbaric and savage manner in which the offences of rape and murder were committed by the appellant on a hapless 11-year-old girl, the appellant is sentenced to life imprisonment for a period of 30 years during which he shall not be granted remission,” the judges ruled.The Court underlined the important of Section 235(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) which requires the accused to be given an opportunity to make representation against the sentence to be imposed on him. “A bifurcated hearing for convicting and sentencing is necessary to provide an effective opportunity to the accused. Adequate opportunity to produce relevant material on the question of death sentence shall be provided to the accused by the trial court,” said justice Rao, writing the judgment for the bench.In the present case, the Sessions Judge, Dindori convicted the accused and sentenced them to death on the same day in November 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-commutes-death-citing-haste-in-trial-judge-decision-101642532214740.html
19-01-2022||India||Mob beats up Muslim man for travelling with Hindu woman in Ujjain||Members of a right-wing organisation thrashed a Muslim man for travelling with a Hindu woman in Madhya Pradesh’s Ujjain, police said on Tuesday.According to the police, the incident took place on January 14 but came to light only on Tuesday after a video of the incident went viral on social media.In the video, one Pintu Kaushal, who claims to be a member of a right-wing organisation, along with a few others, was seen dragging a man out of a train and thrashing him at the Ujjain railway station. The woman, who was travelling with the victim, a resident of Mhow in Indore district, could be seen following the mob.HT could not independently verify the authenticity of the video.Kaushal later claimed that the married Hindu woman was “misguided” by the Muslim man, who is also married and has a child, and they were heading to Ajmer for marriage. “We received information and brought them out of the train. We handed them over to GRP, Ujjain for police action as it was a case of ‘Love Jihad’,” said Kaushal.However, GRP Ujjain superintendent of police Nivedita Gupta said, “The man and woman were family friends and the woman’s mother has confirmed the same. We allowed them to go.”However, she said the man didn’t file any complaint about being beaten by the mob. “As they didn’t file any complaint, we can’t take suo motu action,” the SP said.Retired IPS officer and social activist Arun Gurtoo termed the incident as the violation of human rights. “This act is morally wrong and legally violation of human rights. The police should take action to stop the recurrence of such activities because the saffron organisation or any other person doesn’t have a right to stop anyone randomly and harass publicly,” Gurtoo added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mob-beats-up-muslim-man-for-travelling-with-hindu-woman-in-ujjain-101642532034860.html
19-01-2022||India||Narayan Debnath, creator of iconic comic characters, dies at 97||Cartoonist Narayan Debnath, the creator of Bengali comic characters ‘Bantul The Great’, ‘Handa Bhonda’ and ‘Nonte Phonte, passed away after prolonged illness on Tuesday. He was 97.Debnath, who was handed the Padma Shri award while undergoing treatment at the hospital last week, died at 10.15 am, his family said.“He was admitted to the hospital on December 24 with kidney and lung problems,” his son, Tapas Debnath, said. The cartoonist was conferred with the Padma Shri, the fourth highest civilian award in India, in 2021 but could not visit New Delhi to collect the award. State home secretary BP Gopalika and cooperative minister Arup Roy handed him the medal and certificate on his hospital bed on January 13. Debanth was also conferred with the Sahitya Akademi award in 2013 and the West Bengal government also honoured him with Banga Bibhushan the same year. The Rabindra Bharati University gave him an honorary D.Litt in 2015.Taking to Twitter, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said Debnath brightened several lives through his works, cartoons and illustrations. “His works reflected his intellectual prowess. The characters he created will remain eternally popular. Pained by his demise. Condolences to his family and admirers. Om Shanti,” he posted on the micro-blogging site. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said Debnath’s passing away is an immeasurable loss. “Extremely sad that the noted litterateur, illustrator, cartoonist, and creator of some immortal characters for children’s world, Narayan Debnath is no more. He had created Bantul the Great, Handa-Bhonda, Nonte-Fonte, figures that have been etched in our hearts for decades,” she said. “We were proud to bestow upon him Bengal’s highest award Banga Bibhusan in 2013. His passing away is certainly an immeasurable loss to the world of literary creativity and comics,” she added. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, who visited Debnath at his residence last month, said his death was a huge loss to the world of literary creativity and comics. “Sad at demise of Padma Shri #NarayanDebnath legendary cartoonist and creator of immortal characters Bantul the Great, Handa-Bhonda, Nonte-Fonte for children’s world. Huge loss to the world of literary creativity and comics. My thoughts are with his family, friends and fans,” he tweeted. Kolkata mayor Firhad Hakim visited the hospital on receiving the news of Debnath’s death and paid tributes to him. His body was taken to his home in Shibpur before being consigned to flames at a nearby crematorium.“Legendary cartoonist Narayan Debnath; creator of immortal fictional characters like ‘Batul the Great’, ‘Handa Bhonda’ & ‘Nante Fante’ has passed away. His legacy will always be cherished by children and grown ups alike. Condolences to family and countless admirers. Om Shanti,” Suvendu Adhikari, leader of opposition in West Bengal assembly, tweeted. Debnath is survived by two sons and one daughter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narayan-debnath-creator-of-iconic-comic-characters-dies-at-97-101642532033487.html
19-01-2022||India||HT THIS DAY: January 20, 1956 -- India to nationalise life insurance business; govt take over management of companies||NEW DELHI- THE Government of India have decided to nationalize life insurance, it is officially announced. An Ordinance issued today vests in the Central Government, with immediate effect, the management of life insurance business, including Capital Redemption business and Annuity Certain business. The Ordinance applies also to the foreign business of Indian insurers and the business in India of foreign insurers. General insurance business is not affected and it will continue to be managed as at present. In the case of insurers carrying on only life insurance business and of provident fund societies, the entire management vests in the Government. In the case of composite companies, the management of the life insurance part alone vests in the Government. The Finance Minister, broadcasting from the Delhi station of A.I.R., assured “ reasonable compensation “ “ both in respect of the short period during which the management of the companies will vest in the Government and in respect of the ultimate assumption of the proprietorial rights over them.” The compensation, he promised, would be “ generally regarded as fair.” The Life Insurance (Emergency Provisions) Ordinance provides, in respect of the period during which the management is vested in the Government, for compensation to shareholders “ on an equitable basis which reflects the allocations to the shareholders in the past.” The Finance Minister said that a Bill for completing the process of nationalization will be brought before Parliament during the forthcoming budget session. Meanwhile, the Ordinance envisages the appointment, as soon as practicable, of Governments nominees to manage the business of insurers that has vested in the Government. Pending the appointment of these persons, who will be termed custodians, the existing managements would continue but as agents of the Government and they will have no authority to make investments. CUSTODIANS To the extent that it is possible to do so, says an official communique, it is the Governments intention to draw the custodians from the ranks of the employees of insurers. The Finance Minister, in his broadcast, assured policyholders that there would be no interruption in the normal processes of the existing managements continuing the payment of all claims of policyholders. He also asserted that “ policies will be as safe as they are today, if not safer “ as, on nationalization, they would have the full backing of the Government. Addressing himself “ to the staff at all levels,” Mr Deshmukh said that they had nothing to fear, but added: “ I cannot, of course, guarantee the continuance of sinecures.” Turning to “ industrialists and others,” the Finance Minister declared that it was not the Government’s intention to divert the available life funds to the public sector to a greater degree than under present arrangements.” DECISION DEFENDED In the course of an elaborate defence of the Governments decision, the Finance Minister tried to reply at length to arguments advanced in public discussions against the nationalization of life insurance. Mr Deshmukh pleaded that the nationalization of life insurance was a vital part of the process of widening and deepening all possible channels of public savings for the purposes of economic development. He described it as “ another mile-stone on the road the country has chosen in order -to reach its goal of a socialistic pattern of society.” In his view, nationalized life insurance was bound to give material assistance in the implementation of the second Five-Year Plan. TEXT OF BROADCAST The following is the text of the Finance Minister’s broadcast-This afternoon the Government have promulgated an Ordinance regarding life insurance. All life insurance companies, Indian as well as foreign, doing business in India come under Government management and control. This is the Brat and preparatory step towards the nationalization of life insurance It will be followed by the more elaborate action called for, and it is proposed to place before the next session of Parliament a Bill for the nationalization of this important sector of insurance business. Both in respect of the short period during which the management of the companies will vest in the Government and in respect of the ultimate assumption of the proprietorial rights over them, reasonable compensation will be paid by the Government. What is reasonable compensation is a matter on which there is room for difference of opinion; but I am confident that the basis adopted by the Government will be generally regarded as fair. In the course of their observations on the organization of the credit system of the country in connection with the first Five-Year Plan the Planning Commission drew attention to the necessity of fitting increasingly into the scheme of development visualized for the economy as a whole the banking system-and, in fact, the whole mechanism of finance, including ulsurance, stodk exchanges and other institutions connected with investment For, it is only thus, they said that the process of mobilizing savmgs and utilizing them to the best advantage becomes socially purposive. MOBILIZATION OF SAVINGSPrincipally with a view to ensuring the spread of banking and credit facilities to the rural areas, the Imperial Bank of India was nationalized last year. The nationalization of life insurance is a further step in the direction of more effective mobilization of the peoples’ sayings. It is a truism which nevertheless cannot too often be repeated, that a nation’s savings are the prime mover of its economic development. With a second Plan in the offing involving an accelerated rate of investment and development, the widening and deepening of all possible channels of public savings has become more than ever necessary. Of this process the nationalization of insurance is a vital part. Let me give you a few figures. Today, some 50 lakhs of policies are in force paying annually a premium of ₹55 crores. The life insurance assets amount to roughly ₹380 crores from which the companies derive annually a net income of approximately ₹12 crores. The total insurance in force exceeds a thousand crore that is a little over ₹25 per head Quite recently, it was claimed on behalf of private enterprise that the business in force could be increased to ₹8,000 crores and the per capita insurance to ₹200, I am in complete agreement. There can be no doubt as to the possibilities of life insurance in India and I mention these figures only to show how greatly we could increase our savings through insurance.I need scarcely say that the decision to nationalize has been taken after deep and careful consideration of all relevant factors: I rney indeed with justice claim also that we have done so with the certainty of the approval of the public and after full examination of the views expressed by the interests involved; for this matter has been the subject of public debate and discussion for several months past.COMPANIES’ OPPOSITION On the one hand, there has been , a very general demand for the nationalization of the entire insurance industry. On the other hand, the chairmen of a large number of insurance companies, life, general and composite, have set out in extenso all the arguments that could possibly be adduced against nationalization and have endeavoured to show that insurance of every form can flourish best only under private enterprise and with the stimulus of competition. It is obvious that in a short talk such as this, I cannot enter upon a discussion of these arguments and to explain why they have failed to satisfy us and why we have, in spite of them. come to the conclusion that nationalization of life insurance is essential for the implementation of our Plan and therefore required in the public interest. Ample opportunity will, of course, be provided for such detailed discussion in Parliament. I might. However, summarize the arguments that have been urged against nationalization and comment briefly on them. State schemes in other countries and in India, it is said, have not been successful, that several foreign countries which went into the question fully decided against it, that a State enterprise cannot possibly function with the same flexibility and efficiency that the private enterprise can and finally that the State-run life insurance cannot achieve the highest ideals of insurance. UNQUALIFIED SUCCESSI do not understand this last point and will, therefore, not comment on it. To us, on an objective appraisal, it appears that the only conclusion that can be drawn from the experience of other countries is that wherever there has been a whole-hearted attempt by the State, nationalization has been an unqualified success, even in the face of severe competition from the private sector, and failures, wherever they occurred, have been due to the half-hearted manner in which the experiments were tried. There is no reason why a nationalized industry cannot be run efficiently. It is our intention to see that those who are entrusted with the running of nationalized insurance have the discretion and freedom of action necessary to enable them to secure maximum efficiency. It has become almost axiomatic with some to maintain that State enterprise qua State enterprise must be inefficient. And yet, the fact is that far too much is claimed for the efficiency with which private enterprise is run. Thus, even in insurance, which is a type of business which ought never to fail if it is properly run, we find that during the last decade. as many as 25 life insurance companies went into liquidation and another 25 had so frittered away their resources that their business had to be transferred to other companies at a loss to the policyholders. Then again, though I do not wish unduly to emphasize this point, far too unhealthy an enterprise has been shown by a number of insurance companies in the investment of funds. Only recently, there was the case of the Bharat Insurance Company when some ₹2 crores were misapplied and there have been several other cases. The amount of capital required for starting or running an insurance company is extremely small as compared to the total life fund that it may come to control. Once, however, the control is secured. the tendency not infrequently has been to utilize the funds to meet the capital requirements of enterprises in which the managements are interested rather than those which are clearly in the interests of policyholders. GENERAL INSURANCE BUSINESSI would like also briefly to explain why we have decided not to bring the general insurance business into the public sector. The consideration which influenced us most is the basic feet that general insurance is part and parcel of the private sector of trade and industry and functions on a year to year basis. Errors of Omission and commission in the conduct of its business do not directly affect the individual citizen, Life insurance business, by contrast, directly concerns the individual citizen whose life savings so vitally needed for economic development, may be affected by any acts of folly or misfeasance on the part of those in control or be retarded by their lack of imaginative policy. My object in speaking to you tonight is strictly limited. I thought it desirable that I should myself give you some idea, however brief, of what we intend to do during this interim period and, in particular, to assure all those directly affected the policyholders, the management and the staff, both office and field -that the companies concerned will be able to continue to work uninterruptedly. The Ordinance is designed to ensure that the existing managements of the insurance companies are able to carry on exactly as before until such time as a custodian is appointed to look after the affairs of each company. The only difference will be that the management will function as agents of the Government, and that certain of its powers will be restricted. Thus, it cannot invest any of the funds of the company save in accordance with instructions given by the duly authorized officers of the Government; likewise while the payment of all claims of policyholders can be made by the existing management under its own authority, it must seek the authority of the authorized person if the payment of a claim is not in accordance with the normal practice. In other words, it will be our object to see that there is as little interference in the day-today management as is consistent with the attainment of our main objective, viz., the safeguarding of the funds of the policyholders, and to the extent they have a claim, the interests of the shareholders. Naturally, it will be our endeavour to put a stop to any malpractices that may come to our notice. ASSURANCE TO POLICYHOLDERTo the policyholders, I wish to give the assurance that their policies will be as safe as they are today, if not safer. Private insurers may fail, but the State cannot fail. To those intending to take our life policies, I would say that they should proceed with confidence in view of the proposed nationalization and indeed step up their proposals for, on nationalization, their policies will have the full backing of the Government and acquire a new element of absolute safety. To the staff at all levels, I would say that they have nothing to fear. I seek their loyalty and devoted work. I cannot, of course, guarantee the continuance of sinecures. I should also like to reassure the spokesmen of the private sector, industrialists and others that it is not Governments intention to divert the available funds to the public sector to a greater degree than under present arrangements. Indeed, it will be my endeavour to see that at least as much money as is today made available for investment in the private sector continues to be so made available, If there is a change, therefore, it will be only to ensure that there are no privileged sections in the private sector, or rather, that privil0ge, in the sense the priority, hereafter is made dependent upon the broad objectives assigned under the Plan to the private sector. The misuse of power, position and privilege that, we have reason to believe, occurs under existing conditions is one of the most compelling reasons that have influenced us in deciding to nationalize life insurance. To the members of the public, I would reiterate this step has been taken after long and mature consideration. I would appeal to them not to be led away by those who would oppose that step on purely dogmatic considerations, regarding State enterprise as invariably a failure and private enterprise as unerringly successful We are determined to see that the gospel of insurance is spread as far and wide as possible and so that we reach out beyond the more advanced urban areas well into the hitherto neglected rural areas. We have not been influenced by any doctrinaire dislike of private enterprise m reaching our decision. Were that so, we would not have left alone the other big sector, the general Insurance. Ours is a positive approach. I might even say in this case, a creative approach. We are convinced that out of the large number of individual units operating in life insurance, some good, some moderately good, and a large number not so good, or even positively bad, we can weld together a dynamic and vigorous organization, capable of taking insurance to every sector of people throughout the country and mobilizing their savings while affording to them complete security together with efficient service. The nationalization of life insurance will be another mile-stone on the road the country has chosen m order to reach its goal of a socialistic pattern of society. In the implementation of the second FiveYear Plan, it is bound to give material assistance. Into the lives of millions in the rural areas it will introduce a new sense of awareness of building for the future -in the spirit of calm confidence which insurance alone can give. It is a measure conceived in a genuine spirit of service to the people. It will be for the people to respond, confound the doubters and make it a resounding success.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-january-20-1956-india-to-nationalise-life-insurance-business-govt-take-over-management-of-companies-101642531913605.html
19-01-2022||India||Use of PM’s photo, tricolour in PM-Cares as per law, says PMO||There is no restriction on the use of the Prime Minister’s photo as well as the image of the national flag and emblem for the PM CARES Fund, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) told the Bombay high court on Tuesday.In an affidavit filed before a division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice MS Karnik, PMO under-secretary Pradeep Kumar Srivastava said the use of the national flag and national emblem in the PM CARES Fund is in conformity with the usage allowed by the Emblems and Names (Prevention of Improper Use) Act, 1950 and Rules made under the enactment. The affidavit also said that the Prime Minister’s photograph, name and national emblem were also used in the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF).The affidavit was filed in response to a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Congress’s councilor in Thane Municipal Corporation Vikrant Chavan, seeking deletion of the prime minister’s name and photograph from the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) Fund. Claiming that PM CARES Fund was created as a non-government Trust and as amounts collected by it does not go to the Consolidated Fund of India, the petition sought directions for removal of the image of the national flag and Emblem from the name of the Trust and its web portal.The PIL further stated that as the Trust was a private entity the use of the name and picture of the prime minister, flag and emblem violate the laws and rules governing the said symbols.The PMO affidavit said, “PM CARES fund and Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF) are both chaired by the Prime Minister. As the name, photograph of the Prime Minister and National Emblem are being used for the PMNRF, they are also being used for the PM CARES Fund.”“Flag Code of India, 2002, which brings together all laws, conventions, practices and instructions regarding display of National Flag provided that there cannot restriction on display of National Flag by members of general public, private organizations, educational institutions etc, except to extend provided in the Emblems and Names Act, 1950,” the affidavit added.Advocate Sagar Joshi, appearing for the petitioner, had informed the court that as per the Trust Deed, which was executed on March 27, 2020, the PM was the chairperson and all trustees, including Union ministers, were appointed in their personal capacity but the trust did not discharge any sovereign functions.The bench was informed that the trust has collected over ₹3,000 crore for relief work using the name and photograph of the prime minister, national flag and emblem thus flouting the relevant laws and rules governing such national signs and symbols.The bench had then directed additional solicitor general Anil Singh for the Union government to file an affidavit in reply to the petition.On Tuesday, the PMO in its affidavit denied the claims of the petitioner and challenged the correctness of the contentions.The affidavit said the prime minister is chairperson (ex-officio) of the PM CARES Fund and various ministers are ex-officio trustees of the fund and all of them are in pro bono capacity. The composition of the Board of Trustees consisting of holders of public office ex officio is merely for administrative convenience and for smooth succession of trusteeship.Srivastava has concluded the affidavit stating that the petitioner approached HC without exhausting the administrative remedies available under the concerned laws and rules and hence the petition deserves to be dismissed.After perusing the affidavit, the bench granted 15-day time for the petitioner to file a rejoinder and posted further hearing after three weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/use-of-pm-s-photo-tricolour-in-pm-cares-as-per-law-says-pmo-101642531854688.html
19-01-2022||India||New startups exempted from Haryana private job quota for two years: Dushyant Chautala||Startups and IT/ITES companies setting up fresh base in Haryana will be exempt for two years from provisions of the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020, which mandates 75% reservation for locals in new jobs with salary less than ₹30,000 a month, deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said during a press conference in Chandigarh.In addition, short-term work and employment of less than 45 days will also be exempt from the local job reservation act, he added.The law came into effect on 15 January.Providing details of the exemptions under the law, Chaultala said that in addition to sowing of crops, embroidery, primary work related to fruits, vegetables, tea leaves, coffee, fish, animals etc. are also exempted. Exemptions have also been given to domestic help and those industries for which skilled workers are not available, he added.The law was championed by Chautala, and was actually part of the poll promise of his Jannayak Janata Party, which is a partner of the BJP in the state’s coalition government. The law will be valid for 10 years.Those companies flouting the law could face penalties from ₹50,000 to ₹2 lakh, Chautala said. “We had a discussion with the stakeholders and after considering the demand of the IT and ITES sector it was decided to give exemption to new companies (facilities) for two years. It was also decided to exempt short term work from this law,” said Chautala.According to the state’s labour department, private firms and companies are registering themselves on the portal of the Labour Department as required under the law. Since the opening of registration on January 15, around 22,000 companies and 3,280 youth have registered , said officials. The companies have to provide details of all their workers earning less than ₹30,000, and can hire morre workers in this salary bracket only after ding so.Chautala also called upon the youth in the state to register themselves so that there is no shortage of manpower for the companies. The applicants will also be able to connect their applications with Parivar Pehchan Patra to resolve the issue of domicile, he said.The deputy CM also alleged that misleading propaganda was being carried out against the law. “There was a glass ceiling for the local youth in large companies and it had become difficult for them to get jobs in such firms. This law will ensure that doors for local youth is opened for employment,” he said on Monday an online interaction.Chautala also said that the government will hold discussions with industry associations that have opposed the reservation in court of law and find a solution to their issues as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-startups-exempted-from-haryana-private-job-quota-for-two-years-dushyant-chautala-101642531615808.html
19-01-2022||India||Inform people about importance of their vote, Modi tells BJP workers in Varanasi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi told party workers in his parliamentary constituency of Varanasi on Tuesday through a virtual interaction that they should underline the importance of each ballot to voters in the upcoming state assembly polls. Modi’s interaction is significant for two reasons -- in the absence of large rallies (not allowed till at least January 23 in light of the third wave of the pandemic), the role of local workers becomes that much more important; and, early on, Modi signalled that he would lead from the front, the BJP’s campaign in India’s most politically important state, Uttar Pradesh. Interacting with party workers through the Namo app, Modi reaffirmed the BJP’s commitment to development. The redevelopment of the Kashi Vishwanath corridor, women’s empowerment, and infrastructure and health care were among the topics that came up for discussion during the audio interaction.“We have to tell people about the power of each and every vote,” Modi said. “Yogiji (chief minister Yogi Adityanath) and I are able to do so many things as the people of Uttar Pradesh gave blessings of their votes to us.”Assembly elections will be held in Uttar Pradesh in seven phases beginning February 10. Varanasi will vote in the seventh phase on March 7.Modi spoke to a BJP worker each from eight assembly segments – Varanasi South, Varanasi North, Varanasi Cantonment, Shivpur, Ajgara, Pindara, Sevapuri and Rohania – in his Lok Sabha constituency.The Prime Minister asked party workers to explain the reach of the government’s welfare schemes to farmers and said they should make farmers aware of the use of chemical-free fertilisers. He also talked about the BJP’s micro-donation campaign, seeking to raise funds through small contributions of ₹5 and ₹10 from members and supporters. “This drive will not be for fund raising, but is a powerful medium to connect with more people. It should be completed by the end of January,” he said. After inquiring about the weather in Varanasi while speaking to Ashutosh Sharma, BJP’s booth president of Bageshwari Mandal in Varanasi North assembly constituency, Modi said, “The weather keeps changing, but how is the heat of election in Varanasi?” People were happy with the “double-engine government” of the BJP at the Centre and the state, Sharma replied, mentioning various development work being carried out in Varanasi. Modi said he has worked to improve Varanasi’s connectivity, focused on preserving its heritage and ensured development. “The election is a test for political parties, but it is also a sort of training camp in which large number of workers can be trained. We should always remember the mantra of expansion of the organisation (BJP) and development of party workers,” Modi said. Shravan Rawat, BJP booth president of Pt Deendayal Mandal of Varanasi South constituency, said the new Kashi Vishwanath corridor has benefited business in the area. “The corridor is grand and divine. A large number of devotees are visiting the Kashi Vishwanath temple daily, due to which business of flower sellers and tea vendors is thriving,” Rawat said.Seema Kumari, BJP’s booth president of Mahamana Mandal in Varanasi Cantonment assembly constituency, told the Prime Minister that women were happy after getting houses under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. “All these works were done because women gave us the opportunity to serve them by taking a right decision,” Modi told Kumari, asking her to connect more with women self-help groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-elections-inform-people-about-the-importance-of-their-vote-modi-tells-bjp-workers-in-varanasi-101642531614580.html
19-01-2022||India||Indefinite suspension of MLAs danger to democracy, says SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday observed that an outer limit on the period for suspending a member of legislature is essential for democracy as a situation can be perceived in future where a ruling party having with a slender majority resorts to such actions to keep the Opposition members out of the House.Dealing with the July 2021 action of the Maharashtra legislative assembly to suspend 12 MLAs of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for a one-year period, a bench headed by justice AM Khanwilkar said, “This question that we are pondering upon is not just dealing with the rights of an individual or a constituency, but concerns democracy. If we uphold such an action, we will be staring at unexpected situations.”The state government defended its July 5, 2021 action by stating that once the Constitution provides power to the legislature to suspend its members for obstructing the business of the House, the judiciary cannot review the quantum of punishment. Senior advocate C Aryama Sundaram who appeared for Maharashtra said, “There is no Parliamentary law that bars suspension for a year. If I am able to convince the court on this aspect, further enquiry cannot proceed on this aspect.”The bench, also comprising justices Dinesh Maheshwari and CT Ravikumar told Sundaram, “The outer limit (for suspension) is essential for democracy and upholding democratic balance…It can otherwise result in a danger to democracy. For instance, if a ruling party has slender lead, what will be the outcome if 10 or 12 persons from the Opposition side are suspended?”This was the second time the court questioned the legitimacy of the Maharashtra Assembly’s decision to suspend the 12 MLAs from the House for a one-year period. On January 11, the same bench had said that suspension is worse than expulsion. In the latter case, on expulsion or disqualification, a seat cannot remain vacant beyond six months following which there is a re-election. This is provided under Section 151A of the Representation of Peoples Act. Further, under Article 190(4) of the Constitution, a member’s unexplained absence from the House for a period of 60 days can be a ground to declare the seat vacant. The MLAs had cited these provisions to show the action of the Assembly against them to be arbitrary and malafide.“Because you have power to expel, does not mean you will suspend a member for an indefinite period. The purpose of suspension is to ensure the business of the House is completed peacefully. When the session of the House gets over, where is the question of continuing the suspension,” the bench asked the state.Sundaram said, “Once you recognise the right of the House to expel, he goes for every session,” adding that the suspension contemplated is not as per the calendar year but the number of sittings. He further explained that under Article 190(4) absence of a member will not automatically result in vacancy of seat as the House will have the discretion to declare it vacant. The state further distinguished suspension from expulsion by stating that a MLA loses right to enter the House during the period of suspension but continues to represent his constituency in every other way.The bench reminded Sundaram, “The limit has been laid down in the Constitution Article 190(4) and law (Section 151A). We will go by the Constitutional spirit. The issue raised has to be tested not just on whether it is constitutional or illegal, but on rationality as well. This rationality may not be provided by law but should be derived on the basis whether a common man takes this action to be rational or preposterous.” As far as unconstitutionality is concerned, the bench observed that it must be inferred from the constitutional principles laid down under Articles 14, 19, and 21 which forms the core of an individual’s fundamental rights.The MLAs in their petition filed by Abhikalp Pratap Singh had stated that the order to suspend them goes to the root of democracy as it was an attempt to suppress dissent within the legislature which violates their right to free speech and expression under Article 19(1)(a).The 12 suspended MLAs are Sanjay Kute, Abhimanyu Pawar, Ashish Shelar, Girish Mahajan, Atul Bhatkalkar, Harish Pimpale, Parag Alavani, Yogesh Sagar, Jayakumar Rawat, Narayan Kuche, Ram Satpute and Kirtikumar Bhangadia. The hearing of the case will continue on Wednesday .The state has concluded its arguments. However, the lawyers appearing for the suspended MLAs will get a chance to respond to the submissions of the state government. The Speaker of the Assembly has refused to be part of the proceedings before the top court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indefinite-suspension-of-mlas-danger-to-democracy-says-sc-101642531494486.html
19-01-2022||India||Zydus Covid-19 vaccine hit by delay in supply||A delay in supplies has led to Zydus Healthcare’s ZyCoV-D not being included in India’s Covid-19 immunisation programme, according to people familiar with the development.“Their supply to the government is a bit delayed, which is why it has not started being administered the programme yet,” an official said on condition of anonymity. “There has been absolutely no problem from the government’s side.”Zydus was expected to supply the first batch of its Covid-19 vaccine to the central government around the end of December last year.ZyCoV-D, the world’s first DNA-based and needle-free Covid-19 vaccine and the second indigenously developed one to be approved, was cleared for restricted use in emergency situation in people 12 years of age and above.Zydus did not respond to a query on the delay. The company had on November 8 announced that the government had placed an order for 10 million doses of ZyCov-D.The cost of per dose was fixed at ₹265, or ₹795 for the recommended three-dose regimen.The company had earlier announced that it should have a production capacity of about 10-12 million doses per month.The Zydus vaccine will initially be used in districts of seven states with low first dose coverage before it is rolled out nationwide, the health ministry said last month.The seven states where ZyCoV-D was scheduled to be administered in the first phase were Bihar, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal. The training to administer the vaccine has been completed.ZyCoV-D was developed in partnership with the government’s department of biotechnology under Mission COVID Suraksha, which involved the pooling of resources by several Indian research institutions for development and clinical trials. The Drugs Controller General of India on August 20 granted emergency use authorization.The vaccine works by instructing cells to produce the spike protein of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, which elicits an immune response. Results from the company’s phase III clinical trials showed the vaccine has an efficacy of 66.6%. The vaccine is to be given on day zero, day 28 and day 56, as per the schedule shared by the company.
19-01-2022||India||Ready to apologise to Congress’s Harish Rawat: Harak Singh Rawat||Harak Singh Rawat, who was expelled from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on January 16, said on Tuesday that he is ready to apologise to former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat, the chief election strategist of the Congress party for the assembly polls to be held on February 14.“He (Harish Rawat) is my elder brother. I can apologise 100 times, or even one lakh times for Uttarakhand, its youth, its development,” Harak Singh said at a media briefing on a visit to New Delhi, indicating his willingness to rejoin the Congress, which he left in 2016.Harak Singh was responding to Harish Rawat’s statements about him. “I stand by what have I said. Not just him but all those who were involved (in the 2016 rebellion ) should seek apology from the people of Uttarakhand and democracy,” Harish Rawat said earlier.Harak Singh Rawat was one of the nine Congress lawmakers who rebelled against the Congress government headed by Harish Singh Rawat in March 2016, reducing it to a minority. The Centre imposed President’s rule in the state, although Harish Singh Rawat returned as CM after winning a trust vote in May. Harak Singh Rawat defected to the BJP and was elected on its ticket in 2017. He was expelled by the BJP earlier this month.The decision to induct Harak Singh Rawat into the Congress will have to be a collective decision of the party, Harish Rawat said on Tuesday.Harak Singh was expelled from the BJP for six years on Sunday and has since indicated that he wants to join the Congress ahead of the state elections.Some Congress leaders in Uttarakhand, especially those close to Harish Rawat, are not happy with re-inducting someone involved in the 2016 mutiny into the party.“What happened in 2016 weakened the democratic tradition in the whole country. It was a murder of democracy,” said Pradeep Tamta, Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member.The Congress high command, however, may be keen on using Harak Singh Rawat to fight the incumbent BJP in some seats where he has influence.Given his track record, Harak Singh Rawat has created a difficult situation for himself, said MM Semwal, professor of political science at Garhwal Central University.“If the Congress takes him back, it will send a wrong signal in the party,” Semwal said. “But the Congress high command must be looking at the broader picture and may want to use him for hitting at the BJP, at least in some seats where he holds strong influence.”
19-01-2022||India||Unauthorised interception of messages by probe agencies flouts rights: Delhi HC||Unauthorised interception of messages and audio conversations by investigating agencies will lead to manifest arbitrariness and violation of fundamental rights of citizens, the Delhi high court has held.On Monday, Justice Chandra Dhari Singh said that as per Section 5(2) of the Telegraph Act, an order for interception can only be issued either on the occurrence of any public emergency or in the interest of public safety, as per the law laid down by the Supreme Court in the People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) vs Union of India case in 1997.In that judgment, the apex court said the “right to privacy would certainly include telephone conversations in the privacy of one’s home or office”. It added that conversations on the telephone are often of an intimate, confidential character and an important facet of people’s private lives.“Telephone-tapping would, thus, infract Article 21 of the Constitution of India unless it is permitted under the procedure established by law,” the SC ruled.The Puttuswamy judgment of the apex court on August 24, 2017, said that the right to privacy is protected by the Constitution as an intrinsic part of the right to life and personal liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution of India and as a part of the freedom guaranteed by Part-III of the Constitution of India.Taking note of these rulings, Justice Singh said in a 80-page judgement: “…if the directions of the Supreme Court in PUCL which are now re-enforced and approved by the SC in KS Puttaswamy, as also the mandatory rules in regard to the illegally intercepted messages/audio conversations pursuant to an order having no sanction of law, are permitted, it would lead to manifest arbitrariness and would promote the scant regard to the procedure and fundamental rights of the citizens, and law laid down by the Supreme Court.”Also read | HC pulls up UP Police for forging papers, illegally arresting two from DelhiThe court’s ruling came in a case against Jatinder Pal Singh, an alleged middleman and involved what the Central Bureau of Investigation said was a criminal conspiracy with the object to show favour with respect to the recognition of the courses and grant of permission pertaining to Gian Sagar Medical College and Hospital, Patiala.In 2012, a trial court framed charges against the petitioner and other accused.Singh, through his counsel, contended that the illegal tapping of his telephone conversation was a violation of the right to privacy.Despite the charges against him, the Delhi HC agreed.In its judgment, the court said the mandatory requirements laid down by law for placing reliance on such audio conversations, “have not been fulfilled” in accordance with the Telegraph Act. The judge said that according to rules framed under the Telegraph Act, the order of the Home Secretary granting permission to intercept telephonic conversations is to be forwarded to a Review Committee within seven days of passing the order, for reviewing the decision.It, however, said that no material was placed on record to establish that any review of the order of the Home Secretary was conducted in compliance of the rules in this case.“…After the perusal of the records, this court is satisfied that in peculiar facts of the instant case, the mandatory requirements laid down by law for placing reliance on such audio conversations, have not been fulfilled. It is an admitted position that Rule 419(A)(17) which provides for destruction of intercepted message also adopt the said directions. The court below while passing the impugned orders has also ignored the settled legal positions and directions of the Supreme Court,” the judgment read.The court also said that recordings of the call intercepted in the instant case are “not admissible” since the due procedure for such interception as mandated by the Telegraph Act and the Rules framed was not followed.
19-01-2022||India||Shattering of the aspirations for private ‘English medium’ schools||The building is run down, hidden in a row of other identical buildings. It has two floors and a large metal gate. But unlike the others, which are homes, and from where the usual stirrings of life are visible even on a cold December morning, this building is silent.The gate, which has not been opened in months, has been claimed by cobwebs. A large grey lock protects what is inside, but rust has begun to spread across the metal. The lettering on the building has started to fade: The Lord Krishna English Medium Secondary School, Sadarpur village, Gautam Buddh Nagar. The school no longer exists; it closed a little over a year ago, another inanimate victim of the pandemic.The school, that opened in 2005, once boasted at least 700 students, spanning Classes 1-8, and served Sadarpur, a semi-urban village in the National Capital Region. Except, after the second wave in May 2021, unable to cope with the economic ramifications of government mandated school closures, the owners upped and left. “Most of the children in this locality used to go to this school. The fee was around ₹400 per month. While they stayed during the first lockdown, they could not sustain after the second lockdown that came in April-May,” said Rajender Chauhan (62) from Sadarpur. The village has tried to get in touch with the owners to ask them if they will return. But they have since moved to Pilkhuwa in Uttar Pradesh, and the fate of the school is uncertain.Across the country’s metros, small towns and villages, if there was one signboard that captured India’s aspirations, it was the rickety board advertising an “English Medium” private school. The advertisements were everywhere, painted on walls in tier 2 towns, on tattered posters pasted on lampposts in urban villages, even on billboards. The schools were everywhere too, a growing industry servicing the space between the desire to move children out of ill-equipped government schools and the inability to pay for more expensive private institutions. And in English, of course.Except, even as the pandemic and school shutdowns ravaged education, it devastated the economics of Low Cost Private Schools. If government schools, and larger private schools had the wherewithal to withstand months of no classes, these institutions run out of buildings on rent, and usually with slim profit margins, found they could no longer pay rent or salaries. In this third of a five-part series on the effects of the pandemic on India’s schools and children, HT looked at the fate of these small private schools that closed down in the vicinity of the national capital, and what that has meant for owners, teachers, students, and the larger education ecosystem.What the pandemic has meant for LCPSTwenty-four kilometres away from Sadarpur, 56-year-old Kamlesh Srivastava sits forlorn at home. In 1998, he founded Kanchan Public School in a village called Gadhi Chaukhandi in Gautam Buddh Nagar, from nursery to Class 5, with 26 teachers, and around 800 students. “In 2020 when the pandemic hit, we still had some hope. We had two buildings in the same compound one of which was on rent of ₹40,000 per month while the other was ours, which we bought in 2011. We first let go of the rented building and continued through 2020 with online teaching. However, as time went by, we were unable to pay salaries as parents stopped paying fees. The strength of students reduced from about 800 to just 150 when we reopened in October 2021. After the second Covid wave, there were barely 50 students across the school who would pay fees, and even then only about half of what they owed. As a result, we had to shut the school,” said Srivastava. Fees at the school started from ₹250 per month for nursery classes to ₹475 per month for Class 5.With no other source of income left, his married daughters now support Srivastava financially. But he isn’t the only one associated with the school that is now struggling. Priyanka Yadav, 35, was one of the teachers at the school, earning ₹8,000 a month. A resident of Mamura village, Yadav now gives English tuition classes to children in her village, and her monthly income has dropped to ₹4,500.“My husband lost his job last year when the pandemic started but got another one this year at a garment factory in Sector 63. We have three children to feed and rent to pay, and with my salary cut to half, we are barely able to make ends meet,” she said.Rekha Chauhan, who runs the low budget Adarsh Vatika School in Challera village and is a member of the local Public School Welfare Association of Gautam Buddh Nagar, said that of the 200 schools registered with the body, at least 40 have downed shutters for good. “A major problem is that the parents are unable to pay even ₹500 a month. At my school too, the strength has reduced from 800 students to just 200. It has left owners like us high and dry,” she said.Dharmendra Saxena, Gautam Buddh Nagar’s Basic Education Officer said that it is true that several schools closed during the pandemic in the district, but that there is no data on this. “The repercussions of the brunt of the pandemic on LCPS will only show up on paper, in government data, by 2023 when we start removing schools that have not updated their data for three years,” added Saxena.The national perspectiveAccording to a 2017 report titled “Understanding the Affordable Private School Market in India” compiled by non-profit FSG, 86% of children from low-income households in urban India attend affordable or low cost private schools. The report estimated that there were 130,000 -160,000 such schools in urban India that charge fees between ₹500- ₹1,650 a month.In March 2021, UNICEF released a report highlighting the impact of pandemic on low-cost or affordable private schools, stating, “COVID-19 has hit low-cost private schools (LCPS) especially hard. The economic shock of the pandemic has placed LCPS under significant financial stress; teachers reported losing their jobs, having their salaries cut, or not being paid at all. Thousands of LCPS have already shut down, and thousands more are on the brink of permanent closure.”Officials at the Union ministry of education said that the Unified District Information System for Education (UDISE) 2020-21, to be released in July, will likely shed some light on the scale of school closures. “The report maps district-wise numbers of schools, students and teachers. The closure of schools amid the pandemic will be reflected in this year’s report,” said a senior official at the ministry. Still, that report will likely ignore the impact of the second wave since it will only include data till March 2021.The shift to government schoolsFor the past decade, that she studied in a private “English medium” school, was a matter of pride for 16-year-old Sweety Malik. In March 2020, she passed her class 10 board exam from Angel Public school in the Kasna area of Gautam Buddh Nagar. Then the pandemic hit, the school shut down and every student was given a transfer certificate.There was another problem. She used to pay a fee of ₹1,100 a month, and even as a desperate family looked around, there were no other schools around them within that fee structure. “So in October 2020, I had to get admission at the Navjivan Inter College in Gejha village. Moreover, my father’s income reduced from ₹7,000 to ₹2,500 a month during the lockdown. So the ability to pay for private school just wasn’t there anymore,” said Malik, a resident of Haldoni village. Her father is a construction worker while her mother works as a house help in the high rise apartments of Greater Noida west.For Malik, the shift has been difficult to adjust to. “I am not very happy being here as all subjects are being taught in Hindi. But my classmates are fascinated with my spoken English and many take lessons from me.”Her father, Vikas Malik (38), said that he never wanted Sweety, and her two younger siblings, to go to a government school. “I always wanted my children to go to an English-medium private school so they could have a better life. However, the pandemic brought such conditions that both I and my wife were jobless for almost four months and our savings started drying up. When Sweety’s school shut down, I could not find any other affordable private school.”This shift to government schools is a pattern that is showing up across the country. According to the Annual Status of Education Report (ASER) 2021, a significant number of schoolchildren in India have switched from private schools to government-run schools amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The report found a jump in enrolment in government schools between 2018 and 2020, going up from 64.3% to 65.8%. In 2021, it leapt to 70.3%. On the other hand, enrolment in private schools decreased from 28.8% in 2020 to 24.4% in 2021, the report said.On the ground, data from Gautam Buddh Nagar district in Uttar Pradesh shows that government primary schools had a strength of 86,651 while secondary schools had 74,497 students enrolled in 2019-20. For 2021-22, the number of students in primary schools has increased to 94,626 while in secondary schools it has increased to 80,477.In Ghaziabad, there were 93,459 students studying in primary government schools in 2019-2020 which increased to 100,982 in 2021-22. In secondary classes, there were 83,987 students studying in government schools in 2019-2020 which increased to 89,452 in 2021-22.What this shift meansSituated in the busy main market of Gejha village, the entrance of Sweety Malik’s new school, Navjivan Inter College is easy to miss. The name of the school, written across the building in red paint, has faded away. Inside, there are dirty toilets, broken benches, cracked black boards, and the playground is lined with overgrown shrubs.The school didn’t have great infrastructure even before the pandemic, and now it has to serve more students: the strength has increased from 800 in 2020 to 1500 in 2021. “We were already overburdened with about 100 students in one class but now there are about 150 students in one class with one teacher for one subject. The teachers are overburdened and there is not enough infrastructure to fit in these many students,” said Pushpendra Singh, the school’s principal.In Uttar Pradesh, schools first shut in 2020 in March, and were then reopened in October 2020. In the second wave, the schools shut in April 2021, and then reopened in August 2021. When Singh’s school reopened on August 16 with the 700 extra students, some classes had to be shifted outside, where 40 benches have been placed in rows. Even inside the class, more than half the students have to sit on the floor.“In the winter students do not mind sitting outside in the sun. But during the summer, we often have to either cancel classes or wait for the ‘games period’ of another class so that we can take classes in their classroom,” said RK Singh, a teacher at the school.Lakshay Chhabaria, president of Affordable Private Schools’ Association, said, “Government schools in India, as we already know, suffer a shortage of staff with many posts for teachers and school staff lying vacant. On top of that when more students get admitted to the school, how can we ensure quality education?”Then, there are those for whom even government schools were not an option. Sanju Chaudhary, 17, was a Class 9 student at Gautam Buddh Nagar’s Amar Public School in sector 37, where he paid a monthly fee of ₹700 a month. He was also one of the brightest among a group of students at a tuition centre run by the NGO Social and Development Research and Action Group (SADRAG) where he sought to improve his skills on a computer. His father, a driver, lost his job during the pandemic, and the eldest of four siblings, Chaudhary was forced to find work. Mala Bhandari, founder of SADRAG said, “We tried very hard to get Sanju admission into a government school but his parents needed him to start earning. This is not just a one-off case but a story of many other children in the pandemic.” In Chaudhary’s story, he has gone from talented Class 9 student, with dreams and aspirations, to a worker at a bakery in Noida. He has no idea of when, if at all, he will be able to return to education.(With inputs from Fareeha Iftikhar)
19-01-2022||India||BJP sets up committees to strengthen election campaigns||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has set up committees to strengthen its targeted campaigns in five poll-bound states so as to offset restrictions imposed by the election commission on traditional canvassing methods in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.The poll panel has put a moratorium on all large gatherings and rallies, a preferred method of outreach, till January 23, forcing political parties to come up with alternative methods of canvassing.On Tuesday, BJP president JP Nadda addressed leaders who have been delegated the work of strengthening the party’s campaign through interventions that will largely rest on the party’s digital reach. The teams announced on Tuesday will assist the state units in Punjab, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Manipur and Goa to relay the party’s message through physical interactions and virtual connections, according to a functionary familiar with what happened at the meeting.Also read | Tell people about the power of every vote: PM to BJP workers“Teams with three to four people in each have been given the charge of working with the state units to increase the penetration through social media platforms and to spread out in smaller groups to interact with either groups of professionals or undertake door-to-door campaign without violating ECI’s rules against gatherings,” the functionary said, requesting anonymity.Union ministers Anurag Thakur and Rajeev Chandrashekhar, who are in charge of the digital outreach, will also have a team focusing on leveraging the party’s digital network.Commenting on the BJP’s preparedness to take its campaign online in view of the pandemic, Chandrashekhar said, “The BJP’s digital outreach is being built very strongly on two pillars that are digitally enabled, our vast network of workers and the many crores of citizens who are beneficiaries of the government schemes who are also the best digital ambassadors of the BJP’s governance record and delivery on promises. Because of these two strengths and use of small groups or in-person contacts, BJP’s messaging and campaigning will reach every voter despite the restrictions of physical campaigning caused by the Covid virus.”The BJP’s campaign typically involves appointing people in charge of each booth, who in turn have the responsibility of motivating voters to come out and cast their ballots. This is followed up with the identifying of supporters and fence sitters, who are then approached with the party’s programmes and schemes, and are also used to glean response to the government’s policies.While the door-to-door campaigns will be restricted, party leaders said they will innovate even in these. “Even at small physical meetings, we will be able to relay our content digitally,” said the functionary cited above. .Nadda and BL Santhosh, the BJP’s national general secretary overseeing organisation, have picked national joint general secretary Shiv Prakash and general secretary Dilip Saikia to coordinate such booth-level meetings, which usually involve two or three leaders meeting people in groups of 5-10 people.Another team has been given the mandate of carrying out samajik samvaad by reaching out to socially and economically marginalised communities. “Work began in November last year but with the announcement of the elections, it will now pick up pace. The team’s mandate is to reach out to the unaffiliated sections among scheduled castes and other marginalized groups and to act as a bridge between them and the government. We get to expand our political reach while making the government cognizant of their concerns,” said a second functionary who asked not to be identified.One of the teams will also assist in drafting and keeping track of the poll narrative that workers on ground will relay to voters. The issues that become part of the narrative are decided by the workers on the ground, taking into account the peculiarities and the specificities of the issues in each state.“There are key issues that are likely to be raised during the campaign and the party has prepared answers to these. Part of the process of building a narrative is also being able to not just counter what the opposition says, but to drive the discourse,” said a third leader who asked not to be named.Since the party will also hold virtual rallies, as it did during the Bihar assembly polls in 2020, a team will oversee the setting up of large screens in village squares and panchayat offices for broadcast of speeches. The party is particularly focused on sharpening its content that is disseminated through mobile phone and social media platforms. “Digital content is driving the campaign and in January alone in UP our content had 25 crore impressions across messaging platforms,” a fourth functionary said.Teams have also been set up for supervising the execution of indoor meetings. The poll watchdog has allowed parties to hold meetings of no more than 300 people, or 50% of the capacity of a closed hall. National general secretary Vinod Tawde, national secretary Sunil Deodhar and in-charge of the OBC morcha Laxman Singh have been given charge of planning these indoor events that will be addressed by star campaigners and national leaders.The party will also have volunteers campaign at marketplaces and public spaces carrying placards and pamphlets. “They will be masked and maintain social distancing. In some places, we will have campaigning targeted at women carried out through group activities. A team has also been set up to oversee the process of sending ballot papers to senior citizens, people with disabilities and Covid patients,” said the first functionary.
19-01-2022||India||BSF: 82 truckers found with fake driving licences at Bangladesh border||The Border Security Force found at least 82 drivers using fake driving licences to ply trucks to and from Bangladesh at Petrapole Integrated Check Post (ICP) in West Bengal over the last two days -- a significant security issue in a sensitive area. According to BSF spokesperson Krishna Rao, the Customs department and Land Port Authority of India have been informed that drivers operating on fake licences cannot be allowed to operate across the border. A police case is being registered by the force to investigate the “larger conspiracy”, Rao added. The border-guarding force received inputs about a few drivers being involved in transborder crimes such as smuggling of gold, cough syrup, drugs etc while engaged in export and import of goods between India and Bangladesh, following which surprise checks were carried at the Petrapole ICP on January 16 and 17, said Rao.On Sunday, BSF found 52 fake driving licences and another 30 the following day. A BSF spokesperson said all 82 fake driving licences have been handed over to the Customs. “The concerned authorities of Customs and Land Port Authority of India were told that BSF cannot allow those trucks to go to Bangladesh whose drivers are found in the possession of a fake driving licence,” Rao said. Rao added, “No driver with a fake driving licence can be allowed to ply the trucks to Bangladesh at any cost. These drivers obtain fake car passes from the customs department using their driving licences.”To ensure smooth trade between India and Bangladesh, BSF has also informed Bangaon Transport Association across the border to follow standard operating procedures (SOPs) so that the security and interests of the two nations are not compromised. Petrapole ICP is the largest land port in South Asia, located along the international border between India and Bangladesh, about 80 km from Kolkata. Petrapole (India)-Benapole (Bangladesh) is an important land border crossing for both the countries in terms of trade and passenger movement and nearly 30% of land-based trade between India and Bangladesh takes place there. Since it was operationalised in February 2016, the Petrapole ICP has witnessed an increase in passenger movement, with an average of 2.2 million people crossing the border post on either side each year.Detailing the reasons why the BSF has decided to beef up security at Petrapole, the spokesperson said the force seized smuggled gold worth around ₹1.4 crore from a transporter while he was trying to escape on a bike on January 4. The gold was smuggled from Bangladesh by concealing it in a truck. On July 19 last year, gold worth ₹1.71 crore was seized from an Indian driver coming from Bangladesh. Days later on August 21, Saudi riyal worth ₹1.68 crore was recovered from an empty Indian truck returning from Bangladesh after unloading export goods. Acting on an intelligence input, BSF seized 50 kg of marijuana from an Indian truck on January 9 this year besides several seizures of illegal items including narcotics in last few months. Rao said that “in all these illegal activities, roles of Indian transporters, labourers, drivers, helpers and different agents and sub-agents have been established”. “It is also worth mentioning that sometimes, drivers with fake driving licences tend to meet road accidents. Even BSF lost the life of one of its jawans when he was overrun by a truck driver in October last year. Therefore, it is necessary that BSF check the validity of the driving licence.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-82-truckers-found-with-fake-driving-licences-at-bangladesh-border-101642530532760.html
19-01-2022||India||Variant watch: Even mild cases may leave a mark on brain||A case of mild Covid-19 can lead to significant effects on the brain, according to a new study by a team led by scientists from Stanford and Yale universities, who found previously undiscovered biological mechanisms and markers that demonstrate how a Sars-CoV-2 infection leaves many with effects similar to chemotherapy.The finding holds implications for rehabilitation of people with even mild cases and those suffering from so-called long Covid symptoms, which are still not properly understood. These effects have often manifested as what has loosely been known as brain fog, in which cognitive ability and memory functions are impaired.The latest study, shared as a journal pre-print for peer review, now finds more signs of why this may be happening by studying how the virus, engineered to cause only mild disease, affected mice brains and the infection markers seen in people with and without such symptoms.First, the researchers found signs of neuro inflammation by detecting specific markers for immune cells known as cytokines in spinal fluid up to seven weeks after an infection. These were found in the mice as well as 48 people who reported neurological long Covid symptoms, but the same markers were not present in 15 people who did not have these long-lasting symptoms.The scientists then studied the brains of the mice and found “microglial reactivity” in a particular part of the brain. Microglia are a type of immune cells in the central nervous system.These cells also limit the process of generation of new neurons in the hippocampus, the part of the brain that supports healthy memory function. Indeed, for the third part of the study, they found that there was a “stark decrease in new neuron generation” in the infected mice. They also found that another process of a healthy brain in which the myelin – it modulates the speed of neural impulses – is optimally maintained was impacted.The authors add that they are yet to assess whether newer variants such as Omicron have a similar biological effect on the brain. But their study provides new biological insight that cognitive losses affect not only people who were hospitalised due to Covid-19 but also those that had mild disease.“There are stark parallels between the cellular dysregulation that can happen after chemotherapy and even mild Covid-19. Understanding the neurobiological underpinnings of Long Covid will lay the groundwork for therapeutic strategies to address this neurological health crisis,” said Michelle Monje, neuroscientist at Stanford University and one of the authors of the study, in a tweet.A second study, also shared this week, offers some hope. Researchers in Israel found that people who were fully vaccinated were significantly less likely to suffer from long Covid symptoms.After adjusting... those who received two doses were less likely than unvaccinated individuals to report (fatigue) by 64%, (headache) by 54%, (weakness) by 57%, and (persistent muscle pain) by 68%, said the researchers from Safed, Israel.
19-01-2022||India||Strategically increase Covid tests: Centre tells states||All states need to immediately increase testing for Covid-19 infections in a strategic manner to figure out case positivity rates in specific locations within a state to contain the surge driven by the highly transmissible Omicron variant, the health ministry said on Tuesday. “Progression of disease to a severe category can be averted by strategic testing of those who are at high risk and more vulnerable, as well as in areas where the spread is likely to be higher,” additional health secretary Arti Ahuja said in a letter to the states. “As you are aware, the Omicron which has been designated by WHO as variant of concern (VoC) is currently spreading across the country… laying out the broad framework of pandemic management in the context of Omicron, testing remains a key and crucial component of the framework,” she said. The ministry asked provincial governments to increase testing as data from the Indian Council of Medical Research’s portal show testing has declined in many states and Union territories. Keeping up the testing pace is important to identify new infection clusters and hot spots, which can help in setting up of containment zones, contact tracing, quarantining, isolation and follow-up, Ahuja said in the letter. This would ensure reduction in mortality and morbidity.“In all advisories on testing issued by ICMR including the latest advisory dated 10th January, 2022, the basic objective remains early detection of cases for quick isolation and care,” the letter said.Ahuja reiterated ICMR’s guidelines pertaining to conducting purposive testing that includes testing all symptomatic cases and all at-risk contacts of confirmed infections. Senior citizens and those with comorbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, chronic heart, and kidney or liver disease are deemed to be at higher risk than others.The health ministry has recommended strategic and focused testing of people who are vulnerable, living in closed surroundings, in densely populated areas in emerging new clusters, and new hot spots of positive cases.Testing is crucial in early detection of cases, experts said.“It is important to test so that positive cases are identified and isolated early, and also put on treatment in time to reduce the risk of death, especially for high-risk cases,” said T Jacob John, former head of the virology department at Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu. “That is how the spread of infection is curbed in the long run.” 
19-01-2022||India||Covid-19 forces massive cut in R-Day ceremony||The spectator count at India’s biggest ceremonial event, the Republic Day parade, will be massively curtailed this year due to Covid-related restrictions with only 5,000 to 8,000 people allowed entry to Rajpath to witness the spectacular display of the country’s military might and cultural heritage, top officials familiar with the matter said on Tuesday. “We do not want the parade to become a superspreader event in the midst of the third Covid wave. The number of spectators has been significantly curtailed. We are still working on the final numbers but it’s going to be between 5,000 and 8,000 people” said one of the officials cited above. Only double vaccinated adults and single vaccinated children of age 15 and above will be allowed entry. The January 26 parade was attended by around 25,000 spectators amid the ebbing second wave, compared to around 125,000 people who typically turned up at Rajpath to watch the event in the pre-pandemic era. A new show with 1,000 drones is expected to add sparkle to the Beating Retreat ceremony on January 29, which marks the culmination of the Republic Day celebrations. “This ‘Make in India’ initiative (drone show) has been organised by a startup, Botlab Dynamics, supported by Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi and the department of science and technology. Only the US, Russia and China have the capability for a show with 1,000 drones,” the official said. The duration of the show will be 10 minutes. The Republic Day parade will begin at 10.30 am, instead of the traditional timing of 10 am, for better visibility to the parade and the fly past --- the highlight of the event. The fly past, comprising 75 aircraft in India’s 75th year of Independence, will feature flying formations to commemorate some glorious moments of India’s decisive victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war, including the historic Tangail airdrop and the Meghna heli-borne operation. The defence ministry has conceptualised a raft of new events to mark the Republic Day celebrations as the country is also observing the 75th year of its Independence, a second official said. This year onwards, Republic Day celebrations will begin on January 23, the birth anniversary of the iconic freedom fighter Subhas Chandra Bose, instead of January 24, and culminate on January 30, Mahatma Gandhi’s death anniversary. This year marks Bose’s 125th birth anniversary. On January 23, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will present the Subhas Chandra Bose Aapda Prabandhan Puraskar for outstanding work in disaster management at a ceremony to be held at India Gate, said a third official. On January 26, the National Cadet Corps (NCC) will launch a programme called Shaheedon ko Shat Shat Naman, as part of the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav, to honour the sacrifices of fallen heroes. “The next of kin (NOK) of around 5,000 fallen heroes will be presented the ‘Plaque of Gratitude,’ by NCC cadets. Each plaque signed by the PM. This activity will be carried out around the same time when the PM pays homage at the National War Memorial in New Delhi,” the first official said. This will mark the beginning of the programme, which will carry on till August 15, 2022 by when the cadets would have felicitated the NOKs of all 26,466 fallen heroes whose names are inscribed on the memorial. Huge scrolls, measuring 75 metres by 15 feet each, will serve as view cutters in the spectator stands along Rajpath. “Ten scrolls were prepared taking inspiration from the unsung heroes of the freedom struggle,” the official said. For the first time, dancers taking part in the cultural segment of the parade have been selected through a nation-wide competition called ‘Vande Bharatam,’ which ended with the selection of 600 dancers. The aim of the competition was to hunt for dancing talent from across the country and provide equal opportunity to all to perform at the parade, the officials said. Ten large LED screens, five on either side of Rajpath, will be installed for a better viewing experience. The invitation cards for the parade will be different too this year. The seeds of medicinal plants such as ashwagandha, aloe vera and amla will be embedded in the invites for people to plant them later. This year, the government has also reserved seats for people who usually do not get an opportunity to witness the parade. Seats have been earmarked for autorickshaw drivers, construction workers, safai workers and frontline health workers at both the parade and the Beating Retreat ceremony.
19-01-2022||India||Bhagwant Mann is AAP’s CM face for Punjab polls||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday named Bhagwant Mann (48) as the party’s chief ministerial face for the upcoming assembly elections in Punjab.The name of Mann, a two-time parliamentarian from Sangrur who is considered the party’s most popular Punjabi face, was announced at an event in Mohali, where Kejriwal declared the result of the party’s phone-in survey asking people to suggest their preferences as CM. Kejriwal said the party received 2.15 million responses from people.“Many people included my name. I had already said that I am not in the race so we declared their votes as invalid. Of the remaining responses, 93.3% took Sardar Bhagwant Mann’s name,” said the AAP chief, who was flanked by Mann, leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema, AAP’s Punjab affairs in-charge Jarnail Singh and co-incharge Raghav Chadha on the dais.Mann said he was named (the CM face) not only by the party but also the people of Punjab. A “very big responsibility” has been given to him by the party, he said. “Lakhs of people have reposed their faith in me and it has become my double responsibility. I will work with double courage,” he added.The AAP launched a mobile number on January 13, on which people were asked to give their opinion till 5 pm on January 17.Kejriwal said that (Punjab Congress president) Navjot Singh Sidhu was number two with 3.6% votes. “Bhagwant Mann is officially declared as AAP’s chief ministerial face,” he announced, amid resounding applause and slogan-shouting from party supporters.Voting for Punjab’s 117 assembly seats will be held on February 20 and the counting of votes will be taken up on March 10. AAP is looking to dislodge the Congress from power after having emerged as the largest Opposition party in the 2017 elections. Five years ago, AAP contested without a CM face , seen by many as a big reason for its performance falling short of expectations.The comedian-turned-politician Mann unsuccessfully contested the 2012 Punjab assembly polls from Lehragaga in Sangrur as a candidate of the Manpreet Singh Badal-led People’s Party. He joined AAP in 2014 and was pitted against Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa from the Sangrur Lok Sabha seat. He defeated Dhindsa by a record margin of over 200,000 votes. He again won the Lok Sabha seat in 2019 -- the only AAP candidate to win -- and also became AAP’s Punjab unit chief.“After forming the government, everyone has to work towards making Punjab a place where people will call the shots, not chamchas (sycophants),” Mann said, while thanking people for their support and prayers.Kejriwal said people from many sections of the society were protesting by sitting atop water tanks in the state and their issues must be addressed. “In my view, the pen of those holding positions of authority should be used for the welfare of the people. This is the only way we can make Punjab what it was,” he said.Invoking former president APJ Abdul Kalam, Punjabi poet Surjit Pattar and former South African president Nelson Mandela, Mann vowed to work for the people.Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu mocked Mann. “The bridegroom (CM candidate) may have been chosen but it depends on the people whether a wedding should take place or not. I congratulate the bridegroom, though. Our high command is intelligent and whatever decision it will take, it will be in the interest of the state,” he said.Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal said the move was “falling back on compromised candidate” as no one was ready to lead AAP in Punjab. “AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal never wanted to make Bhagwant Mann the face of the party in Punjab. He has been saying so to Mann’s face because the party was looking for a capable candidate. It is also a fact that AAP sounded off a number of prospective candidates but each and every one of them refused to lead the party,” said Badal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhagwant-mann-is-aap-s-cm-face-for-punjab-polls-101642530112818.html
19-01-2022||India||NDA exam: SC asks Centre to explain limiting women||The Supreme Court on Tuesday demanded an explanation from the Union government on restricting the intake of women cadets in the upcoming session of the National Defence Academy (NDA) to 19 -- the same as last year.Reminding the Centre of its assurance to put the requisite infrastructure in place by May 2022, the top court observed that “only 19 seats cannot be for all times to come” and said that it needs to explain the rationale behind fixing this number.“The figure is the same as for the 2021 test. Last year, you said that it was due to infrastructure problems. Now, again, for the year 2022, you have proposed to take the same number of women candidates. Why have you fixed this figure? You have to explain this. Only 19 seats cannot be for all times to come. It was only an ad hoc measure last year,” a bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and MM Sundresh said.It asked additional solicitor general Aishwarya Bhati, appearing for the Union government , to submit an explanation on restricting the intake of women candidates to 19, along with other details about the total number of candidates, including women, who appeared in the NDA examination 2021, and for entrance tests for Rashtriya Indian Military College (RIMC) and for Rashtriya Military School (RMS). The NDA exam is conducted twice a year, NDA-I in the first half of the year and NDA-II in the second.The Centre was put on a notice after senior counsel Chinmoy Pradip Sharma and advocate Mohit Paul complained about a fresh notification issued by the Union Public Services Commission for NDA-I exam in 2022, limiting the intake of women cadets to just 19.Representing petitioner Kush Kalra, the lawyers rued that this figure seems to be arbitrarily picked up from the last entrance exam, wherein the number of women candidates to be inducted in NDA-II, 2021 was 19: 10 in the army, three in the navy and six in the air force. They cited the Centre’s affidavit in September 2021, promising the court that it would soon have the required infrastructure ready for full intake of women.Observing that these submissions have “some merit”, the bench asked Bhati: “The last exam was under a little push and nudge from the court and you were saying that there was a little problem to get the infrastructure ready. So, we also said ‘let it be’, as we wanted the induction to start. But you certainly said that by May 2022 you will be fully ready. How have you now fixed the figure at 19 for 2022 based on the examination you conducted in 2021 as an ad hoc measure?”The ASG, on her part, replied that it is not just the infrastructural facilities in the academy that matter but also the requirement of the armed forces. This was the first time the Union government was talking about the requirement of the forces and the fact did not miss the apex court’s attention.To this, the bench responded: “We understand that but you told us on the last date that you would be better equipped to deal with it fully by May 2022. But now you have fixed that as the same. That is something you have to explain. The earlier exam was an emergency measure. But now what is your programme? How much will be inducted? We assumed that this had to be done in a phased manner.”Bhati sought some time to put on record all the requisite details, including the requirement of armed forces as well as the reasons behind the number of intake of women candidates. “We will place the ratio for army, air force and navy. Please give us three weeks to file an affidavit. For RIMC and RMS, this ratio is much higher and we will place that on record too.”At this, the bench gave Bhati three weeks to file a detailed affidavit with respect to intake of women cadets in NDA, RIMC and RMS, while taking into account the petitioner’s submissions that the intake should be based on certain criteria that can stand for time to come and also factor in the induction of women in different fields as per judicial pronouncements of the Supreme Court relating to permanent commission to women in armed forces.Breaking the glass ceiling that endured for 65 years, the top court in August 2021 rejected the government’s argument that the restriction against women from training at the Pune-based NDA was a policy decision while issuing the interim order to let them sit for the exam in November.It had also implored the government to “take a more constructive view of the matter”, prompting the Union government to come back to the court in September 2021 with a policy decision to throw open the doors of the NDA to women cadets as well.Under the eligibility criteria at that point of time, only male candidates who cleared class 12 level or its equivalent education and were in the age group of 16-and-a-half and 19 were eligible to apply.Those who clear the NDA exam are called for interview by the Service Selection Board (SSB) and following a medical exam, candidates are recruited in the Indian Army, navy, and air force wings of NDA, and for the INA course for pre-commission training. NDA was commissioned in 1955.In the exam conducted in November 2021, women candidates comprised 178,000 of 570,000 applications, and 1,002 women cleared the written exam. The UPSC came out with a press note in December 2021, declaring 19 women candidates as successful.UPSC also issued a notice on December 22, 2021 for NDA-I exam notifying the figures for induction in the armed forces. It mentioned a total of 208 candidates, including 10 women, for the army; 42, including 3 women for the navy; and 120 candidates, including 6 women, for the air force. According to this notice, all 30 seats in the Naval Academy were to be filled up only by male cadets.The headcount of women in the military has increased almost three-fold over the last six years, with more avenues being opened to them at a steady pace. As of February 2021, 118 women were serving in the armed forces.The Supreme Court , in February 2020, ruled that SSC women officers were entitled to permanent commission (PC) in the army and navy and that they have to be considered irrespective of their service length. This judgment led to around 5020 women officers being granted PC.
19-01-2022||India||How cold and long is this cold spell in Delhi||Delhi has shivered over the past week. January 15, for instance, saw the lowest maximum temperature in 51 years, and the 10th coldest day by maximum temperature in the same period. Lack of sunshine has made the cold harsher. Usually, early January is biting cold in the capital, but things start looking up around the middle of the month. What explains this year’s chill? HT looked at long-term weather data to make sense.Is pollution blocking sunlight?Delhi and large parts of India’s northern plains are used to waking up to smoggy mornings in winter, thanks to air pollution. Is the recent phase of sunless days – around 100 flights were delayed at the Indira Gandhi International Airport due to low visibility on January 13 – a result of high pollution as well?By the standard of recent years at least, the air this January has been better, with an average Air Quality Index (AQI) of 267.8, the lowest since at least 2018 for the period up to January 16. The earlier lowest value of AQI for this period was 309.8 in January 2020. It suggests that lack of visibility and sunlight is more because of fog than smog.Colder days have made winter harsherJanuary 15 saw a maximum temperature of 13.03 degrees Celsius in Delhi. This is 7.3 degrees colder than normal, which is the average of temperatures from 1981 to 2010. It is the lowest compared to the normal maximum temperature on this day since 1951, the earliest period for which data is available. While such wide deviation from the maximum temperature is not unprecedented – a slightly higher deviation of 7.5 degrees occurred on October 18 last year and such deviations have occurred on 150 days since 1950 – its timing made the day the 10th coldest day by maximum temperature since 1951. While January 15 was an extreme event, maximum temperatures have been lower than normal since the second week of January. Minimum temperatures, on the other hand, have been close to and above normal.Colder than usual days and just about normal nighttime temperatures mean the relative comfort which warmer days offer during winter has been missing in the past few weeks. The ratio of average maximum and minimum temperature in the first four days of January was 3.30. In the following 12 days, this was 1.78. In the 1981-2010 period, the ratios for these two intervals were not that different at 3.15 and 3.06.The temperature reading used here has been taken from India Meteorological Department’s gridded temperature dataset. The grids include an area between one-degree longitude and latitude and cover an area bigger than Delhi’s administrative boundaries.Is this the longest spell of low maximum temperatures?Daytime temperature has been below normal on all days since January 5. However, it has been substantially and consistently lower since January 8. In the nine-day period from January 8 to 16, it has been 10% or more less than normal. Its maximum value was 16.9 degrees on January 12 and the minimum value was 13.03 degrees on January 15.Have there been similar spells of low daytime temperatures? Allowing for slightly more variation, HT searched for all continuous periods of nine days or longer when maximum temperature was less than normal by 10% or more. So that such spells during summer are excluded, only those spells were considered when the temperature was under 20 degrees on at least one day.There are only 23 such spells since 1951, of which only five, including the current one, are nine days long. The current spell is therefore not the longest. That distinction is held by a 25-day period from December 8, 1997, to January 1, 1998. The average maximum temperature of the current spell (15.76 degrees) is also the 6th lowest, about 1.73 degrees higher than the spell with the lowest average (December 30, 2010, to January 10, 2011). However, this spell has lacked any mild relief in between. The maximum value of daytime temperature for this year’s spell is the lowest among all such spells, and the only one under 17 degrees. Fourteen of 23 spells had a maximum value above 19 degrees.Rain and overcast skies reasons for spike in coldThe trends above are characteristic of rainy days. Clouds and rain prevent long exposure to sun during the day, reducing daytime temperature. Whatever heat does get through during the day, however, is trapped by clouds and keeps night warmer than usual. Western disturbances this month have ensured this situation prevails. Rainfall this January in Delhi is the 5th highest since 1951 for the period up to 8:30 AM on January 16. The 44% share that heavy rainfall – more than 35.5 mm in a day – has had in this interval is the 3rd highest since 1901. Even when it was not raining in Delhi, it was raining in neighbouring states or in the hills, keeping the capital dark and cold.Is the situation likely to improve soon? The 7-day forecast of the regional meteorological centre in New Delhi published on January 18 does not suggest so. Maximum temperature is expected to rise to 19 degrees by January 20, but will remain in the 16-17 degrees range thereafter, with skies remaining cloudy until January 24. Minimum temperature is likely to be 13 or 13 degrees from January 20 to 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-cold-and-long-is-this-cold-spell-in-delhi-101642529993072.html
19-01-2022||India||Rajnath writes to Mamata, Stalin amid row over tableau rejections||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday wrote to the chief ministers of West Bengal and Tamil Nadu, assuring them the selection of tableaux for the Republic Day parade was based on a transparent process. The minister wrote the letters after Mamata Banerjee and MK Stalin expressed disappointment over the Union government rejecting the tableaux of their respective states for the Republic Day celebrations, and sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s immediate intervention in the matter.In his letters, Singh wrote that the tableaux proposed by different states and Union territories are selected after several rounds of evaluation by a committee consisting of experts from the fields of arts, culture, music and dance.“The tableaux of West Bengal were selected for the Republic Day parade following the same process in 2016, 2017, 2019 and 2021,” Singh wrote to West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee.Singh also said that he respected the CM’s sentiments and it was for this reason he wanted to personally inform her about the selection process. He added that of the tableaux proposals submitted by 29 states and UTs, 12 were finally approved.West Bengal’s proposed tableau was to commemorate Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and Indian National Army on Bose’s 125th birth anniversary. The tableau would have carried portraits of Vidyasagar, Rabindranath Tagore, Vivekananda, Chittaranjan Das, Sri Aurobindo, Matangini Hazra, Birsa Munda, Nazrul Islam, Banerjee had earlier written. “Bengal was at the forefront of the Indian freedom struggle and paid heaviest price for the country’s Independence through the partition. People of West Bengal are deeply pained by this attitude of the central government,” Banerjee added.A central government spokesperson on Monday said, “This year’s tableau of CPWD includes Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, so the question of his insult does not arise.”In his letter to Banerjee, Singh highlighted the contribution of Bose to the freedom struggle and said that from this year, Republic Day celebrations will begin on January 23, the birth anniversary of the iconic freedom fighter, instead of January 24, and culminate on January 30.In his letter to Stalin, the defence minister wrote, “This is also to bring to your kind information that during the last few years, the tableaux from Tamil Nadu has been selected for participation in the Republic Day Parade during 2017, 2019, 2020 and 2021…You would appreciate that the selection of tableaux is as per the prescribed guidelines on the matter.”Singh wrote that the expert committee examines the tableaux proposals on the basis of theme, concept, design and its visual impact before making its recommendations.In a letter to the PM, Stalin had earlier said, “Excluding the tableau will deeply hurt the sentiments and patriotic feelings of the people of Tamil Nadu…That the expert committee chooses to ignore and reject all the seven designs shown to it as per the modifications suggested by its members is unacceptable.”On January 13, Kerala chief minister Pinayari Vijayan also sought PM’s intervention after the state’s proposal for the tableau of social reformer Sree Narayana Guru and Jatayu Park monument was rejected and the Centre instead changed it to Adi Shankara, which the state rejected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-writes-to-mamata-stalin-amid-row-over-tableau-rejections-101642529932995.html
19-01-2022||India||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman targets Congress after SC’s ruling on Devas||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday accused the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance government for perpetrating the Devas Multimedia scam, citing the Supreme Court’s verdict, and said that while the corporate affairs ministry has initiated the liquidation process of the controversial firm, law enforcement agencies will take action against those involved in the crime.Extensively quoting the Monday judgement of the apex court that called the deal between the Indian Space Research Organisation’s (ISRO) commercial arm Antrix Corporation and Devas Multimedia “a product of fraud perpetrated by Devas”, Sitharaman said: “It is a fraud by Congress, of Congress [and] for Congress” and the Congress party is the “master of corruption”. ‘Digitally Enhanced Video and Audio Services’ is the expanded form of Devas.Antrix on January 28, 2005 entered into an agreement with private firm Devas for providing multimedia services to mobile users and offered the S-band satellite spectrum, a property of national security, without intimating the Union Cabinet, according to Sitharaman. Although, after the six years of inaction, the Congress-led UPA government in 2011 cancelled the deal, it did not try to defend arbitration proceedings initiated by Devas and its shareholders against the cancellation, she said. Antrix is a wholly owned company of the central government under administrative control of the department of space, which is a portfolio held by the Prime Minister.Also read | With Devas judgement, Modi government cleans yet another UPA messWhen asked about the next step of the government in this matter, Sitharaman said that the agencies such as the Central Bureau of investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) would act as per the law governing them and could attach some of the assets of entities involved that may include fix-deposits and other properties.“I may not be able to give you the details, because today I’m looking at the company... [The] company getting liquidated ... which was a fraud in its first place... all that [have been] established. We are looking at that side today. But sooner, post this order of the Supreme Court, I will be holding a meeting with all those departments and also the law enforcement agencies to see how best we can proceed,” she said.The Supreme Court on Monday cleared the decks for winding up of Devas Multimedia at the instance of ISRO’s commercial arm Antrix, as it affirmed the findings of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) that Devas was set up for a “fraudulent and unlawful purpose” of “unjust enrichment”. Devas holds three arbitral awards to the tune of ₹15,000 crore against Antrix, a public sector firm, over the termination of deal in 2011. India has challenged these arbitral awards.Commenting on the government’s action against the ongoing arbitration proceedings abroad, the finance minister said: “First of all, it is the Supreme Court of India whose order we are taking up and presenting before those arbitrations. Second, that is where I wish government of India [the then UPA government]... would have understood the gravity of the fraud that had taken place, and also gravity of cancellation and its fallout, and built-up the case [from 2011] in a tight manner, putting up the right arguments of national security and also the fraud that had been perpetrated...”She said it was the Narendra Modi government who took legal recourse and taking all steps necessary to protect the national interest, which is reflected in the recent verdict of the Supreme Court.Devas initiated three arbitrations against the termination of the deal. One at the International Chambers of Commerce (ICC) and two other arbitrations under the Bilateral Investment Treaty (BIT) – one initiated by Mauritius investors and the other Deutsche Telekom, a German firm. India lost all three. The first, related to commercial termination of contract, is of $1 billion. The one under Mauritius BIT is $111.29 million, plus cost and interest and the third under Germany BIT is $93.3 million, plus cost and interest, the finance minister said. India will take legal recourse against Devas shareholders’ move to attach Indian assets abroad to recover the award. They have got a French court order to freeze Indian assets in Paris and some assets of state-run Air India in Canada.Rejecting the charge, Congress leader Pranav Jha said “Will request the minister to do a press conference and give a statement on the record unemployment, and rising poverty even as wealth of their Cronies increases multifold||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/finance-minister-nirmala-sitharaman-targets-congress-after-sc-s-ruling-on-devas-101642529755974.html
19-01-2022||India||No foreign chief guest at R-Day as Covid-19 surges||The Republic Day celebrations on January 26 will go ahead without any foreign leader as a chief guest, the second year in a row that India’s signature event has been affected by the fallout of the Covid-19 pandemic.India had invited the leaders of the five Central Asian states – Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan – to be chief guests at the celebrations, though no formal announcement was made in this regard by any of the countries.The rapid spread of the Omicron variant of the Coronavirus in the past few weeks and recent violent protests in Kazakhstan, which resulted in the death of more than 220 people, were factors that went against the participation of the Central Asian leaders, people familiar with the matter said on Tuesday.A diplomat from a Central Asian state, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the leaders of the five states would be unable to participate in the Republic Day celebrations in-person. The diplomat added that the Central Asian states and India are now focusing on a virtual summit of the leadership of the six countries to mark the 30th anniversary of diplomatic relations, though a date for this is yet to be finalised.The possibility of looking at an alternative chief guest was ruled out due to the paucity of time, the people cited above said.Also read | Covid-19 forces massive cut in R-Day ceremonyLast year, India went ahead with truncated Republic Day celebrations without a chief guest after UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson called off his visit at the last minute because of the rapid spread of a strain of the Coronavirus in Britain. It is extremely rare for the Republic Day celebrations, seen as a high point in the country’s diplomatic calendar, not to have a chief guest.Prior to 2021, the last time the celebrations didn’t have a chief guest was in 1966, when Indira Gandhi was sworn in as prime minister on January 24 after the death of Lal Bahadur Shastri on January 11. There were also no chief guests at the celebrations in 1952 and 1953.Though no formal announcements had been made regarding this year’s chief guests, Turkmenistan’s foreign minister Rashid Meredov had hinted at it while participating in the India-Central Asia Dialogue in New Delhi on December 19. Meredov had said in his opening remarks at the meeting that the dialogue would be a “key event in the preparation process for the upcoming Central Asia-India Summit in January”.India’s move to invite the Central Asian leaders was a follow up to the invitation extended to the leaders of the 10 members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) to be the chief guests at the Republic Day in 2018. The Central Asian states are perceived by India as part of the country’s extended neighbourhood and their importance has increased following the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan.In recent years, India has stepped up its efforts to boost connectivity and trade with the strategically important region. At the India-Central Asia Dialogue, the six countries pushed for concerted action against all terror groups and stressed that Afghan soil must not be used for planning or executing terror attacks. They also pledged to provide humanitarian aid to the Afghan people.
19-01-2022||India||China nears completion of key bridge across Pangong||A bridge being built by China across the Pangong lake in an area claimed by India is expected to be completed in a few months and will give the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) an edge in speedily moving troops between several locations.High-resolution satellite imagery of the bridge from January 16, acquired from US space technology company Maxar by NDTV, shows the bridge is eight metres wide and more than 400 metres long, and Chinese workers are using a heavy crane to place concrete slabs between pillars before the laying of the tarmac.The first satellite images showing the bridge, being built across the narrowest section of the 134 km long strategic lake, emerged earlier this month. On January 6, the external affairs ministry accused China of building the bridge in an area it has illegally occupied for 60 years.The bridge is located south of a key PLA position on the north bank of Pangong lake. It is being built at a spot where the two banks of the lake are about 500 metres apart. Once completed, the bridge will cut the distance between Chinese troop positions on the north bank to a key PLA base at Rutog by around 150 km.Also read | China uses heavy machinery for Pangong bridge that will let PLA deploy fasterChinese forces currently take almost 10 hours to traverse about 200 km to get from the north bank to Rutog, driving around the lake. The Chinese side is also working on new roads to connect the end of the bridge on the south bank to Rutog.When the Indian Army blocked an effort by the PLA to unilaterally alter the status quo on the south bank of Pangong lake in August 2020 by taking control of the Kailash heights, the Chinese side had to redeploy troops from other sites through the time-consuming action of driving around the lake.Both countries withdrew frontline forces and armoured units from the two banks of the lake in February 2021, though the area has for long been a flashpoint between Indian and Chinese forces.The construction of the bridge “appears to strengthen the idea of permanency being established by Beijing in the region”, said Damien Symon, a geospatial intelligence researcher at the Intel Lab. He noted that the Chinese side is using heavy machinery to continue construction amid a harsh winter.After being stymied by the Indian Army’s efforts in August 2020, the Chinese began building several roads to prevent PLA troops from “being pinched by Indian deployments atop the ridges”, Symon said on Twitter. These roads “have branched towards the bridge since, but are yet to be connected”, he said.With the standoff on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) well into its second year, the construction of the bridge “appears to be a lesson learnt by PLA planners looking to provide seamless connectivity (and) rapid mobility for elements responding...to the frontline with India”, Symon added.The construction of the bridge was raised by the Indian side at the 14th round of talks between Indian and Chinese military commanders on January 12. The talks failed to yield any positive outcome, though both sides agreed to work for the resolution of the remaining issues in the Ladakh sector at the earliest.Earlier, on January 6, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the government was closely monitoring the construction of the bridge on Pangong lake. “This bridge is being constructed in areas that have been under illegal occupation by China for around 60 years now. As you are well aware, India has never accepted such illegal occupation,” he said.The government was taking “all necessary steps to ensure that our security interests are fully protected”, and has significantly increased funding for developing border infrastructure and “completed more roads and bridges than ever before”, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-nears-completion-of-key-bridge-across-pangong-101642529632072.html
19-01-2022||India||In phone call with UAE minister, Jaishankar condemns ‘terror attack’ in Abu Dhabi||India on Tuesday condemned the drone attack by Yemen’s Houthi rebels in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) that killed two Indian nationals as a terrorist incident and conveyed the country’s strong solidarity to the emirates in the face of such assaults.External affairs minister S Jaishankar discussed Monday’s “terror attack” with his UAE counterpart Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan during a telephone conversation, the external affairs ministry said in a statement.The UAE foreign minister shared details of the attack and conveyed his government’s deepest condolences at the death of the two Indians. He assured Jaishankar that the UAE government will extend the fullest support to the families of the dead, and said authorities in the emirates are in touch with the Indian embassy in this regard.Jaishankar “condemned the terror attack in the strongest terms”, and emphasised that such “an attack on innocent civilians was completely unacceptable and against all civilised norms”. He appreciated the immediate assistance provided by UAE authorities to the Indian embassy in responding to the situation.Jaishankar also “conveyed India’s strong solidarity with UAE in the face of such an attack”, and said that India, given its principled position against terrorism, will “stand with UAE in international forums on this issue”.Earlier in the day, the Indian embassy in the UAE said on Twitter that the two Indians killed in the drone attack on Abu Dhabi had been identified. It also said two of the six people injured in Monday’s attack were Indian nationals and were discharged after medical treatment.The mission did not give details about the two dead Indians. The external affairs ministry is working with UAE authorities for the repatriation of the bodies.The embassy thanked the government and foreign ministry of the UAE and the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC) for their support.ADNOC confirmed on Monday that the three people – two Indians and a Pakistani national – killed in the drone attack were its employees. They died in explosions and fires that followed the drone attack. The explosions hit three petroleum transport tankers near ADNOC’s storage tanks at the Industrial City of Abu Dhabi. Another fire broke out in a new construction area of Abu Dhabi international airport.Houthi military spokesman Yahia Sarei said his group launched an attack deep inside the UAE but didn’t provide details.Saudi Arabia-led coalition forces carried out an air strike on the Houthi-held Yemeni capital Sanaa in retaliation for the attack on Abu Dhabi. According to initial estimates cited in media reports, the air strike killed 14 people. The coalition also said it intercepted eight drones launched toward Saudi Arabia on Monday.The attack in Abu Dhabi came a fortnight after Houthi rebels seized the UAE-flagged vessel Rwabee with 11 crew members, including seven Indian nationals, in the Red Sea. India and the UAE have demanded the immediate release of the crew members.Yemen has seen intense fighting since Houthi rebels seized Sanaa in 2014. The UAE is part of the Saudi-led coalition that intervened in support of the government in 2015. Though the UAE has decreased the number of troops it has on the ground, it continues to support militias fighting the Houthis and cooperates with the US in counter-terrorism efforts in Yemen.
19-01-2022||India||Vijay Mallya loses legal battle to keep plush London home||Embattled businessman Vijay Mallya on Tuesday lost a legal battle to hold on to his plush London home after a British court refused to grant him a stay of enforcement in a long-running dispute with Swiss bank UBS.The 18/19 Cornwall Terrace luxury apartment overlooking Regent’s Park in London, described in court as an "extraordinarily valuable property worth many tens of millions of pounds", is currently being occupied by Mallya’s 95-year-old mother Lalitha.Also Read | Vijay Mallya contempt case to be dealt with finally on Jan 18: Supreme CourtDelivering his judgment virtually for the Chancery Division of the High Court, Deputy Master Matthew Marsh concluded there were no grounds for him to grant further time for the Mallya family to repay a GBP 20.4-million loan to UBS – the claimant in the case."The claimant’s position was a reasonable one… further time is not likely to make any material difference," Deputy Master Marsh ruled."I would also add from my review of the correspondence, I can see no basis whatever for the suggestion that has been made that the claimant has misled the first defendant [Vijay Mallya]… in conclusion, I dismiss the first defendant’s application,” he said.The judge also declined permission to appeal against his order or to grant a temporary stay of enforcement, which means UBS can proceed with the possession process to realise its unpaid dues."I will refuse permission to appeal and therefore it follows that I will not be granting a stay," said Marsh.Mallya’s barrister, Daniel Margolin QC, indicated that the 65-year-old businessman plans to pursue an appeal before a High Court Chancery Division Judge as it has "serious consequences" for his clients, including Mallya’s elderly mother who currently resides at the address.Meanwhile, Fenner Moeran QC made it clear that UBS intends to proceed with the enforcement order without delay.The case relates to a mortgage taken out by Rose Capital Ventures, one of Mallya’s companies, with the former Kingfisher Airlines boss, his mother Lalitha and son Sidhartha Mallya listed as co-defendants with right of occupancy of the property.In May 2019, Judge Simon Barker had handed down a consent order allowing the family to retain possession with a final deadline of April 30, 2020, granted for repayment of the loan. That deadline failed to be met and with special rules in place over the COVID-19 pandemic period, UBS was legally unable to pursue enforcement until April 2021.When the bank sought a court order for enforcement in October last year, Mallya filed an application of stay on the grounds that the bank had placed “unreasonable obstacles” in his path to repay the sums through family trust funds. His legal team also produced a non-binding letter claiming a company was willing to acquire the property, which would help pay off the loan.However, Deputy Master Marsh concluded that the letter was of “limited assistance” and expressed “real doubts about the bonafide of that offer”.Under the May 2019 order, UBS had been granted an “immediate right to possession” and Mallya and the co-defendants were not permitted to make any further applications to “postpone or suspend the date for giving up possession”.The court order also forbade any further claims arising out of the bankruptcy proceedings against Mallya by a consortium of Indian banks led by State Bank of India (SBI), proceedings which concluded in a bankruptcy order in July last year.Meanwhile, Mallya is wanted in India to face charges of fraud and money laundering amounting to an alleged ₹9,000 crores related to loans made to his now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines.The former United Breweries chief remains on bail in the UK while a “confidential” legal matter, believed to be related to an asylum application, is resolved following separate extradition proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vijay-mallya-loses-legal-battle-to-keep-plush-london-home-101642526929949.html
19-01-2022||India||Assam-Meghalaya border row: Give and take formula likely for solution; opposition has doubts||The decades old border dispute between Assam and Meghalaya could be sorted using a formula of ‘give and take’ between the two neighbouring north-eastern states, those involved in ongoing negotiations to sort out the issue have indicated. On Tuesday, Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma held talks with political parties and various other organizations including student bodies of the state to apprise them about the progress made in the ongoing meetings between both states to sort out the issue amicably. Efforts are underway to try and finalise some deal soon, preferably before January 21, when Meghalaya celebrates its 50th statehood day. The CMs of both states are expected to meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah this week to apprise him of the developments and resolve the issue. “Our efforts to resolve the Assam-Meghalaya border row have started bearing fruit as 6 of the 12 areas of difference have been identified for resolution in the first phase. During an interaction, (I) briefed representatives of all political parties on the progress made so far,” Sarma tweeted on Tuesday. “The areas of difference taken up for final settlement are Hahim, Gizang, Tarabari, Boklapara, Khanapara-Pilingkata and Ratacherra. A roadmap for amicable settlement has been prepared based on recommendations of 3 regional committees with representatives from both the states,” he added. Deliberations between both states including the chief ministers have been taking place since last year on ending the row and it was decided that in the first phase 6 of the 12 disputed areas would be addressed. Recently regional committees of both states had submitted reports on these 6 areas. While Sarma expressed confidence of an early solution, opposition parties in Assam including Congress stated that more discussion on a wider scale was needed before rushing to find a solution. “During Tuesday’s meeting we were told that a give and take formula has been agreed upon by both states to sort the dispute in the 6 areas. As part of that Assam would get 18.51 sq km of area while Meghalaya would get 18.29 sq km,” said Md. Aminul Islam, organising secretary and MLA from All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) who attended the meeting. “Border disputes between states can’t be sorted at chief-ministerial level. It should be done by the Centre. Meghalaya has been encroaching our land over years. Instead of a quick-fix solution, we want the issue to be discussed in state assembly and a resolution adopted and forwarded to the Centre,” he added. Congress MLA and leader of opposition in the state assembly, Debabrata Saikia, also informed that both states have agreed on a give and take formula to sort out the dispute. “We have not agreed to the proposal as this issue is needed to be discussed in detail in the state assembly. Since this is a serious matter, I urge the state government to convene an assembly session to discuss it,” he said. President of Raijor Dal and Sivasagar MLA Akhil Gogoi, who couldn’t be present in the meeting due to his Covid-19 positive status, issued a statement opposing handing over of Assam’s land to Meghalaya and urged CM Sarma to protect the state’s boundaries. 
19-01-2022||India||Cold day conditions to abate in most parts of northwest India||NEW DELHI: Cold conditions marked by significantly low day temperatures are likely to abate in most parts of northwest India and are expected to be followed by a two-day wet spell from January 21, said the India Meteorological Department.“We are expecting cold day conditions to... abate gradually as the wind direction changes from northerly to north-westerly and then to easterly. But cold day conditions will intensify in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar... They are likely to have cold days for three days and dense fog also. Due to an approaching western disturbance, there may cloudy days from January 22 to 24 when again low day temperatures may be recorded. This January, we have been seeing extremely low maximum temperatures over a vast region,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, National Weather Forecasting Centre.A fresh western disturbance was over northwest India and another is likely to affect the region from January 21 onwards. An induced cyclonic circulation is also likely to form over Rajasthan on January 22.Scattered to widespread to moderate rainfall or snowfall is likely in the Western Himalayan region from January 21 to 23. In Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, scattered to widespread light to moderate rainfall is likely. Isolated to scattered rainfall is expected in Madhya Pradesh with maximum intensity on January 22.Minimum temperatures were likely to rise by 2-4 degrees Celsius in northwest India this week. Dense to very dense fog in the night and morning hours is very likely in isolated pockets in Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha, and sub-Himalayan West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cold-day-conditions-to-abate-in-most-parts-of-northwest-india-101642562477455.html
19-01-2022||India||UP elections: Mamata to campaign for Samajwadi Party||West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee will campaign for the Samajwadi Party (SP) in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, SP national vice-president Kiranmay Nanda said on Tuesday.While Banerjee will virtually campaign for the SP in Lucknow on February 8, she may also campaign digitally in Varanasi , Nanda told reporters following his 30-minute meeting with the TMC chief at her residence in south Kolkata. SP chief Akhilesh Yadav will take part in these, and the heads of the two parties will also hold a joint press conference on February 8, he added.Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh will be held in seven phases from February 10 to March 7. Counting of votes will be held on March 10.“Akhilesh Yadav wants Mamata Banerjee to campaign for us because she is the face of the anti-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) force at the national level,” Nanda said. “The SP will surely form the government. The BJP has realised that its defeat is inevitable. People have been coming in large numbers whenever Akhilesh Yadav is visiting any place. In contrast, few are attending BJP meetings. The SP wants anti-BJP votes to consolidate. That’s why we did not contest any seat in Bengal last year. Likewise, Banerjee, too, does not want to contest any seat in Uttar Pradesh,” he added.During the West Bengal assembly polls last year, Yadav had sent Nanda and Rajya Sabha member Jaya Bachchan to campaign for the TMC. Reacting to the SP’s announcement, state BJP chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said: “We wish Banerjee a happy journey. She claims to be a religious person. We are sure she will enjoy the Ganga aarti at Varanasi.” Taking a swipe at Yadav’s remarks that Banerjee is the face of the anti-BJP force,West Bengal state Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said: “Banerjee is not the only face against the BJP. Nanda said that to please her. Leaders like Akhilesh Yadav and Arvind Kejriwal are also anti-BJP faces. Banerjee has at least shown some good sense by not trying to purchase BJP leaders who are abandoning their party in Uttar Pradesh to join Akhilesh. In Meghalaya and Goa, she used these tactics to weaken the Congress.” Chowdhury’s remarks came amid a growing rift between the Congress and TMC, after the latter poached several lawmakers and senior leaders from the former.On January 18, HT reported that TMC’s offer for a poll pact in the Goa assembly elections found little favour with the Congress, whose high command is miffed with the TMC brass for its behaviour. Meanwhile, TMC general secretary Abhishek Banerjee reached Goa on Monday evening to finalise the list of candidates for the February 14 elections. The TMC has tied up with the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party, Goa’s oldest regional outfit, for elections to the 40-member assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-elections-mamata-to-campaign-for-samajwadi-party-101642531914773.html
19-01-2022||Today's||Clarify stand on the Siachen demilitarisation issue||At a press conference on January 12, General MM Naravane was asked, if as the Indian Army chief, he thought that the “time has now come to demilitarise the [Siachen] glacier”. The General said: “We are not averse to demilitarise the Siachen glacier but the precondition to that is to accept the AGPL [the Actual Ground Position Line]”. He went on to clarify that Pakistan is yet to accept AGPL and had to sign on “the dotted line” before “any kind of disengagement takes place” of the two armies, which are, “face to face all along the glacier.” He also asserted that Pakistan is “loath” to accept AGPL.
19-01-2022||Today's||The marital rape exception must go||A two-judge bench of the Delhi high court is hearing a constitutional challenge to the exception to Section 375 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), commonly known as the “marital rape exception.” Section 375 of IPC defines the offence of rape (sexual intercourse by a man, against a woman’s will or consent), and sets out — in some detail — the circumstances under which it can be determined that consent has been vitiated (e.g. blackmail, intoxication, and so on). The exception to the section states, simply, that “sexual intercourse by a man with his own wife, the wife not being under fifteen years of age, is not rape.” The marital rape exception, thus, creates a legal fiction where, even if all the requirements for rape are otherwise fulfilled, the law deems not to be rape if the parties are married (and the woman is above 15). The 19th century origins of the marital rape exception are well documented: When IPC was enacted, there was a prevalent belief that the marital relationship carried with it a range of obligations — including sexual obligations — that existed independent of women’s will or consent. That view is inconsistent with our basic ideas of equality and consent as the preconditions for establishing any relationship. As the Indian Supreme Court has noted on multiple occasions, equality requires us to reject norms and laws that are founded on gender stereotypes. Apart from being harmful and discriminatory towards women, the marital rape exception is also entirely arbitrary. As pointed out by counsel during the hearings, if sexual assault takes place five minutes before a marriage is formalised, it is rape; but five minutes after, it is not. Sexual assault will be rape if it is committed within the context of a live-in relationship – or any other intimate relationship — and yet, this magical legal immunity kicks in where that relationship has been formalised. The marital rape exception thus denies to one class of women — married women — the guarantees that law offers to all others. Striking down discriminatory and arbitrary laws is the primary task of our constitutional courts. One would think, therefore, that the result in the present case should be a straightforward one. However, in public commentary, several objections have been made to the court striking down the marital rape exception. First, it is argued that to do so would result in the creation of a new criminal offence, and that that is the task of Parliament, not the courts. While it is true that courts should not create new criminal laws, in this context, the argument is incorrect. The elements of rape are already set out in Section 375 of IPC. What the marital rape exception does is that it arbitrarily shields one class of perpetrators — married men — from the operation of the law. Striking down the exception removes that impunity. To take a parallel example: Suppose that Parliament passes a law defining the offence of murder, and then adds an exception stating: “Provided that homicide is not murder if committed by any member of the ruling political party.” It would be absurd to say that a court cannot strike down such a blatantly arbitrary law, because to do so would be to “create a new criminal offence for murder.” It would not – it would only remove an unconstitutional shield that a class of offenders was illegitimately enjoying thus far. The same is true for the marital rape exception. Second, people have presented a parade of horribles that could ensue from this judgment: For example, possible future constitutional challenges that call upon courts to make our rape laws gender-neutral, and, therefore, involve the judiciary in the wholesale rewriting of criminal law. Now, it is true that there is a worldwide debate on whether – and how – sexual assault laws should be made more sensitive to the realities of how power and patriarchy operate through the framework of gender. However — and this is the key distinction — these discussions involve nuanced issues around legal policy, and our understanding of gender, consent, and power. They do not involve the straightforward discriminatory nature of the marital rape exception. There is, therefore, nothing inconsistent in the courts striking down the marital rape exception, while leaving the question of gender-neutral rape laws for Parliament to decide. Finally, people have raised issues around evidence and proof. These objections, however, are bogus. Statistics show that on average, three-quarters of all sexual assaults are perpetrated by someone already known to the survivor. A vast majority of sexual assaults, thus, occur in intimate settings where in any event, the courts will have to sift through difficult issues around evidence and proof. Once again, there is nothing uniquely special about marriage — as opposed to any other intimate relationship — that makes these problems insurmountable. At the end of the day, the indisputable fact is this: The marital rape exception — as an expression of the nation’s criminal law — publicly says to the world that consent is irrelevant to the question of rape in a marriage. For that reason alone, the court — whose task it is to uphold and vindicate everyone’s right to equal treatment and non-discrimination — should strike it down. Gautam Bhatia is a Delhi-based advocate . He was involved with drafting one of the petitions before the high court .The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-marital-rape-exception-must-go-101642601846347.html
19-01-2022||Today's||What the middle class can expect in the forthcoming budget||In the past several decades, India’s middle class has grown exponentially. A 2019 World Economic Forum study predicted that by 2030, India would move from being an economy led by the bottom of the pyramid to one led by the middle class. Nearly 80% of households in 2030 will be middle-income, up from about 50% today. In addition, the middle class will drive 75% of consumer spending in 2030.
19-01-2022||Today's||Scientifically Speaking | Why do some plants make caffeine?||While enjoying your morning cup of coffee or tea, have you wondered why plants make caffeine in the first place? It’s a question worth pondering. It may seem that plants make caffeine for our benefit, but that human-centric view is not entirely accurate. Humans have developed a taste for caffeine in its myriad forms over a few 1,000 years, while caffeine-producing plants are estimated to have been making this psychoactive compound for millions of years. We may have selected certain plants for the caffeine-induced buzz and spread them around the world, but plants were making it way before baristas figured out how to make espressos. 
