21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Five mobile phones recovered from Ludhiana central jail, case registered under Prison Act||Authorities on Thursday recovered five mobile phones from four inmates of the Ludhiana central jail during a special checking. Assistant jail superintendent Suraj Mal said the five mobile phones were recovered from four inmates including Jatin, Bhindar Singh, Rakesh Kumar, Jasbir Singh and Ashwani Kumar during the checking, following which he informed the Division number 7 police.Assistant sub-inspector Hardial Singh, the investigating officer, said police will bring the accused for questioning on a production warrant to find out how they managed to get mobile phones inside the prison.A case has been registered under section 52 A (1) of the Prison Act at the Division number 7 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/five-mobile-phones-recovered-from-ludhiana-central-jail-case-registered-under-prison-act-101642789778407.html
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||SAD leaders vow to increase number of MC wards in Ludhiana if voted to power||SAD leaders on Thursday agreed to increase the number of municipal wards in the district should they be voted to power.  In a bid to incentivise its cadre, SAD leaders on Thursday also decided to allow candidates contesting the Punjab assembly polls to recommend loyalists in the civic body polls. Senior Akali leader Maheshinder Singh Grewal, who is contesting the polls from Ludhiana West, said two issues were discussed, first was that after coming to power, the number of wards will be increased to accommodate more party workers so that wards can be developed.Sources say the move has been taken as several councillors are not actively supporting party candidates, and workers have also been seeking assurances from candidates that after winning the elections, the MLA will secure party tickets for workers.Akali leader Jagbir Singh Sokhi from Atam Nagar constituency said many workers in his constituency have sought such assurances from party candidate Harish Rai Dhanda.“Danda is an upright leader and he never makes false promises. So at this juncture it is important that more power should be given to the candidates so that they can recommend the name of probable candidates for the MC polls,” said Sokhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sadleaders-vow-to-increase-number-of-mc-wards-in-ludhiana-if-voted-to-power-101642789719934.html
21-01-2022||Lucknow||Cold wave, dense fog and thunderstorm expected across UP||Lucknow: The Indian meterological department issued forecast of cold wave, dense fog followed by thunderstorm accompanied with lightning and hailstorm across Uttar Pradesh over the weekend, as the state recorded another day of severe cold on Friday. Lucknow recorded maximum day temperature of 17.8 degrees Celsius which is four degree below normal while the minimum temperature was recorded at 9.5 degrees Celsius, two degrees above normal on Friday. The state capital is expected to record maximum temperature of 22 degrees Celsius and minimum temperature of 10 degrees Celsius with a possibility of clouded sky on Saturday. According to the forecast issued by the IMD, cold day conditions are very likely over Azamgarh, Mau, Ballia , Deoria , Gorakhpur, Santkabirnagar, Siddharth Nagar, Kushinagar , Basti Sitapur, Kanpur, Aligarh, Kasganj, Unnao, Agra, Etah, Firozabad, Jalaun, Jhansi on Friday night and Saturday. “Thunderstorm accompanied with lightning is very likely over Pratapgarh, Chandauli, Varanasi, Jaunpur, Ghazipur, Azamgarh, Mau, Ballia, Deoria, Gorakhpur, Santkabirnagar, Basti, Kushinagar, Maharjganj, Gonda, Unnao, Lucknow on Saturday and Sunday,” reads the forecast. “We are closely monitoring the weather conditions across Uttar Pradesh. District administrations have been intimated regarding the weather changes and have been advised to take appropriate action,” said JP Gupta, director of state MeT department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cold-wave-dense-fog-and-thunderstorm-expected-across-up-101642789718651.html
21-01-2022||Lucknow||Pandit Birju Maharaj’s ashes immersed in Gomti||The ashes of Pandit Birju Maharaj reached Bindadin Ki Dyodi on Friday, brought by his disciple Shashwati Sen. Family members of Pandit Birju Maharaj, his disciples, city artists, and cultural activists assembled at Bindadin ki Dyodi to pay their respects to the departed Kathak maestro.Later, a part of the ashes were immersed in the River Gomti, while some were taken to Varanasi to be immersed in the Ganga, as per his wishes. He spent most of his life in Delhi but Lucknow was closest to his heart.A number of his disciples demanded the Bharat Ratna for his outstanding contribution to Kathak and making the country proud with his scintillating performances in India and abroad. Those present on the occasion decided to organise a grand programme at Bindadin ki Dyodi on his birth anniversary on February 4.However, Ragini Maharaj, grand-daughter of Pandit Birju Maharaj said, “We don’t want any Bharat Ratna for him now. If at all, Bharat Ratna is announced now, how will he get to know that he has won it? He was not given Bharat Ratna during his lifetime. There is no point in giving Bharat Ratna after his death. For me his contribution is known to everyone and this is the biggest award for us.”Pandit Jaikishan Maharaj, son of Pandit Birju Maharaj, his sister (daughter of Pandit Shambhu Maharaj) Rameshwari Devi, his nephew Krishna Mohan Maharaj ji, senior disciple Shashwati Sen, grand-daughter Ragini Maharaj, folk singer Malini Awasthi, his disciple Poornima Pandey, along with other Katahk exponents like Anuj Mishra, Surbhi Singh, tabla maestro Ravinath Mishra, Arun Bhatt expressed their views on the occasion.Speaking on the occasion Shashwati Sen said that Pandit Birju Maharaj was always ready to help anyone who wanted to learn Kathak or any form of art.His son Pandit Jai Kishan Maharaj said, “He knew how to stay happy and to keep others happy. He suffered a stroke while playing Antakshari.”Later, at around 4.30 pm some of his ashes were immersed in River Gomti at Kudia Ghat. Some ashes were taken to Varanasi for immersion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pandit-birju-maharaj-s-ashes-immersed-in-gomti-101642789658713.html
21-01-2022||Mumbai||Kalicharan remanded to judicial custody till Feb 3||THANE: A court has remanded religious leader Abhijit Sarag alias Kalicharan Maharaj to judicial custody till February 3. The Naupada police brought him from Raipur and produced him before the Thane sessions court Friday morning. The police demanded two days of police custody but the court remanded him to judicial custody. Kalicharan was arrested after Maharashtra State Housing Minister Jitendra Awhad registered a case against him on December 29 for allegedly making derogatory remarks about Mahatma Gandhi.A senior police officer from Naupada said, “Kalicharan was arrested by the Wardha police earlier and was in judicial custody. On Thursday evening, our team brought him to Thane and as per procedure, we produced him in Thane court. We demanded two days’ police custody but the court ordered judicial custody till February 3.”Some followers of Kalicharan Baba gathered near the Thane court Friday morning and shouted slogans but the Thane police brought the situation under control. Papu Morwal, Kalicharan Baba’s lawyer from Akola, said, “The incident took place in Wardha; a case has already been registered there and a police investigation is already in progress. Just because Jitendra Awhad is a minister, he has used his power and filed a case. There is nothing to investigate through Thane police. The court has denied Naupada police’s demand for police custody following our argument. We have applied for bail but as the Thane police requested some time, the bail application will be discussed on Monday.”A video of the self-proclaimed Godman shot on December 26 during one of his sermons went viral in which he was allegedly seen criticising and using derogatory remarks about Mahatma Gandhi and his political moves. He blamed Gandhi for the partition of India and supported Gandhi’s assassin Nathuram Godse. He went a step further and thanked Godse for the assassination. Since he made those remarks, multiple complaints were filed against him, which led to his arrest on December 30. On the same grounds, Awhad registered a case against him at Naupada police station in Thane. The police booked him under sections 295 (A), 298, 505 (2), 506 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kalicharan-remanded-to-judicial-custody-till-feb-3-101642789481577.html
21-01-2022||Lucknow||815 file nominations for 58 seats in first phase Uttar Pradesh poll||Lucknow: The Election Commission of India (ECI) issued a notification on Friday for filing of nominations for phase 2 of polls in 55 assembly constituencies of nine districts in west UP, including Saharanpur, Bijnor, Amroha, Moradabad, Sambhal, Rampur, Bareilly, Badaun and Shahjahanpur. The filing of nominations for the first phase poll in 58 assembly constituencies in 11 districts ended on Friday. A total of 815 candidates have filed nominations for the 58 assembly seats. The highest number of 27 candidates filed nominations for Mathura assembly seat, followed by NOIDA- 23 and Bah, Muzaffarnagar and Meerapur seats- 20 each. The lowest number of 8 candidates filed nominations from Modi Nagar, while 9 each filed their papers from Khair and Iglas assembly constituencies. The last date of the filing of the nominations for the second phase is January 28. The last date for withdrawal of nominations is January 31. Polling in 55 assembly constituencies in nine districts will be held on February 14. Chief electoral officer, Uttar Pradesh, Ajay Kumar Shukla said in view of the guidelines issued by ECI, recognized political parties had been allotted a total of 1798 minutes separately for broadcasting and telecasting for election campaign on Doordarshan and All India Radio. All parties had been allotted a slot within 10 minutes. The broadcast time for AITC (All India Trinamool Congress) was 90 minutes, of BSP 307, BJP 478, CPI 92, CPI (M) 90, Congress 151, NCP 90, NPP 90, RLD 107 and SP 303 minutes for the seven-phase poll, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/815-file-nominations-for-58-seats-in-first-phase-uttar-pradesh-poll-101642789300129.html
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Come Jan 31, Ludhiana DEO elementary to get additional charge of secondary officer||Come January 31, district education officer, elementary, will handle the additional charge of DEO secondary, after the retirement of incumbent officer Lakhvir Singh Samra. The charge will pass on to DEO (elementary) Jaswinder Kaur as no new appointment can be made while the model code of conduct is in place in wake of the Punjab assembly elections, which are scheduled for February 20. The orders of Punjab education secretary (schools) Ajoy Sharma, dated January 8, say, “The orders will be implemented immediately and will be valid till April 30, 2022. The officer taking the additional charge will inform about the same at supdtedu4@gmail.com. The decision has been taken to avoid any trouble in the smooth functioning of the department in absence of DEO in the district”, read the order.Many principals and education officers are vying for the post of DEO secondary, but since no orders of new appointment can be made for now, Kaur will handle the additional charge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/come-jan-31-ludhiana-deo-elementary-to-get-additional-charge-of-secondary-officer-101642789298450.html
21-01-2022||Other||Hasnu Ram Ambedkari of Agra’s 94th outing as independent coming up: 93 losses, no signs of tiring||No election in Agra is complete till Hasnu Ram Ambedkari turns up to file nomination papers. On Wednesday, Ambedkari filed the nomination papers for his 94th election, and like the others, he too is confident that he will lose not only the election but also his deposit, yet again. Clad in ‘kurta’, ‘dhoti’ beside a cotton ‘angocha’ (stole) despite the prevailing cold wave, Ambedkari filed papers as an independent candidate from the Kheragarh assembly seat in Agra, a rural seat, which is currently held by the BJP candidate. “Shutterbugs await the opportunity to click Hasnu Ram Ambedkari in each and every election in Agra and the veteran contestant has not allowed the wait to go waste and is one common feature, election after election, since 1985 in Agra,” said a veteran photographer in Agra. “Others might be contesting to win the election but my wish is to lose the election. I am free to have my wish. Voters might not vote for me but cannot stop me from contesting elections one after another,” said Hasnu Ram Ambedkari (75) after filing his papers. But ask him about the reason for his habit of contesting elections one after another and he loses his cool. “Agar main jeet gaya to narak mein jana padega” (I will be doomed to hell if I win), he says adding that present day politics forces one to do what his conscience does not allow. Thus, losing elections is a better option and saves us from committing sins, he holds. “Others contest to win but I only wish to lose” he asserts. “Contesting elections is a ‘junoon’ (obsession) for my father. We do not come in his way as he is free to have and fulfil his wish. He is a self-sufficient man and even if he was dependent on us, we would not have stopped him from contesting elections,” says Bharat Raj Ambedkari, son of Hasnu Ram, who is in the construction business. While contesting assembly election from Kheragarh assembly seat in 2007, Hasnu Ram got 252 votes while the winner got 46,829 votes. The number rose to 336 votes in 2012 assembly election for Kheragarh when the winner got 93,510 votes, and he secured 725 votes while contesting 2017 assembly elections from Kheragarh, the assembly seat from which he is candidate yet again for the 2022 assembly elections. “I was born on the day the nation got independence on August 15, 1947, as my mother and father told me, and now I am 75 year old,” he said. However, he admits that his age as mentioned in documents he filed for nomination, is 67 only. Asked about this difference in age, Hasnu Ram asserts that the actual date of birth is August 15, 1947 and claims that he is an illiterate villager not aware about such technicalities, because there was no provision of birth certificates those days, that too in the village he was born in seven decades ago. Reminiscing about how it all began, Hasnu Ram said, “In the 1985 election, the Bahujan Samaj Party promised me a party ticket and believing them I even gave up my government job as collection ‘ameen’ (revenue staff) but the BSP went back on its word and on that day I decided not to contest election for any party and go for it independently,” says the veteran election candidate who said that another party asked him to deposit ₹50,000 for contesting election. He recalls the 1985 assembly election from Kheragarh seat in Agra when he was fourth on the list having got 17,111 votes, but yet lost his deposit.“I work as MNREGA worker besides working as ‘munshi’ (clerk) for lawyers in Kheragarh tehsil and have 4.5 bigha land which provides me basics. I save some money to contest elections and manage the expenses without seeking help from my five sons and five daughters (all married),” said Ambedkari.“I might reach the figure of 100 as the number of elections contested by me but it all depends on destiny as I am ageing now. Not to be left behind, my wife too has contested half a dozen elections,” says Ambedkari, who claims to be a disciple of Swami Vivekanand but complains that it is wrong to rely on the government for change. “One can improve himself at the place where he works and it is impossible for any leader to get the whole nation changed. Any party which comes to power loses the vision and lets go of the promises it made,” he complained but was soft on the government at the centre led by prime minister Narendra Modi.“Much of the corruption has been stopped after Modi came to power and the common man could have a better life under this regime in the centre. He is working within parameters laid by the constitution of India,” Ambedkari said. He seeks no blessings for winning the election as defeats, already 93 for him, make no difference. 
21-01-2022||Other||SAD (Sanyukt) names 12 candidates||Chandigarh Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) president and Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa on Friday released the party’s list of candidates for 12 seats in Punjab assembly elections to be held on February 20. SAD (Sankyukt) is in an alliance with the BJP, which is contesting on 66 seats and former CM Capt Amarinder Singh-led Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) is to contest on 38 seats. SAD (Sanyukt) will contest on 13 seatsThe names are Parminder Singh Dhindsa from Lehragaga; Soma Singh Gharachon (Dirba); Harpreet Singh Garcha (Sahnewal); Paramjit Kaur Gulshan (Jaitu); Sant Sukhwinder Singh Tibba (Mehal Kalan); Jagtar Singh Rajeana (Baghapurana) and Sanmukh Singh Mokha (Sunam). In Doaba, Sarwan Singh Phillaur or Damanveer Singh Phillaur will contest from the Phillaur seat. The party will take a final decision on this, shortly. Manjit Singh Dasuha is party’s candidate from Urmar Tanda; Jugrajpal Singh Sahi (Sultanpur Lodhi). In the Majha region of the state, the party has fielded Daljit Singh Gill from Khemkaran, and Master Johar Singh from Qadian. “Talks are on with alliance partners and his party may get more seats for which candidates will be announced shortly. On the Phillaur seat, the local populace wants Sarwan Singh to contest; Sarwan, however, wants his son Damanveer to contest. We will decide soon,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sad-sanyukt-names-12-candidates-101642788278409.html
21-01-2022||Lucknow||Assembly elections: Going solo, Congress braces to make a mark in Uttar Pradesh||The Congress has remained firm on the strategy of going solo in the seven-phase Uttar Pradesh assembly elections that will begin on February 10. Now, with less than three weeks for the first round of voting, this strategy may not change.There is more than one reason for the party’s stance. For one, alliances have failed to work for the Congress in the past. Besides, other major opposition parties did not consider it to be a strong contender. Hence, the party was not left with any other workable option in Uttar Pradesh.Despite going it alone, the party has managed to create a buzz by already giving 40% party tickets to women in its two lists for the state assembly elections declared so far and announcements focusing on women.Indeed, this game of political one-upmanship to woo women began after Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra made the announcements and released a women’s manifesto, listing more promises, much before the poll schedule was declared.“The Congress is full of hopes. Our consistent struggle under the leadership of Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is giving positive signals. There has to be a change and the Congress has given a new thought for bringing about this change,” said Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) president Ajay Kumar Lallu.Months before the poll schedule was announced, a booklet targeting the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) alike (brought out recently to train Congress workers) and a resolution (adopted by Congress minority department) promising a probe into communal riots during the SP regime gave sufficient indications about the prevailing mood in the party.The Congress’s mood is also a reflection of its alliance experiences in the past. The Congress had allied with the BSP in the 1996 assembly elections, contesting 126 seats in the 425-member state assembly of the undivided Uttar Pradesh.The Congress won only 33 seats, securing 8.35% of the total votes. Its vote share on the seats contested was 29.13%. In the 1993 assembly polls, the Congress had won 28 of the 421 seats contested and secured 15.08% votes and 15.11% votes on the seats contested. The SP and the BSP had contested the 1993 polls together.Similarly, the Congress contested the 2017 assembly elections in alliance with the SP, fielding its candidates on 114 seats in the 403-member UP assembly. It won only seven seats, securing 6.25% of the total votes with its vote share on seats contested being 22.09%. In 2012, it had won 28 out of the 355 seats contested, securing 11.65% of the total votes and 13.26% on the seats contested.“As the Congress left a large chunk of seats, nearly three-fourths, for the alliance partners, its workers felt demoralised. In many constituencies, its workers joined the parties they supported in the polls in the past. As a result, the Congress organisation structure ceased to exist on most of the seats that the party left for the BSP and the Samajwadi Party in the 1996 and the 2017 polls respectively,” said a senior Congress leader.“An apparent anti-incumbency factor is working against the BJP in the state,” said the leader.The Congress that seems to be working at cross purposes with the SP for now does not appear to have a committed vote bank of its own.“But the Congress definitely has traditional voters in all the constituencies. This has been reflected in every election consistently. We are going with a plan to project the Congress as an alternative and seeking the support of all sections of the society,” said another leader.After the Congress debacle in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had decided to go in for a revamp of the organisation and get the party ready for the future.“You all (Congress workers) have identified those who worked. I will now identify those who did not,” said Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to the party leaders and workers in Rae Bareli on June 12, 2019 after holding feedback sessions to ascertain the factors responsible for the poll debacle.Although a new organisation structure has been put in place, she feels a lot more needs to be done and the party workers need to work harder to get the “right” results.“Our effort has been to take the Congress organisation to the grass roots level. We will get the right results in the assembly elections only if all the partymen join hands and work harder in the next few months, ” Priyanka said to party workers at the UPCC headquarters here recently.Priyanka also asked the party workers, the new ones and the veterans alike, to strive together and strengthen the party organisation at the booth levels as well.“We need to have ‘jitau’ (winnable) and ‘tikau’ (loyal) candidates for the 2022 assembly elections,” she had said.“Besides setting up new organisation structure at district/city levels, we now have verified units in all the 831 blocks, 2614 wards and 8134 nyay panchayats. The party has organisational units in all the 58,000 village panchayats under the Har Gaon Congress (Congress in every village) programme,” said UPCC organisation secretary Anil Yadav.After being appointed Congress general secretary in the midst of the 2019 Lok Sabha election, Priyanka has been visiting different parts of the state to raise issues of public concern amid challenges of putting an efficient, energetic and effective team in place in the state. The overnight sit-in she led at Chunar fort in eastern UP in 2019 (after being stopped in Mirzapur on the way to Sonbhadra to meet the families of those killed in the Umbha village massacre), the demonstrations and signature campaign organised at her instance to demand justice for the Unnao rape survivor, her visits to different districts to meet victims of police excesses during CAA/NRC protests gave indications of what she wanted from her team in Uttar Pradesh.
21-01-2022||Lucknow||I will support SP candidates: Imran Masood||Lucknow: Imran Masood, who courted controversy for his ‘boti boti’ remarks against Prime Minister Narendra Modi, is in the news again. He left the Congress recently to join the Samajwadi Party. A video showing him lashing out at some leaders following Samajwadi Party’s move to deny him a ticket is catching attention. Congress MLA Masood Akhtar, who followed Imran Masood in joining the Samajwadi Party, said 2022 assembly elections would be fought under Imran Masood’s leadership. Umesh Raghuvanshi briefly spoke to Imran Masood on phone about his present status and the next moves in 2022 elections. Excerpts: Q. What is your political affiliation now? A. I am with the Samajwadi Party under the leadership of SP chief Akhilesh Yadav. Q. Did you lash out at the SP leadership for denying you a ticket? A. No. This video is not about SP leadership. It’s about my conversations with the local people in Saharanpur. They (people) were talking about some local leaders. I was responding to them. Q. But you were heard saying something about touching feet etc.? A. I made “you have made me touch their feet” remark in the context of local people only. Rest of the conversation is also about local people. This video or the observations made therein have nothing to do with SP chief Akhilesh Yadav. Q. Will you contest the 2022 assembly elections? A. No. I am not contesting the elections. Q. Will you oppose the SP candidates? A. Why should I oppose anybody when I am not contesting the poll? I have been asked to support Samajwadi Party candidates and I will do so. Q. Are you in touch with the Bahujan Samaj Party? A. No. My temperament does not match with the BSP’s style. Q. What about the Congress? A. I have left the Congress. So there is no question. Q. Did you meet the SP chief again in the past 24 hours? A. Yes, I met SP chief Akhilesh Yadav. He did not say much. He said “election ladao” (support SP candidates) and I will be doing so. 
21-01-2022||Other||Punjab CEO seeks home dept report after Cong plaint against Patiala IG||Patiala Punjab chief electoral officer (CEO) S Karuna Raju has sought a report from the state’s department of home affairs and justice after a complaint against Patiala range inspector general of police (IGP) Rakesh Aggarwal.In the four-page complaint that Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) had submitted, the party says that Aggarwal served as the head of security of former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and was his close aide. “The Congress is of the opinion that if Amarinder or any of his family members contest from Patiala, there cannot be fair elections, if Aggarwal continues to be posted in Patiala. Therefore, in the interest of fair conduct of polls, Aggarwal is liable to be transferred with immediate effect,” says the complaint that Prashant Sharma, coordinator, All-India Congress Committee (AICC), legal cell, has filed. The complaint adds that after the elevation of Charanjit Singh Channi as the CM, Aggarwal was removed as the CM’s security head. The Election Commission of India (ECI) had recently deputed Aggarwal as IG (Patiala range), post the imposition of the model code of conduct. 
21-01-2022||Mumbai||Mumbai reported 25% of total cases in just 31 days||MUMBAI: The city recorded 25% of its overall Covid-19 cases in just one month since December 21 when the new surge was officially announced in Mumbai. According to state health department data, in the 31 days since then, the city reported 255,256 out of a total of 1,022,789 cases since the pandemic began in March 2020. Last year, just as the second wave – fuelled by the Delta variant – hit Mumbai, the city had recorded a spike of 31,016 cases between February 15 and March 15, 2021. Later, in the 30 days of April, at the peak of the second wave, the city reported 233,698 cases, which were then 36% of the total. The highest single-day spike in the second wave was on April 4, 2021 with 11,206 cases, while the third wave saw 20,971 cases on January 7, 2022. According to state health department data, in the first 20 days of January 2022, 232,150 Covid-19 cases were reported compared to 4,252 during the same period of December, an increase of 5360%. Further, 139 deaths were reported in the first 20 days of January compared to 25 deaths in the same period of December. In the same comparable period, daily testing increased by 49% from 745,591 to 1.111 million tests.The city reported between 1,000 to 3,000 daily cases in the first few days of the New Year, and this spiked to between 18,000 and 20,000 between January 6 and January 10. However, this has fallen to between 5,000 and 7,000 cases for the last five days. On Friday, Mumbai reported 5008 cases taking the tally to 1,027,797, along with 12 deaths taking the city’s fatalities to 16,512. The city’s recovery rate is 97% and its overall mortality rate is 1.61%. As of Friday, the city had 14,178 active cases.BMC officials said the third wave has been fuelled by the Omicron variant. In a statement issued on December 31, 2021, the BMC said that 56% of the total over 200 samples collected from the community were detected with the Omicron variant. By January 10, BMC officials maintained that it is assumed that 80% of the cases being reported in the city are of Omicron variant, further citing it to be the reason for the spike. Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal told HT on January 12 that another phase of genome sequencing is under process, which will give a better idea about the variant distribution among the city’s cases.Experts meanwhile suggest that it is indeed the Omicron variant that is dominant both in the city and the country. Dr Shashank Joshi, member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 Taskforce on Friday took to social media saying, “Do not miss Delta variant in this Omicron wave especially in geographies like Maharashtra, South India and Northeast where the tail was present when Omicron came. The guess estimate is that 10 to 20 percent is still Delta but Omicron is the dominant strain now.”Dr Madhav Sathe, former professor of microbiology at BYL Nair Hospital said, “This spike in cases of Covid-19 in January compared to December is suggestive of Omicron, considering people are recovering faster and the infection is mild, with no corresponding spike in deaths. However, I feel the data for January is an underestimation, considering many cases have gone unreported due to various factors such as mild or asymptomatic infections, and the use of home testing kits.” He added, “What number we are seeing being reported now may be the tip of the iceberg, and we need to be cautious. We still have several million people who have not taken even a single dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, and senior citizens with comorbidity can suffer from serious infections, irrespective of the fact whether it’s the Omicron or the Delta variant.”Meanwhile, the BMC on January 19, said that the third wave in Mumbai is ebbing and that the city is witnessing a gradual fall in cases. It cautioned citizens to continue following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour to ensure no further spike in cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-reported-25-of-total-cases-in-just-31-days-101642787258318.html
21-01-2022||Lucknow||Congress may get a boost if Priyanka decides to contest assembly polls: Experts||The Congress may be strengthened if party general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh Priyanka Gandhi Vadra decides to contest the assembly polls, political experts feel.This view comes amid the perception that she may soon feel compelled to take a call on the two key issues of whether to contest the assembly polls or openly declare herself or any other leader as her party’s chief ministerial candidate in Uttar Pradesh.On Friday, she virtually pitched herself as the Congress’s chief ministerial candidate for Uttar Pradesh.“If it is decided (to contest the assembly election), you will come to know. So far, we have not decided,” she said, replying to a question from the media after releasing, along with Rahul Gandhi, the Congress’s youth manifesto at a programme in the backdrop of the playing of the campaign song “Mera job, mujhe milega” (I will get my job) at the All India Congress Committee (AICC) headquarters in New Delhi on Friday.On who would be the Congress’s chief ministerial face in the 2022 assembly elections, she only hinted that the election is being fought under her leadership though she virtually pitched herself as a contender for CM’s position.“Do you see anybody else’s face? Then? You can see my face everywhere?” she said to another question from the media. “I feel Priyanka Gandhi Vadra should contest the 2022 polls. If she contests and wins, the Congress will get a new lease of life. The Congress has no strong leader of the level of chief minister Yogi Adityanath and SP (Samajwadi Party) chief Akhilesh Yadav in Uttar Pradesh. She must try, fight and win,” said Professor SK Dwivedi, former head of department, political science, Lucknow University. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also indicated the Congress was open to the possibilities of an alliance in the post-poll scenario in case of a hung assembly in Uttar Pradesh.“We will be open to considering that (post-poll tie-up) if such circumstances arise. We will certainly want our agenda for the youth and the women to be fulfilled if we are going to be part of any dispensation,” said Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.On the other hand, the two main contenders for power, chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav, have already decided to contest the 2022 elections.Yogi Adityanath will contest from Gorakhpur (Urban) and SP chief Akhilesh Yadav from Karhal, Mainpuri.Both the leaders are also the CM candidates of the BJP and the Samajwadi Party, respectively.Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, so far, has parried a direct reply to questions about contesting any election. Her indirect reply on Friday has raised more questions that she may need to clarify before the 2022 assembly polls.Uttar Pradesh BJP spokesman Avnish Tyagi said, “Priyanka Gandhi Vadra should make the position clear. Every party comes out with a poll manifesto. It should also have a CM face who should contest assembly elections. This was the tradition which was not being followed for the past nearly 15 years. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath opted to contest the assembly election from Gorakhpur and it was because of this pressure that SP chief Akhilesh Yadav is also contesting the poll. The Congress and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra should come out with their position on the issue.”For the past 15 years, successive chief ministers have taken the Vidhan Parishad route (legislative council), instead of going for a direct election. As chief minister, SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav had contested and won a by-election in 2004 from the Gunnaur assembly seat. He also won the Gunnaur seat in the 2007 assembly elections. 
21-01-2022||Mumbai||Encounter specialist AA Khan passes away at 81||Mumbai Former IPS officer Aftab Ahmed or AA Khan, known for the encounter killing of underworld gangsters, and founder of the Maharashtra Anti-terrorism Squad (ATS) passed away on Friday. The 81-year-old is survived by his wife, two sons, a daughter and grandchildren.Khan was suffering from pneumonia. He had tested positive for Covid-19 and recovered a few days ago.His condition had improved and was even discharged from the hospital, said retired ACP Sunil Deshmukh, who worked in Khan’s team for several years.Khan was rushed to Kokilaben Hospital in Andheri after he complained of breathlessness. He was declared dead before admission.Khan was a part of many encounter operations in Mumbai and Gujarat. His most famous encounter was in the Swati building at Lokhandwala in 1991. Khan along with a team of 100 cops managed to eliminate gangster Maya Dolas, Dilip Buha and five other criminals in an encounter.The famous movie ‘Shootout at Lokhandwala’ was based on the encounter. In the film, actor Sanjay Dutt essayed Khan’s role. Khan joined the police force as IPS in 1963. He resigned from the service as inspector general of police in 1995 after he was superseded by his junior officer.Khan founded the Maharashtra ATS, the first counter-terrorism organization in the country. The agency was set up by Mumbai police on the inspiration of special weapons and tactics of the Los Angeles Police department. City railway police commissioner Quaiser Khalid on Friday tweeted, “Legendary IPS officer Aftab Ahmad Khan, passed away today in Mumbai. His leadership, information gathering network, valour, creation of dedicated crime branch teams to check the growth of the underworld & terrorism in Mumbai & Maharashtra will always be remembered. RIP sir!”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/encounter-specialist-aa-khan-passes-away-at-81-101642787139683.html
21-01-2022||Lucknow||Two minors charred to death in UP’s Pratapgarh, mother lodges FIR against kin||In a tragic incident, two brothers aged 8 and 6 years respectively were charred to death in a fire which broke out in their room under mysterious circumstances in Sangramgarh area of Pratapgarh district early on Friday, police said.Their mother alleged a foul play behind the incident and lodged a First Information Report (FIR) against her brother-in-law in this connection. Superintendent of police, Pratapgarh, Satpal Antil said further investigation was being carried out to ascertain the cause of fire in the roomAccording to reports, a resident of Bhulna Ka Purwa village Neelam, a labourer, used to live with her two sons Ishant, 8, and Krishna, 6, after her husband Dilip’s death a few years back. On Thursday night, Neelam and her two sons were asleep in their room. In the early hours of Friday, Neelam bolted the room from outside and left for relieving herself. She returned after some time and was shocked to see her sons engulfed in a fire. She poured water on them in a bid to save them but the duo succumbed to the serious burns they suffered in the incident. Sangramgarh police reached the spot and questioned other members of the family and locals in connection with the incident. Neelam alleged that her brother-in-law (husband’s elder brother) had killed her sons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/two-minors-charred-to-death-in-up-s-pratapgarh-mother-lodges-fir-against-kin-101642787080359.html
21-01-2022||Lucknow||UP elections: Former IAS, Army, Navy officers figure on AAP’s third list||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday released the third list of 33 candidates for the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, on which a former IAS officer, an ex-army officer and a naval officer figure. It also announced names of 15 star campaigners of the party which includes Delhi chief minister and convener of the AAP Arvind Kejriwal, deputy CM Manish Sisodia, Sanjay Singh, and Delhi Vidhan Sabha deputy speaker Rakhi Birla among others. In the first list, AAP had declared names of 150 candidates and 20 in the second list. With the release of the third list, AAP has finalised names of 203 candidates. The AAP is contesting all 403 assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh assembly polls. Former IAS officer Kanhaiya Lal will contest from Bara (reserved) assembly segment in Prayagraj district which will go to the polls in the fifth phase. Amit Chauhan, ex-captain, Indian Army, will contest from Shikohabad assembly seat of the Firozabad district. On Friday, Sanjay Singh, state in-charge of AAP, inducted Ajay Kumar, ex-Naval officer, into the party. Kumar will contest from Lucknow Cantonment assembly seat and Vaibhav Shahi from Gorakhpur (rural). AAP’s third list has two doctors, nine post graduates, and 13 graduates. Out of 33 candidates, eight are from the general category, 11 OBC, 10 scheduled caste and four Muslims. Singh also criticised the Modi government’s decision to merge the flame of the Amar Jawan Jyoti with the eternal flame at the National War Memorial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-elections-former-ias-army-navy-officers-figure-on-aap-s-third-list-101642786958355.html
21-01-2022||Mumbai||10 districts in Maharashtra report higher positivity rate than state’s average of 23.48%||Mumbai: According to recent data, ten districts in Maharashtra, including Thane, Pune and Raigad, have a higher weekly positivity rate than the state’s overall average. As per the data presented to the state cabinet on Thursday, Nashik had the highest weekly positivity rate at 38.98% as of January 19 followed by Pune at 38.54%. The state’s average was 23.48%. Other districts in the higher positivity rate include Raigad (30.61%), Akola (30.22%), Nanded (27.75%), Wardha (27.71%), Thane (27.07%), Nagpur (25.68%), Sangli (24.94%), Sindhudurg (23.56%).While a considerable number of cases were reported from Pune, Solapur, Satara in western Maharashtra. In all 18785 new cases were reported from these districts. The districts in Marathwada, including Latur, Osmanabad, Beed and Nanded, saw an increase along with cases from Nagpur, Wardha, Bhandara, Gondia in Vidarbha region. The increase in cases in these regions also shows spread in rural and semi-urban centres.As of January 12, only four districts including Thane, Mumbai, Raigad and Palghar, had a higher weekly positivity rate than the state’s overall average. The weekly positivity rate saw an increase in Pune, Nashik, Akola, Sindhudurg, Sangli. Compared to the previous week, Mumbai weekly positivity rate dropped 18.59% from 28.23%, indicating a decline in the third wave of infections.Whereas on Friday, Maharashtra saw a jump in the number of fresh Covid-19 cases from Thursday, despite fewer tests in the past 24 hours. The state added 48,270 fresh Covid-19 cases, a jump of 2,073. In the past 24 hours, the state tested 205938 tests, a drop of 7596 from Thursday. Maharashtra also added 52 deaths, pushing the death toll to 142,023. The state’s active cases rose to 2,64,388. So far, in this month, Maharashtra has added 741,206 new Covid-19 cases to its tally.Mumbai, meanwhile, added 5,008 cases and 12 fatalities. The active cases in Mumbai were 14,178. On Friday, Mumbai and the Mumbai Metropolitan Region accounted for 21.73% of the total cases reported. A senior health department official informed, “There is definitely a rise in cases in other parts of Maharashtra. As we have seen in the previous wave, the infections spread to geographies gradually, but it is largely under control. There is no exponential rise in cases.”He further said that infectivity is falling in areas that saw a high number of cases initially. “If you take Thane [district] for instance, last week’s positivity rate was nearly 30% (29.58%), which dropped to 27% in the subsequent week.”As per the data, the hospitalisations have been low in the third wave and the number of serious cases too are lower in proportion. As of January 19, 20,522 people were hospitalised, of which 6,181 were in serious condition. Of the total active cases till January 19, 247,137 were asymptomatic cases. Of the total cases, 0.91% of patients were admitted to intensive care units, with 0,33% or 889 patients on ventilator support, 0.57% or 1543 on oxygen support, and 1.4% or 3749 patients were on oxygen support but not in the ICU.
21-01-2022||Lucknow||UP CM Yogi review paddy procurement in state||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said procurement centres will function till the entire paddy was procured in Uttar Pradesh. Yogi took stock of the paddy procurement at a high-level meeting and said despite the ongoing Covid wave, the state government had bought around 55 lakh metric tonnes of paddy so far.“Paddy purchase worth ₹10192.90 crore has benefitted more than 8.68 lakh farmers across the state, which is a record. The needs of farmers should be taken care of at the paddy purchasing centres. Arrangements should also be made for bonfires etc to protect the farmers from cold. Paddy should be procured from every eligible farmer who comes to the purchasing centre without any delay in payment,” he said.Sorabh Babu, commissioner, food and civil supplies, said in spite of the tough situation arising due to the pandemic, the government had procured paddy worth ₹10192.90 crore from 8,68,232 farmers at MSP. He said of the total paddy purchased, about 81 percent of the payment had already been transferred amounting to ₹8,289.56 crore. The balance payment of ₹1,903.34 crore will be transferred within 72 hours, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-cm-yogi-review-paddy-procurement-in-state-101642786658277.html
21-01-2022||Lucknow||AU student raises over ₹7 lakh for ailing cousin via crowdfunding||A plea for financial help by a local budding lawyer desperate to save the life of her ailing elder cousin is getting great response from netizens. Known and unknown people from across the state have already contributed helping create a fund pool of over ₹7 lakh.Vartika Maurya, a third year BA-LLB student of Allahabad University (AU), has taken to social media to seek help for her 27-year-old elder cousin Sandeep Maurya’s treatment. Married in March 2021, Sandeep hails from village Sarai Sherkhan located in Raniganj area of Pratapgarh district. He ran a small general merchant shop at Pratapgarh’s Kohdaur, located around 20 km from the village, to make a living. “However soon after his marriage he started remaining sick. We got him treated at a private hospital in Prayagraj. However, the doctors struggled to diagnose and referred him to Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS), Lucknow, in June 2021,” said Vartika, 20, who resides at a rented room in Phaphamau in Prayagraj for her studies.“Here he was diagnosed with severe aplastic anaemia, a condition that occurs when body stops producing enough new blood cells, and was advised an urgent bone marrow transplant. Sandeep’s elder married sister Pratima’s bone marrow matched and he underwent bone marrow transplant successfully in November, 2021, at SGPGIMS,” added Vartika who is leading her family’s desperate struggle to generate funds for Sandeep’s treatment.However, the medicines given to lower body resistance to transplanted bone marrow ended up creating a complication that resulted in his developing thrombotic microangiopathies (TMA) defined by destruction of red blood cells, low platelets and organ damage due to the formation of microscopic blood clots in capillaries and small arteries. This resulted in Sandeep requiring daily plasma therapy. A medicine is also being imported from the Netherlands.“Further complications have resulted in him developing Graft versus host disease (GvHD), a condition that occurs when donor bone marrow or stem cells attack the recipient and for which doctors have now advised him to undergo a costly but potentially life-saving “Mesenchymal stem cell infusion” after other interventions failed to work,” she added.The family’s appeal to the state and central government has so far resulted in their receiving ₹10 lakh in two instalments from CM’s Relief Fund and ₹3 lakh from PM’s Relief Fund. “Sandeep’s father and my uncle Ram Asrey Maurya is partially disabled and walks with a limp. He is a small-scale farmer and Sandeep’s mother Bhanumati is a housewife. Even with the whole family chipping in, the funds are falling short and we have already spent around ₹17 lakh till date in his treatment. Desperate we have turned to social media posting appeals on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram etc. So far, we have managed to raise over ₹7 lakh through donations ranging from ₹10 to ₹10,000 but need another ₹10 lakh for which we are hopeful,” said Vartika, who along with her cousins and other kin, is camping in Lucknow to take care of Sandeep undergoing treatment under Dr Anshul Gupta at SGPGIMS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/au-student-raises-over-rs-7-lakh-for-ailing-cousin-via-crowdfunding-101642786298611.html
21-01-2022||Lucknow||Prayagraj deputy CMO’s car damaged in stone-pelting||The vehicle of the deputy chief medical officer was damaged when some persons resorted to stone-pelting, alleging that the vehicle had hit a boy who was playing nearby. The staff at the CMO office reached the spot and rescued the deputy CMO Dr Rahul Singh. By the time police reached the spot, the miscreants had fled. The miscreants will be identified through CCTV footage, and action will be taken against them, the police said. Deputy CMO said he had gone to meet the chief medical officer (CMO) at his residence on Friday. But some persons surrounded his car as it entered the premises. They claimed that his car had hit a boy resulting in a leg fracture. The doctor came out of his car and found the boy had no injuries. However, the miscreants with the boy tried to damage his car and pelted stones on it. The doctor said that the staff at the CMO office rescued him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prayagraj-deputy-cmo-s-car-damaged-in-stonepelting-101642786058273.html
21-01-2022||Lucknow||Spreading warmth, the traditional sweet way!||Nippy winter sends a strong urge to relish the piping hot sweet delicacies. And, to satiate the taste buds, small-time and big sweetmeat shops in the state capital are loaded with traditional delicacies which provide the much-needed warmth with dry-fruits and healthy ingredients.Choices are a plenty including piping hot halwas (kali gajar, gajar moong, moong, anjeer, mewa), gajaks, chikki, rewari, doodhiya, khajur-gur-rasgulla and range of laddus including laiya, ramdana, til, gond, mawa, anjeer etc. With dawn starts the melt-in-your-mouth makkhan malai and mattha followed by hot jalebis, imarti in the afternoon while the evening witnesses the demand for kulladh-milk soaring.Traditional sweets’ sellers hold the fort with age-old recipes that are passed down generations.Vikas Kumar Gupta, who runs Sewak Ram Mishthan Bhandar in an alley in Chowk, says, “I can’t quote how old we are in this business but I am the fourth generation in this trade. Kali gajar ka halwa is our speciality but another novelty item is Jouji Sohan Halwa that is made out of kesar, javitri, milk, ghee, jau flour and mawa. Then we have haldi-gur-sonth laddoo made with dry fruits, khus-khus laddoo and moong-urad daal laddoo besides other regular items.”But the richness of ingredients demands that the delicacy be consumed in moderation. “See, winter special sweets are rich in pure ghee, dry fruits and milk content so a 50-gram portion is enough for a person to relish the delicacy and keep the body warm. Over indulgence of anything is bad and the same goes with sweets,” he says.Advocate Mahendra Yadav who has specially come to relish kali gajar ka halwa, says, “Makkhan malai at Chowk crossing and hawla here is a must-have if I am passing through this locality in winter.”Tradition sweets and their importance according to season is a science, says Pankaj Gupta of Ram Asrey Sweets. “Our eating habits, festivals and delicacies associated with them are very scientific. Makar Sankranti, Lohri, Sakat and other festivals falling in the winter season have a tradition of til, ramdana, laiya, gur and similar items. So, there is logic behind this as these provide warmth as they are rich in ghee, dry fruits, spices and ingredients,” says Gupta.Not just sweet shops but the streets and lanes are flooded with laiya and ramdana laddos, chikki, gajaks and rewris at very affordable prices.“The maximum sale these days consists of halwas and a range of winter-special laddoo. Sweets are still prepared in traditional ways but now chikki, patti and rewri are available in modern avtaars in different shapes, sizes and combinations. To make traditional items relevant for youngsters we need to package them so that they are attracted by the packaging and also enjoy the goodness of winter special delicacies,” says Ved Prakash of Classic Radhey Sweets.Most of these sweets gradually go out of market as the winter recedes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/spreading-warmth-the-traditional-sweet-way-101642786004133.html
21-01-2022||Lucknow||Rape survivor’s father shoots accused dead in Gorakhpur, nabbed||In a sensational incident, a rape accused was allegedly shot dead by the survivor’s father at the entrance gate of the civil court in Gorakhpur district on Friday noon, police said.The rape survivor’s father, a retired Border Security Force (BSF) personnel in his late 50s, fired on Dilshad Hussain, 30, from a point-blank range on his head resulting in his death on the spot, they added. He is a resident of Barhalganj town of Gorakhpur while Dilshad Hussain hailed from Muzaffarpur in Bihar. The retired BSF personnel was chased and caught by alert taxi stand staff and cops on duty there. No case was registered in connection with the incident when the report last came in.Dilshad Hussain, who was booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act for abducting and raping a minor girl around two years ago, was out on bail. He had turned up in the court for a hearing in his case in the special POCSO court. The incident occurred when Dilshad reached the gate of the court and called his counsel to meet him as entry to the court premises had been restricted due to Covid surge, the police said.Confirming the incident, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Gorakhpur, Vipin Tada said, “The accused has been arrested. During interrogation, he told us that Dilshad took away her minor daughter (in February 2020) and a case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, was registered against him. Dilshad was shot after a brief altercation between the two at the taxi stand (of the court). The body is being sent for a post-mortem examination. “Additional director general (ADG), zone, Akhil Kumar; deputy inspector general (DIG), range, Ravindra Gaud and other senior cops too rushed to the site. The police officials faced the ire of lawyers who were angry because of the security lapse on the court premises. The lawyers also staged a protest but were later pacified after the intervention of the ADG.According to reports, Dilshad used to run a cycle repair shop in front of rape survivor’s house in Barhalganj. On February 12, 2020, Dilshad allegedly abducted the retired BSF personnel’s minor daughter and took her to some unknown location following which a case under POCSO Act was registered against him on the basis of an application filed by the girl’s father. On March 12, 2021, Dilshad was arrested from Hyderabad and the girl was freed from his clutches by a team of Barhalganj police. Later, Dilshad got a bail in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rape-survivor-s-father-shoots-accused-dead-in-gorakhpur-nabbed-101642785878133.html
21-01-2022||Noida||Auto-lifting gang operating in NCR busted, three held from Greater Noida||With the arrest of three people in Uttar Pradesh's Greater Noida, the police on Thursday claimed to have busted a gang involved in stealing two-wheelers in the National Capital Region (NCR).Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central Noida) Elamaran G said the police have recovered nearly two dozen vehicles stolen by the gang from NCR, including parts of Delhi and Haryana."During checking, the motorcycle-borne trio was intercepted by a team of personnel from the Surajpur police station on Wednesday as they seemed suspicious. They tried to flee but were chased down and held," Elamaran told reporters.The police seized three country-made pistols along with some ammunition from them and took them for questioning, during which they revealed that they were part of a gang involved in stealing two-wheelers in NCR."As many as 21 two-wheelers have been recovered so far. Most of them were stolen from Noida and Greater Noida, some were also stolen from Delhi and Haryana and one from Etah in western Uttar Pradesh," the officer said.Those held have been identified as Mohit, Honey Valmiki and Vishesh Sharma, all locals and educated till Class 10, according to the police.An FIR has been lodged against them at Surajpur police station and further legal proceedings are being carried out, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/autolifting-gang-operating-in-ncr-busted-three-held-from-greater-noida-101642784883962.html
21-01-2022||Pune||PCMC police arrest BRO officer in paper leak case||PUNE The Pimpri-Chinchwad police have arrested an executive engineer of the rank of Lieutenant Colonel attached to the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) under the Ministry of Defence (MoD) in connection with allegedly leaking recruitment exam paper. The arrested BRO officer has been identified as Rajesh Kumar, a resident of Delhi, who was arrested from Delhi on January 11. Since then he was in police custody for the last 10 days and his bank accounts have been frozen, according to the police. Satish Dhane, Shriram Kadam and Akshay Wankhede were arrested earlier in the case after being caught red-handed while taking ₹70,000 from complainant. The accused were remanded in custody for 14 days. Rajesh Kumar had leaked the recruitment exam paper for (driver engine static) DES, store keeper technical(SKT) trades. The three persons, including an ex-serviceman were arrested, by the police based on the inputs from the Military Intelligence (MI) unit in Pune. PCMC police commissioner Krishna Prakash had formed a special investigation team (SIT) to investigate the case. The SIT is currently led by ACP Padmakar Ghanwat and includes four other police officials. In November last year, the Indian Army and Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in a joint operation conducted in the city arrested two persons for alleged malpractices in the recruitment of multi-tasking staff (MTS). The accused were lower rank Indian Army non-commissioned officers (NCO). In May, Lieutenant Colonel Bhagat Preetsingh Sartajsingh Bedi was arrested for his alleged involvement in the army recruitment question paper leak case. The city police had filed two FIRs, one at Vishrantwadi police station and the second at Wanowrie police station, on March 1, for the leak that led to the cancellation of the recruitment exam. Nearly 30,000 aspirants were scheduled to appear for the exam across 40 centres. Two major-rank officers, Major Murugan Thangavelu (47) and Major Vasant Vijay Kilari (45) were arrested earlier in the Wanowrie case apart from Kishore Mahadev Giri (40) of Baramati; Madhav Sheshrao Gitte (38) of Sappers Vihar colony in Pune; Bharat Lakshman Adakmol (37) from Pune’s Pachora; Gopal Yuvraj Koli (31) of BEG Centre in Dighi; and Uday Dattu Auti (23) of BEG Khadki. The suspects arrested in Vishrantwadi were identified by the police as Ali Akhtar Khan (47), Azad Lal Mohammed Khan (37) and Mahendra Chandrabhan (37). In June, the crime branch and the intelligence agencies attached to the Southern Command had busted a job racket where youths were lured by the false promise of jobs in the Territorial Army (TA), Indian Railways and various banks. The sleuths had arrested - Bharat Krishna Kate and Pandit Pawar - from Solapur. The racket operated through a fraud website wherein fake exams were held besides medical tests and training sessions took place at different locations across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pcmc-police-arrest-bro-officer-in-paper-leak-case-101642785459512.html
21-01-2022||Lucknow||After 174 days, Agra reports one Covid death||The district recorded one death due to Covid-19 after a gap of 174 days on Friday. An 80-year-old patient died in Agra district, taking the Covid death toll to 459. The patient was suffering from hypertension and diabetes. The district also recorded 409 fresh cases taking the active caseload to 3235, on Friday.The last death due to Covid-19 took place on July 31, 2021, and since then there has been no casualty because of the virus in Agra district, informed Prabhu N Singh, district magistrate, Agra.As many as 605 patients were declared cured in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of discharges since March 2, 2020, to 28,950. The recovery rate has again witnessed an upward trend and is presently at 88.88% after falling to 86.33% on January 16.The recovery rate in the first week of December, when no major cases were being reported, was 98.21% in the district. It witnessed a sharp fall since the last week of December.More than 33 lakh have been administered the first dose in Agra, and around 18 lakh have received the second dose. The figures for vaccination dose in 15 to 18 years age have risen to beyond the 10,000 mark in Agra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/after-174-days-agra-reports-one-covid-death-101642785340304.html
21-01-2022||Mumbai||Cops arrest three for derogatory remarks against Muslim women in Clubhouse||Mumbai Three youth from Haryana were arrested by Mumbai cyber cops after their derogatory and vulgar comments against women, especially Muslim, surfaced on some groups on Clubhouse - an audio chat application. A case has been registered after a video of the group’s vulgar and objectionable conversations were shared on various social media platforms.Mumbai police registered a case under sections 153(a), 295(a), 354(a), 354(d), 500 and 509 of IPC, and section 67 of Information Technology Act 2000 based on a complaint by a woman.Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale confirmed the breakthrough in the Clubhouse case. Police sources said that Akash Suyal, 19, who is allegedly the moderator and main speaker of the two objectionable chat rooms, has been arrested. The class 12 pass-out is from Karnal, Haryana. Another two accused have been identified as Jaishnav Kakkar, 21, a BCom student, Yash Parashar, 22, a law student. Both of them are from Faridabad. The accused Jaishnav was using an ID ‘@jaishnav’ while the accused Yash Parashar was using IDs ‘Sherisingh ka papa’, ‘biker gang 5’ and pardhan@haryana_aala’. The two were actively promoting the chatrooms talks.Two chat rooms were created in the Clubhouse app, where participants were making derogatory statements about women and talking about auctioning female body parts, said a crime branch official.A senior crime branch official said on Friday that a Twitter user by the name of ‘Jaimine’ had published videos of Clubhouse app. Similarly, a video was shared from an Instagram account by the name ‘lotus watch’. These two videos of Clubhouse chatrooms went viral on January 16 and January 19, 2022. The moderator of these two groups was using an ID Kira XD which was used by the accused Akash Suyal.Following this, an FIR was filed by an alert citizen with the cyber police station on Wednesday, January 19, 2022. The complainant woman, who is a city-based I-T professional, got to know about the Clubhouse chatrooms through a friend. There were also some women members in the chatrooms.“The accused have masked their virtual IDs multiple times to avoid getting caught. But using technical skills and expertise we managed to unmask them, traced their locations and nabbed the culprits,” said DCP (Cyber) Dr Rashmi Karandikar.A cyber police officer said that the Clubhouse has a good user base in India, hence, it’s also their responsibility to keep a check on any misuse of their platform. “They should maintain algorithms of their users and can prevent misuse of the platform,” the officer said.“The complainant woman has told police that she and her friend’s images were used in other Clubhouse chatrooms on October 27, 2021, and November 27, 2021. The members of these chatrooms used extremely filthy, vulgar and derogatory languages for the women and also virtually auctioned private parts of the women,” a cyber police officer said.Acting on the complaint, Mumbai cyber police officials through technical investigation traced the locations of the persons involved in creating the objectionable chatrooms and made arrests on Friday.The three accused are likely to be brought to Mumbai on Saturday on a transit remand. We would produce them before a local court and seek their remand for further investigation,” said Milind Bharambe, joint commissioner of police, (crime)Shiv Sena Member of Parliament Priyanka Chaturvedi on Friday said that after successfully making a breakthrough in the Bulli Bai App case, Mumbai cyber police made another breakthrough and arrested youths in the Clubhouse case.Chaturvedi told Hindustan Times that people were discussing how to rape and exploit women, especially Muslim women. She tweeted Friday morning, “Kudos @MumbaiPolice, they have got cracking on the Clubhouse chats too and some arrests have been made. Say no to hate. #Clubhouse.” In a two-minute video of the Clubhouse interaction shared on Twitter a few days ago, people were discussing the topic ‘Muslim Gals are more beautiful than Hindu Gals’. Some members in the video said that every Muslim girl is ultimately a Hindu and his response was met with the ‘Jai Shri Ram’ chant. Another group participant said that 70 per cent of Muslims are converted, as the religion was founded much later. The participants also said that “having sex with a Muslim girl is equal to building seven temples”, while another said it was even bigger and equal to doing as much good as “demolishing the Babri Masjid.” Mumbai cyber police officials are analysing the online activities of the accused and would be checking if any common person was behind brainwashing the youths. So far, cops have not found any conspiracy angle in the case, but they have neither ruled out the same.The Delhi police are also looking into the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cops-arrest-three-for-derogatory-remarks-against-muslim-women-in-clubhouse-101642785338541.html
21-01-2022||Mumbai||After schools, colleges likely to reopen from next week||MUMBAI: After the state government on Wednesday allowed schools to reopen from January 24, the higher and technical education department has decided to reopen colleges and universities early next week and sought a nod from chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for the same. Colleges are expected to be allowed to operate offline beginning early next week.After a meeting of senior officials from the higher and technical education department chaired by minister Uday Samant on Friday, the formal proposal was sent to the CM for his approval. The department has suggested three dates next week for the reopening of colleges and universities for offline classes. The CM is expected to give his nod on Saturday. The decision was taken in the wake of the flattening of Covid-19 cases and low hospitalisation rates.The department has however clarified that the examinations scheduled for degree and post-graduation courses will be held online until February 15 to avoid inconvenience to the students. “The honourable CM is expected to hold a meeting of the state disaster management authority and the state task force of doctors to review the Covid-19 situation and finalise the date. He may give us three dates for the reopening of physical classes, but we will choose the latest one so that the colleges and universities get sufficient time for preparations. We expect offline classes to resume in the next week,” Samant said.The minister said that students, teaching and non-teaching staff attending the colleges and universities will mandatorily have to be fully vaccinated. “The district authorities however have been empowered to take a call on the reopening of classes according to the pandemic situation in their jurisdiction. The district collectors in rural areas and commissioners in urban areas will decide on the dates in consultation with the vice-chancellors of the respective universities. The consent from district collectors will be mandatory for the reopening of colleges,” he said.An official from the department said that the footfalls in colleges are unlikely to increase anytime soon as most of the colleges and universities are holding first semester exams. Samant said that the decision was taken in the wake of the fall in Covid-19 cases in most parts of the state. The state government on January 8 announced closure of schools and colleges amid the rising cases of Covid-19 till February 15. The surge driven by the Omicron variant leading to the third wave, diminished faster in Mumbai and other major cities over the last two weeks leading to a pressing demand from students, parents and the teaching fraternity for reopening of physical classes. The decision to reopen schools was taken on Wednesday. The schools have been allowed to resume from Monday, though the local administration has been allowed to defer the dates depending on the situation.The cases in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region have dropped significantly over the last two weeks though the state’s daily caseload hovers over 40,000. The hospitalisation of Covid-19 infected people is low. Of the 267,659 active cases as on January 18, 20,522 or 7.67% were hospitalised while 6,181 of them were serious. While 5,292 needed oxygen support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-schools-colleges-likely-to-reopen-from-next-week-101642785220074.html
21-01-2022||Pune||Shopkeepers of Bhavani peth, Vishrantwadi demand police action against anti-social elements||PUNE The furniture sellers’ association of Bhavani peth, an umbrella body of wood merchants, have sought intervention of police against youth, who are into the habit of drug use, and creating law and order problems. Vishrantwadi traders’ association have also demanded action against goons threatening shopkeepers in the area. The furniture sellers’ association claim traders face threats when they object to the presence of the youth near their shops. They allege that no action is taken against their written police complaint. Siraj Shaikh, president, Vishrantwadi traders’ association, said, “The police said that action can be taken only we mention the details of these troublemakers, but we just want regular police patrolling in our area.” Rishi Jain, a trader, said, “These youth dump cigarettes butts and other smoking materials near our shops and it pose risk of fire and loss to property.” Vishranwadi Traders’ Association has petitioned the police seeking action against goons terrorising shopkeepers in Munjoba vasti area. The traders said that the youth gangs operational in the area had emerged as a major menace due to lack of police patrolling and vigilance in the area. Residents and shopkeepers claimed that gangs brandishing weapons took to streets on January 14 and January 19. Shivaji Aney, a shopkeeper of Munjoba vasti said, “We have demanded police protection and invoking of the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) against the accused.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/shopkeepers-of-bhavani-peth-vishrantwadi-demand-police-action-against-anti-social-elements-101642785218713.html
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Parkash Singh Badal managing campaign from hospital bed||Despite testing positive for Covid-19, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) patriarch Parkash Singh Badal, 94, is micromanaging the party’s campaign from the hospital bed. The former chief minister was admitted to Hero Heart Institute of Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, Ludhiana, on Wednesday afternoon, and his condition is said to be stable. In a video shared by the SAD on social media, party president Sukhbir Singh Badal said that despite being ill, his father is very much involved in campaign activity and reaching out to party workers in his segment through video calls.Congress manifesto out soon: BajwaPunjab Congress manifesto committee chairman and Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa on Friday said the party will present its manifesto for Punjab polls soon. Bajwa said separate meetings have been held by the manifesto committee with chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu. “The manifesto is being prepared by consulting residents of the state and will address the expectations of all sections of society,” he said at a press conference.Seechewal for green manifestos Padma Shri recipient Balbir Singh Seechewal on Friday urged voters to raise the demand for a better environment before politicians contesting the Punjab elections. Addressing a press conference, the noted environmentalist said groundwater table is depleting at an alarming level, but it has failed to attract the attention of political parties. He said environment should be a part of all election manifestos in the larger interest of Punjab’s predominant agrarian economy, adding that Punjab Vatavaran Chetna Lehar, a voluntary organisation, has contacted all political leaders over the issue in the past one month.Household battle at play in QadianFlags of two rival political parties — BJP and Congress — are seen fluttering at a house in Gurdaspur’s Qadian. It is the ancestral home of Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa and his younger brother Fatehjung Singh Bajwa. While Bajwa Senior has been fielded as the Congress candidate from Qadian, sitting MLA Fatehjung recently joined the BJP on being denied the ticket. Both live in the same house and conduct meetings with their party workers. Now, it has to be seen whether the saffron party fields Fatehjung from this segment, making this household (read, electoral) battle even more interesting.Moga MLA left all aloneMoga MLA Dr Harjot Kamal, who joined the BJP after being denied the Congress ticket, is left all alone after all local party councillors from the Congress announced their support to Malvika Sood Sachar, sister of actor Sonu Sood, in the presence of cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Friday. Twenty-four councillors besides village sarpanches had already extended supported Malvika, while the remaining five councillors along with the minister went to her house on Friday evening. “We all will walk together like a family and win this election for the betterment of Moga,” said Malvika, who has made the poll plunge for the first time.452 skip poll rehearsal, get notice The Kapurthala district administration on Friday issued show-cause notices to 452 government employees who were found absent from the first poll rehearsal on Thursday. Deputy commissioner-cum-district electoral officer Deepti Uppal said a special board has been constituted to decide upon applications regarding exemption from poll duty. Pick-and-drop facility for PWD votersIn order to ensure maximum participation by persons with disabilities (PWD), the SBS Nagar administration will provide them pick-and-drop facility to cast their votes on February 20. Deputy commissioner Vishesh Sarangal said the district has 5,381 PWD voters, including 2,274 in Banga, 1,359 in Nawanshahr and 1,748 in Balachaur assembly segment. Sarangal said PWD voters can contact their respective booth-level officers, following which vehicles will be sent to their doorsteps on the polling day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-parkash-singh-badal-managing-campaign-from-hospital-bed-101642785162875.html
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: AAP releases final list of four nominees||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday announced the names of four more candidates to complete its lineup of 117 nominees for the upcoming assembly polls in Punjab. KNS Kang, who heads the PCTE Group of Institutes, has been fielded from the Dhaka assembly segment. Kang, who has a strong setup in the area, has been an active supporter of the party for more than six years. The AAP won the seat in 2017, but party MLA Harvinder Singh Phoolka resigned in 2019, necessitating the byelection that was won by Manpreet Singh Ayali of the Shiromani Akali Dal. Lehra Vikas Manch president Barinder Kumar Goyal, who joined the AAP on Thursday, has been fielded from Lehra constituency. An advocate by profession, Goyal has been the president of Sunam Bar Association three times. Another new entrant, Amit Singh Manto, is the party candidate from Sujanpur. Manto, district president of Congress’ Kisan Mazdoor Cell, had joined the AAP three days ago. Manjinder Singh Lalpura, former state youth wing president and former halka in-charge of Patti, has been named the party candidate from Khadoor Sahib, according to the final list of candidates issued by state president Bhagwant Mann and Punjab affairs in-charge Jarnail Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-aap-releases-final-list-of-four-nominees-101642785161287.html
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Poll code: Installation of rooftop solar panels stopped in Bathinda||After a written complaint by the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), the Election Commission has suspended the installation of rooftop solar panels in the Bathinda Urban segment till the model code of conduct is in force for the Punjab assembly elections.Vineet Kumar, who joined as the new Bathinda deputy commissioner, said that the action was taken after a complaint was filed against the installation. “Punjab Energy Development Agency (PEDA) has been directed to stop distribution and installation of the solar panels. Work will remain stopped until electioneering is over,” he said.Installation of rooftop solar panels was a key project initiated by finance minister Manpreet Badal, who is seeking re-election on the Congress ticket. On January 16, SAD candidate Sarup Chand Singla had objected to the project being carried out in slum areas. While Singla alleged that the Congress leadership was trying to influence voters through the government project, the ruling party claimed that the project was approved much before and installation began weeks ago.PEDA, state’s nodal agency for promotion and development of renewable energy programmes, will execute the project on a pilot basis for 13,000 households in Bathinda Urban segment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/poll-code-installation-of-rooftop-solar-panels-stopped-in-bathinda-101642785160009.html
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Poll code: ₹60-crore liquor, drugs, cash seized in Punjab||Various enforcement teams constituted by the Election Commission (EC) have seized illegal liquor, drugs and cash worth ₹60.75 crores till Thursday, after the model code of conduct was imposed in Punjab on January 8. The state goes to the polls on February 20. Chief electoral officer (CEO), Punjab, S Karuna Raju on Friday said surveillance teams have seized 10.33 lakh litres of liquor worth ₹3 crore while enforcement wings have recovered psychotropic drugs amounting to ₹44.57 crores and confiscated ₹12.32 crore unaccounted cash. The CEO said besides 1,112 vulnerable hamlets, 2,406 probable troublemakers have been identified so far, and preventive action has already been initiated against 1,322 of them. From security point of view, 244 people have been booked under preventive sections of the Criminal Procedure Code, he said. “As many as 2,294 cases of non-bailable warrants have been executed, while execution in 192 cases is under process. Also, 7,699 nakas are operational across the state,” said the CEO. Raju said that, as per the EC’s directions, out of 3,90,275 licensed weapons in the state, 3,63,907 (93.72%) have been deposited to date, adding that 35 weapons without licences were also seized. Meanwhile, municipal teams have removed 15,658 defacements from public properties and 7,404 from private properties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/poll-code-60-crore-liquor-drugs-cash-seized-in-punjab-101642785158660.html
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||HC quashes regularisation of 100 assistant district attorneys in Punjab||The Punjab and Haryana high court has quashed regular appointments of 100-odd assistant district attorneys (ADAs) by the then SAD-BJP government in Punjab in 2013.“The best available talent must be brought into public service and the fact that the private respondents (those appointed) failed to qualify in the open competition establishes that they are not the best. For these reasons, the regularisation of the private respondents cannot be held to be legal and valid,” the high court bench of justice Sudhir Mittal said, quashing the 2013 orders of their regularisation and asking the state to make appointments within one year and allowing it to continue with these ADAs till then.The court was dealing with a bunch of petitions filed in 2018, in which those appointed through direct recruitments had challenged seniority list put out in 2018, in which these ADAs were placed above them, and also challenged their regularisation of 2013. “As many as 98 ADAs would be affected with this order,” said one of the counsels, Kapil Kakkar.These appointments were made by the Punjab government in 2010, pursuant to high court orders on filling up posts of ADAs in district courts. The orders were that regular appointments be made in a phased manner, and to ensure that work does not suffer in courts, temporary appointments be made till then. In 2011, the state government came out with a regularisation policy for employees, just ahead of assembly polls. However, they were not covered under this policy since only those with three years of service were to be considered. In 2013, the 2011 policy was extended in their case only, and their services were regularised with a cabinet decision in this regard. Referring to a Supreme Court judgment, the court observed that the Constitution permitted employment in public service in accordance with the rule of equality only. “The mode of appointment through ‘regularisation’ was a clear violation of the constitutional scheme and was illegal. Thus, neither the executive nor the courts could direct ‘regularisation’ of persons appointed in violation of the relevant rules,” it said, adding that the right of the state to grant temporary appointments for special projects or to tide over emergent situations has been recognised, but with the rider that such appointments would come to an end on the project coming to an end. The court further said that the 2011 policy was framed for employees of seven different departments. However, it was extended only for ADAs belonging to the prosecution and litigation department. “The policy was framed for the benefit of employees of the said departments as well, but the ADAs were singled out for preferential treatment. Nothing has been brought on record to show that there was a necessity to extend the policy for granting permanent employment,” it said, adding the decision was taken by the state government, that too on the representation of these ADAs. The court further found that their appointments were to be made under the 2010 rules, which provide for 100% appointment through direct recruitment. These posts are Group-B posts. No regularisation on Group-B posts is permissible. If at all, regularisation can be done, it can be done in the case of only Group-C or Group-D posts, it said. “The tendency needs to be nipped in the bud so that we are not faced with the day when appointments are made to Group-A posts, too, through the process of regularisation. The situation appears to be absurd but not beyond visualisation,” the bench recorded, quashing the regularisation order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-quashes-regularisation-of-100-assistant-district-attorneys-in-punjab-101642785099469.html
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||SGPC to display portraits of Behbal Kalan police firing victims at Golden Temple museum||Ahead of the Punjab assembly polls, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Friday resolved to display portraits of Krishan Bhagwan Singh and Gurjeet Singh — anti-sacrilege protesters killed in police firing at Behbal Kalan in Faridkot in 2015 — in the Central Sikh Museum at the Golden Temple complex.This is for the first time that the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD)-controlled apex Sikh body has made such a gesture to pay tribute to the victims of police firing that had happened during the SAD regime and was seen as a major reason for its poor showing in the 2017 assembly elections.The resolution was passed during the meeting of the SGPC executive committee at its head office in Amritsar. Hailing both as “martyrs”, SGPC president Harjinder Singh Dhami said: “Meeting a long-pending demand, approval has been given to display the portraits of Bhai Krishan Bhagwan Singh and Bhai Gurjeet Singh, who were martyred at Behbal Kalan in police firing during protest against the Bargari sacrilege, at the Central Sikh Museum.”Delhi govt condemned over Bhullar’s caseIn another resolution passed in the meeting, the SGPC blamed the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in the national capital for the cancellation of release of 1993 Delhi bomb blast convict Davinderpal Singh Bhullar, who is undergoing life imprisonment after the Supreme Court commuted his death sentence. Accusing the Arvind Kejriwal-led government of “playing with the Sikh sentiments”, the SGPC said that the AAP’s anti-Sikh attitude “has now been exposed” and the Union government should intervene in the case.“On the one hand, Kishori Lal, a convict in the 1984 Sikh genocide case at Kalyan Puri, Delhi, has been granted parole and furlough several times by the Delhi government, while on the other, despite removal of all the restrictions, the release of Sikh prisoner Bhullar is being obstructed,” said Dhami, while disclosing proceedings of the meeting.He said the release of Sikh prisoners was announced by the Government of India in 2019, on the occasion of the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak, but Delhi’s Kejriwal government is “not clearing” Bhullar’s file.He said the SGPC will also take up the matter with the Centre and necessary legal action will also be taken. “The statement made by Kejriwal in the past of giving clean chit to the Congress in the 1984 Sikh Genocide also showed his anti-Sikh mentality. Sikhs would never forgive such a person with double standards,” he said, while demanding that along with Bhullar, all Sikh prisoners who have completed their sentence should be released.‘Centre should rename Veer Baal Diwas’The SGPC executive committee also appealed to the Centre to rename “Veer Baal Diwas” that was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to commemorate the martyrdom day of Sahibzadas (sons) of Guru Gobind Singh on December 26. “The day must be renamed on the basis of opinion given by Sikh organisations under the leadership of Akal Takht Sahib jathedar,” said Dhami.Dhami said the SGPC had also taken a strict note of distortion of Gurbani verses by a Rajasthan-based dera of Swami Brahmdev, following which an apology has been submitted on Friday. He also announced a sub-committee to look into “strongly condemnable” action of making Sikh candidates remove their articles of faith before appearing for competitive examinations in different states.Dhami also released the book “Truth About Nabha: The tale of betrayal with Maharaja Ripudaman Singh by British Empire”, which has been republished by the SGPC after a century. 
21-01-2022||Pune||Pune stands second in state to administer precaution dose||PUNE Around 15 per cent precaution doses have been administered in the State. Pune district has given the second most doses after Mumbai. According to the CoWin dashboard, Pune district has successfully administered 81,412 doses till January 21 since the administration of the precaution dose started on January 10.The precautionary dose is aimed at inoculated healthcare professionals and frontline workers who had their first and second dose before March 31,2021. There is an estimate of over 95,000 beneficiaries in the district as per the state health department.Dr Sanjay Patil, chairman of the Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) Hospital Board of India said that many paramedics are hesitant to take the precaution dose. “Many paramedics feel that a third dose may not protect them from Omicron. They have also seen patients test positive after taking the vaccine. However, it should be stressed that taking the vaccine has prevented hospitalisation and patients have shown mild or no symptoms,” said Patil.He further added that last year, many healthcare professionals had witnessed some issues while registering on the CoWin website for vaccines.“In my case as well, I received the second dose in March, however, my certificate shows that I received the dose in June. And so, I have to wait longer than nine months to get the third dose. Similarly, a lot of other professionals have witnessed the same issues due to CoWin website issues last year. Such issues should be resolved so that healthcare professionals get the third jab as soon as possible,” said Dr PatilHe further added that many senior citizens have also received text messages through CoWin portal as they are eligible for the third dose. “Such senior citizens should take the third dose without delay. The fact that it has been nine months since the second dose is important,” said Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-stands-second-in-state-to-administer-precaution-dose-101642785038391.html
21-01-2022||Lucknow||Keep Covid command centres active 24x7: Adityanath||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath asked for sufficient cold protection arrangements for animals at the cow shelters and also ensure timely payments of ₹900 per month to the families who have adopted cows. Yogi Adityanath said this at the Covid review meeting on Friday.Talking about Covid, Yogi asked for safety, caution, and vaccination for preventing the spread of the virus.“At present, the state is administering 25 lakh vaccine doses each day, and it should be hiked to 30 lakh doses each day,” he said. The CM added that all necessary arrangements should be done for administering precautionary doses to those who would be deployed on poll duties.The chief minister also asked the officers concerned to keep the integrated Covid command centres active 24x7.In the meeting, Yogi said that in the last 24 hours, a total of 16,142 fresh cases of Covid were recorded in the state, and at present, the total number of active cases in UP were 95,866.He said that the state, till Thursday, had administered 24.29 crore doses of the Covid vaccine, including 9.29 crore persons who have got both the doses.“Sixty-three per cent of people have got both their doses, while 96.47% have got their first dose. Till Thursday, a total of 70.92 lakh adolescents in the age group of 15 to 18 years have been vaccinated with the first dose,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/keep-covid-command-centres-active-24x7-adityanath-101642784985537.html
21-01-2022||Kolkata||Bengal sees dip in Covid tally with 9,154 fresh infections, logs 35 deaths||West Bengal's Covid-19 tally rose to 19,49,074 on Friday as 9,154 people tested positive for the infection, 1,805 less than the previous day, a health bulletin said.The death toll rose to 20,265 as 35 more patients succumbed to the infection, it said.The number of active cases dipped by 9,993 to 1,34,816, the bulletin said.A total of 19,112 more people were cured of the disease, taking the total number of recoveries to 17,93,993, it said, adding that the discharge rate improved to 92.04 per cent.The state has thus far tested over 2.26 crore samples for Covid-19, including 72,738 in the last 24 hours, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengals-sees-dip-in-covid-tally-with-9-154-fresh-infections-logs-35-deaths-101642784086309.html
21-01-2022||Pune||Colleges gear up to welcome students, hold vaccination drives||PUNE With the state higher and technical education minister Uday Samant announcing that Class 1 to Class 12 will reopen on January 24, many city colleges have started preparations to welcome students again on campuses. Many educational institutes have planned on-campus special vaccination drives for students. Vaccination for 15-18 age group, those going to schools and colleges, have started from January 3 this year. As the board examinations of class 10 and 12 are planned to be conducted offline in the state, many institutes conducted special vaccination drives on campuses along with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) for students since last few weeks. “As per the state government guidelines, only classes from 1 to 12 will resume from January 24 and it will cover junior colleges. We are waiting for the guidelines from the local government body, while our preparations for restarting offline classes have begun. Already the college campus was reopened and lectures were going on, before rise in Covid cases in the state led to stopping of offline mode. We had organised vaccination drives for students in the college along with PMC health department,” said Prof Ravindra Pardeshi, principal, Fergusson College. “We are planning to hold vaccination drive for students who have not yet taken the jab. Once the college campus is reopened for Class 11 and Class 12 students, we will be taking registration of students for vaccination and hold special camp,” he said. Rajendra Zunjarrao, principal, Modern College of Arts, Science and Commerce, Shivajinagar said, “Safety of our students is top priority and we will cover maximum students under vaccination. We will register students in groups of 25 and conduct vaccination drive with the help of PMC.” Pooja Sonawane, a Class 12 student, said, “Our board examination schedule is declared and our classes were conducted online due to Covid restrictions. We eagerly look forward to offline mode since last two years as in-person interaction is needed with teachers to grasp subjects and score good marks. So, we are happy that offline classes will restarting soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/colleges-gear-up-to-welcome-students-hold-vaccination-drives-101642784678399.html
21-01-2022||Pune||Mandatory double vax certificate for PMPML passengers not on right track||Pune: The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited’s (PMPML) decision to only allow fully vaccinated passengers to travel in their buses seem to have not been implemented effectively. In an effort to check the Covid spread, the public transport utility informed to ply only passengers carrying double-vaccination certificate from January 17. PMPML issued a circular to all its depots instructing strict implementation. A spot report found conductor or any of the checking staff of PMPML unable to check every boarding passenger, especially during morning and evening rush hours. “We have instructed conductors to strictly check the vaccination certificate of passengers. Action will be taken against staff found not following the instructions,” said Dattatray Zende, traffic manager, PMPML. Meanwhile, overcrowding, mask violation and no use of sanitisers were seen by PMPML passengers before the latest spurt in Covid cases forced the transport utility to issue Covid restrictions. Shailesh Kshirsagar, a PMPML commuter, said, “I daily go to my office by PMPML bus and there is no checking of my vaccination certificate till now. It is practically impossible to check certificate of all passengers by one conductor during rush hours.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mandatory-double-vax-certificate-for-pmpml-passengers-not-on-right-track-101642784564828.html
21-01-2022||Pune||With 16K cases, district reports peak in fresh Covid infections; Omicron cases too on the rise||PUNE Pune district on Friday reported 16,459 cases which was higher than the peak of the second wave which reported 12,385 cases on April 17 in 2021. Omicron cases in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) are now the highest in the state at 989. Second in the list is Mumbai at 688 cases. Omicron cases in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) are 118 and in Pune rural are 62. As per state health authorities, three Covid-19 deaths were reported in Pune district in the last 24 hours. Pune rural, PCMC and PMC each reported one death in the last 24 hours.As per the state Health department, PMC has so far reported 609,344 Covid-19 cases and 9,311 deaths till Friday. PCMC has reported 309,113 cases so far and 3,533 deaths. Pune rural has reported 397,113 cases so far and 7,060 deaths. In the Pune district, there are a total of 13,15,570 lakh Covid-19 cases. Out of this, 1,216,470 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 20,254 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 78,846 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 42,391 patients were discharged on Friday in Maharashtra taking the total to 70,09,823 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 94.47%. Across Maharashtra, 48,270 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Friday and 52 Covid-19 deaths were reported on Friday. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.91%.The state health department stated out of 72,951,286 laboratory samples, 7,820,027 have been tested positive till Friday. Currently 2,387,593 people are in home quarantine and 3,357 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/with-16k-cases-district-reports-peak-in-fresh-covid-infections-omicron-cases-too-on-the-rise-101642784563425.html
21-01-2022||Lucknow||Two held for manufacturing, supply of illegal firearms in UP’s Shahjahanpur: STF||With the arrest of two persons, the UP police special task force (STF) on Friday claimed to have unearthed an illegal firearms manufacturing unit working out of a brick kiln in Shahjahanpur. The STF officials said as many as five firearms, some cartridges as well as other material used in manufacturing of weapons have been also recovered from them. They said the duo was arrested from the brick kiln at Hardoi turn on Roja marg in Shahjahanpur while manufacturing illegal firearms during a raid carried out at 2.45 am on Friday wee hours.In a press note shared by STF, the officials said the duo arrested were identified as Harpreet Singh of Ashiana, Lucknow and Harpal Singh of Pasgawa, Lakhimpur Kheri. It further reads that Harpreet was earlier arrested in a similar case of illegal firearms supply from Lucknow’s Ashiana police station area in 2019. After getting bail, Harpreet with the help of Harpal got back in business anticipating a surge in demand during the upcoming assembly polls, it added. The officials said while Harpreet supplied the material used in manufacturing illegal firearms from Lucknow Harpal, who has expertise in manufacturing firearms, used to assemble the weapons and sell it at ₹10,000 each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/two-held-for-manufacturing-supply-of-illegal-firearms-in-up-s-shahjahanpurstf-101642784198142.html
21-01-2022||Patna||Jewellery shop looted in Patna, locals nab one of four robbers||Four armed robbers looted a jewellery shop in the busy Bakerganj area of Patna on Friday afternoon and decamped with items worth crores of rupees, police said, adding that the shopkeepers were able to nab one of them, who was being questioned at the local police station. This is the second such incident in Patna since Wednesday, when a jeweller was shot by criminals in Rajiv Nagar area in a robbery attempt. Bakerganj, which is in close vicinity of Gandhi Maidan police station and offices of senior police officers, is a hub of jewellery stores.Agitated over the incident, angry shopkeepers downed shutters and protested on streets.“The armed robbers came on four motorcycles. They threatened the son of shop owner Sanjiv Kumar and looted the entire jewellery,” said Bakerganj Jewellery Shopkeepers’ Association president Vinod Kumar. He said the robbers also snatched away everyone’s mobile phones. “One of them was caught by the local people. The remaining three fled towards Gandhi Maidan on their bikes,” he said, adding that the police took him to Gandhi Maidan police station for questioning. “At the time of the robbery, calls were made several times to Kadamkuan police station and the SSP office, but no one answered the phone. Gandhi Maidan police reached the spot about 45 minutes after the incident,” Kumar said. He said jewellery shops in the area will remain shut till the time all four robbers are caught and looted goods recovered.Patna’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) M S Dhilon said the police have identified the gang involved in the crime and would make arrests soon. “CCTV footage has also been obtained,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/jewellery-shop-looted-in-patna-locals-nab-one-of-four-robbers-101642784139909.html
21-01-2022||Other||No trace of DMCH’s 77 acres as proposed AIIMS in Darbhanga waits for land||At least 77 acres of land belonging to Bihar’s Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) is untraceable in the area where the work on the proposed 750-bed All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) is yet to begin due to paucity of land more than a year after the proposal was cleared by the union cabinet, according to documents made available by the Lok Sabha secretariat to Gopal Jee Thakur, who represents Darbhanga constituency in the Lok Sabha,“Erstwhile Maharaja of Darbhanga had donated a sum of ₹6 lakh and 300 acres of land for establishment and expansion of Darbhanga Medical College, which came to be known as DMCH,” said Thakur, who had sought the information on December 20, 2021.Thakur is from the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP), which is part of the ruling alliance both in the state and at the Centre.“The DMCH was built by the efforts of king of Khandavala dynasty, Maharaja Rameshwar Singh. It was established in 1946 to provide high quality medical education at affordable cost. The college is recognised by the government of India as a site for the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). It aims to provide high quality education and excellent environment for the students in medical education,” says the document made available to Thakur by the parliament library reference, research, documentation and information service (LARRDIS), which has been seen by HT.Meanwhile, citing the records, Thakur has said that if DMCH was granted as much as 300 acres of land by the then Maharaja of Darbhanga, the boundary of DMCH should be demarcated afresh. The administrative authorities had traced only 227 acres of land following demarcation of DMCH boundary.The MP said he has also requested the divisional commissioner to do the needful in this regard. “I am very much concerned about establishment of AIIMS at Darbhanga at the earliest. If Maharaja had granted 300 acres land for DMCH, it would still be left with 100 acres after 200 acres is allotted for AIIMS,” Thakur told HT.DMCH superintendent Dr Harishankar Mishra, however, said there was no available document that could establish that the medical college had 300 acres under its possession. “We don’t have any such record. The document issued by Lok Sabha library must be based on some original source of information. We are more than eager to lay our hands on it.”During a review meeting at the DMCH in December 2021, chief minister Nitish Kumar had announced to allot 50 acres of more land to DMCH while curtailing from the 200 acres earmarked for establishment of AIIMS. As per current arrangement, 150 acres is be given to proposed AIIMS and 77 acres will be left for expansion of DMCH.Curiously, in November 2020, the state cabinet had granted approval for free of cost transfer of 200 acres for AIIMS. On September 15, 2020, the union cabinet had granted its approval for the AIIMS at Darbhanga, Bihar’s second, to be constructed at an estimated cost of ₹1264 crore in 48 months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-trace-of-dmch-s-77-acres-as-proposed-aiims-in-darbhanga-waits-for-land-101642784023748.html
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Missing out on local farm unions’ support, SSM faces uphill task in South Malwa||With farm unions in South Malwa — seen as the hub of agrarian movements in Punjab — refusing to back the Samyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM)’s poll plunge, the newly floated political outfit is facing an uphill task to woo voters in the region ahead of the assembly elections scheduled in less than a month. Seven districts in the region — Bathinda, Muktsar, Moga, Fazilka, Ferozepur, Faridkot and Mansa — account for 28 seats in the 117-strong Punjab Vidhan Sabha. The SSM has announced candidates from only 15 out of these 28 assembly segments so far. Bhartiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) along with 21 other outfits that were a part of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), which spearheaded the year-long agitation against the now-repealed farm laws, had floated the SSM to contest on all 117 seats in Punjab. Most of these unions are based in Majha and Doaba regions of the state. Meanwhile, around 10 farmers’ unions opposed the idea of contesting the elections and decided not to support the SSM. They include Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan), Punjab’s largest farm union that has a significant following in South Malwa, besides BKU (Dakounda), BKU (Lakhowal), Krantikari Kisan Union (Darshan Pal), BKU Krantikari, BKU Sidhupur (Jagjit Dallewal), Kisan Sangharsh Committee Punjab, Lok Bhalai Insaaf Welfare Society and Kirti Kisan Union Punjab. As most candidates are new to electoral politics, the non-participation of these unions in the poll campaign is set to pose a challenge to them, especially when they are left with just a small cadre at a time when campaigning is mainly limited to door-to-door outreach. Downplaying the challenge, Anuroop Kaur Sandhu, SSM candidate from Muktsar, said: “Yes, it’s a fact that farmer unions in the area are not part of the SSM, but I have not faced any problem so far. Usually, in a village, people have affiliation with more than one union and local farmer leaders have given me a positive response. I am going to start the door-to-door campaign from Saturday.” Dr Ramandeep Singh, who is in the fray from Jaitu segment, said: “If the unions are not supporting us, they are also not opposing us. Our motive is to reach out to all voters, and there is a large chunk of silent voters that will support the SSM.” However, he acknowledged that if all farmers’ unions were to collectively contest the elections, it would have been more impactful. “But I am confident that people will support us for a change,” he said. ‘Poll plunge will not help agitation’ Joginder Singh Ugrahan, president of the BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan), said the SSM’s decision to contest the assembly elections will not help the farmers’ agitation in any way. “The way they have entered politics, it will not bring any change to the political system. The SKM could have brought bigger changes through its influence on political parties, and it would have also sensitised the people collectively. The formation of SSM will have an adverse impact on those efforts. We will not support them or oppose them; instead we will hold meetings in all areas and start door-to-door campaign to sensitise people about farmers’ demands,” he said.Reiterating the sentiment, Jagmohan Singh, general secretary of BKU (Dakounda), said the union will neither support nor oppose the SSM candidates. “People can vote for anyone they like. Our fight is for farmers’ issues, and we will oppose the politicians who have betrayed us,” he said. “Instead of fighting the elections, the SSM should have strengthened the farmers’ agitation by putting in more efforts to push for the pending demands,” said Kirti Kisan Union vice-president Rajinder Singh Deep Singh Wala. 
21-01-2022||Patna||Chirag’s party to contest in UP, Uttarakhand on its own||Lok Janshakti Party (Ramvilas) chief and Jamui MP Chirag Paswan on Friday announced in Patna that his party would contest elections in both Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand on its own and not enter into any alliance. In UP, he said, the party was preparing to contest most seats, though at present it has announced candidates for just two phases.In 2020 Bihar polls, the erstwhile LJP had won one seat in the 243-member assembly. In 2021, the party split and five of its six MPs threw their lot with Paswan’s uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras, who is now a union minister. Talking to media persons in Patna, Chirag Paswan said his party might have to contest UP polls with another new symbol, as the “helicopter” symbol allotted to it in Bihar may not be available in UP. The “helicopter” symbol was allotted to LJP (Ramvilas) after the Election Commission freeze order on the original LJP symbol due to split in the party following death of its founder Ram Vikas Paswan.“But we have Ramvilas in the name of the party now and that is what is important. We will contest in the two states to expand our footprints. We also see strong prospects of mid-term elections in Bihar for the way infighting in the ruling NDA is coming to fore time and again. Chief minister Nitish Kumar is also preparing for mid-term election as he has set out on his statewide social reforms campaign. Even if big incidents take place, he never moves out to meet the victims. He did not utter a word even on the hooch tragedy in Nalanda,” he said.“There was a time when LJP had 17 MLAs in UP. We did not contest in 2012 and 2017,” Paswan said.LJP (Ramvilas) is the first party from Bihar to announce its decision to fight UP polls on its own. Nitish Kumar’s JD-U is yet to announce its decision, still hoping for some understanding with BJP, while Jitan Ram Manjhi’s HAM-S and Mukesh Sahni’s VIP are still to work out their UP strategy. Chirag Paswan said his party will also contest the Legislative Council elections in Bihar on its own. “In Bihar, the question of alliance will arise when the elections near. As of now, our priority is to strengthen the party organisation. We contested 137 seats in Bihar assembly elections and that helped us reach out to all parts of the state. Contesting in alliance limits the number of seats,” he said.
21-01-2022||Patna||Govt urges Covid caution as wedding season begins in Bihar||PATNA With the beginning of the marriage season, the government on Friday cautioned people to adhere to Covid-19 guidelines so that the declining graph in the number of new infections is maintained, even as the state recorded 3,009 new cases on Thursday, taking the total active cases to 22,775, said Pratyaya Amrit, Bihar’s additional chief secretary, health.Terming the next 10 days as a “critical period”, Amrit while addressing a virtual presser on Friday said it would be a “challenge” to maintain the declining trend during the marriage season, which began on Friday. He called for extreme caution and sought people’s cooperation to flatten the curve by coming forward for vaccination and maintaining Covid appropriate behaviour.Sounding a note of caution that the Covid-19 cases were on the ascendancy in Kerala, he urged people not to become complacent and lower their guard.Stopping short of calling that the peak of the third wave of the pandemic was over, Amrit said there was a “perceptible declining trend” in the number of new infections since January 14, when the state recorded 6,541 cases, with Patna accounting for 2,116.Patna, which was a hotspot, accounted for 697 new cases on Friday. It had reported 2,566 cases on January 10, the highest so far during the third wave of the pandemic.He said that the state’s test positivity rate has come down to 1.97% on Thursday when the state conducted 1,52,728 tests.Meanwhile, Bihar overtook Madhya Pradesh on Friday and became the fourth state in India in terms of first-dose achievement among the 15-18 adolescent age group as it administered 32.39 lakh doses, with an achievement of 39%, said Animesh Kumar Parashar, additional executive director, state health society, Bihar (SHSB).Bihar’s recorded 54% in administering precautionary dose among healthcare workers (HCW), 44% in case of frontline workers (FLW), and 16% among those above 60 years of age with comorbidity, he added.He said the health department, in association with the education department, had prepared a micro plan for vaccination at schools so that no schools were left out.The hospitalisation figure of Covid-19 patients has also come down from 364 on January 19 to 159 on Friday, said SHSB executive director Sanjay Kumar Singh.Despite request, he, however, did not share a break-up of the hospitalisation figures as well as the day’s death summary of Covid-19 patients.
21-01-2022||Lucknow||CSIR-CIMAP’s ten-day Kisan Mela kicks off in Lucknow||Ten-day Kisan Mela-2022 began at Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR)-Central Institute of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants (CIMAP) headquarters in Lucknow on Friday wherein farmers will be apprised about various researches and technologies to increase their income. The mela will be held for 10 days from January 21 to 31 except on January 26 and daily about 200 farmers, entrepreneurs and industry persons along with CSIR-CIMAP scientists will be in attendance. The mela was inaugurated by CSIR-CIMAP director Dr Prabodh Kumar Trivedi following all Covid protocols. Only the pre-registered and double vaccinated people were allowed entry to the Kisan Mela.Dr Trivedi spoke about the farmer-centric activities undertaken by CSIR-CIMAP in various parts of the country. “Despite the pandemic, scientists and staff of the institute have been able to provide online trainings, planting materials and services to the farmers, which has helped in increasing their income during these difficult times,” he said. He said high quality research in medicinal and aromatic plants varieties and technologies by the institute are helping farmers to increase their income.Kisan Mela souvenir “Aus Gyanya” was also released during this occasion. Alos, a mobile van displaying the Moringa (Sahjan in Hindi)-based products was flagged by Trivedi. The products are being developed by JVKS Company under the technical guidance of CSIR-CIMAP. A collection of over 80 varieties of ornamental rose from various Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) and academic institutes of the country was also inaugurated by the director.An interaction among the farmers, scientists and industry was also organised. On the first day, 500 kgs of planting material of high-yielding newly released menthol mint variety ‘CIM-Unnati’ along with planting material for ‘Kosi’ and ‘CIM-Kranti’ was provided to over 150 farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/csircimaps-ten-day-kisan-mela-kicks-off-in-lucknow-101642783838421.html
21-01-2022||Other||{Covid-19 surge} Don’t execute eviction or demolition orders: HC to govt agencies||Chandigarh To reduce litigation in courts of two states and Chandigarh during this fresh Covid-19 surge, the Punjab and Haryana high court has issued a slew of directions, including asking government agencies to refrain from executing eviction, demolition orders and also asking banks to not to proceed with auction proceedings in case of a default by an individual or a body.Acting on a suo motu plea, the bench of chief justice RS Jha and justice Arun Palli observed that, “Owing to a sudden and alarming surge in the number of people, who have been tested Covid positive, the situation has turned grim and unsafe,” the bench observed, referring to similar directions issued on April 28, 2021.As per the order, all the interim orders/directions issued stand extended up to February 28. Any order passed which was applicable till “further orders” would continue to remain in force until modified. The time for filing of written statements in a proceeding, unless specifically directed, also stand extended till February 28.The high court has also asked authorities not to carry out eviction, dispossession, and demolition orders; financial institutions have been told not to auction properties in a proceeding during this period. Interim protections given in anticipatory bails and paroles etc given for a limited period also would stand extended up to February 28.The proceedings on Covid-19 outbreak monitoring were initiated last year in view of Supreme Court directions in this regard. All directions issued would remain in force till February 28. The case will be taken up again on February 24. The order will be applicable only in the case of proceedings before any tribunal, quasi-judicial bodies and district courts in the territorial jurisdiction of Punjab and Haryana high court..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-surge-don-t-execute-eviction-or-demolition-orders-hc-to-govt-agencies-101642783478068.html
21-01-2022||Pune||No record of home testing RAT kits purchased online: PMC||PUNE Though the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has record of over two lakh sale of at-home Covid-19 rapid antigen tests (RAT) in Pune division between January 1 and January 21, there is no data on the kits sold online. The Pune division includes Pune, Sangli, Solapur, Kolhapur and Satara. FDA had instructed chemists to keep a record of over-the-counter (OTC) purchase of home Covid test kits. However, the data is not shared with Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials. On mandatory record of self-testing RAT kits, Sushil Shah, president, Chemists Association of Pune District (CAPD), said that even though the directive is imposed on chemists and druggists, there is no scrutiny about the online platforms. “There are about 11,500 chemists associated with the organisation in Pune district alone. We have urged chemists to maintain record of sale of home kits and customers’ phone number so as to share data with PMC and other authorities when needed. However, there is no scrutiny on online medical platforms which are selling these kits,” said Shah. Shah said that the need to check online platforms selling medicines was raised by the chemists’ body to authorities in the past. “The FDA should take cognisance of online platforms as well. There is no record of how many kits were purchased online for home testing and if these patients who tested positive have contacted the PMC or not,” said Shah. FDA officials said that they have the data through chemists. SB Patil, joint commissioner, FDA Pune division, said that they have received the information of two lakh kits being purchased from Pune division since January 1. “PMC officials have not reached out to us for data or number of those who have purchased the home testing kits. It is a challenge to keep track of these kits purchased online, but the contact number of buyers are recorded by online sellers,” said Patil. He said that home testing kits have a mechanism at place where if the patient tested positive or negative is registered with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). “As the kits do not any medical prescription, there is no record of how many online kits were purchased. However, these kits have a mechanism where the patient’s information is registered on the ICMR portal,” said Patil. However, PMC officials said that the residents who test Covid positive by self-kits cannot be reached by the health staff for treatment or follow-up if their data is unavailable Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant chief of health department, PMC, said they have not received any data from FDA or chemists regarding the purchase of home testing kits. “For online kits that are purchased, we do not get the data from ICMR as well. So, even if the patients are registered, we do not have the data and are unable to reach these patients for follow-up. For offline purchase as well, we haven’t received any data as of yet,” said Dr Wavare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-record-of-home-testing-rat-kits-purchased-online-pmc-101642782944375.html
21-01-2022||Other||Channi misleading people on PPA cancellation: Mann||Chandigarh Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Punjab president and chief ministerial candidate Bhagwant Mann on Friday accused chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi of misleading people on the issue of power purchase agreement (PPA). Mann said the announcement of cancelling the PPA has not been implemented to date, but the Channi government had spent crores of rupees from the state exchequer to advertise the cancellation of power pacts. “They will all be held accountable for their actions in the court of people,” he said in a statement. Mann alleged that like the Badals and the Captain, the Channi government had also fixed its commission (brokerage) in power purchase and colluded with private power companies. “Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu and Channi used to claim that if they came to power, they will immediately cancel the power agreements, but that has not happened,” he said. The AAP leader also said the Punjab government was still buying about 7,000 MW of power from the three private thermal plants at Rajpura, Talwandi Sabo and Goindwal Sahib at the same old rates. “Channi, while announcing decrease in electricity rates, had said the agreement with Goindwal Thermal Power Plant has been cancelled. He had claimed that the government will buy electricity at ₹2.38 per unit and sell it at Rs. 2.65. This announcement has turned out to be a complete lie,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/channi-misleading-people-on-ppa-cancellation-mann-101642782938020.html
21-01-2022||Mumbai||Cash-strapped BEST seeks financial assistance from BMC||Mumbai Cash-strapped Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) has sought financial assistance of ₹6,650 crore from Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) for the functioning of the organisation. Of the total amount, BEST needs ₹1,887.83 crore to repay loans, ₹3,845.58 crore for the salary, pension and provident funds of employees, and ₹2,804.73 crore to procure new buses. The civic administration on Friday sent a notice of resolution to the civic standing committee for information. The resolution was passed by the BMC house in December with the BEST annual budget. In its annual budget for the year 2022-23 presented on Friday, BEST reported a deficit of ₹2,236.48 crore, of which ₹2,110.47 crore is from transport.  The BEST, an undertaking of the BMC, runs the bus service which is Mumbai’s second-largest mass transit system after suburban trains.Notably, BMC has been financially assisting BEST since 2016. Reacting to the development, Leader of Opposition, Ravi Raja said, “BMC has given BEST ₹4,500 crore in financial assistance so far. But it continues to struggle with the financial crisis even today. While the demand has been made for ₹6,650 crore, it is not mandatory that BMC has to pay the entire amount.”BEST needs to come up with a plan to stand on its own feet as it is now becoming a white elephant for the BMC, he addedThe administration plans to procure 2,100 electric buses and has decided to have a fully electric fleet by 2027.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cashstrapped-best-seeks-financial-assistance-from-bmc-101642782703908.html
21-01-2022||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: The Baughing of Mumbai||The thought first took seed while randomly scrolling through a website dedicated to nostalgia about Mumbai’s glory days; you know the kind: post after post by sundry Mumbai lovers, harking wistfully back to the city’s more graceful avatar, of pollution- free wide roads, pretty suburban cottages, sweeping central avenues and bucolic wadis and groves filled with chikoo and guava trees.It occurred to me that the one common denominator in these posts was the presence of trees. Whether it was a photograph of someone’s childhood home in Dadar or a Baugh in Byculla, trees and plants were what had made the memory special for those who invoked the good old days, as if most of our happiest recollections and moments of life are associated with them.This is nothing new of course; poets like Joyce Kilmer have been on to it from the get-go. Which of us in school has not lisped her ‘I think that I shall never see/ A poem lovely as a tree ‘ or is unfamiliar with the words of Martin Luther’s: ‘Every green tree is far more glorious than if it were made of gold and silver.’ Or even ‘Henry Ward Beecher..’ Of all man’s works of art, a cathedral is the greatest. A vast and majestic tree is greater than that.’?No, the significance and value of trees has been the subject of treatises, poems, eulogies and tributes for centuries: But besides their aesthetic splendour and magnificence, everyone knows trees are essential for life. Not only do they give us oxygen reduce the concentration of greenhouse gases decarbonise the atmosphere, prevent soil erosion and flooding, improve water catchment promote biodiversity and provide important habitats for the world’s wildlife, but in urban areas, trees are known to work as natural air conditioners, noise reducers, air cleansers and what’s more studies have shown that their presence has wide ranging social benefits in the reduction of crime, stress and promoting public health and community spirit. Not to mention increasing the value of real estate greatly (think Singapore).***And yet, however much trees are eulogised in books and thoughts, the truth is that every single day, trees are being killed across Mumbai and the city’s environmental activists like Zoru Bhathena, Stalin Dayanand and Faredoon Bhujwala spend their every waking hour running from pillar to post desperately trying to save them from being hacked for one reason or the other…So, last week I put the conundrum to Bhathena: if we all understood the importance of trees, especially now when the pandemic had brought home so acutely the extent to which we have abused the environment, then how could any right-thinking individual not know that cutting an existing tree is a heinous crime? And what would it take to reverse the rot and make every citizen of the city an impassioned tree activist and conservationist? And had the time come to get proactive on planting them in every available nook and cranny across the city or in other words embark on a project for the baughing of Mumbai? Bhathena heard me out patiently, before explaining the ground reality: The cause of trees was mostly an endangered one when it came to builders, bureaucrats, politicians and even ordinary citizens, he said . Currently it was a cat and mouse game, with activists having to use their wits to outsmart every assault.But yes, he conceded, just because there were those who were forced to spend their days fighting that harrowing battle there was nothing to stop others from being proactive and exploring new ways to increase the city’s tree cover. “Both are needed,” said the affable tree lover.***The seed of the thought of being proactive when it came to tree planting and trying to restore Mumbai’s tree cover for the benefit of Mumbai and her future generations found other takers too, fortunately. “An intensely bio-diverse Miyawaki plantation of hyper local flora can be planted on as little as a 100 sq yard,” said leading management consultant Nandan Maluste.“It will attract native fauna and can be designed to please the eye. In fact, space is not really an issue: he said “if we can acquire land for a Sewri-Worli road bridge, we can acquire land for urban forests. Our concrete jungle, think of the area between Azad Maidan and August Kranti Maidan, needs cooling mini forests. Birds and butterflies would be pleased by the product.”This is when my quest led me to Grow Trees, the NGO founded by leading city banker Pradip Shah which in the 12 years of its existence has planted 9.8 million trees across 23 states in India.Using his profound knowledge of industry and enterprise Shah and his team offer a pioneering, web-enabled, and cost-effective solution to individuals and companies for planting trees. What’s more the organisation seems efficient, well run and impassioned about its cause. A single phone call to its office elicited a prompt and methodical response.How could ordinary citizens who wanted to give back to the city and future generations support the cause of growing more trees? I asked Supriya S Patil, environmentalist and project head at Grow Trees “ We have various schemes “ she responded. “ Starting with initiatives that allows you to greet your loved ones by planting trees virtually starting at ₹85 or they can host Grove/Group Greetings: where anyone can start a grove and invite their friends and family to join in by sponsoring the planting of a grove. Weddings, graduation celebrations, and baby showers are just a few examples.”***“He who plants a tree. Plants a hope,” said Lucy Larcom . “Someone’s sitting in the shade today, because someone planted a tree a long time ago,” said Warren Buffett. “The best time to plant a tree was 20 years ago. The second-best time is now,” goes the famous Chinese Proverb.So, what do you think? Has the time come for all those who love Mumbai and want to give back to it to consider doing so by planting trees, wherever, however they can to secure its green cover and through it the quality of life for its future generations? Will initiatives like Grow Trees and many others like it, run by visionary altruistic and committed individuals be able to make a difference? I for one think that there is no better time than now when climate change and the pandemic have made many of us wonder what we can do to contribute in a positive way to a city we love and for its future inhabitants. Wisdom holds that “A society grows great when old men plant trees whose shade they know they shall never sit in.”Perhaps the time has come to make Mumbai great again…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-the-baughing-of-mumbai-101642782398644.html
21-01-2022||Other||{ED raids} Cong mocking the poor by using name of SCs: AAP||Chandigarh The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday strongly condemned the Congress for using the name of Scheduled Caste (SC) category in the matter of recovery of crores of rupees from the relatives of chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi in the Enforcement Directorate (ED) raids. Senior AAP leader and leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema alleged that the Congress government and Channi, after misleading and taking the voters of the SC community for a ride, had looted the state’s treasury and resources.“After the recovery of piles of notes from Channi’s relative, he is aiming for the pity of the people by presenting himself as poor and dalit, while the poor and dalits of the state have not even seen so much money together,” he said, in a statement released to the media.Channi asked the Congress and Channi not to mock the poor by using the name of the community. “The people of Punjab will hold the Congress leaders accountable for their deeds,” he said, adding that the Congress had appointed Channi as the chief minister of Punjab for a few days to get the votes of SC community. “They did nothing for the welfare of this section. Instead, the Congress swindled millions of rupees that belonged to the students of SC community,” he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ed-raids-cong-mocking-the-poor-by-using-name-of-scs-aap-101642781738415.html
21-01-2022||Other||Farmers protest in Barnala; say people must quiz candidate on promises||Patiala Farmers, under the banner of the Bhartiya Kisan union (Dakaunda), held a ‘Jujhar rally’ against both the Centre and the state governments in Barnala in Friday. Buta Singh Burjgill, state president of the union, claimed, “The roll-back of the three farm laws was the result of just one phase of the farmers’ agitation. Most key demands related to peasants has been completely ignored by respective governments at state and centre levels.”Burjgill exhorted people to question candidates of respective governments about unfulfilled and false promises made during past elections. Union general secretary Jagmohan Singh said the Congress government had promised to waive loans of farmers and labourers in 2017, but over its term of five years only a handful of farmers had actually benefitted. The Union has also passed a resolution, demanding the constitution of a committee for guarantee of the Minimum Support Price (MSP), quashing of FIRs against farmers’ protest, immediate release of activists lodged in jails under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). Their other demands are launching a loan waiver scheme for farmers and labourers, to bring act and policies for stopping hate speeches against minorities and the muslim community and to give jobs and financial relief to families of farmers killed during the protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-protest-in-barnala-say-people-must-quiz-candidate-on-promises-101642781441704.html
21-01-2022||Other||To retain plum mining posts, civil engineers resist move to hire specialists||Moga At a time when sand mining has already become a key political issue, civil engineers with the Punjab irrigation department have opposed the mining wing’s move to recruit specialist officers to supervise operations. In a letter to secretary-cum-director of the mining wing, civil engineers have raised objections on the recruitment of geologists or mining engineers. Sources in the department said civil engineers want to retain the plum posts of the mining wing; even as they are heading districts with the additional charge of mining officers, without getting any incentives. Presently, not even a single specialist officer has been deployed to supervise mining operations across the state. The department has been relying on civil engineers, who lack expertise, skill and technical knowledge of mines and minerals, to oversee mining operations in the state. “When the mining wing, earlier with the department of industries and commerce, was unified with the irrigation department in July 2018, the powers of general managers were delegated to them. Before 2018, the mining operations were headed by general managers, which is also allegedly violations of the central laws,” their letter claims. On December 24, 2020, the mining wing had started proceedings to hire 23 qualified geologists or mining engineers to supervise mining operations on outsourcing basis. This was in compliance with the provisions of Sustainable Sand Mining guidelines, 2016, Enforcement and Monitoring guidelines 2020 and the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957. The act makes it mandatory for states to deploy qualified geologists or mining engineers to supervise mining operations. The mining department has eight geologists on its roll but all are deployed in ‘insignificant’ posts, while civil engineers of the irrigation department’s drainage wing are heading mining operations in all districts.Rahul Bhandari, secretary-cum-director mining wing, said, “Civil engineers have raised some points. There are so many judgments of the Supreme Court, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) orders and the guidelines of the Centre on the issue. We will study all of that and proceed further, based on the study’s outcome.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/to-retain-plum-mining-posts-civil-engineers-resist-move-to-hire-specialists-101642781018008.html
21-01-2022||Mumbai||With 5,008 new Covid-19 cases, Mumbai sees further 12.2% dip in daily tally||Mumbai on Friday recorded 5,008 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the last 24 hours, a number that is 12.2 per cent less than the daily tally yesterday. With this, India's financial capital continues on its trend of declining Covid-19 cases; the city had recorded 5,708 cases yesterday and 6,032 on the day before.As many as 12 deaths were also recorded in Mumbai during the past 24 hours, the same number of coronavirus-related fatalities that were seen yesterday, too. Thus, the cumulative death toll in the city has now climbed to 16,512 while the total number of Covid-19 positive patients is now 1,028,715.At the same time, as many as 12,913 Covid-19 patients were discharged from their respective hospitals after recovery, taking the total number of recovered patients to 995,338.Only 420 patients were hospitalised for coronavirus infection during the same time, and the Covid-19 daily update issued today by the municipal corporation of Greater Mumbai showed that only 12.1 per cent of the total available beds in the city's hospitals are currently occupied.However, only 50,032 Covid-19 tests were done in Mumbai in the last 24 hours, the health bulletin showed. Yesterday, the city had conducted 53,203 such tests.Also Read | Daily testing for Covid drops as people opt for home testing kit and do not inform civic body, claims Navi Mumbai Municipal CorporationOfficials say that ever since the government emphasised that only symptomatic high-risk patients are required to be tested, people have become more reluctant to get tested.With most being asymptomatic, people don’t come forward to get tested due to which the testing has gone down. According to officials, most of the people opting for home testing kits do not even inform the corporation if found positive.In Mumbai, where the diminishing number of cases and the 97 per cent recovery rate have instilled hope that the Maharashtrian capital might finally be marking the flattening of the third wave of the pandemic, that began on December 21.Also Read | Mumbai schools to reopen on Jan 24Although the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has said that it is too early to declare that Mumbai is now in the safe zone, it has instructed all schools in the city, including pre-primary classes, to reopen on January 24. Earlier in the day, the Maharashtra government had given its nod to reopen schools across the state from Monday and had empowered local administrations to take a final call depending on the Covid-19 situation in their respective jurisdictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/with-5-008-new-covid-19-cases-mumbai-sees-further-12-2-dip-in-daily-tally-101642778341801.html
21-01-2022||Mumbai||Greens request Thackeray to save Navi Mumbai, MMR salt pans||Appreciating the State Environment Minister, Aaditya Thackeray, for putting his foot down in not allowing any development on salt pans of Mumbai, green groups have requested him to maintain the same firm stand with regard to salt pans in Navi Mumbai and other Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR).Following Thackeray’s tweet about enough land available for construction in Mumbai, BN Kumar of NatConnect, in a mail, to the minister expressed that apart from salt pans, enough land is available in Navi Mumbai, too, for development.CIDCO repeatedly has been taking the stand that the Panje and NRI-TSC wetlands are erstwhile salt pans and hence developable, which the environmentalists have deplored.The NRI-TS Chanakya and Panje wetlands must be spared from the development plans by the government agencies, Kumar said.NatConnect and Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan have opposed the MMRDA plans to develop salt pan areas for affordable housing, pointing out that these areas also serve as wetlands by absorbing tidal and flood water.Burial of salt pans has already been causing floods in MMR and the urban planners must learn lessons from Nature striking back, Nandakumar Pawar, head of Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan, said.“While the burial of wetlands at Bhendkhal was not undone despite the High Court-appointed Mangrove Committee, there have been repeated attempts to sabotage Panje wetland. The Panje-type sabotage is being repeated at NRI-TSC wetlands by blocking the tidal water flow,” Kumar said.BNHS, too, said repeatedly that the destruction of these wetlands would force migratory birds, which are used to landing here, fly helter-skelter and threaten the flights. CIDCO was unavailable for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/greens-request-thackeray-to-save-navi-mumbai-mmr-salt-pans-101642779397952.html
21-01-2022||Mumbai||Defaming womanhood serious offence, says magistrate court while denying bail to trio in ‘Bulli Bai’ case||Mumbai Defaming womanhood is a serious crime, the metropolitan magistrate court at Bandra had observed on Thursday while rejecting bail applications filed by three accused arrested in connection with the ‘Bulli Bai’ app case. The court had on Thursday rejected the bail pleas of Uttarkhand residents Shweta Singh, Mayank Rawat, and Vishal Kumar Jha from Bihar. The detailed order passed by metropolitan magistrate Komal Singh Rajput became available on Friday.“The allegations against the accused are serious and need thorough investigation,” the court said while rejecting their bail pleas.The three accused had filed for bail through their counsels Shivam Deshmukh, Aarti Deshmukh and Sandeep Sherkhane on the ground that they were not creators of the application. The trio claimed that they were innocent and falsely implicated in the case. “In the backdrop of these allegations, if we peruse the record of investigation, prima-facie involvement of the accused is noticed. The disputed fact is only in respect of the exact role played by them; their involvement is not in serious dispute. It is contended on behalf of the applicant that they are just followers and disseminated the information containing its link. Even if it is presumed as argued by them that they are not creators of the application ‘Bulli Bai’ and just followers at this stage it cannot be said they are innocent,” the court observed. The court noted that the trio was in touch with the prime accused Niraj Bishnoi, who was first arrested by the Delhi police and is now in Mumbai Police custody.“Merely because the role is different on technical aspects, it cannot be said that the accused persons are innocent. If applicants are released at this stage before interrogation of creators of the application there is a possibility of tampering with the investigation as well as consequent tampering of the progress of the process of collection of evidence,” said the court.“No doubt the accused are of tender age and they have a fundamental right to life and liberty. But those rights are subjected to reasonable restrictions. They were found to be committing serious acts defaming womanhood. The larger interest of society is at stake,” the court added.The court said the content of the FIR and the record of investigation reflect that the application ‘Bulli Bai’ was created on an online platform and circulated widely.It is shown to be created and followed by people belonging to a particular community, containing data defaming various women from other communities. However, the creators and the followers of the app do not belong to a religion, to which they are shown to belong in the ‘Bulli Bai’ bai. “Thus, there is some ill-intention on the part of the creators and followers of the app and the persons propagating it and disseminating the information about women of a particular religion. Thus, the allegations are serious and need thorough investigation,” the court said.The investigation officer had opposed the bail applications and said that investigation is going on and is still incomplete. “Prima-facie the contents of those applications appear to be uploaded with a view of creating enmity among religions. It has a connection with a previous app named ‘Sulli Deals’,” the officer contended. Mumbai Police is investigating the app hosted on the code-sharing platform GitHub. The app was named after derogatory references to the Muslim community. Hundreds of Muslim women, including vocal activists and top professionals, were listed for “auction” along with their photographs sourced without permission and doctored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/defaming-womanhood-serious-offence-says-magistrate-court-while-denying-bail-to-trio-in-bulli-bai-case-101642778861597.html
21-01-2022||Mumbai||Anti-extortion cell gets gangster Suresh Pujari’s custody till Jan 26||Mumbai Gangster Suresh Pujari has been arrested by the Anti-Extortion Cell (AEC) of the Mumbai crime branch in connection with a 2018 extortion case related to a south Mumbai-based businessman.  He was produced before a court on Friday, which remanded him to police custody till January 29.Pujari is the seventh accused to be arrested in the case as the AEC had earlier arrested six others, including a minor, in the case. It had reportedly recovered two pistols and five live cartridges from them. Pujari was extradited from the Philippines, where he was nabbed in October 2021, and handed over to Maharashtra ATS on his arrival in New Delhi on December 15.He was earlier arrested in an extortion case registered in Kalyan, which is being investigated by the Thane unit of the ATS.While Pujari was in the ATS custody, a new extortion case was registered against him on January 19 after a businessman claimed that the gangster had called him in October 2021 and demanded ₹10 lakh. Pujari was, subsequently, handed over to the Vikhroli ATS unit.The complainant, who operated a camera shop in South Mumbai, claimed that he received a threatening call from Pujari from an international number on January 6, 2018. Pujari allegedly demanded ₹50 lakh and threatened to kill him, if he failed to pay the amount.The businessman later filed a complaint with the MRA Marg police station on January 19, 2018. The case was later transferred to the Anti-Extortion Cell, which is probing 10 cases against the extradited gangster. An AEC officer said that of the six accused arrested earlier, some were involved in the Ulhasnagar firing case. There are 51 cases registered against Pujari across the Mumbai metropolitan region. “Pujari has 17 extortion cases in Mumbai, 30 in Thane, including three MCOCA cases in each district, two cases in ATS, one in Mira Bhayander and one in Navi Mumbai,” a senior officer said.He was on the run for 14 years and Interpol had issued a Red Corner Notice against him in 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/antiextortion-cell-gets-gangster-suresh-pujari-s-custody-till-jan-26-101642778618722.html
21-01-2022||Mumbai||14 students from 4 schools in Thane district for National Children’s Science Congress||Seven teams from four schools of Thane district have been selected for the National Children’s Science Congress that will be conducted online this year.The topic this year is Science for Sustainable Living and 14 children would be participating for the nationals from Thane district.Seven teams of two students each from the following schools – Smt Sulochanadevi Singhania School, Thane; Sou AK Joshi English Medium School, Thane; Vidya Bhavan High School, Nerul and Saraswati Secondary School, Thane – will be participating in the Congress.The topics chosen by them include Design of Air Bag for Safety Of Two-Wheeler Riders, Skin and Eco-Friendly Diaper, Innovation of a Sustainable Mask, Reuse Of Plastic Bottles and Refills to make a Dispenser and Fabric Covered Spectacles.“A total of 3,559 projects were presented at the Zilla level, out of which 103 were selected for the last round of State-level presentations. Of these, 30 projects were selected for the National Children’s Science Congress. This will be held in Ahmedabad in the first week of February,” said Surendra Dighe, Committee Head of Jidnyasa Trust, coordinators for Maharashtra State for National Children Science Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/14-students-from-4-schools-in-thane-district-for-national-children-s-science-congress-101642778437203.html
21-01-2022||Mumbai||Thane civic body assures to complete biometric survey in remaining cluster development areas in 8 days||Though the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has assured the speedy implementation of cluster development scheme, the general body revealed that the biometric survey is still not undertaken in most areas of the six Urban Renewal Plans (URPs) approved by the State.The biometric survey is the first step in the scheme. Following the issue raised by the corporators on Thursday, the civic administration has assured that the survey in the areas that are still remaining would be undertaken in eight days.TMC has been implementing cluster development scheme in 44 clusters across the city since the last five years. The implementation of the first six clusters is now under way, for which a biometric survey of each of the clusters and finalising the list of beneficiaries was undertaken.A proposal for signing a memorandum of understanding with City CIDCO for the implementation of Urban Renewal Cluster (URC) 1 and 2 under the URP was tabled in the general body meeting on Thursday.NCP corporator, Hanumant Jagdale, said, “The URP for six clusters has been finalised. However, there is still no clarity as to how many areas have been covered so far in the biometric survey. As per our information, the survey of some of the areas is still not undertaken. So, we want to know when the survey will be completed.”BJP corporator, Milind Patankar, also pointed out that there are discrepancies in the survey. Additional commissioner, TMC, Sandeep Malvi, said, “I have given orders to the cluster cell to complete the biometric survey of the pending URPs and make a list of beneficiaries.”Ashok Patil, officer of the cluster cell, assured that the survey of all the remaining areas in the URPs will be undertaken in the next eight days.He added, “Apart from CIDCO, we also have participation from the United Nations Office Property Services in the scheme. We had a discussion with them and they have expressed their interest in participation in the survey. The MOU with them will also be signed soon.”
21-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi's Covid tally continues to dip with 10,756 new cases, positivity rate goes below 20%||Delhi on Friday maintained its declining trend in fresh cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) with as many as 10,756 infections, according to the health bulletin data. The figures are 1,550 fewer than Thursday when 12,306 new Covid-19 cases were logged in 24 hours. With the new additions, the overall case tally of the national capital has reached 17,71,028, the bulletin data revealed.Further, the city witnessed a drop in the daily death toll from Thursday's 43 to Friday's 38. Notably, the 43 new fatalities reported yesterday was the highest daily toll that Delhi saw since June last year when the dangerous second wave of Covid-19 was active. After Friday's figures, the death toll of the national capital has touched 25,541.Fresh recoveries, however, marginally dipped on Friday as opposed to Thursday. As many as 17,494 individuals recuperated from the virus, down from 18,815 on the preceding day. The total number of recovered patients in Delhi has now reached 16,83,533.The national capital's case positivity rate has dipped below 20% (18.04% to be exact) from Thursday's 21.48%, the health bulletin data showed.As many as 59,629 tests, of which 14,663 account for Rapid Antigen Test (RAT), were conducted in the last 24 hours. This is an increase from Thursday's 57,290 and Wednesday's 57,776. The Centre on Wednesday (January 19) pulled up all states and Union territories (UTs) for decreased Covid-19 testing and directed them to immediately scale up the process in a strategic manner in order to contain the current surge of Omicron variant.In a letter, additional health secretary Arti Ahuja stated that increased testing will aid in identifying new infection clusters and hot spots, and subsequently ensure to cut down mortality and morbidity.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) earlier in the day issued fresh guidelines in wake of declining single-day Covid-19 cases. Private offices have been allowed to run at 50% capacity, considering they are present outside containment zones. However, the weekend and night curfew (10pm to 5am) will remain in place till further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-covid-tally-further-dips-with-10-756-cases-positivity-rate-at-1804-101642773589908.html
21-01-2022||Mumbai||WR electrician suffers multiple injuries on duty, dies||MUMBAI: Santosh Gunjal, an electrician, 44, working in the Lower Parel workshop of the Western Railway (WR), lost his life while on duty on Thursday.Gunjal, while working on the repair and maintenance of a railway coach on Thursday, tripped and fell on a piece of equipment. He suffered multiple injuries in his abdomen. He was rushed to Jagjivan Ram hospital of the WR however he succumbed to his injuries.Sumit Thakur, chief public relations officer, WR, said, “Gunjal was rushed to the hospital within 30 minutes of the mishap. A detailed medical examination was conducted including X-ray, sonography and CT scan and the best possible medical attention and treatment was provided but unfortunately, he succumbed to the internal injuries in his abdomen.” The WR has ordered an enquiry into the incident. After the mishap, employees working in the Lower Parel workshop started raising demands for the welfare of the workers.A senior WR official said, “The demands raised by the employees included reduction in workload of employees, filling up of vacancies in the workshop, and allowing food in the workshop canteen that was stopped due to coronavirus. They have been asked to meet their supervisor and the demands will be looked into.”In March last year, a contractual worker died while on duty in the Lower Parel workshop. He collapsed while carrying out maintenance work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/wr-electrician-suffers-multiple-injuries-on-duty-dies-101642776337693.html
21-01-2022||Mumbai||Schools across Thane district to reopen from January 24||Schools within Thane District shall reopen for pre-primary section and for Classes 1 to 12 from Monday onwards, according to a circular issued by Thane District Collector.Only those students who have the parents’ consent letters should be allowed to attend offline sessions. Moreover, the Collector has asked schools to make provisions for vaccination of those between 15 years and 18 years of age within the school premises. For students who have not given consent letters, online classes should continue.“All schools situated in rural, municipal corporation or municipal council areas within the district can reopen from January 24 onwards. These include ashram schools in rural areas as well, all mediums and all boards. Educational institutions should take necessary measures and follow all Covid protocols,” said Rajesh Narvekar, Collector, Thane district.This announcement comes a day after the Maharashtra government gave permission for schools to reopen in the State. Since the onset of the pandemic, this is the first time the pre-primary section has reopened in the district. All schools should collect the consent letters in advance and ensure seating provisions are made accordingly.Due to the onset of the third wave, schools within Thane district had closed from January 2 onwards. Classes for 10th and 12th standard students were continuing all this while.Only online sessions were being conducted. Now as the effect of the third wave is receding, schools will be reopening across the district for offline sessions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/schools-across-thane-district-to-reopen-from-january-24-101642775800995.html
21-01-2022||Mumbai||Banker arrested for stealing ₹1.85 cr for online betting||Mumbai A deputy branch manager of a private bank has been arrested by Matunga police for allegedly siphoning off ₹ 1.85 crore from the bank. Police officers said that the banker was an online betting addict and fraudulently used customers’ money to bet. A vigilant bank officer soon detected the irregularity and reported the matter to the police.Vishal Sadashiv Gurdu, 31, who was posted at the ICICI Bank’s Dadar (East) Punawadi branch was arrested after Rajeev Langar, the regional head of the bank lodged a complaint.Gurdu, a Worli resident, was an employee at the bank since 2012. Police said that the bank’s Bandra-based currency chest last year in November had asked the Dadar (East) branch officers asking why an amount of ₹ 2.05 crore was kept at the branch. After a quick check, they found that the branch had only ₹ 20.16 lakh in cash. An amount of ₹ 1.85 crore was missing. Langar, the complainant, himself visited the branch on November 6, 2021, met the branch manager and began probing the suspected irregularities. The accused deputy manager Gurdu first came under the scanner as he had the responsibility of monitoring the transactions. Initially, Gurdu tried to dodge the inquiry and gave vague answers. However, later during sustained questioning, he gave up and admitted that he has siphoned off the money. “The accused admitted that he has siphoned off money from the bank to place bets online. He allegedly deposited the fraudulently managed money in nine bank accounts of the bookies (who were operating the online betting sites) by making false transaction records in the bank,” said an officer from Matunga police. He told his seniors that to place bets online he deposited money in three current and six other accounts of the bookies who ran the online betting sites. He mainly placed bets on two sites. For this, the accused used his own two mobile numbers.“While committing the alleged siphoning of funds, the accused made false records of depositing cash in nine bank accounts of the customers. For this, false entries were made in the cash balance register and cash report. So this amount was deposited only on paper and was reflected in bank’s records. But physically the cash was not available with the bank,” states the complainant in the FIR (of which HT has a copy). The accused told bankers that he got to know about the betting sites and the application through a family group on Telegram. Soon he got addicted to the betting and was using the bank’s money for placing bets on the online sites managed by the two bookies.“We are checking to see if any other person was involved in the case along with Gurdu,” said Deepak Chavan, senior inspector of Matunga police station.The accused has been booked under sections 408 (criminal breach of trust by an employee), 409 (Criminal breach of trust by public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent) and 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc) of Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/banker-arrested-for-stealing-1-85-cr-for-online-betting-101642775497858.html
21-01-2022||Lucknow||UP sees over 20 Covid deaths after 7 months||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh on Friday reported over 20 fatalities due to Covid after a gap of nearly seven months. The state saw 22 deaths and 16,142 fresh cases, taking the death toll to 23,022 and the Covid tally to 1916616, according to the state health department. On June 25 last year, 25 deaths were reported in a single day. “There is stagnation in daily Covid cases and the daily test positivity rate, which was rising swiftly in December 2021, is now rising very slowly. We need to be cautious to control spread of infection,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health, in a press conference. Lucknow, Lakhimpur Kheri, Ballia, Chandauli and Meerut reported two deaths each, while one death each was reported in Ghaziabad, Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Rampur, Hapur, Amroha, Sultanpur, Etah, Deoria, Mainpuri, Kannauj and Maharajganj, as per the health department’s data. Among the fresh cases, Lucknow reported 2,290, Gautam Buddha Nagar 1,465, Meerut 1,020, Ghaziabad 778, , Varanasi 673, Prayagraj 529, Agra 408, and Gorakhpur 362. The two patients, who died in Lucknow, were admitted to the SGPGI. One of them was a 59-year-old man suffering from kidney ailment and the other 76-years-old patient was suffering from hypertension and heart problem. “Comorbidity is a key reason for people facing problems due to Covid infection. Majority of others testing positive have mild symptoms,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. In Lucknow, 349 fresh cases were reported from Aliganj, 362 from Chinhat, 299 from Alambagh and 240 from Sarojini Nagar. In all, 1,027 people testing positive were contacts of Covid patients and 112 had travel history from other states. “Vaccination is being conducted in a massive way and we are the first state to administer over 24 crore doses of the Covid vaccine. Children born on or before December 31, 2007 are eligible for vaccination,” said Prasad. BOXUP’S VAX STATUS 18 plus group 15,01,60,057 or 96.47% got their first dose 9,39,55,318 or 63.06% got their second dose 15-17 age group 7375276 or 50.61% got their first dose||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-sees-over-20-covid-deaths-after-7-months-101642775437796.html
21-01-2022||Mumbai||Proposed metro car shed plot not a salt pan, does not belong to Centre: Activist tells HC||Mumbai Activist Zoru Bhathena has filed an intervention application (IA) in a petition pending before the Bombay high court, claiming that the plot of land identified by the state government for the Metro depot at Kanjur Marg was neither a salt pan land nor did it belong to the Union of India as claimed by the Centre. Bhathena has referred to a 2013 affidavit filed by the Union of India in another PIL wherein it stated that the plot of land measuring 155 acres was not part of Kanjur village. The activist has submitted that the Centre was aware of this fact when the High Court was hearing the plea challenging the Maharashtra government’s decision to shift construct a consolidated Metro depot, including the one which shifted from Aarey to Kanjur Marg in 2020, but had suppressed it and did not inform the bench. Bathena’s application further states that the Maharashtra government and the Collector were also aware of the fact but had failed to point it out in the court when the matter was heard in 2020. In light of these submissions, Bathena has sought appropriate directions from the HC in this regard. He also called for an urgent hearing, which was permitted by the court. The petition will now be heard on January 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/proposed-metro-car-shed-plot-not-a-salt-pan-does-not-belong-to-centre-activist-tells-hc-101642774905758.html
21-01-2022||Mumbai||UG medical seats up by 670 across GMC and private, open aspirants unhappy||Mumbai: The Maharashtra state Common Entrance Test (CET) cell released the seat matrix (intake capacity) for undergraduate medical (MBBS) and dental (BDS) for the academic year 2021-22.A total of 220 new seats have been added in the government medical institutes and 450 seats have been added in private medical institutes this year. The provisional state merit list was announced by the CET cell on Wednesday evening and the seat matrix was released late on Thursday evening. While sanction to four new government medical colleges (GMCs) was expected for the current academic year, the National Medical Commission (NMC) in November approved two new GMCs, one each in Satara and Alibaug, while two other institutes in Pune and Sindhudurg were still awaited. In case of private medical institutes, along with new sanctions, several existing institutes have sought increase in their intake capacity and were granted the same this year. Activist Sudha Shenoy shared, “Announcement of the seat matrix has brought respite to anxious students waiting to find out the total seats available in government as well as private institutes. Overall, more seats have been added this year, which should give students more options. Everyone can now start filling the choice preference list as per the information available.”Meanwhile, a UG medical aspirant Akriti Pandya shared perspective of how open category aspirants feel, “Seats are higher compared to last year and thankfully new government medical institutes have also been approved this year which gives us more options. However, seats for open category students keep diminishing because of new reservation quotas, which is unfair to meritorious students.”As per the latest notification for admissions to UG health science courses this year, 62% seats will be going to the reserved categories while the remaining 38% goes to those from the open category. Eligible candidates can now start filling out their preference forms between January 21 and 28. The first seat allotment list for the 2021-22 academic year for MBBS and BDS is scheduled to be released on January 31. NEET-UG exams were conducted in September 2021 and the results were announced by the National Testing Agency (NTA) on November 1. A four month stay on admissions was vacated by the Supreme Court (SC) in the first week of January 2022, giving a go-ahead to state government admission authorities to start the process. Maharashtra CET cell concluded pre-admission registrations on January 17 and accepted applications of 59,437 candidates their year—nearly 5,000 registrations lower than what was registered for the same courses last year in the state.
21-01-2022||Lucknow||Lakhimpur violence: Charge-sheet filed against 4 farmers||LUCKNOW The police on Friday filed a charge-sheet against four of the seven farmers in the FIR lodged in connection with the murder a driver and two BJP workers during the Lakhimpur Kheri violence on October 3. In the absence of sufficient evidence, a final report was filed against the other three farmers. The driver and two BJP workers were killed in the violence that ensued after an SUV, allegedly driven by Ashish Mishra, son of minister of state (home) and BJP leader Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’, mowed down four farmers and a journalist on October 3 last year. Two FIRs (no. 219 and 220) were lodged regarding the incident.Teni’s son Ashish Mishra, along with 13 others, were made accused in the killing of farmers and the journalist in the other chargesheet (filed in FIR no 219) earlier this month.“In the 1,300-page chargesheet filed on Friday, the police charged four farmers, Gurvinder Singh, Kamaljeet Singh and Gurpreet Singh under Sections 302 (murder), 143 (unlawful assembly), 147(rioting), 148 (rioting armed with deadly weapons), 323 (voluntary causing hurt), 325 (causing grievous hurt) 427 (mischief causing damage of property) and 436 (mischief with fire),” said senior public prosecutor SP Yadav.Another accused, Vichitra Singh, was charged under Sections 109 (offering bribe), 114 (abettor present when offence committed), 427(mischief) 436 (mischief with fire) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach), added Yadav.According to sources, the police found direct involvement of the three farmers in the killings of the driver and two BJP workers. The cops submitted evidence in form of video footage, mobile phone locations and call detail records as evidence against the accused farmers. “The chargesheet states that the farmers attacked the driver and BJP workers with sticks and intention to kill them and intentionally set the vehicle on fire.”A final report was filed against Ranjeet Singh, Sonu alias Kanwarjeet and Avatar Singh in the absence of sufficient evidence, said the prosecutor.“While the four farmers against whom chargesheet has been filed will remain in jail, release order of the other three has been sent to jail from the court,” informed Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-violence-charge-sheet-filed-against-4-farmers-101642774659325.html
21-01-2022||Mumbai||NCP MP Amol Kolhe under fire for portraying Nathuram Godse in movie||Mumbai Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and member of parliament (MP) Amol Kolhe is under fire for portraying Nathuram Godse in a movie called ‘Why I killed Gandhi’. Kolhe is facing criticism from his own party, as well as allies in the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. State housing minister and NCP leader Jitendra Awhad said that he should not have acted in a movie glorifying Godse. “The movie is all about the glorification of Godse…He should have denied playing the role in the first place,” Awhad said.The Hindi movie is set to release on OTT on January 30. The controversy started after the 2:20 minute trailer of the movie was released on social media. Kolhe can be seen making a statement in a court justifying his decision to assassinate Gandhi.Meanwhile, NCP chief Sharad Pawar tried to draw a curtain on the entire controversy and said that playing Godse doesn’t make Kolhe anti-Gandhi. He also said that he doesn’t see it as an attempt to glorify Godse.“Playing a character doesn’t mean that he (Amol Kolhe) can be called anti-Gandhi. The entire country is unhappy, sad and agitated over whatever Godse did. I don’t see it as an attempt to glorify him. Instead, we should see the entire episode as the history of the country,” Pawar said and further told reporters that when Kolhe played the role, he was not a part of NCP.On the other hand, criticising his own party, Awhad said, “Whoever tries to glorify the person who killed Gandhi is our ideological opponent…While playing a role, one has to immerse in the character and ultimately shoot Gandhiji. When you see Richard Attenborough’s Gandhi, then you see the actor living the life of Gandhi. Accepting the role of Godse was a wrong decision.” He further added that Godse is a black spot on Maharashtra’s image, which can never be cleaned.Clarifying his stand on social media, Kolhe on Thursday said that although the film is being released now, it was shot in 2017. He also urged people to differentiate between ‘reel life’ and ‘real life’.“Sometimes, one comes across roles where you do not agree with the ideology but they challenge you as an artist. Nathuram Godse’s role was one such. I am not a votary of Gandhi’s assassination and never ever tried to glorify Nathuram Godse. As an artist, one must respect the freedom of expression and as a person, the freedom of thought! I hope that people look at this work with an open mind,” Kolhe posted on his Facebook account on Thursday.He also told ABP Majha that in 2017, he was not active in politics. “While playing the character of a gangster, it is not necessary that the actor supports the mindset of gangsters,” he further clarified.However, Kolhe drew criticism from MVA allies as well. Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole said that there is an attempt going on to glorify Godse and Kolhe must remember that he is a public representative now. “We won’t allow the movie to be released in Maharashtra. Kolhe is not just an actor but is also a public representative. He should have refrained from making Godse a “hero”. NCP chief Sharad Pawar needs to look into this. NCP’s stand will be made clear when the movie is released,” he said in New Delhi on Friday.He further said that being an MP, Kohle is expected to act in a more responsible manner. “Misusing artistic freedom to support Mahatma Gandhi’s murder and glorifying Nathuram is unfortunate,” said Patole.Even opposition leaders sought to know whether Kolhe and NCP accept Godse’s ideology or not. State BJP chief Chandrakant Patil said, “Amol Kolhe is a good actor and has the right to freedom of expression and play any character. The point here is whether he accepts the ideology of Godse because his party chief opposes Godse’s ideology. Even I don’t accept his ideology,” Patil said.
21-01-2022||Pune||MSRTC visits homes of staffers to persuade them to get back to work||PUNE With the industrial court declaring the Maharashtra State Transport Corporation (MSRTC) strike illegal, the Pune division of the transport corporation has begun conducting visits to the homes of its agitating staff to persuade them to get back to work. To keep the buses going, it has started engaging retired staffers, home guards and private drivers.Despite interventions from NCP leader Sharad Pawar and state transport minister Anil Parab, the workers are firm on their decision to continue the strike.“Most of our workers who are drivers and conductors reside in the rural parts of the district. Our administrative staff and depot manager level officials are conducting visits to their homes to persuade them to get back to work. The organisation has suffered huge losses due to the strike. Our aim is to bring back maximum staff back to work,” said Ramakant Gaikwad, MSRTC Pune divisional controller. “In the last one week, not many staffers have rejoined work and we are still facing a shortage of drivers and conductors in the division. Although we have started the contract bus operations of Shivneri and Shivshahi, for the ST buses to run full-time operations, we have now started the process of getting contract drivers from the appointed agencies,” added Gaikwad.From the past two months the MSRTC workers and their several unions are protesting for their various demands, a Kruti Samiti of the unions was formed earlier to have a conversation with the state government. But apparently, the main demand of merging the MSRTC into state government was compromised according to the workers, so now all the workers (apart from the union members) have spontaneously started the strike. While to support the state government the private tourist bus association has come forward and have given 2,000 buses from their fleet across the state.However, the workers are firm over continuing the strike. Chandrakant Wathare a driver said, “This is our do or die situation and if we end the strike, then there will be question of our survival. The state government should understand our condition and should immediately merge the organisation in the government. This is our only demand. So, till the merger process is not done we will not back off and continue to fight till our demands are fulfilled.”Meanwhile. the state transport department has appointed four agencies to provide contract drivers on daily basis. Initially, eight divisions- Pune, Nagpur, Bhandara, Dhule, Jalgaon, Nashik, Aurangabad and Solapur will be given 100 drivers daily, who will start the service from Sunday. Accordingly, MSRTC have now started the bus operations on various routes. Each driver will be given a salary of around ₹ 20,000 per month.BOXIn the MSRTC Pune division, a total of 1,300 workers out of the 4,200 have resumed work. Whereas show cause notices to 69 workers have been sent and after three rounds of inquiry hearing, they would be dismissed from work if not attended. Pune division has suspended 488 workers out of which 66 workers rejoined work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/msrtc-visits-homes-of-staffers-to-persuade-them-to-get-back-to-work-101642774479532.html
21-01-2022||Mumbai||Scooterist killed by speeding bus in Ambernath, driver arrested||A 21-year-old bus driver was arrested for allegedly speeding his vehicle and ramming it into a biker, who succumbed to death in Ambernath on Thursday.Shivaji Nagar police in Ambernath registered a case against the bus driver under IPC 304A, death due to rash or negligent driving.The bus driver, identified as Nikhil Patekar, was driving a private bus on Jambhivali village road on January 19 at around 7.30pm when he couldn’t control his speed and rammed into the scooterist, who has been identified as a 20-year-old Sanket Dandge.A police officer said, “Dandge was in front of the bus and as the bus was at a speed, the bus driver couldn’t control the vehicle. Dandge was admitted to a hospital and succumbed to death due to severe injuries.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/scooterist-killed-by-speeding-bus-in-ambernath-driver-arrested-101642773937936.html
21-01-2022||Mumbai||Kalyan railway station road made one way to ease traffic congestion||To decongest the Kalyan railway station road, the traffic police have made the road one way.With the work of SATIS going on in this area, roads are dug up and barricades are placed, leading to traffic jams. There was a demand to ease the traffic flow on the station road as several motorists found it difficult to connect to the station.The Kalyan traffic police have put up barricades to stop the two-way traffic flow.“There was feedback from the public to strictly impose a one-way route on the station road. We had imposed one-way earlier but it was not effective. This time, we have barricaded all the No Entry points so that vehicles don’t take the two-way route. Also, we have put up banners and police are deployed at the diversions,” said Mahesh Tarde, senior traffic police inspector, Kalyan (W) traffic unit.As per the traffic police, the one-way will be imposed from 7am every day for eight days and will be extended depending on its success.“The SATIS work will also begin at the Kalyan court and Tehsil office. This will lead to more congestion. The commuters have informed that the road is free of congestion since the last two days,” added Tarde.With the one-way route imposed, the auto rickshaws that used to be parked haphazardly on the station road outside, are not there anymore, claimed the traffic officials.“The one-way route is a good idea as the congestion is less. There should be constant watch at the station road to ensure the one-way rule is followed,” said Rishikesh Mane, a 38-year-old commuter who takes the station road daily.With the new traffic diversions in place, vehicles heading to Kalyan station from Shivaji Chowk in Kalyan (W) are forbidden to take the right side of Pushparaj Hotel and instead go to Mahatma Phule Chowk.Vehicles heading from ST Depot to Murbad Road are not allowed to go on the road in front of Deepak Hotel. Vehicles will take a left turn and head to Pushparaj Hotel towards Mahatma Phule Chowk.And, vehicles coming from Ulhasnagar and Murbad Road are not allowed to go to Shivaji Chowk via Mahatma Phule Chowk. They will go to Deepak Hotel, take a right turn and then to Pushparaj Hotel towards Shivaji Chowk.
21-01-2022||Pune||MSEDCL consumers get fake calls, messages to make payments, case lodged||The cyber police have lodged a case against unidentified persons for circulating fake messages and calling people and directing them to call select numbers for immediate payment of pending dues and even sending links to make payments.The cyber complaint was lodged after energy minister Nitin Raut directed Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) managing director Vijay Singhal to lodge a complaint in the issue.Accordingly, a complaint has been also lodged at the Pune cyber police station as the callers were maligning the image of the MSEDCL authorities, the public relations office (PRO) stated.The MSEDCL authorities have appealed to the consumers to not fall prey to the fake calls, messages.The residents had complained that MSEDCL had threatened to disconnect their power supply if their power bills were not paid on the day they received the message. Most of the power consumers had paid their power bills and despite the fact had received the calls and messages on their mobile numbers.The consumers immediately lodged a complaint with the MSEDCL suburban and the main office regarding the fake callers suspecting an online scam as a few of them had even received links for making an online payment.Raut said, “It is a serious issue where fraudsters have even sent links seeking payment of power bills from the consumers. We have taken cognizance of the criminal acts and directed the top brass to lodge a first information report (FIR) against the suspects.”“The consumers must be careful while they face such issues and must immediately inform the nearest MSEDCL office or police in this regard,” he said.Nishikant Raut, public relations officer, MSEDCL, said, “The power utility never personally contacts anyone to inform them of potential repairs or blackouts. We always communicate through the same official system. Individual messages on personal mobile phones are not permitted. In the event of a question, citizens can contact us directly at the toll-free number or customer service number listed on their bills. Consumers can pay their bills online or at authorized collection centres.”Raut advised consumers to lodge complaints when they receive such calls or messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/msedcl-consumers-get-fake-calls-messages-to-make-payments-case-lodged-101642772017545.html
21-01-2022||Pune||No entry for heavy vehicles travelling towards Solapur on Hadapsar flyover||PUNE The Hadapsar flyover at Gadital is closed for heavy vehicles as the Pune Municipal Corporation is carrying out the repair work.As there are complaints regarding the flyover at Gadital, PMC and Maharashtra State Road Development Coporation (MSRDC) officers on Thursday conducted preliminary inspections of the Hadapsar flyover to prepare a plan for its repair and strengthening. MLA Chetan Tupe and local corporator Yogesh Sasane were also present for the joint visit.Sasane said, “The flyover is completely safe and the engineers have conducted an inspection. A wing that caters to movement of vehicles from Pune towards Solapur has been closed for heavy vehicles as a precautionary step.”The two-way flyover is placed above the bustling Hadapsar chowk. Some repairs to bearings are required, said officials. While one wing caters to movement of vehicles from Pune towards Solapur, the other wing connects to Phursungi.With heavy vehicles now passing from under the flyover, the PMC has removed all encroachments and have tarred the side roads in order to avoid traffic snarls, said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-entry-for-heavy-vehicles-travelling-towards-solapur-on-hadapsar-flyover-101642770941617.html
21-01-2022||Ranchi||Covid-19: Jharkhand slashes RT-PCR, rapid antigen test rates. Check new prices||In an attempt to increase Covid testing, Jharkhand government on Friday reduced the rates for RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests for Covid-19 by ₹100 with immediate effect. According to the official order, RT-PCR test in the state will now cost ₹300 instead of ₹400.Meanwhile, a rapid antigen test can be done at ₹50, the order said.Additional chief secretary of the state's health department Arun Kumar Singh said the decision was taken following a reduction in prices of testing materials.Jharkhand’s COVID-19 tally climbed to 4,12,939 as 2,617 more people tested positive for the virus, while 12 fresh fatalities pushed the death toll to 5,225, according to the latest health bulletin data.Ranchi district reported the highest number of single-day infections at 809, while the fatalities included five from Jamshedpur and two from Ranchi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/covid19-jharkhand-slashes-rt-pcr-rapid-antigen-test-rates-check-new-prices-101642769268628.html
21-01-2022||Mumbai||CISF frisks ground handling staffer at Mumbai airport, finds $60,000||NEW DELHI: A ground handling staffer was caught with $60,000 ( ₹44 lakh) at Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj (CSMIA) international airport on Friday. The incident took place at around 12.40am when an on-duty Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel frisked the staffer.The staff was identified as Ritesh Parker, working for Aviaxpert Pvt. Ltd, a ground handling agency at Mumbai Airport.“During frisking of a ground handling agency staff at International Security Hold Area (SHA) of Terminal 2 at Mumbai, a CISF personnel observed that the ground staff had concealed something at the lower part of his body under his clothes and socks. During thorough physical checking of the staff, 60,000 US dollars worth Rs. 45 lakh (approximately) were recovered from him,” said a CISF spokesperson.The spokesperson said Parker told CISF personnel said that he was going to hand over the foreign currency to a passenger at the airport’s boarding gate 46.A CISF surveillance team traced the passenger who was to board an IndiGo flight to Dubai, IndiGo 6E-8271, which was to take off at 1.25am. “The passenger was caught near boarding gate 46,” the spokesperson said. The passenger has denied his involvement in the case. CISF has handed over the staffer and passenger along with the foreign currency to air intelligence unit (AIU) of Mumbai Airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cisf-frisks-ground-handling-staffer-at-mumbai-airport-finds-60000-101642769377632.html
21-01-2022||Patna||Bihar: Another suspected hooch tragedy kills 5, second incident in a week||At least five people have died in Bihar’s Saran district in what appears to be yet another case of suspected hooch tragedy in the dry state, officials said on Friday. According to District Magistrate, Saran, Rajesh Meena, the deaths were reported from different villages of Amnour and Maker blocks. "We have received information about five deaths. Bodies of two of the deceased have been sent for post mortem. Some of the bereaved family members have blamed the deaths on liquor consumption," stated the DM in Chhaora, the district headquarters. He said raids conducted jointly by police and excise department in the two blocks have unearthed illicit liquor trade, and vowed stern action against all accused. The incident comes less than a week after 11 people died in Nalanda, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s home district, after consuming spurious liquor. Earlier, around Deepawali, hooch had claimed more than 40 lives in West Champaran, Gopalganj, Muzaffarpur and Samastipur districts. Sale and consumption of alcohol was completely banned in Bihar in April, 2016, a year after Kumar promised the same to the state's women. Implementation of the same by his government has, however, been an object of criticism by the opposition and, sometimes, by the judiciary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-another-suspected-hooch-tragedy-kills-5-second-incident-in-a-week-101642768709040.html
21-01-2022||Pune||Cooler nights to return to Pune city: IMD||PUNE With the day temperature in the city reporting a gradual rise, the cooler winds have seen a departure. The night temperature on Friday was reported to be 11.1 degrees Celsius and the day temperature was around 30 degrees Celsius.As per India Meteorological Department (IMD), the night temperature is likely to see a rise in the next few days. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department at IMD Pune said that after January 26, night temperature may see a drop. “Western disturbance from the west is frequently approaching the western Himalayan region and moving to northeast India. Presently, a western disturbance is present over Pakistan and there is a one upper air cyclonic circulation over Rajasthan. One more western disturbance is likely to hit western Himalayan region on January 24,” said Kashyapi.He added that Pune city may experience partly cloudy conditions in the next few days. “Cloud amounts are likely to increase from Friday onwards. Partly cloudy conditions are very likely on January 22. January 23 to 26, the sky will be clear. Day temperature in the city may increase up to 32 degrees Celsius. From January 22 onwards fall of day temperature is likely. For minimum temperature, nights may report 13 to 16 degrees Celsius is likely from January 26. Post that minimum temperature is likely to reduce bringing the cooler nights back,” said Kashyapi.Pune on Friday reported day temperature at 31.8 degrees Celsius which was 1.4 degrees warmer than normal. The day temperature in January has been cooler than normal mostly, however, in the next few days warmer days are likely.According to IMD, some parts of Maharashtra may report isolated rainfall in some parts. “Konkan and Goa are likely to experience isolated light rainfall with thunderstorm and lightning from January 21. In Central Maharashtra, isolated areas will have very light to light rainfall from January 22. Marathwada will remain dry in the next few days. There are chances of isolated rainfall in Vidarbha from January 23,” said Kashyapi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cooler-nights-to-return-to-pune-city-imd-101642767997135.html
21-01-2022||Lucknow||Traders’ wrath may be a ‘roadblock’ for BJP candidate in Ayodhya||LUCKNOW Facing voters of the Ayodhya assembly seat will not be an easy task for local BJP leaders when campaigning picks up ahead of the UP Assembly polls. For the past six months, resentment has been brewing among locals against the state government’s road widening project, which is likely to displace a large number of shopkeepers.Besides, Ayodhya Development Authority (ADA) has incorporated the project in its Master Plan. Ayodhya will go to polls on February 27 in the fifth phase of the UP Assembly elections.Though the project is yet to start, the Ayodhya administration has demarcated shops and commercial establishments that would be demolished for the road widening project in this VIP constituency. Ved Prakash Gupta, sitting BJP MLA from Ayodhya assembly seat, has failed to dispel fear of traders, said locals. Sensing opportunity, former Samajwadi Party MLA from this assembly segment, Tej Narain Pandey alias ‘Pawan Pandey’, has extended full support to the traders. Pandey had defeated the BJP’s Lallu Singh from Ayodhya assembly seat in 2017 polls. “It will not be easy for the BJP candidate to seek votes in the Ayodhya assembly constituency. In the thick of controversy is the much-hyped road widening project of the state government. The project is being touted as the game changer for Ayodhya. But the reality is that it will displace a large number of shopkeepers,” said a senior BJP leader of Ayodhya. Even the local VHP unit is facing the wrath of the business community for this project. “Any BJP candidate from the Ayodhya assembly segment will have to face the ire of locals for this road widening project,” said a local VHP leader of Ayodhya. “Till date, no BJP leader has been able to allay fears of traders who are facing displacement, including the sitting BJP MLA Ved Prakash Gupta,” added the VHP leader. Ramesh Jaiswal, president of the Vyapar Adhikar Manch, stated that a large number of shops and other commercial establishments would be demolished if the Master Plan is implemented in its present form. The traders have also registered their protest with the vice-chairman of the development authority Vishal Singh, added Jaiswal. THE PROJECT In the proposed plan, two stretches of the road in Ayodhya dham (Old Ayodhya town), including the one leading to the historic Hanuman Garhi temple, would be widened. Traders are opposing this project as a large number of shops will be demolished. Another major road expansion is proposed on the 4.6-km stretch from Naya Ghat to Udaya crossing. The entire road would be 24 ft wide (12 ft on both sides of the divider). However, the traders want it to be curtailed to 20 ft. BOXPROPOSED ROAD WIDENING Sahadatganj to Gandhi Park - 135 ft Gandhi Park to Ghanta Ghar – 90 ft Rikabganj to Beniganj via Nisava – 90 ft Beniganj to Tedhi Bazar – 135 ft Tedhi Bazar to Naya Ghat – 90 ft 
21-01-2022||Mumbai||Daily testing for Covid drops as people opt for home testing kit and do not inform civic body, claims Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation||With the new testing norms in place, the daily testing in Navi Mumbai has decreased since last week and, thus, the number of cases reported too is less, claimed the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC).While the average daily cases in Navi Mumbai was 2,228 last week, it has now come down to 1,344. Testing done, which was 11,158 on an average, is now 9,712.“Ever since the government has emphasised that only symptomatic high-risk patients are required to be tested, people are reluctant to get tested. With most being asymptomatic, people don’t come forward to get tested due to which the testing has gone down. Besides, most of them opt for home testing kits and do not inform the corporation if found positive. All these factors are also one of the reasons why the cases are seen to be going down,” NMMC commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, said.According to an NMMC official, even as the government has directed the pharmacies to maintain a record of the customers who purchase the kits, there is no clarity if the pharmacies need to inform the local body about it. NMMC has issued notification to pharmacies to inform them of the customers who purchase the kits. An email ID is also given to them where they can send the information. Various teams formed by the NMMC would also be visiting the pharmacies to give the same instructions.“More than our notification, pharmacies take notification from FDA seriously and hence we plan to involve FDA in this and also request them to issue a notification,” Bangar said. “Once we start getting information on the people who have purchased the self-testing kits, our call centre will start acting. There is still a chance of people giving us wrong information over the phone but at least we will have the data of people who have symptoms and keep a check on them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/daily-testing-for-covid-drops-as-people-opt-for-home-testing-kit-and-do-not-inform-civic-body-claims-navi-mumbai-municipal-corporation-101642766560445.html
21-01-2022||Delhi||Night and weekend curfew to continue in Delhi as DDMA issues fresh guidelines. Check what's allowed||In a fresh order issued on Friday, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said that the current night curfew between 10pm and 5am, and weekend curfew across the national capital will remain in place till further orders in view of the Covid-19 situation. The order came after the authority rejected chief minister Arvind Kejriwal-led government's proposal to lift the curfew as Delhi has been reporting consistent drop in single-day Covid-19 cases.The proposal was sent to Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal.The DDMA, however, has decided to offer relaxations to the functioning of private offices in the national capital. As per the latest order, private offices that are not present in containment zones, can operate with a maximum capacity of 50% attendance. Earlier, the Delhi government had ordered 100% work-from-home for private offices.The revised guidelines come as Delhi logged as many as 12,306 Covid-19 cases on Thursday, down from Wednesday's 13,785, as per the health bulletin data. The case positivity rate of the city also reduced to 21.48% from 23.86% the day before.Here's a list of what's allowed and what's not as per the latest DDMA order:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/night-and-weekend-curfew-to-continue-in-delhi-as-ddma-issues-fresh-guidelines-101642762027605.html
21-01-2022||Delhi||Why just us? Delhi gyms seek relief amid||Following the Maharashtra government’s decision to allow gyms to reopen at 50% capacity with safety protocols, Delhi gym owners and trainers are requesting some relief from the state to have the gyms reopened with Covid-19-appropriate restrictions. They also protested outside the residence of Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday, demanding the same. “We staged a symbolic protest to request that gyms reopen at 50% capacity for double-vaccinated members,” shares Bhupender Sharma, president of the Delhi Gym Association, who also mentions that this trade anyway suffers during this season, due to winters and exams, but this adds another blow to the business of gym owners. “Keeping this in mind, we have submitted a letter mentioning approximately one lakh people in the fitness industry who are on the verge of going bankrupt,” he adds. The closure of gyms was announced in the last week of December, and no decision on reopening has been made. Sharma continues, “Weekly markets are open, malls are allowed on odd-even, liquor shops are open with such long queues, so why can’t gyms be open?” Nikhil Kakkar, COO, Gold’s Gym India, rues, “The industry has been struggling. We were already operating at 50% capacity because the full capacity advisory never came to us. The better decision would have been to follow the same 50% advisory even now.” Dr Prateek Chaudhary, who owns Club 4 Gym, says, “During the first lockdown, we were closed for seven months. We had to shut down for three months again in 2021. And now, we’re closed again. We also have rent, employee salaries, and electricity bills to pay.” Fitness enthusiasts have similar concerns. “If gyms can open in Haryana and Maharashtra with Covid-19 safety protocols, why can’t we resume our fitness activities?” wonders entrepreneur Anuj Khera, 29, from Malviya Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/why-just-us-delhi-gyms-seek-relief-amid-101642765717088.html
21-01-2022||Pune||Actor Amol Kolhe receives flak for playing Nathuram Godse in upcoming movie; Sharad Pawar offers support||PUNE Amol Kolhe, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MP and actor, has been criticised by his own party leaders, along with the opposition for his role as Nathuram Godse in the upcoming movie “Why I Killed Gandhi”. At the same time, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar has supported Kolhe and asked party workers to look at it from an actor’s point of view.The movie is slated to release on January 30 on OTT platforms and NCP MP from Shirur in Pune district Kolhe plays the role of Godse in the movie.Pawar said, “We should all look at Kolhe’s role in the movie as an actor. In Richard Attenborough’s “Gandhi”, the role of Godse was played by an actor. Even in Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj’s movie, some actors played the role of Aurangzeb. In Ramayana, some actors played the role of Ravana this does not mean that those who played the role of Aurangzeb, Ravana or others are the supporters of those people or ideologies. They are just actors.”Kolhe said, “I worked in this movie in 2017. Due to various reasons, the release was delayed. When I played this role, I was not in active politics. I never supported nor will support Godse’s ideology in my personal life. As an actor, I just perform.”NCP leader and minister Jitendra Awhad has criticised Kolhe and via social media, said, “Though Kolhe is our party MP, his role as a Nathrum Godse will not get any support.”Congress state unit president Nana Patole too condemned Kolhe’s role.When media persons asked Pawar about Awhad’s reaction, he replied that it was his (Awhad’s) personal opinion.Pawar also criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders who are criticising Kolhe for Godse’s role and said, “From when has BJP started following Gandhian ideology? They should introspect what they follow and preach.”Kolhe is a well-known Marathi actor and is popular for playing the role of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj. By considering his popularity NCP had given him a ticket from Shirur Lok Sabha constituency from where he has won.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/actor-amol-kolhe-receives-flak-for-playing-nathuram-godse-in-upcoming-movie-sharad-pawar-offers-support-101642765597019.html
21-01-2022||Pune||Pune-based Tongan University founder appeals for help for the volcano hit island nation||PUNE A Pune-based academician who runs a university in the Pacific island ocean nation of Tonga , currently under the spell of a volcanic storm has pledged his support for rebuilding of infrastructure in the country.Prof Rakesh Mittal is the first Indian in Asia to have started an independent Commonwealth Vocational University in the country. “I am proud to say that I have been to the Kingdom of Tonga seven times from 2014 till 2018. Being a founding member of Commonwealth Vocational University at Tongatapu, I got to stay in the kingdom of Tonga and interact with Tongans.The Tongans are very friendly and welcome with open hearts. Usually there are cyclones in the South Pacific, however this time it is a volcanic eruption followed by tsunami which has brought a lot of destruction. We as Commonwealth Vocational University shall be assisting the government as much as possible from here in India. However, I request that those who are interested can contribute to the fund-raising activity started by international Tongan athlete Pita Taufatofua ,” he said.Prof Mittal said that the university would be making financial and social contributions in rebuilding the affected areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punebased-tongan-university-founder-appeals-for-help-for-the-volcano-hit-island-nation-101642765121752.html
21-01-2022||Mumbai||15% Covid positive cases in Thane city go undetected: TMC||Even though the daily case load has seen a marked decrease over the last few days, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has claimed that around 15% of the positive cases in the city go undetected due to home testing kits.The civic body, this week, sent a notice to all the hospitals and general practitioners to alert the Covid war room if any individual claims to have tested positive through a home antigen test kit. Following the directives, the war room has received 50 calls daily for a week about cases that have tested positive through home kits.“After testing at home through an antigen kit, those who get a positive result will surely get in touch with any doctor to know about medications. In such instances, it is the responsibility of the hospital OPD or General Practitioner to inform our war room about such patients so that we can trace them. We have provided them with a helpline number where the doctors have to message the name, age and contact number of such patients who have tested positive in a home antigen test,” said Dr Prasad Patil, vaccination officer, TMC.This notice was sent to all doctors on Monday across TMC jurisdiction. Around 50 such cases have come forward daily in the last week.“These are merely a handful of cases. We assume there would be another 15% who are either asymptomatic or have mild symptoms, and are taking some local treatment. In some cases, people may isolate themselves at home without informing the civic body. We are considering all of this as well while announcing Covid-related rules within the city,” added Patil.Dr Sanjay Pingulkar, general physician and member of Thane Rapid Action Covid Team, said, “Vaccination has deeply helped in controlling the impact of the third wave. However, knowing how many positive cases are there in the city will help in taking the necessary measures. Most of the positive cases have been mild symptoms and people have recovered within a few days of isolation. However, with undetected Covid cases, it becomes difficult for the civic body to keep a tab. Hence, people should come forward and inform if they have tested positive through home antigen kits.”The TMC war room receives calls from health centres as well as individuals on a daily basis, “Earlier, during the peak of the third wave, there used to be around 100 calls daily about positive cases detected through antigen kits. Now, the numbers have come down to 50 or 60 daily. We track and trace them on a regular basis. Most of them are those with very mild symptoms and recover in home quarantine itself,” said Dr Neha Kolhe, medical officer, war room, TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/15-covid-positive-cases-in-thane-city-go-undetected-tmc-101642764458365.html
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Himachal, Haryana sign MoU to revive Saraswati river||The BJP governments of Himachal Pradesh and Haryana signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) on Friday for building a dam in the Adi Badri area of Yamunanagar district as part of a ₹215.35-project aimed at rejuvenating the Saraswati river. Also read: Channi to file defamation case against Kejriwal for ‘dishonest man’ remarkThe MoU was signed by the chief secretaries of Himachal Pradesh and Haryana in the presence of chief ministers Jai Ram Thakur and Manohar Lal Khattar in Panchkula. In his address, Thakur said that with the signing of the MoU, the dream of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to revive the Saraswati would be fulfilled. Modi had made the commitment while addressing a gathering in Kurukshetra on April 3, 2014. Thakur said the project would be of immense use to Himachal Pradesh as 3.92 hectare metre water per annum would be earmarked for the hill state’s drinking water requirement and 57.96 hectare metre for irrigation. He said the entire funding of the project would be borne by the Haryana government. Both state governments would be free to set up tourism projects and infrastructure facilities for the welfare and development of local people from their own resources. The Himachal Pradesh chief minister said that only 21 families of the state would be displaced for the project and they would be rehabilitated. The cost of rehabilitating oustees and the environmental protection package in accordance with policies of Himachal Pradesh would also be borne by the Haryana government. He said of the total proposed area 31.16 hectares falls in Himachal, including 0.67 hectare of private land and 30.49 hectare of forest land. The dam would get 224 hectare metre water from Som river of Himachal Pradesh that falls in the Yamuna river near Adi Badri in Yamunanagar district. The Himachal Pradesh Power Corporation Limited would be the executing agency for constructing the Adi Badri Dam and its related infrastructure. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said with the construction of this dam, the Saraswati would flow throughout the year with 20 cusecs water all the time. He said that the course of the Ghaggar river is said to be the course of the Saraswati. He said the project would help boost tourism in the area besides recharging groundwater. The Adi Badri Dam construction monitoring committee has been constituted for planning, supervising and monitoring the works. The committee includes additional chief secretary, irrigation, Haryana, secretary, Jal Shakti Vibhag, Himachal Pradesh and engineer-in-chiefs of both states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-haryana-sign-mou-to-revive-saraswati-river-101642764456915.html
21-01-2022||Pune||Road to the future: PMC to develop 100 km pedestrian-friendly roads after pilot project wins national challenge||PUNE After being selected as one of the winners of the ‘Streets for People Challenge’ for their pilot projects to make roads more pedestrian-friendly, Pune Municipal Corporation decided to develop 100 km pedestrian-friendly roads Pune won the accolades for reclaiming space along several roads to create safe and exciting ‘experience zones’ for all citizens. The city activated these edges by painting the spaces, conducting laughter yoga sessions, music sessions and introducing kids play areas. Going ahead, the city plans to build wider footpaths and install street furniture at different locations, said officials. As the union housing and urban affairs Ministry appreciated it and rewarded ₹50 lakh, now the civic body decided to extend it on other prominent roads in the city. Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “We have taken various pedestrian-centric activities. Along with pedestrians and vehicles, we converted roads for various activities and we are receiving a good response. We were also appreciated for observing pedestrian day. As these concepts have won accolades, we have decided to extend this facility to 100 kms roads. There is a demand from elected members to make roads in their locality similar to that of FC road, JM road and roads in Pashan.”Road department head V J Kulkarni said, “Along with vehicles and pedestrians, we converted roads for various activities like exercise, sitting games, chatting, laughing clubs, yoga and for other activities. Citizens are appreciating this as there is liveliness on the roads. Now we have decided to execute this scheme for various roads and 100km length roads will be developed in this manner.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/road-to-the-future-pmc-to-develop-100-km-pedestrian-friendly-roads-after-pilot-project-wins-national-challenge-101642763558289.html
21-01-2022||Delhi||Noida man sets himself on fire outside Supreme Court, says family is starving||NEW DELHI: A 50-year-old man set himself on fire outside the Supreme Court on Friday afternoon but the flames were put out by police personnel deployed around the complex. The man, identified by the police as a resident of Noida, was rushed to the hospital by security personnel. A video, presumably shot on a mobile phone by a bystander, captures the incident moments as the police help the man lying on the road, and crying.“I am from a very poor family. My family is starving,” the man is heard saying, as two police personnel posted outside the top court rip off the clothes to prevent further injury. One of them also reasons with him that suicide won’t help improve the situation. The two policemen later rush the man to the hospital for treatment.Police said the man came to the Supreme Court as he was facing some issues in his personal life but stressed that they are yet to speak to him in detail.The severity of the burns is also not clear yet.This is the second such incident outside the Supreme Court in the last six months.In August last year, a 24-year-old woman, who alleged that she was raped in 2019, and a man, set themselves on fire outside the Supreme Court. They were taken to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, where their condition was classified as critical. They died within a week of the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/noida-man-sets-himself-on-fire-outside-supreme-court-says-family-is-starving-101642763196848.html
21-01-2022||Delhi||Five held for cheating people by promising jobs at Delhi airport||NEW DELHI: Five men have been arrested for cheating people by promising them jobs at the Delhi airport, police said on Friday, and identified Naveen Pathak, 30, and Kamal Sharma, 32, as the main accused.Police said in June, they received a complaint that a person was cheated on the pretext of providing a job with an airline and was asked to deposit money in the name of a security deposit.Deputy police commissioner Sanjay Tyagi said they filed a case and formed teams to investigate the matter. “During the course of the investigation, we found several other people have been cheated on the same pretext and have offered fake jobs in airlines. These people too deposited money in the bank accounts belonging to Kamal Sharma and Yogesh Sharma. Three accused Subham Tiwari, Ajay Thakur, and Himanshu Thakur were earlier arrested in June,” said Tyagi.He added the three named Naveen Pathak, who was arrested on January 9. “During further interrogation, he told us that he has provided around 15 bank accounts to Himanshu Thakur and other accused persons to cheat job seekers. Further, on the information provided by Pathak, Kamal, who was the prime account holder, was arrested from Aligarh.”Police said Kamal Sharma had nine bank accounts and Pathak had access to his account and the money they asked the job seekers to deposit was transferred to the bank accounts of other accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/five-held-for-cheating-people-by-promising-jobs-at-delhi-airport-101642762716099.html
21-01-2022||Mumbai||Railway authorities give Thane civic body nod for Station Area Traffic Improvement Scheme - 2 project||In a major relief for commuters, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has finally received permission from the railway authorities for the work of the elevated deck of Station Area Traffic Improvement Scheme (SATIS) 2 project.SATIS 2 is being implemented to decongest the East side of the station. In a review meeting held for the project, Thane Mayor, Naresh Mhaske, informed that the work on the deck would begin in the next 15 days. He has asked the concerned officials to remove the encroachments in the area demarcated for the deck immediately.The deck is a major part of this project. Once the work of the deck begins, the project would get a major boost. He gave directives to the officials to ensure that there’s no delay in starting the work on the deck.The work of SATIS 2 is undertaken under the Smart City Schemes. An officer in charge of smart city projects said, “Around 30% to 40% of the total work on the SATIS 2 project has been completed. We have begun the construction of the 2.23km elevated road and 70% of work on the foundation of the elevated road and the sub-structure for the road are completed. The work on super-structure of the road is currently going on along with the pier work.”The project has a deck of 6.50m on an area of 8900sqm, which is connected to the elevated road.Mhaske said, “The railways have given approval for the construction of this deck. Some part of the land is with the Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran (MJP), which we will acquire. Apart from this, there are six residential homes, nine shops and a few sheds that will be razed. I have observed that there has been a delay in razing these structures and have given directives to the concerned officials to raze them immediately. The work on the deck will begin in the next 15 days.”The corporation has set a new deadline of December 2022 to complete the entire project.ABOUT SATIS 2The second SATIS project will cost ₹266Cr.It will have multi-level parking and a separate 8,900sqm deck for bus terminus. A commercial building with food plaza, rest rooms, waiting room, ticket counter and citizen facilitation centre is proposed.The capacity of the parking plaza will be 7,000 vehicles.To solve the traffic congestion, TMC will build an elevated road from Kanhaiya Nagar to Thane East Station SATIS.The elevated road will be 2.23km long.The project also has an elevated bus terminus of 8,000sqm and an elevated bus corridor of 1.90km.
21-01-2022||Kolkata||Bengal civic body promises tax waiver to encourage Covid vaccination||KOLKATA: A civic body in West Bengal has announced that a family would get 25% of its unpaid property tax waived if all eligible members of the family receive their double doses of the Covid-19 vaccine.“To encourage those people, we have decided to waive 25% of the unpaid property tax if all members of a family, who are 18 years and above, receive both doses of Covid-19 vaccines,” said Debasis Banerjee, one of the administrative board members of South Dum Dum municipality, which run the civic body.Also, younger people would be given sports items such as football and cricket bats or essential items needed in schools such as school bags if they receive their first dose, the civic body announced.In December, the Ahmedabad civic body came up with a lucky draw scheme in which people, who have taken both doses, participated for a smartphone worth ₹60,000.Also, the Rajkot Municipal Corporation launched a mega-vaccination programme while announcing ₹50,000 smartphone to a lucky draw winner taking the second Covid-19 vaccine dose between December 4 and 10.The Hingoli Municipal Council in Maharashtra motivated people to get vaccinated against Covid-19 by offering them prizes like LED televisions, refrigerators, and washing machines. Similar offers were announced by the Chandrapur Municipal Corporation in Maharashtra.Out of the population of around 100 million in West Bengal, around 70 million are above 18 years. To date, while around 68.6 million people have received their first dose, 47.5 million people have got their second dose. Around 54,850 people in the 15-17 age group have received their doses.“In Kolkata, we have started a door-to-door campaign to encourage people to get the jabs. This is yielding results,” said an official of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation.West Bengal on Thursday registered 10,959 Covid-19 cases and 37 deaths. The daily count in the state shot up to over 24,000 earlier this month prompting the government to impose restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-civic-body-promises-tax-waiver-to-encourage-covid-vaccination-101642761638268.html
21-01-2022||Pune||Global Village Idiot: Off-piste in snow laden Spiti, these sportspersons skate into new domain||I was a year and a half old when I first saw and felt snow. And while I grew up in Mumbai (and for some years Delhi), I also visited Himachal Pradesh almost every year, usually in summers but also during many winters. Life in the Himalayan mountains is tough on a good day. And when I say tough, I mean it in a non-glamorous manner of expression: one has to walk most places, climb up or down several times in a day, distances are measured in time and time itself is not measured really but experienced. But it isn’t tough when you grow up in the mountains: it’s just life. Exactly, how city-life or village-life in the plains would seem tough to people from outside but for those born in such places, it’s just life. And that’s how it is for children growing up in Himachal, Ladakh, Kashmir, Sikkim, Arunachal, Darjeeling region of West Bengal or Uttarakhand. No matter how hard or easy life is for the grown-ups, the child’s world is about exploration, finding new games to play, understanding the world around them, to differentiate between danger and safety, and learning more about themselves, surroundings and friends. I remember how rich and plentiful my childhood was because of the months spent in Shimla. In my teens and youth, I explored Kinnaur. Children in Himachal have the largest possible slide one can have anywhere in the world - the mountainside! I remember my wooden sled (two-three wooden planks nailed and tied together with rope) that I carried everywhere, slung on the back with a rope, as we walked talking of adventures and new ideas, looking for a new place to slide. In the winters, it was the same wooden sled, the same mountainside, but woollen clothes and a snow-slide. I don’t remember when I graduated from sledding and became fascinated with skiing but after many attempts and tumbles over the years, I was able to learn enough to glide or shuffle some distance. It’s a lot tougher than it looks. But you know what’s tougher? Skiing and playing hockey on ice. I was reconnected with my interest with snow-sports in the last decade thanks to the several trips I made to Spiti since 2016. On the first of those recent visits, I met Tsering Bodh and spend three weeks in one of the hardest recent winters with his family in January 2017. I met teachers, government officials, children (mostly skiing or sledding), villagers, and learned about their challenges, aspirations and approach to life. Early this week (January 16 to be precise) the chief minister of Himachal Pradesh, Jai Ram Thakur, inaugurated the 9th National Women’s Ice Hockey championship in Kaza, Spiti. The event has teams from Delhi, Chandigarh, Indo Tibetan Border Police, Ladakh, Telangana and Himachal Pradesh in the fray. Currently the primary talent base for winter sports events in India comes mainly from Ladakh with Kashmir, Uttarakhand and Himachal making smaller contributions. (Most, if not all, of the players in the Indian ice hockey teams are from Ladakh). The ongoing event is a huge step in the development of Lahaul and Spiti district in Himachal, because this will tap the sports talent of Himachal Pradesh and provide additional venues and facilities for teams around the country. The event is organised by Ice Hockey Association of Lahaul Spiti, a district-level association affiliated to the state body of Himachal, which in turn is affiliated to the national body - Ice Hockey Association of India. Kaza has two ice rinks, one is hosting the national event and the other a regional camp. “We had a national development camp for ice hockey from December 25 to January 15 in which around 120 senior women from the six teams participated (30 of them are from Spiti, who form team Himachal). Those teams are now playing the national championship,” says Tsering, vice-president, Ice Hockey Association of Lahaul Spiti. “We also have a regional development camp which started on December 15 and will go on till February. There are 400 children participating in the camp, most of them are from across Spiti villages, including the villages in Pin Valley. The camp is open to children above five and has basic, intermediate and advanced programmes. The idea is to make Spiti a hub for winter sports in India, boost sports tourism and empower youth and local community,” says Tsering. “It will have multi-dimensional effect in our Spiti valley which is considered one of the remotest and most backward Himalayan regions in our country. A major reason for this kind of outlook is its harsh winters. Now if sports like ice hockey comes into our culture it will not just produce champions in this sport and boost economy through tourism, but will also bring Spiti valley alive and the abundance of time that locals, specifically the youth, have, will be capitalised in the best of ways,” says Tsering. “Since Spiti is among few places in our country where we have natural conditions for the winter sports, our athletes have more access and time to the ice and can practice the sport in abundance. I would say we will see our kids on the international platform very soon,” feels Tsering. For city and town folk from the plains, it may be difficult to relate to the significance and importance of the event. Villages in Lahaul and Spiti are isolated, spread across the high-altitude Trans and Greater Himalayas. That’s a starting altitude of around 10,000 feet above sea level. Kaza, the main town in Spiti, is at an average altitude of 12,000 feet above sea level. What does that mean? In January any given year, temperatures can range from minus 5 to minus 30 degrees Celsius. Children walk miles across deep snow to get to school. Unlike the snow-bound towns in international movies, there is no central heating, water is frozen and has to be carried in huge cans from streams or melting sources. But the region is one of the most advanced in terms of ecological awareness and efficient uses of available resources. The development in Spiti is based on a unique model, in line with the region’s cultural traditions of community and government participation: Guidance from village elders, planning and execution driven by local youth under guidance of district administration and with logistic and funding support from state and central governments and sports associations. In fact, government, private and local community collaboration has increased manifold in the past few years with infrastructure, connectivity and opportunities improving with every passing year. The ice hockey championship is not a one-off event. It will give way to skiing camps in February and March. Also on the cards in the same months is the annual International Ice Climbing Festival (inaugural event was in 2019). But that’s for a different day. You know what’s exciting about all this? Telangana has sent a team to the ongoing championship. In the near future, I obviously hope to see a Maharashtra ice hockey team and who knows, there may be youngsters from Pune sliding across ice at 12,000 feet in minus 10 degrees Celsius… Mukherjee, author, learning-tech designer and management consultant, is founder of Mountain Walker and chief strategy advisor, Peak Pacific. He can be reached @ thebengali@icloud.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/global-village-idiot-off-piste-in-snow-laden-spiti-these-sportspersons-skate-into-new-domain-101642761637066.html
21-01-2022||Mumbai||7 women arrested as police bust all-woman gambling club in Ulhasnagar||In a rare case, officials of the Central police station in Ulhasnagar busted a high stakes card game at an all-woman gambling club earlier this week. They arrested seven accused including two women who have been arrested for gambling in the past.According to the police, the raid was carried out on the basis of a tip off in a residential flat in Sector 22, Ulhasnagar, on Wednesday.“We received information, according to which a game of ‘teen patti’ with monetary bets was being played at the spot. Accordingly, we raided the house and took the seven accused along with ₹48,000 in cash into our custody,” senior police inspector Madhukar Kad said.The accused were questioned and allegedly confessed that they regularly held a game of ‘teen-patti’, also known as Flush or Flash, in the house that belongs to one of the accused. They told the police that it was a closed club with only the accused who are known to each other, being allowed to play.“We received information about the club several days back and have been working on the information since then. We had been waiting for the next card game to be held, and moved in as soon as we received confirmation that it was under way,” a police officer said.Kad added, “Of the seven accused, two women were arrested in separate gambling cases by us in the past. We are investigating whether this gambling club was the brainchild of these two accused.”The arrested accused were charged with gambling activities within a house, walled enclosure, room or place with cards, dice, counters, money or other instruments under the Gambling Act, and were released on bail, officers said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/7-including-2-women-arrested-as-police-bust-all-woman-gambling-club-in-ulhasnagar-101642760857016.html
21-01-2022||City||Delhi Traffic Police issue advisory for R-Day rehearsal parade. Details here||The Delhi Traffic Police on Friday issued an advisory for full dress rehearsal of the Republic Day 2022 celebrations for Sunday, January 23. “Traffic advisory--Republic Day celebrations full dress rehearsal on 23rd January 22,” the national capital's traffic police posted on Twitter. pic.twitter.com/3P8g8DDGBAHere's all you need to know:(1.) Parade time and route: The parade rehearsal will begin at 10:30am. The contingents will march from Vijay Chowk to National Stadium. The route will be as follows: Vijay Chowk-Rajpath-Amar Jawan Jyoti-India Gate-Princess Palace-Tilak Marg-'C' Hexagon-National Stadium(2.) Traffic restrictions: On the rehearsal day, curbs will be in effect from 9am to 12:30pm. However, vehicular movement will be stopped from 6pm on January 22 on the Rajpath-Vijay Chowk-India Gate route.Similarly, on Rajpath, no cross traffic will be allowed from 11pm on January 22 at Rafi Marg, Janpath and Man Singh Road till the rehearsal is over. Also, ‘C’ Hexagon-India Gate will be closed at 9:15am on Sunday.(3.) Alternative routes: Dhaula Kuan-Vande Mataram Marg-Panchkuian Road-Outer Circle Connaught Place-Chelmsford Road for Paharganj side or Minto Road-Bhavbhuti Marg for Ajmeri Gate side (From South Delhi to New Delhi railway station)Boulevard Road via ISBT Bridge-Rani Jhansi Flyover-Jhandwalan-DB Gupta Road-Sheela Cinema Road-Paharganj Bridge (From East Delhi to New Delhi railway station)Ring Road-Ashram Chowk-Sarai Kale Khan-Ring Road-Rajghat-Ring Road-Chowk Yamuna Bazar-SP Mukherjee Marg-Chhatta Rail-Kauria Bridge (From South Delhi to Old Delhi railway station)(4.) Bus terminating points: Park Street/Udyan Marg, Aram Bagh Road (Paharganj), Kamla Market, Delhi Secretariat (Indira Gandhi Stadium), Pragati Maidan (Bhairon Road), Hanuman Mandir (Yamuna Bazar), Mori Gate, ISBT Kashmere Gate, ISBT Sarai Kale Khan, Tis Hazari Court.(5.) Routes for inter-state buses: Buses from Shivaji Stadium to Ghaziabad to take NH-24, Ring Road and terminate at Bhairon Road.Buses from NH24 to turn right on road number 56 and terminate at ISBT Anand Vihar.Buses from Ghaziabad to be diverted at Mohan Nagar towards Bhopar Chungi for Wazirabad Bridge.All inter-state buses from Dhaula Kuan side to terminate at Dhaula Kuan.(6.) Delhi Metro: No restrictions on Metro services except Central Secretariat and Udyog Bhawan, both of which will be out of bound for commuters from 5am till 12 noon on January 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-traffic-police-issue-advisory-for-r-day-rehearsal-parade-details-here-101642755205306.html
21-01-2022||Other||Amid speculation over leadership, video projects Nath as Congress’s face for next polls||BHOPAL: A video titled “Kamal Nath Returns 2023” has gone viral amid speculation about the leadership of the Congress in Madhya Pradesh in the run-up to the polls due next year. In the video, Nath, the state Congress president, and former chief minister, can be seen vowing to end crime, woes of farmers, etc.Congress leaders, who have been sharing the video on social media, said some Congress workers made it but it is clear Nath will lead the party in the next assembly election. They added Nath, who lost power in 2020 after the defection of 22 Congress lawmakers, has started preparing for assembly elections. Party leaders said Nath has asked Congress members to start the preparations by trying to visit every home.Nath said he had two choices. “One was to leave everything and the other was to continue to serve the state. I chose the second one to fight for the rights of the residents of Madhya Pradesh.”A Congress leader, requesting anonymity, said the video was made unofficially but this is a trailer for the 2023 election. “Congress will fight elections on these issues. The video has...ended all confusion about the leadership. We are ready to contest election under the leadership of Kamal Nath.”Congress leader Narendra Saluja said there is no doubt Nath will be the chief minister’s face. “Every senior leader wants Nath as he gave a new direction to the party,” said Saluja. He added from meeting district presidents to staging protests, raising issues, Nath was leading in every aspect.Another Congress leader said Nath was mainly setting the party’s daily agenda.Political expert Girija Shankar said Congress in Madhya Pradesh has always fought elections without a face and always the party has chosen the chief minister after the poll results.“After losing the majority in the assembly (following defections from the Congress) in March 2020 and also 19 out of 28 by-elections, Nath continued to hold the top position (in the party). Nath managed everything--from the agenda to the appointment of party leaders. He is also trying to prove his capability after it was alleged that his 15-month government was run by Digvijaya Singh.”
21-01-2022||Mumbai||NCP leader draws flak for playing Godse’s role||MUMBAI: Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) Member of Parliament Amol Kolhe has drawn flak for playing Nathuram Godse’s role in a movie titled Why I killed Gandhi. Maharashtra minister Jitendra Awhad, who is also an NCP leader, said the movie glorifies Godse and Kolhe should not have played the role. “One cannot support the murder of Mahatma Gandhi under the garb of being an actor,” Awhad said.Kolhe is a popular face in Maharashtra who has appeared in TV series called Raja Shiv Chhatrapati. In 2019, he joined NCP and got elected to Lok Sabha from the Shirur constituency.On Thursday, Kolhe issued a clarification saying the film is being released now but was shot in 2017 when he was not in politics. He urged people to differentiate between reel life and real life.“Sometimes, one suddenly comes across roles where you do not agree with the ideology but they challenge you as an artist. Nathuram Godse’s role was one such. On a personal level, I am not a votary of Gandhi’s assassination or glorification of Nathuram, but I have tried to do justice with the role that came to me. As an artist, one must respect the freedom of expression and as a person, the freedom of thought! I hope that people look at this work with an open mind,” Kolhe posted on Facebook.The Hindi movie is set to release on January 30. The controversy over it started after its 2.20-minute trailer was released on social media.
21-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi L-G rejects CM's proposal to lift weekend curfew, advocates status quo||Delhi lieutenant general Anil Baijal on Friday rejected the proposal sent by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to lift the weekend curfew in the national capital in view of declining coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. Replying to Kejriwal's recommendations on relaxation of Covid-related measures, L-G said that the status quo with regards to weekend curfew and opening of markets should be maintained till the virus situation further improves. Baijal, however, agreed to allow private office spaces to operate 50% at capacity, according to people familiar with the matter.A final decision is likely to be taken in the Delhi Disaster Management Authority, chaired by the L-G. The DDMA meeting, not officially scheduled yet, is likely to be held next week.Earlier today, the Delhi government sent a proposal to the L-G, recommending to end the weekend curfew as Covid-19 cases continue to decline in the national capital. The government also suggested lifting the odd-even restrictions on shops and commercial establishments and allowing them to be open on all days.The ongoing restrictions, including a weekend curfew, have been imposed in Delhi as part of the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) to check the spread of Covid-19. The measures under Grap are announced after the daily test positivity rate crosses a certain threshold.On Friday, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain asserted that the Covid situation in the national capital is under control, saying coronavirus was the primary cause of death in only three of the 43 fatalities recorded the previous day. Delhi is expected to report 10,500 cases today with a positivity rate of 17 to 18 per cent, he added."Experts had warned that Delhi can record one lakh cases daily during this wave but that danger has been averted. We will take a call on lifting of more restrictions within three-four days," Jain told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-l-g-rejects-kejriwal-s-proposal-to-lift-weekend-curfew-101642751614976.html
21-01-2022||Other||Police advert asks families of slain Maoists to claim bodies||RAIPUR: Police in Maharashtra’s Gadhchiroli have issued a newspaper advertisement requesting families of seven Maoists from Bastar killed in an exchange of fire with security forces on November 13 to claim the bodies of their kin. Twenty-seven Maoists were killed in the gun battle. The families of 20 of them identified the bodies, and the remaining seven remain unclaimed.The advertisement dated January 17 was also published in at least two local Chhattisgarh dailies. It said the bodies of the 20 Maoists from Bastar have been buried following due process, including permission from the local magistrate. The advertisement asked the families of the remaining Maoists to contact the Gadchiroli Police by January 25.Police said they were willing to exhume the bodies if the families of the seven seek to conduct the last rites. The Gadchiroli administration buried the seven on December 17 as per the Bombay Police Act.Gadhchiroli Police superintendent Ankit Goyal said their teams visited Chhattisgarh multiple times, identified, and contacted the families of those killed, and made all arrangements for transporting the bodies. “...primary identification of six (slain Maoists) was done but none of the family members are coming forward...”He said they were trying to trace the remaining families so that they can approach the magistrate to exhume the bodies for a proper burial. “This is why we have released the advertisement” Goyal added everyone has a right to dignity after death.Bastar range inspector general of police Sunderaj P said in many cases, Maoist cadres become disconnected from their families after staying away for years. “The families lose track of their children and do not have any details about their whereabouts. Maoist leaders also change the names of the cadres and give them aliases. It also becomes difficult for the family members to identify photographs of their own after eight to 10 years of separation. We have already tried to contact the relatives of the Maoists killed in Maharashtra...but in vain.”RK Vij, a retired police officer, said this transparency of Gadhchiroli Police will surely strengthen the trust between tribals of the region and police. “This is a welcome step and should be encouraged in the future.”Bela Bhatia, a human rights activist, said the Gadchiroli Police’s move is part of a routine procedure. “If the police have tried their best to identify the persons and notify the families, then there is nothing more to be said.”Police officers in Bastar said Maoists do not encourage the practice of conducting final rituals of cadres because they believe that it would impact their recruitments.
21-01-2022||Kolkata||Despite ‘TRP on rise’, TMC MLA takes break from social media after prod by party leadership||Maverick TMC MLA Madan Mitra, who is popular among a cross section of netizens for his regular Facebook live shows, has announced on the networking site that he would be deactivating his profile for five months in accordance with the instructions of his party leadership. The move came days after Mitra took to social media to air his grievances against the party’s style of functioning. The former transport minister, a loyalist of TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee, went live on Facebook on Thursday and said, “I am deactivating my Facebook and Instagram accounts from today till June 30.” "No, there has not been any complaint against me to Facebook authorities by anyone... No waning of my popularity. My TRP, instead, is on the rise. But I am quitting as I have been asked by the (party) higher-ups to leave Facebook for some time. I will obey the order," the Kamarhati MLA, who has a huge fan base on social media, said. Last week, TMC Secretary General Partha Chatterjee had asked party members to refrain from making public statements and social media posts on their grievances. He also said that the members could approach the party's disciplinary committee, if needed. Mitra, shortly after, took to Facebook and sought to know where exactly does the disciplinary committee operate from as the party's Harish Chatterjee street office here at Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's residence was "off limits" owing to the security protocol and its national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee was busy with "all-India activities". A top TMC leader said Mitra has been taken to task by the disciplinary committee for going against the party’s diktat and told to stay off social media for the time being.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/despite-trp-on-rise-tmc-mla-takes-break-from-social-media-after-prod-by-party-leadership-101642747779654.html
21-01-2022||Delhi||Lift weekend curfew as Covid cases are falling, recommends Delhi govt||NEW DELHI: The Delhi government has recommended ending the weekend curfew and other restrictions as Covid-19 cases and the positivity rate are declining and hospitalisations are very low, indicating that the pandemic is under control. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has approved the proposal and sent it to lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, the chairman of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA).The Delhi government has also proposed ending the odd-even operating system for shops and for allowing all private firms to call 50% of staff to offices. Currently, private employees, other than those engaged in essential services, are working from home as per a DDMA order.The DDMA will discuss the proposals at its meeting likely to be held next week and take a final decision on easing the restrictions. The weekend curfew will be in force this weekend because no final decision about lifting it has been taken. The Delhi government’s proposal to end the weekend curfew needs DDMA approval before it is implemented.E-passes issued on or after January 4 for movement for essential purposes and exempted categories will continue to be valid during the imposition of night and weekend curfew. Those, who fall under the essential or exempted category and have not applied for the e-passes, can apply for them at delhi.gov.inUnless a fresh DDMA order is out, all existing restrictions under yellow alert will continue under which educational institutions, gyms, and cinemas are closed. Shops in malls and markets will continue to operate on an odd-even basis between 10am and 8pm. Only 20 people are allowed to attend weddings and funerals.The weekend curfew prohibits all non-essential activities and exempts businesses and individuals engaged in essential services.Delhi on Thursday added 12,306 new cases. The positivity rate was 30.64% on January 15 and within five days Delhi recorded a sharp decline in the positivity rate. The hospital occupancy rate has remained stable, with more than 82% of the hospital beds remaining vacant over the last week.DDMA on January 4 imposed the weekend curfew as part of the efforts to arrest Covid-19 transmission as Omicron-driven wave swept through the Capital.
21-01-2022||Other||EPFO added 1.39 million net subscribers in November 2021||NEW DELHI: The Employee Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) added over 1.39 million net subscribers in November 2021. This marked an increase of around 285,000 compared to October and a growth rate of 25.65%.A year-on-year comparison of payroll data shows an increase of around 384,000 in net payroll additions in November as compared to 1.11 million subscribers added in November 2020.Of the net subscribers in November 2021, 828,000 new members came under the social security cover of EPFO for the first time.Age-wise comparison of payroll data shows that the age group of 22-25 years registered the highest number of net enrolments with 364,000 additions in November 2021. The age-group of 18-21 also registered a healthy addition of around 281,000 net enrolments. People in the age group of 18-25 have contributed around 46.20% of total net subscriber additions in November 2021. Members of these age groups are usually fresh hands.Maharashtra, Haryana, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, and Karnataka added approximately 846,000 subscribers during the month, which is around 60.60% of total net payroll addition across all age groups.Gender-wise analysis indicates the net share of women subscribers during the month was 295,000, which is almost 59.005 more than that of subscribers added in October 2021 when 236,000 net women participated in the organised workforce with an increase of 24.97%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/epfo-added-1-39-million-net-subscribers-in-november-2021-101642741414357.html
21-01-2022||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi govt recommends lifting weekend curfew, sends proposal to LG||The Delhi government on Friday sent a proposal to Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal with a recommendation to end the weekend curfew as Covid-19 cases in the national capital continue to decline considerably.The Arvind Kejriwal-led government has also recommended to lift restrictions on shops and commercial establishments, ending the odd-even system and allowing them to be open on all days.Stringent curbs, including a weekend curfew, have been put in place in the national capital as part of the colour-coded Graded Response Action Plan to check the spread of the COVID infection in markets, industries, offices and public transport.As cases continue to dip, the government suggested that private offices may be permitted to call 50 per cent staff to office as opposed to the current 100 per cent work from home.Last week, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had suggested that the government may consider easing restrictions if Covid-19 cases dropped below 15,000-mark.He later said that though the positivity rate has gone down, it is “not low enough that we can relax the Covid restrictions”.The weekend curfew imposed in view of rise in Covid-19 cases will be in place from 10pm today and continue till 5am on Monday, unless the LG grants permission to the Delhi government's proposal.As per the latest health bulletin data, Delhi's single-day cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) witnessed a dip in the last 24 hours after as many as 12,306 people tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-suggests-ending-weekend-curfew-other-restrictions-as-covid-cases-dip-101642739851423.html
21-01-2022||Mumbai||Two held in Mumbai for selling fake Covid vaccination certificates||MUMBAI: The Mumbai Police have said that they arrested two men for allegedly selling fake Covid-19 vaccination certificates for ₹1,500 apiece. The arrests came after the police were informed that more than 75 people had obtained fake Covid-19 vaccination certificates from the two men identified as Sahad Sajid Shaikh, 21, and Maviya Abdul Bhoraniya, 21. The two were subsequently arrested from a hospital in Goregaon west.With the help of local health officers, police raided the hospital and made the arrests on Wednesday. Police found two mobile phones and a few fake certificates with vacant spaces in place of the names of the person vaccinated.Both are residents of Mumbai’s Grant Road and have been charged with cheating the government and forgery.“We are now in the process of finding out how many more people have acquired fake vaccination certificates from the accused,” said a police officer with the Mumbai Police crime branch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/two-held-in-mumbai-for-selling-fake-covid-vaccination-certificates-101642737093827.html
21-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality in ‘very poor’ category, rain expected||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s air quality was in the “very poor” category on Friday as the city was expected to have generally overcast weather with light rain or drizzle on Friday. According to the Central Pollution Control Board, the hourly Air Quality Index (AQI) at 7 am was 384.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research said AQI on Thursday indicated the “very poor” category. “Tomorrow (Friday), AQI is expected to remain ‘very poor’ as temperature and wind speed are likely to remain almost the same. It is likely to rain on 22nd and 23rd with gusty wind leading to wet deposition and strong dispersion resulting in significant improvement of AQI to ‘poor’.”The minimum temperature on Friday was likely to be 10 degrees Celsius while the maximum of 19 degrees Celsius. On Thursday, the minimum temperature was 10 degrees Celsius and the maximum 19 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-quality-in-very-poor-category-rain-expected-101642736014330.html
21-01-2022||Other||Drone Federation of India welcomes funding guidelines for agri-drone use||NEW DELHI: The Drone Federation of India has welcomed the Union agriculture ministry’s move notifying funding guidelines for the purchase and hiring of agriculture drones to promote their use. It said drone technology can bring significant accuracy and efficiency in how farmers manage their crops.The guidelines will enable funding support to a wide range of agriculture institutions, custom hiring centres, agri-entrepreneurs, and other stakeholders for purchasing drones or hiring their services.“We welcome this notification wholeheartedly and would like to thank the Hon’ble Prime Minister and the ministry of agriculture for this bold vision which shall make drones accessible to the common man of India and boost domestic drone manufacturing in a big way,” said Drone Federation of India president Smit Shah“...a standard agriculture drone model costs between Rs. 8-10 lakhs...this step has made the purchase of agricultural drones nearly free for leading agri-research and agri-training institutions.” Shah added these institutes in turn shall promote agri-drone use. Shah said the subsidised purchase of agri-drones will make them affordable, subsequently leading to their rapid adoption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/drone-federation-of-india-welcomes-funding-guidelines-for-agri-drone-use-101642735234391.html
21-01-2022||Delhi||Delhiwale: Changing lanes||It is a time of endings. It is a time of beginnings. These are the twin worlds that Muhammed Faiz, 21, is straddling at this delicate stage in his life. He is in despair because he has to discontinue his graduation. Yet, he is hopeful because he just started his career as an auto-rickshaw driver.The disruptions caused by the pandemic is shaping his coming-of-age. “We had to shut down our family-run shop because of the lockdowns,” he says, while picking up a passenger at Dilli Gate one cold evening. A native of Old Delhi’s Gali Badliyan street, his family had a “kids’ wear” showroom in nearby Chitli Qabar Bazar, “but people aren’t buying as much as they used to before corona… we were unable to afford the rent for the shop.”Now, his father stays at home and his elder brother runs a modest stall on the “patri” (pavement). Mr Faiz was a first-year graduation student in Zakir Husain Delhi College, but felt obliged to give up his studies “because we are facing problems and I felt I must help at home”.The decision to take up the auto-rickshaw was his own. He received the family’s full support as he purchased a spanking new auto for six lakh rupees “on instalment”.Armed with the experience of one month into the new profession, Mr Faiz is looking forward to his years as a driver “because auto rarely goes out of business, public always have to travel from one point to another”.The young man is trying to stay optimistic even as he feels the weight of a most crushing disappointment. “My engagement broke up recently.” His fiancee’s parents had their reasons. They told his family that they had fixed their daughter’s marriage to a boy who had a showroom, not an auto. “I’m no longer good enough for them,” says Mr Faiz.The auto driver, nevertheless, confesses of being motivated by another mission. “My sister is doing her graduation in the university… I want to earn enough to help her realise her ambitions — that is now my biggest dream.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-changing-lanes-101642719587382.html
21-01-2022||Delhi||‘Rainy weekend in store for Capital, days may get colder’||The Capital will receive rain over the weekend as a fresh western disturbance influences the region, with the maximum temperature also expected to drop after the showers, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said, even as the city saw some respite from the “cold day” conditions on Thursday.The Safdarjung station, taken as the base for Delhi’s weather, recorded a maximum temperature of 19.1 degrees Celsius on Thursday – two notches below normal, with cold day conditions abating in Delhi. The maximum is however, expected to drop to 16°C by Saturday, with rain forecast for Friday night, Saturday and Sunday as well.“The maximum has risen again due to the western disturbance, with the maximum hovering at 18 to 19°C at most stations now. It will remain around 19°C on Friday, before a drizzle is seen towards the evening and at night. Peak rain activity, in the form of light showers, will hit Delhi on Saturday, leading to a drop in the maximum to 15-16°C,” said RK Jenamani, scientist at IMD.Parts of Delhi also received a drizzle late on Wednesday night. While ‘trace’ rainfall was recorded at Palam and Ridge stations till 8.30am on Thursday, 0.5mm was recorded at Pitampura.Safdarjung, however, received no rainfall. The Met’s predictions mean that it could, however, add to the 63.6mm of rainfall received so far this month, with chances that the city crosses the 1995 record reading of 69.8mm rainfall for January.The western disturbance kept temperatures in Delhi warmer than previous days.While Safdarjung had a high of 19.1°C on Thursday, the lowest maximum recorded in Delhi was in Narela at 15.5°C. In terms of minimum temperature, Delhi recorded a low of 9.8°C – three above normal.Delhi’s relative humidity has also remained high in the last 24 hours, oscillating between 66 and 98%.This high moisture content led to Delhi’s pollution levels worsening, with the air quality index (AQI) touching 387 (very poor) according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily 4pm bulletin. It was 322 on Wednesday.The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar) said Delhi’s AQI is expected to improve only from Saturday after rain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rainy-weekend-in-store-for-capital-days-may-get-colder-101642719410115.html
21-01-2022||Delhi||DDA reviews plan to develop Sanjay Van, to include adventure activities||Months after it announced its plan to develop Sanjay Van in south Delhi as an ecotourism destination, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) is reworking the plan and will be inviting expression of interest again from private players by the end of this month.A senior DDA official said that the plan is to promote nature-based adventure activities.“There was just one firm which showed interest in the eco-tourism project. We are reworking the plan so that we can get a better response. The EOI will be invited by next month. This is just to see if firms will be interested in such a project. We will prepare a detailed tender document based on the response,” the DDA official said who asked not to be named.In the reworked plan, a senior DDA official said, the project will not be pitched as an ecotourism hub. “We are basically planning to promote nature-based adventure activities in the area. We are reworking the plan to incorporate other activities,” said the official.DDA officials said that the idea is to utilise the forest area for recreation and environmental awareness.Rock climbing, paragliding, aerial trails (canopy tour, zipline, valley Crossing, Burma bridge crossing), forest safari, forest leisure cycling, camping and picnic area, star gazing activities, bird watching, guided nature tour, flora and fauna observation trips are some of the activities that were proposed by DDA in its EOI document in September last year.The land-owning agency said that fairs and festivals for sustainability of local traditions can also be organised, as per DDA officials.A senior DDA official said, “Most of the activities mentioned in the previous document will remain as it is. We are just exploring other activities which can be included. We are also exploring revenue models of the project. One firm might not be interested in conducting all the activities, so we are looking for other options. It is yet to be finalised.”Spread over 783 acres, Sanjay Van, which is maintained by the DDA, is part of the south-central ridge.The green lung of the city can be accessed from Aruna Asaf Ali Road, Qutub institutional area or from Aurobindo marg.The land-owning agency has been involved in maintenance of this greenbelt, which was carved out of south-central ridge in the 70s, and developed a few sites that are frequented by people.The project will be developed on a Public Private Partnership basis to ensure optimum utilisation of the new infrastructure. The private concessionaire will have to develop and operate the proposed facilities, said another DDA official who too asked not to be named.“The idea is to create an economically self- sustainable system by making best use of local resources and encourage public’s interaction with nature. Currently, only people from nearby areas visit the green area,” the official quoted above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dda-reviews-plan-to-develop-sanjay-van-to-include-adventure-activities-101642718934245.html
21-01-2022||Delhi||Residents claim trees felled for railway stn||Residents of the Shahabad Mohammadpur village in Dwarka, along with members of a local NGO, have filed a complaint with the forest department and the Delhi Police alleging that over 200 trees have been cut without permission from a forest patch behind Dwarka’s Sector 21 Metro station for the Bijwasan Rail Terminal Redevelopment project.The Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA), which is undertaking the project, said only “smaller saplings” were removed to make way for trucks and other site equipment. These saplings, it said, were those that came up in the past eight years.Residents said that while work on the project has been ongoing for the past eight years, tree felling started only 10 days ago, with over 200 trees being axed since then.Naveen Solanki, a 20-year-old resident from the village, who alerted the forest department about the tree felling, said the contractors at the site could not produce any permission order for the deforestation activity.“Already, around 100 to 200 trees have been cut and we have alerted both the Delhi Police and the forest department. The contractors at the site had no permission papers to show us villagers, when we asked them for one,” said Solanki, stating the area was rich in biodiversity, including nilgai and several bird species.While the project was initially awarded to the Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation (IRSDC), the government body was shut down last October, and the project was later awarded to the Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA). The railway station is undergoing an airport-style makeover on a public-private partnership (PPP) model, officials in the know of the project details said.Madhukar Varshney, from the NGO Rise Foundation, who is one of the complainants, said the area, which used to be a dense forest patch, was now completely dug up by earthmovers.“We can still see the tree stumps of many trees there. The entire area is now bereft of tree cover. After losing the dense forest habitat in the Bharat Vandana Park area, this patch is also being cleared up swiftly, and Dwarka is losing a major chunk of its green cover,” Varshney says.A senior forest and wildlife department, when contacted, said an inspection was carried out at the site on Wednesday and all necessary documents and permissions for the tree felling are being checked.“A physical inspection was carried out and trees were found to be cut. These have been photographed and geo-tagged. We are still verifying whether any permission was sought to fell those trees,” the official said.An RLDA official said since the project was handed over to them in December 2021, no trees have been cut; however, “smaller saplings” have been removed to make room for trucks and other vehicles to reach the site.The official stated that while no trees were present at the site when the project approval was first sought, some trees have come up there since then.“These are mainly vilayati kikar(a shrub or small tree of the mesquite kind). We met the forest department and a fresh submission will be given to them for removing these trees,” the RLDA official says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/residents-claim-trees-felled-for-railway-stn-101642718628732.html
21-01-2022||Delhi||Window for admissions to Delhi's entry-level classes closes today||The window for submission of forms for admission to entry-level classes — nursery, kindergarten, and Class 1 — for the 2022-23 academic session in private schools across the Capital will close on Friday. The government, on January 6, had extended the last date by two weeks in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases.The last date for schools to upload details of children who have applied is January 24 and for displaying the list of selected candidates is February 4.Sudha Acharya, principal of ITL Public School, Dwarka, and chairperson of the National Progressive School’s Conference, which has over 120 private Delhi schools as its members, said the next few days will be utilised for verifying forms and preparing a list of applicants for the draw of lots. She said while the school has largely received forms online, it was also accepting forms in person.“We will check various parameters to see if parents meet the criteria of neighbourhood, sibling or staff. We will prepare a list of everyone who has applied and in case any document is missing, we will give them a chance to complete the documentation,” said Acharya.Following the verification and the first draw of lots, the list of selected candidates will be displayed on February 4, at the school and online.Bharat Arora, general secretary, Action Committee of Unaided Private Schools, said the surge in Covid cases and subsequent curbs might have impacted the admission cycle as there was not a significant increase in applications compared to last year.“Policymakers must keep in mind that Delhi has been under various restrictions for almost three weeks which might have impacted admission turnout in various schools,” said Arora.A senior official at the private schools’ branch of the directorate of education said the department had earlier extended the application period for the convenience of parents and no further extension was possible. “Due to the surge in cases and closure of schools, some parents might have faced trouble initially. For their convenience, we extended the time period for form submission by two weeks,” said the official, asking not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/window-for-admissions-to-delhi-s-entry-level-classes-closes-today-101642718137136.html
21-01-2022||Delhi||RT-PCR test gets cheaper in Delhi: ₹300 at labs, ₹500 at home||The Delhi government on Thursday slashed prices of Covid-19 tests in the city, and ordered hospitals and labs to process all samples within 12 hours of receiving them.The cost of the gold-standard RT-PCR test has been reduced by ₹200 for home collection as well as for samples collected at private hospitals and labs.The same price cut was extended for rapid antigen tests in the city.Now an RT-PCR test, if performed at labs and hospitals, will cost ₹300 instead of ₹500.For samples collected from home, the cost has been reduced to ₹500 (including collection and other charges) from ₹700, the order issued by the state health department on Thursday said. Prior to this, the government had revised the cost of Covid-19 test in August last year.“All labs/ hospitals will display the revised rates at prominent places latest within 24 hours of this order. This order comes into effect immediately and is for strict compliance by all concerned,” read the order signed by Manisha Saxena, Delhi’s principal secretary (health).The government will pay private labs ₹200 for each sample collected by and transported to the lab by the government, and ₹300 for samples collected by the government but transported by the lab.Senior health officials said Delhi’s testing capacity has been increased from 100,000 a day to 300,000 with several new private labs opening up in the city and the government labs increasing their capacities.“Private sector labs shall mandatorily collect the samples from the testing sites as requisitioned by Govt. team (District CDMO Office or Hospital). Further, all labs will ensure that samples are processed latest within 12 hours of being received in the lab with all positive results being updated on ICMR portal mandatorily within 30 minutes of samples being processed followed by updation of all negative results latest within 24 hours from the receipt of samples in the lab,” the order further stated.
21-01-2022||Delhi||Learning must continue even if schools are shut: Manish Sisodia||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday reviewed the online teaching-learning process in Delhi government schools, and said that it was crucial for learning to continue even as in-person classes stay shut due to Covid curbs.Besides laying emphasis on the need to bridge learning gaps, Sisodia, who also holds the education portfolio, directed officials to ensure that the emotional and mental well-being of children was also taken care of while they undertook academic activities.“Due to the repetitive school closure during Covid pandemic, there has been a loss of learning for the students. The health of students is very important for us, but it is also important that the education of the children does not stop. The Covid-induced pandemic has posed new challenges for us, but our team is working diligently to ensure that every child has access to education in these times,” said Sisodia.In a written statement, the government’s directorate of education also shared that over 95% of the students in various classes were able to access study material while attending online classes.The directorate of education said worksheets, through offline and online medium, were reaching around 99.2% of students from KG to Class 2; 99.1% from Class 3 to 5, 94.21% to students in Class 6; 97.2% in Class 7; 98% in Class 8; 98.7% in Class 9 and 98.4% in Class 10.The directorate added that 98.2% of students of Class 11 and 98.6% of Class 12 students were participating in the online classes.Himanshu Gupta, director, Directorate of Education, who took part in the review along with Sisodia, said that the DoE was sending worksheets weekly on WhatsApp to students in nursery to class 11. He added online classes were being conducted for students in classes 9-12.“Children who do not have digital devices to attend online classes are being provided printed copies of the worksheets every week by schools. The department is strongly emphasising on assessment of students through innovative methods to understand the students’ participation and their learning levels,” said Gupta.Besides regular online classes and assignments, the DoE has also initiated a 100-day reading campaign from this month with the aim of improving the basic reading, writing ability and numerary skills of students, the government said in the statement.As part of the reading campaign, six worksheets will be sent to students every week, on subjects including Hindi, English and Mathematics, it added.Schools in Delhi have been shut five times since April 2020 – thrice owing to concerns over Covid-19, and twice because of hazardous pollution levels. Educators and experts say that the prolonged and repeated closures have derailed teaching-learning, and adversely impacted the mental health of children, who need peer to peer interaction for all-round development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/learning-must-continue-even-if-schools-are-shut-manish-sisodia-101642717558748.html
21-01-2022||Delhi||Govt unveils one-stop portal to promote EVs||To encourage a larger number of people in the Capital to make the electrical vehicle (EV) switch, a dedicated one-stop website for the promotion and adoption of EVs was launched by the Delhi government on Thursday.The newly designed EV website — www.ev.delhi.gov.in — focuses not just on individuals but also on companies that want to switch their fleet to EVs, transport minister Kailash Gahlot said.“The website is designed to be responsive and browser independent, to function as a key information resource for electric vehicle buyers, manufacturers, academicians, and EV enthusiasts. Through this website, the Delhi government aims to provide the ultimate user-friendly experience to the public along with giving them all helpful information that will enable them to purchase an EV,” he said.The website has a “charging stations explorer” allowing the user to explore the charging stations currently active in the city. Until now, Delhi has set up 377 charging points across 170 locations. The website provides information with regards to the location of the station, specification/type of charger and the number of charging points. The website will also provide real-time numbers of charging stations as and when they come up.The portal has an EV calculator that allows the visitor to estimate the fuel savings on her choice of electric vehicle in comparison to a conventional vehicle, transport officials said . That will enable consumers to make a rational choice as the maintenance and operational cost of an EV is far lesser than that of a conventional vehicle, officials said.The portal will also help buyers to get information about all registered EV models. The EV search function enables the visitor to explore various EV variants and the search can be filtered according to price, brand and range.“Academicians, and EV enthusiasts who wish to explore the Delhi’s EV ecosystem, can log on to see the sales and uptake of EVs in Delhi in real-time. The EV dashboard updates the information on the total sale of EVs in Delhi continuously,” Gahlot said.“In addition, it will also feature recent notifications, and circulars that will be issued by the Delhi government from time to time. A section has also been kept for feedback and grievance,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-unveils-one-stop-portal-to-promote-evs-101642717321272.html
21-01-2022||Delhi||Squatters undoing revamp of Chandni Chowk, says HC||The Delhi high court on Thursday ordered city police and North Delhi Municipal Corporation to remove encroachments from Chandni Chowk, observing that the revamped heritage market is already falling into disrepair.“It is disheartening to see that the redevelopment activities in the Chandni Chowk area are already falling in disrepair due to rampant encroachment of the area,” a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said while hearing a plea by the Chandni Chowk Sarv Vypapar Mandal.The bench directed the Delhi Police and North civic body to “personally supervise” the removal of squatters from the market. The Delhi government has revamped the stretch between Red Fort and Fatehpuri, making it a no-go zone for motorised vehicle, turning it into a pedestrian zone with several public amenities.The bench said that the photos show the extent of encroachment of public ways and paths by street vendors. “The first photograph is that of the area comprising the bus stand and its surroundings. It is shocking to see that the entire area around the bus stand has been encroached upon and an area inside the bus stand has also met the same fate. The vendors have spread their goods inside the bus stand itself,” the bench observed.The court directed the SHO of Kotwali police station to personally supervise the removal of unauthorised encroachment. It said the deputy commissioner of the civic body will be responsible for ensuring encroachments are removed without delay.It also asked authorities to file status reports before the next date of hearing on February 10.During the proceedings, advocate Mini Pushkarna, who represented the civic body, said steps have been taken to prepare a plan for vendors in accordance with the Street Vendors’ Act.Pushkarna also said that a sub-committee has been constituted and a physical survey of the streets and areas in Chandni Chowk is underway. The counsel submitted that on account of the ongoing pandemic, work has been hampered and sought three to four months to complete the survey.The court also asked her to complete the survey at the earliest and file a status report by March 4.Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal, represented through senior advocate Sanjeev Ralli and lawyer Mohit Mudgal, has sought direction from the authorities to remove illegal vendors from the ‘no-hawking and no-squatting area’ in Chandni Chowk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/squatters-undoing-revamp-of-chandni-chowk-says-hc-101642717108451.html
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Forged Punjab Police promotion orders: Accused also prepared fake order to hire two constables||The five men arrested for forgery of promotion orders of 11 Punjab Police personnel had even fabricated the recruitment orders of two constables under the name of a former DGP. The five accused, inspector Satwant Singh Sidhu, posted in Mohali; a dismissed sub-inspector, Sarabjit Singh; Sandeep Kumar and Bahadur Singh, both working as superintendents in Punjab DGP’s office; and head constable Mani Katoch, whose name figures in the forged promotion list, are currently in police remand. They were arrested in the past week following a complaint by Vibhor Kumar, a staff officer with the Punjab DGP office, Sector 9, Chandigarh. He had complained to the Chandigarh Police that he had received four fake promotion orders under the forged signature of former Punjab DGP, Siddharth Chattopadhyaya. Sources in the police said apart from these forgeries, the five accused had also produced fabricated orders by the former DGP to recruit two constables, including the son of another accused Harwinder Singh, who remains at large. This order is also dated January 8 and is issued to the Mohali SSP, stating that the two candidates, Paramvir Singh and Amandeep Singh, have been “approved for establishment of constables as special case.” Paramvir is the son of Harwinder. Not just this, the accused had even forged the DGP’s signature to remove bad entries from the annual confidential report of inspector Satwant. Police said inspector Satwant and dismissed SI Sarabjit approached other police officials with promotion offers, claiming good relations with the DGP. For this, they held meetings at the latter’s house.After being introduced by Sarabjit, Harwinder collected ₹5 to 10 lakh from each beneficiary, and paid ₹50,000 to Sandeep and ₹20,000 to Bahadur. Mani, who was recently transferred from Amritsar to 13th Batallion, Sector 1, Chandigarh, typed the forged orders in the laptop of Sandeep on his instructions, following which the latter and Bahadur handed over the promotion order to Harwinder, who further gave it to Satwant. The inspector then managed to forge the former DGP’s signature, and Sandeep with the help of Bahadur, made the orders’ entry in the dispatch register of the branch and circulated them. Harwinder was introduced to Sandeep by another Inspector Sources said accused Harwinder was close to an inspector, who was earlier posted in Mohali. Harwinder remained posted with the said inspector in various police stations, including Mataur, Sohana, Kharar and even Mohali’s economic offences wing. The said inspector also maintains good relations with accused Sandeep. 
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Notorious drug peddler who uses kids as couriers held in Chandigarh||Infamous drug peddler, Poonam, commonly referred to as “Bhabi” among drug smuggling circles, was caught with 404gm heroin in Chandigarh on Thursday. Poonam, 37, a resident of Sector 40, was arrested with her accomplice, Sandeep Khatri, 40, a resident of Narela, Delhi. Another 205.9gm heroin was recovered from Khatri. The duo was arrested by the UT Police’s crime cell from a naka laid near Punjab Roadways Work Shop in Industrial Area, Phase 1, Chandigarh, in view of Republic Day and upcoming Punjab Assembly elections. They were travelling in Khatri’s Maruti Suzuki Swift car, bearing a Delhi registration number, and tried to speed away on spotting the police. However, the cops intercepted the car and recovered a total of 610gm heroin from the accused. According to police, Khatri had come to deliver heroin to Poonam. They had met in Zirakpur and were headed to Poonam’s house in Chandigarh. Both have been booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. Gets drugs from Delhi Police sources said Poonam sourced drugs from Delhi and supplied them in Chandigarh and neighbouring areas, often using children as couriers.They said Poonam ran a well-knit drug nexus in the region, and was also facing several cases of theft, burglary, rioting, snatching and drugs in Chandigarh. While she was in jail in 2018, Poonam had developed links with a Nigerian drug peddler, who has since returned to his country. Yet, whenever she needs drugs, she digitally transfers money to his account and gets the supply from Delhi, mostly at a sweet shop. Drug trade runs in the family A police official said Poonam’s husband, Sikander, was also into drug trade and named as accused in six cases. The couple’s names figure in the “bad characters” list of the Chandigarh Police. Her mother, Kamla, is into selling illicit liquor, while sister Nirmala, alias Nimmo, brother Sonu and his wife, Shakti, are also drug smugglers. Their aunt Bala, 49, a resident of Sector 38, is facing seven criminal cases and has been convicted in two. “Poonam owns a house in Sector 40, uses high-end mobile phones and enjoys a luxurious lifestyle,” the official added. 
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Bhupi Rana gang member shot dead in Ambala Cantonment||A Mohali resident, said to be a member of the Bhupi Rana gang, was shot dead in broad daylight near DAV Public School on the busy Ambala-Jagadhari road in Ambala Cantonment on Thursday.The victim, identified as Mohit Rana, was a resident of Khelan village, Dera Bassi, Mohali district, and currently living in Sadar Bazaar in Ambala Cantonment.His associate, Vishal, alias Bhola, also of Sadar Bazaar, was also critically injured in the firing.The daring shooting was captured on a roadside CCTV camera, which showed the victims’ black Hyundai Verna (PB65-AU-8688) coming from Ambala and halting near the school to take a turn around 4.50pm, when a white Ford EcoSport (DL01-CC-7401), which was following them, blocked their way.Two assailants got out of the SUV and fired at least 20 shots at point-blank range, killing Mohit, who was driving the car, and injuring Vishal, who was taken to the sub-divisional civil hospital in Ambala Cantt by police.Dr Tulit Chhabra, from the hospital, said, “Mohit was brought dead. The autopsy will be conducted on Friday by a board of doctors, while Vishal, who was seriously injured with at least 10 bullets on the right side, was referred to PGIMER, Chandigarh.” Murder fallout of old enmity: PoliceSuperintendent of police (SP) Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said as per initial inputs, the murder was fallout of a gangwar between Kala Rana and Bhupi Rana gangs due to enmity in an old case.“Mohit was a prime witness in the August 2014 murder of his associate Mohammad Mushtaq. Though Mohit had taken ₹12 lakh from the Kala Rana gang not to testify against its members before the court, several were convicted in the case. The gang had asked Mohit to return the money, but he didn’t. He was attacked recently and finally killed. Kala Rana is said to be operating from Thailand,” the police official said. One of the convicts in Mushtaq’s murder, gangster Shamsher Singh, alias Monu Rana, was sentenced to life imprisonment. According to police, Mushtaq, a resident of Bhabat village in Mohali, was a member of the Bhupi Rana gang and was killed by the Monu Rana gang.A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and the Arms Act has been registered against the unidentified assailants at the Mahesh Nagar police station on the complaint of Mohit’s brother Subhash Rana. Bishnoi gang takes responsibility on FBSoon after the incident, a Facebook post by Lawrence Bishnoi gang member Goldy Brar claimed responsibility for the murder. Through the post, Brar claimed to have executed the “double murder” in Ambala on Thursday with his brother Kala Rana. The gangster wrote that Mohit was supporting another group and was also a witness in a case against them. The daylight shooting comes almost a year after two gangsters affiliated with the Bhupi Rana gang were shot dead in a similar manner at Ambala City’s Kalka Chowk on March 25, 2021. Police had established that it was a case of mistaken identity, where Devinder Bambiha gang members killed their own associates, while the actual targets from the Lawrence Bishnoi gang managed to escape. Victim himself a history-sheeterAccording to a senior police official from Dera Bassi, the victim, Mohit Rana, was a notorious gangster, who was involved in more than 15 criminal cases, including extortion and kidnapping. Most of these were registered in Haryana. “He was previously lodged in Ambala jail, then in Kurukshetra jail and had recently come out on bail. He worked with the rivals of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang,” the official added.Mohit’s brother Subash Rana told the Ambala police that his younger brother was preparing to shift to the USA and his visa documents were ready.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bhupi-rana-gang-member-shot-dead-in-ambala-cantonment-101642715254762.html
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||No respite: 3,320 new Covid cases surface in Chandigarh tricity||Tricity’s daily Covid-19 cases continued to climb on Thursday, as 3,320 people tested positive against 3,185 the day before.The daily deaths also saw an increase, with six people succumbing to the virus, compared to four on Wednesday.While Chandigarh’s cases dropped from 1,502 to 1,294 in the past 24 hours, both Mohali and Panchkula recorded a spike. As many as 1,360 cases surfaced in Mohali, against 1,231 a day ago, and in Panchkula, the infections rose from 452 to 666. The fatalities on Thursday included four from Mohali and two from Chandigarh.Those who died in Mohali comprised three females and one male.Youngest among them, a 19-year-old woman from Mohali city, died at Ivy Hospital, Sector 71. An 85-year-old woman from Sector 91, was admitted at Fortis Hospital; a 72-year-old man from Mohali city at Amcare Hospital in Zirakpur; and a 40-year old woman from Kurali at the Phase-6 civil hospital.The deceased patients in Chandigarh were two women, aged 67 and 21, residents of Sector 30 and Sector 20, respectively. Both were not vaccinated against the virus.The elderly woman was also suffering from heart and kidney diseases, and died at PGIMER.The younger woman, who was admitted at GMSH-16, was also a patient of acute leukaemia and metabolic acidosis.The latest casualties pushed Mohali’s toll to 1,098. In Chandigarh, 1,095 have died due to the virus, while Panchkula has confirmed 384 deaths till date.Positivity rate spikes in Mohali, PanchkulaWith the rise in daily infections in Mohali and Panchkula, their positivity rate also shot up.Mohali found 32% people positive among the total tested in the past 24 hours, compared to 27% a day ago.In Panchkula, the positivity rate soared from 19% to 29% in the same period, but dipped in Chandigarh, from 25.9% to 19.3%.The fresh cases took tricity’s active cases to 21,142, last seen during the peak of second wave in May 2021. Nearing the 10,000 mark, Chandigarh has 9,922 infected patients, Mohali 9,013 and Panchkula 2,207.Since the beginning of the pandemic in March 2020, 82,563 people have contracted Covid in Chandigarh, but 71,546 have recovered.Mohali’s caseload of 84,012 comprises 73,901 recoveries. In Panchkula, of the total 38,738 patients so far, 36,147 have been cured.41 people on ventilator support in UT hospitalsCompared to 44 on Wednesday, 41 ventilator or ICU beds were occupied at Chandigarh’s government and private hospitals on Thursday. Apart from 219 critical care beds, 1,247 oxygen beds are also available at these facilities, of which 395 are currently occupied by patients from Chandigarh and other states.UT admn decides against new curbsDespite the surge in Covid-19 cases in the city, the UT administration on Thursday decided against imposing any fresh restrictions in the city.In the Covid review meeting held here on Thursday, UT administrator Banwari Lal Purohit instead focused on enforcement of strict Covid protocols at public places.He said penalties should be imposed on individuals and institutions found violating the protocols, especially those not using masks.“Even though the number of cases is high at present, the pressure on the city’s health infrastructure is relatively low. So, it was decided that no additional restriction is required at present. However, the existing curbs at public places and on public gatherings will continue,” said a senior UT official.The administrator expressed satisfaction over the readiness of health institutions for any unforeseen circumstances. He clarified that students in Panjab University hostels should not panic as there was no plan to set up a mini Covid care centre at the varsity hostels.Reviewing the Covid preparedness of the city, Purohit directed officials to keep a tab on all arrangements made by city hospitals and stressed on adopting different strategy to improve the testing rate.Purohit lauded the aggressive approach followed by the health department in vaccinating the targeted population, but asked it to improve the vaccination coverage in 15-18 years category, which is currently at 66.37%. He also expressed concern over Chandigarh not meeting 100% double-dose vaccination target.He urged city residents to get vaccinated, as it was the only protection against the virus’ devastating effects.Prior appointment mandatory at RLAIn view of Covid cases among the staff of the Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA) office in Sector 17, the administration on Thursday decided that it will offer only limited services with prior appointment till further others.The RLA services available with prior appointment include new registration of vehicles, registration of fancy/choice registration numbers, renewal of registration certificate, international driving permit and renewal of driving licence.No applicant will be entertained without online appointment and all are required to follow the safety protocol. Applicants may contact 0172-270-0341 for any query.A senior RLA official said a total of 36 staff members at the office had contracted the infection so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-respite-3-320-new-covid-cases-surface-in-chandigarh-tricity-101642715252881.html
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Month after transfer, Kuldeep Saini not relieved from charge as Ludhiana deputy DEO||A month-and-a-half after being transferred from the post of deputy district education officer (DEO), elementary, Ludhiana, Kuldeep Singh Saini is yet to take over his new charge as the principal of Government Senior Secondary School, Dhudike, Moga.Kuldeep was transferred on December 3 along with 21 other education department officials and principals by Punjab secretary of school education, Ajoy Sharma.Despite his transfer orders, the former deputy DEO has not been relieved from his post by his seniors, leading to conflict within the department.Facing teachers’ protests in Ludhiana as well as MogaThe teachers’ unions in Ludhiana have now warned of staging a protest against the education department in case Saini is given a backdoor entry into the department.When asked about the delay in issuing relieving orders to Saini, district education officer, elementary, Jaswinder Kaur, said, “The case details have been submitted to senior officials in the state education department and now they will take a call on his joining in Moga.”Saini earlier faced mass protests from various teachers associations in Ludhiana who accused him of harassing teachers, especially female staff.After his transfer to Moga was announced, he faced resentment from teachers there following which Saini remained on long medical leave. Meanwhile, Kuldeep Saini claimed that he has submitted his fitness certificate with the department and is no more on medical leave. Despite receiving the transfer orders, Saini claimed he is waiting for his joining orders.“I am waiting for the departmental orders and will join in Moga immediately after receiving the orders,” stated Saini.Meanwhile, deputy district education officer, Moga, Rakesh Makkar has also written to the DPI pertaining to Saini not resuming the job there.“After he didn’t join for long as the principal in GSSS here, we informed the DPI about the same and we are waiting for the further directions,” said Makkar.Members of various teachers’ unions on Wednesday held an online meeting in Ludhiana to decide the action to be taken, suspecting Saini’s backdoor entry in the local education department again.Sukhdir Sekhon, president of a teacher’s union in Ludhiana, stated, “We are not going to let Saini join here. Also, since the model code of conduct is in place, no fresh orders for cancellation of his transfer can be taken.”Teachers here are suspecting Saini of using his influential contacts to revoke his orders.Hundreds of teachers from different blocks in Ludhiana applied for mass leave to participate in the protest held against Deputy DEO Kuldeep Singh Saini outside the office of deputy commissioner in September.Kuldeep Singh had landed in a controversy after he had allegedly reprimanded a teacher Sapandeep Kaur, deputed in Government Primary School in Sahnewal last year following which she allegedly suffered a paralysis attack and was hospitalised.The teacher associations had got up in arms against him demanding strict action against him.
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police arrest Jalandhar man for posing as ED officer||A Jalandhar resident has been arrested for cheating Chandigarh residents by posing as an officer of the Enforcement Directorate (ED). Police traced the accused, Taranjit Singh of Jalandhar, to his home town and arrested him on Wednesday night.The arrest came following a complaint by Ajay Singh, deputy director, ED, Sector 18, Chandigarh. He had alleged that two men were posing as ED officers Girish Tyagi and Jitender Kumar to cheat city residents, while there were no such individuals in the directorate. The duo had got fake business cards printed and were even using the ED logo as their WhatsApp display picture. Acting on the complaint, police registered a case under Sections 419 (cheating by personation) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 19 police station, and nabbed Taranjit, who was found to be posing as Girish Tyagi and sending text messages to people. He was produced before a court and sent to one-day police remand. Police said more arrests were likely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-police-arrest-jalandhar-man-for-posing-as-ed-officer-101642713692705.html
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC introduces colouring book to spread message of swachhata among children||Mayor Sarbjit Kaur handed over 20,000 colouring books titled “Swachhata ke Rang” to UT education secretary Sarpreet Singh Gill at Government Girls Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 18 on Thursday. MC commissioner Anindita Mitra was also present on the occasion. The mayor said that the municipal corporation has introduced the colouring book for kids to spread the message of adopting Swachhata as a way of life from an early age. She said that through the book, children will learn good practices on keeping the city clean. Mitra said that in a bid to create awareness about “Mission Swachh Chandigarh” among children, the MC has introduced this colouring book on cleanliness which depicts cartoons spreading messages pertaining to solid waste management and general cleanliness along with segregation of waste at source. The commissioner said that the youth and students are one of the biggest change agents for any social transformation and the colouring book is meant to inspire them to take steps and create a long-lasting impact on the cleanliness of their homes, schools, neighbourhoods and eventually, their city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-introduces-colouring-book-to-spread-message-of-swachhata-among-children-101642713514909.html
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Mohali: Owners demand reopening of gyms||Up in arms against the closure of gyms in Mohali, members of the Greater Punjab Gyms Association held a protest near Singh Shaheedan gurdwara in Sohana on Thursday. Association members said it was absolute bias to close gyms, while restaurants, salons, malls and multiplexes were open, and even political, social and religious gatherings were allowed. Due to this, they said, the gym industry had no means to pay rent and power bills, besides salaries to employees, affecting countless families. Later, they submitted a memorandum to the local tehsildar, who assured to take some decision on January 22. MORE TRICITY NEWS IN BRIEFSPU scholar selected for Newton Bhabha placement programmePanjab University student Sahil Kumar has been selected for the prestigious Newton Bhabha PhD placement programme, funded by the UK department of business, energy and industrial strategy and department of biotechnology under the Newton Bhabha Fund. Under the programme, Sahil, a PhD scholar at PU’s Energy Research Centre, will visit the University of Strathclyde, Glasgow, for four months. He will be working on development of process for production of alkyl glycosides from mango seed shell under the guidance of Xiaolei Zhang.Two nabbed with 75gm heroinThe local police nabbed two men with a total of 75gm heroin in separate cases on Wednesday. Amandeep Singh, 27, of Bank Colony, Manimajra, was caught with 30gm heroin near the Sector-28 Dispensary. Amit Kumar, 31, of Sector 65, Chandigarh, was found carrying 45gm heroin, and 180 vials of pheniramine maleate and buprenorphine injections near Maloya. Both were booked under the NDPS Act. 38-year-old caught gamblingA 38-year-old man was caught gambling near the Haryana Roadways Workshop in Industrial Area, Phase 2, on Wednesday. ₹15,000 in cash were recovered from the accused, Ramesh Kumar of Phase 2, Ram Darbar. A case under the Gambling Act was registered. Car driver booked for hit-and-run accident Police have booked the driver of an unidentified car 26 days after a man struck by it died. The victim, Balbir Singh, of Sector 41, was riding a Honda Activa when the car rammed into him near the small roundabout on the Sector-41/42 dividing road on December 9, 2021. He was taken to PGIMER, where he died on December 24, 2021. Following a complaint by one Arjun Singh, resident of Raipur Khurd village, police have booked the car driver under Sections 279 and 304-A of the Indian Penal Code.MC floats tender for road-sweeping machineThe municipal corporation has floated tender for a GPS-enabled road-sweeping machine, with provision of tractor trolley for transporting roadside waste to the dumping ground. Road sweeping will entail an estimated cost of ₹82.54 lakh per annum. Youth Sikh activists gherao AAP election office in MohaliMembers of the Akal Youth Sikhs Organisation on Thursday gheroed the AAP election office in Sector 79, demanding release of Sikh prisoners, Devinder Pal Singh Bhullar and Jagtar Singh Hawara, who are lodged in Delhi jails. The protesters had gathered at the office assuming that Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal was present there, while he was at Mohali Club in Phase 11. The activists alleged that despite the President pardoning the death penalty of Bhullar and ordering his release, the Delhi CM had rejected his release. Besides, the demand for Hawara’s Hawara from Delhi to Punjab was also held up by Kejriwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-owners-demand-reopening-of-gyms-101642713214070.html
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ambala: Congress fumes as MC notifies pending tax worth ₹13 lakh||A day after the Ambala municipal corporation pasted a notice outside Congress Bhawan demanding payment of pending property tax to the tune of ₹13.83 lakh, the party on Thursday demanded rectification in calculation the amount. In a memorandum submitted by councillor Mithun Verma, the Congress through treasurer Rohit Jain said that the party office has been designated as a commercial site by the civic body, but it comes under the institutional non-commercial category.According to the notice served in the name of the president of Congress Bhawan, MC said that the tax has not been paid since April 1, 2017.The notice also asked for a response within three days, in the absence of or the office will be sealed, as per rules. “A letter to change the category was submitted in December 2019, but no action has been taken yet. We are ready to pay the tax calculated as institutional non-commercial,” the letter submitted to the executive officer by Verma reads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-congress-fumes-as-mc-notifies-pending-tax-worth-13-lakh-101642712912701.html
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Power privatisation in Chandigarh: HC seeks admn’s response on plea seeking stay on further steps||The high court on Thursday sought response from the UT administration on a fresh plea moved by UT Powermen Union seeking stay on further steps on handing over of power services in Chandigarh to a private company.It was on January 7 that the Centre had given its nod to the UT’s proposal. As per UT, it has selected Kolkata-based industrial and services conglomerate RP-Sanjiv Goenka (RPSG) Group as highest bidder. The firm had quoted the highest bid for takeover of services and quoted ₹871 crore against the reserve price of ₹175 crore. In the fresh plea by the union, it was argued that if stay order is not passed, it will cause irreparable loss to the petitioner union and its members and will also result in creation of third-party rights. It was in 2020 that UT’s move to privatise the power services was challenged by UT Powermen Union.HC had stayed the process on two occasions, but the Supreme Court intervened and, on both occasions, stay was vacated. The union is of the view that the administration is selling 100% stake of the government in the absence of such a provision under Section 131 of the Electricity Act, 2003. Another argument of the union is that the department is running into profits and its revenue has been surplus for the past three years, but it is being privatised despite that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/power-privatisation-in-chandigarh-hc-seeks-admn-s-response-on-plea-seeking-stay-on-further-steps-101642712012575.html
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||A day on, Simarjit Bains and Kamaljit Karwal’s supporters take fight to social media||A day after supporters of sitting MLA of Atam Nagar, Simarjit Singh Bains and Congress candidate Kamaljit Singh Karwal entered into a scuffle on Gill Road over installation of hoardings, the war has shifted to social media networks with both sides accusing each other of starting the fight. Some videos have also started doing the rounds of social media. In one of the videos, Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) president MLA Bains is purportedly seen asking his supporters to be ready to fight and raise their voice, if Congress workers try to suppress them or stop them from installing hoardings or banners in the constituency.Three persons from both groups, including Bains’ brother Paramjit Singh alias Pamma, had got injured in the scuffle that took place on Wednesday over installation of some hoardings. While Bains stated that Congress supporters had removed his hoardings first, Karwal said that LIP posters had been removed on the orders of the election commission (EC) following which, Bains’ supporters tried to remove the Congress posters too, which had been installed with the consent of the building owner. Recalling the episode wherein Bains and his supporters had allegedly manhandled the then YAD district president Gurdeep Gosha in May last year, Karwal supporters said ‘You reap what you sow’.The Congress supporters were further seen stating on social media that LIP and Bains will get a befitting reply if they try to pick up a fight again. Despite repeated attempts, Simarjit Bains was not available for comments. His elder brother, Ludhiana south MLA Balwinder Bains said, “LIP also does not want violence in the elections, but if Congress workers try to indulge in hooliganism like they did on Wednesday, LIP will not sit back and watch. The Congress workers removed the posters of LIP on Wednesday, due to which the scuffle took place.”A day after the clash, heavy police force deputed in Atam Nagar constituency to avoid any untoward situation, as supporters from both factions were threatening each other. Para military forces along with police personnel have been deputed in the Shimlapuri and Atam Nagar areas.Though the police have received complaints from both the groups but no FIR has been registered yet. Inspector Rohit Sharma, SHO at police station Division number 6, said police will take action after investigation. At least three persons suffered injuries after supporters of Bains and Karwal had indulged in a scuffle over putting up banners in Shimlapuri on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/a-day-on-simarjit-bains-and-kamaljit-karwal-s-supporters-take-fight-to-social-media-101642711952726.html
21-01-2022||Other||Haryana Police constable exam: Panchkula police arrest four more for impersonation||A Special Investigation Team of Panchkula police on Wednesday arrested four more people for impersonating as candidates during the physical screening test of police constables for Haryana Police.The accused have been identified as Ashok Kumar and Pawan Kumar from Hisar, Raman and Pankaj.Till now, 10 people have been arrested in the case.In December 2021, the Haryana Staff Selection Commission had conducted physical test for the selection of male constables at Tau Devi Lal Stadium in Sector 3. On December 20, 2021 police got a tip off that proxy candidates appeared for the test instead of actual ones.A case was registered under section 419, 420, 467, 468, 471, 120 B of IPC at sector 5 police station, following which the SIT was constituted to conduct a probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-police-constable-exam-panchkula-police-arrest-four-more-for-impersonation-101642711832588.html
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Zirakpur police bust gang of robbers with arrest of two||The Zirakpur police busted a gang of robbers with the arrest of two men on Thursday and recovered electric goods worth ₹20 lakh and ₹1.5 lakh in cash from them. The accused have been identified as Sonu of Himmatgarh village of Zirakpur and Neeraj of Kishangarh village, Chandigarh. Their accomplice, Shiva of Haryana, is yet to arrested. Zirakpur deputy superintendent of police, Harjinder Singh said that a special team led by Baltana checkpost head sub-inspector Balwinder Singh busted the gang. He added that the gang had stolen expensive mobile phones and other electronic goods from a showroom in Baltana area of Zirakpur on December 29 last year. The case was registered against them based on the statement of Sumit Goyal, owner of the showroom. He added that Shiva will be arrested soon as police teams are already pursuing him. Sub-inspector Balwinder Singh said that the accused were produced in court and sent to one day in police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/zirakpur-police-bust-gang-of-robbers-with-arrest-of-two-101642711592585.html
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Kamaljit Karwal and Simarjit Bains: Once friends, now sworn enemies battling it out for Atam Nagar constituency||While Congress leader Kamaljit Singh Karwal and Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) chief Simarjit Singh Bains are embroiled in an ugly war of words, following a clash amongst their supporters on Gill Road on Wednesday, political observers reminisce the times when the two were ardent supporters of each other.Once class fellows who used to ride on the same bicycle, politics and power struggle brought a rift between the two. Between 2004 and 2012, the duo had a stronghold over Atam Nagar and Ludhiana-South constituencies and used to decide on the fate of candidates. They also used to dominate the municipal corporation (MC) House. While Bains used to be an aggressor, Karwal played the role of second fiddle.They even spent a year in jail for assaulting and stripping Tehsildar Major GS Benipal (retd) in 2009. A major turnaround took place in January 2015 when Bains brothers formed their own political outfit, and Karwal joined the Shiromani Akali Dal. Karwal took along many of Bains’ close aides, including Daljit Singh Bhola who is now an Aam Aadmi Party contestant from Ludhiana-East.But all didn’t go well for Karwal, who was hoping for a SAD ticket only to be overlooked as the party placed its faith in newcomer Gurmeet Singh Kular in the 2017 assembly elections. Dejected, Karwal joined the Congress in January in 2017. Though he was immediately offered a ticket by the Congress, he faced strong opposition within the party. Those advocating for Karwal believe that he is the best bet to defeat Bains, who is currently the representative of Atam Nagar constituency. Karwal is fighting the same seat this time too. During the 2017 elections too, both groups were seen indulging in ugly clashes. The two sides clashed in Dugri over installation of some posters. Later, Karwal accused Bains’ supporters of vandalising the car in which his (Karwal’s) wife was campaigning in the area.While Bains claims that Karwal will not cross 20,000 votes, Karwal on the other hand claims Bains’ rule is over.However, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has fielded a formidable candidate Harish Rai Dhanda from Atam Nagar constituency. Dhanda had sided with the woman who had leveled rape allegations against Bains. He had vigorously pursued the matter in the court following which a rape case was registered against Bains.Besides, Congress turncoat Kulwant Singh Sidhu, who had recently joined Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), is also posing a stiff challenge with his door-to-door campaigns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kamaljit-karwal-and-simarjit-bains-once-friends-now-sworn-enemies-battling-it-out-for-atam-nagar-constituency-101642711292558.html
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: Wives of Mohali candidates going all out to woo women voters||Amid the ban on political rallies, the wives of MLA candidates from Mohali are campaigning from door-to-door to mobilise women voters in favour of their husbands. In Mohali, out of the total of 2, 34,164 eligible voters, 1, 11, 958 (48%) are female.The women are mostly campaigning in urban areas, while candidates and their supporters are attempting to garner support in rural areas, ahead of the assembly elections that are scheduled on February 20.Daljeet Kaur, wife of Congress candidate and sitting MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu; Jaswant Kaur, wife of AAP candidate Kulwant Singh and Harjinder Kaur, wife of the SAD candidate Parvinder Sohana, are going all out to woo women voters.Daljeet Kaur said “I campaign for my husband every time, but this time, it is more aggressive as there is a ban on public rallies. We start our day at around 9am and end at 6.30pm. We highlight the achievements of the Congress party and our focus is mainly in the urban areas. The response we are getting is encouraging,” she said.She added that they are also listening to the grievances of residents and have assured them that they will be sorted out.Jaswant Kaur said, “Though I am not aggressively campaigning, I am doing my bit. I always believe that a woman holds the power to bring change in society. I am campaigning from door-to-door in nearby urban areas.”Meanwhile, Harjinder Kaur, who is a councillor, said, “During the MC elections, I am in touch with many women supporters in my ward. We are a group of women, who start door-to-door campaigning at 10am and end by 7pm.”The Election Commission (EC) has extended the ban on physical rallies and roadshows for the upcoming assembly elections across five states to January 22, but granted relaxation to parties to conduct indoor meetings with maximum 300 persons or 50% of the capacity of the hall.Balbir Sidhu meets voters in Phase 2Continuing his door-to-door campaign, Congress candidate Balbir Singh Sidhu on Thursday interacted with voters in Phase 2 and shared development projects initiated by him.He said they did their best to meet people’s expectations and now the ball was in public’s court.While reiterating his campaign agenda “Kaam Kiya Hai, Kaam Karenge’, Sidhu said the Medical College in Phase 6, New Civil Hospital in Sector 66 and a Nursing College will make Mohali the health capital of Punjab.“The fundamental problems faced by citizens have been solved through the ₹375-crore water treatment plant at Singhpur village and additional 20MGD water from Kajauli water works, ₹15-crore Bhagat Asa Ram Baidwan auditorium at Sector 78 and ₹145-crore sewerage treatment plant at Sector 83,” he said, adding that these projects were made possible with his personal commitment and efforts. Kulwant holds campaign in Nadiali villageAam Aadmi Party candidate Kulwant Singh held door-to-door campaigning in Nadiali village on Thursday. He said a large number of people from Nadiali village of Mohali assembly constituency had announced to join the AAP as the current Congress MLA had crossed all limits of corruption. He alleged that Balbir Singh Sidhu had taken over the common land of villages and handed over the management to his relatives. 
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 30-year-old among 5 new Covid fatalities; 1,048 cases detected||As many as 1,048 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in Ludhiana on Thursday. Besides, five more casualties were also reported from the district today.The dead include three women and two men. Among the deceased is a 30- year- old woman from Sector- 39, Chandigarh Road. She was undergoing treatment at Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMC&H). The others include a 76- year- old woman from GK Vihar in Dhandra, a 74-year-old woman of Janta Colony, a 55-year-old man of Malak village in Jagraon and a 75-year-old man of Bilga village in Sahnewal.The district’s toll now stands at 2,158.As per the district health department, there are as many as 8,563 active cases of Covid-19 at present, of which 8,386 patients are in home isolation while 157 are undergoing treatment at private hospitals and 20 at government hospitals.The cumulative count of Covid cases in the district has now gone up to 1,01,374, of which 90,653 persons have recovered so far.The district health department has also increased the number of micro-containment zones in the district to 18.Badal Sr’s condition stableThe health of former Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, 94, who is infected with Covid, is said to be stable. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) patriarch was admitted to Hero Heart Institute of Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), Ludhiana, after he tested positive for the virus on Wednesday afternoon. The institute’s medical superintendent Dr Bishav Mohan said Badal senior will be kept under observation for a couple of more days, “Once his condition improves, a decision on discharging him from the hospital will be taken,” said Dr Mohan.A team led by Dr Rajesh Mahajan, professor of medicine, emergency in-charge and nodal officer for Covid at DMCH, and Dr Anil Kumar Kashyap, pulmonologist, are monitoring the health of the veteran politician.Akali workers continued to gather at the hospital on the second day to enquire abut the health of the leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-30-year-old-among-5-new-covid-fatalities-1-048-cases-detected-101642710274159.html
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Bodies of 2 Indians killed in Abu Dhabi attack to be brought to Amritsar today||The bodies of the two Indian nationals killed in a drone attack by Yemen’s Houthi rebels in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) will be sent back to the country on Friday, India’s envoy to Abu Dhabi said on Thursday.Three people – two Indians and a Pakistani national – died in explosions and fires that followed the drone attack near oil storage tanks at the industrial city of Abu Dhabi on Monday. External affairs minister S Jaishankar condemned the incident as a “terror attack”.India’s envoy to the UAE, Sunjay Sudhir, tweeted late on Thursday that the embassy in Abu Dhabi has “completed all formalities for repatriation of mortal remains of 2 Indians deceased in Jan 17 incident”.He added, “Remains reach Amritsar tomorrow morning. Highly appreciate the fullest support extended by Govt of UAE & @AdnocGroup. Tied up with Punjab Govt for local support.”The Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC) confirmed on Monday that all three people killed in the drone attack were its employees.Houthi military spokesman Yahia Sarei said his group launched an attack deep inside the UAE but did not give details.Jaishankar had discussed the attack with his UAE counterpart Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan during a telephone conversation on Tuesday.The UAE foreign minister conveyed his government’s deepest condolences at the death of the Indians, and assured Jaishankar that the UAE will extend the fullest support to the families of the dead.Jaishankar condemned the terror attack in the strongest terms and said such “an attack on innocent civilians was completely unacceptable and against all civilised norms”. He appreciated the assistance provided by UAE authorities to the Indian embassy in responding to the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bodies-of-2-indians-killed-in-abu-dhabi-attack-to-be-brought-to-amritsar-today-101642710272356.html
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Nostalgic scribes call Srinagar’s Kashmir Press Club closure loss of their ‘second home’||Under the shade of gigantic chinar trees, veterans would sit and contemplate as young reporters would seek guidance while taking their first steps into the field of journalism. There was no hierarchy. Everyone was a colleague – a younger or an elder. Every day journalists used to come to the Kashmir Press Club (KPC) to sit, discuss stories, file assignments amid rounds of tea and coffee. Corner tables would provide some privacy for those filing special stories. All in all, amid the gloomy environs of Srinagar, especially following the abrogation of Article 370, this used to be a lively place full of no-nonsense discussions where journalists would attempt to separate news world’s grain from the chaff.After Kashmir got its first press club in 2018 housed in a government building in city centre, the place became second home to journalists, especially the young ones. With each passing day, this institution was becoming vibrant voice for the hundreds of journalists based in Kashmir.When the state police would summon any journalist for his or her work, as has become a norm here for the past some years, this place had become a stress buster. Many colleagues from the club would volunteer to accompany.Many editors and reporters from outside Kashmir used to visit this place and had long conversations with journalists who were always present there. However, after four years of its formation, it seems the government has put curtains down on the place frequented by the journalists. And when the place was sealed last week by the government, many young journalists came to this place only to turn back from its iron gate. “It was not just a physical space, it was a platform where journalists shared solidarity. It was a place of thinking, discussion and debate. It was a refuge when situation was not good. It was a second home for us. But it seems the government doesn’t want journalists to work and is using all the extreme measure to push them to a wall,” said a 27-year-old woman journalist based in Kashmir. “The club was a group that took up issues when journalists faced any kind of trouble.”The government said it wanted to avoid a law and order situation after “rival groups levelled various allegations against each other”.The premises have been handed over back to the estates department. “The rival groups have been levelling allegations against each other with regard to the use of the premises belonging to the estates department that was being used for the legitimate use of the members of the journalistic fraternity. In view of this aspect of the dispute and in view of reports on social media and other sources indicating a potential law and order situation, including a threat of breach of peace and the safety of bona fide journalists, the intervention has become necessary,” the government said in a statement issued through the information department.The government statement said the KPC as a registered body has ceased to exist and its managing body, too, has come to a legal closure on July 14, 2021, the date on which its tenure came to an end.Many working journalists, however, say that post abrogation of Article 370, officials within the administration didn’t like the way club was being run.“With the Press Club shut, journalists, particularly freelancers, have lost their address in Srinagar. The state agencies have always been against the press in Kashmir and the closure of the press club is a manifestation of that,” said senior journalist Samaan Lateef, who writes for several international publications.Another senior journalist Naseer Gania, who works for Outlook, claimed that the manner with which the government deregistered the club and subsequently closed it calling it as factional rivalry seems part of scheme to shut the club.“No doubt the club closure will not end journalism in Kashmir, but the manner in which it was closed is humiliating and sad. The move to close the largest journalist body having 300 members is a message to all working journalists whether affiliated with the club or not,” said Gania who used to spend hours at the club guiding young journalists.The government’s decision was criticised by country’s prominent journalists’ bodies, including the Editors Guild of India (EGI) and the Mumbai Press Club (MPC), Chennai Press Club, who came out in support of the elected management of the Kashmir Press Club (KPC).The EGI and the MPC condemned what they claimed was the forcible takeover of the Kashmir Press Club by a group of journalists with the help of armed policemen.On Saturday, a group of journalists led by Mohammad Salim Pandit, working with a national daily, and flanked by the police entered the Kashmir Press Club in Srinagar and declared themselves to be the new interim body of the KPC, which will hold elections for the new club.Although the two-year-term of 11-member executive and management body of the 300-member strong club, which was elected in 2019, had ended last year in July, they said they could not conduct fresh elections immediately owing to mandatory re-registration of the club which was asked by the authorities.The takeover by the ‘disgruntled’ group, alleged to be supported by the local administration, had come a day after the administration suspended the KPC’s re-registration certificate - which had been issued by the authorities after seven months on December 29 - following an adverse CID report. The re-registration was suspended after the club’s elected interim body on January 13 had decided to initiate the process of fresh elections and also announced the date. The head of the ‘disgruntled’ group Salim Pandit said the term of the present press club had expired in July and the club was in a “mess”. “We were an interim body to conduct fresh elections for KPC that was in mess. I was one of founding members of KPC.”However, a majority of journalists and members of the KPC termed government action “illegal and arbitrary”.“The way a majority of journalists in Kashmir opposed the forcible takeover and subsequent closure of the press club is highly encouraging. It gives me hope that journalism will survive the worst of challenges just as it did during the past three decades,” said veteran journalist, Altaf Hussain, who worked with BBC and Times of India in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nostalgic-scribes-call-srinagar-s-kashmir-press-club-closure-loss-of-their-second-home-101642709613715.html
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur launches Apna Kangra app, hamper in Dharamshala||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur launched Apna Kangra App and Apna Kangra hamper—a product handcrafted by self-help groups—at Dharamshala on Thursday. Speaking on the occasion, he said that Kangra hamper will have the collection of products of different self-help groups from across the district. “Apna Kangra App would provide a unique experience for any tourist who plans to explore various destinations in Kangra,” the chief minister said. He also virtually inaugurated Radhe Krishna Cow Sanctuary at Luthan in Jawalamukhi Vidhan Sabha area of Kangra district from Dharamshala. Thakur said that the new cow sanctuary has been built at a cost of ₹3.96 crore. He said that there were about 19,000 cattle in different cow sanctuaries of the state. Deputy commissioner, Kangra, Dr Nipun Jindal made a presentation on the Apna Kangra App and said that the objective of the initiative was to empower rural women and providing opportunities to youth through tourism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chief-minister-jai-ram-thakur-launches-apna-kangra-app-hamper-in-dharamshala-101642709555407.html
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Lashkar militant arrested in central Kashmir’s Budgam, ammunition recovered||Police on Thursday claimed to have arrested an active Lashkar militant from central Kashmir’s Budgam district.Police said that arms and ammunition was recovered from the arrested person who has been identified as Ghulam Mohammad Naikoo of Memender, Shopian.The police spokesman said the militant was arrested by the police from Budgam and was currently active and associated with Lashkar.“Acting on a specific information regarding presence of terrorist in Chadoora area of Budgam, the police along with the 53 Rashtriya Rifles and 181 battalion of the CRPF launched a search operation in the Gamander area of Chadoora, Budgam, early in the morning. During search operation, an active militant affiliated with proscribed terror outfit LeT was arrested,” the police spokesman said in a statement.The spokesman said a pistol, two pistol magazines, and 16 pistol rounds have been recovered from his possession. “A case under relevant Sections of law has been registered at the Chadoora Police Station and further investigation has been initiated.Missing youth held with armsMeanwhile, the police on Thursday claimed to have arrested a missing youth along with arms in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district.“The person has been identified as Rahil Showkat Dar of Drabgam, Pulwama, Rajpora. The police along with the Rashtriya Rifles and the CRPF at a checkpoint established at Pachahar, Rajpora, Pulwama, intercepted a suspicious person, who was challenged by naka party, but he tried to flee from the spot as also attempted to fire upon the joint party. However, the naka party apprehended him,” a police spokesman said in a statement.Police said that Dar had recently gone missing regarding which a missing report was got lodged by his family members at the Rajpora Police Station and had recently joined terror ranks.“During his search, one pistol and several rounds of ammunition were recovered from his possession. A case was registered,” the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lashkar-militant-arrested-in-central-kashmir-s-budgam-ammunition-recovered-101642709554313.html
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Himachal sees five-fold rise in active Covid cases in 10 days; Omicron case tally goes to 15||The National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Delhi, has confirmed eight more cases of Omicron variant of Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh.Director, National Health Mission, Hemraj Bairwa said a total of 156 samples were sent for whole genome sequencing (WGS) to the NCDC, Delhi, in January 2022.All these samples were of the patients found Covid positive from December 15 to 31, 2021. Samples were collected from the sentinel sites and none of the cases had travel history to abroad.Of the 156 samples, the WGS report of 43 samples was received on Thursday and mutations have been found in 29 samples. Eight samples have been found positive for Omicron and 21 samples are positive for the Delta variant, said Bairwa. All the people detected positive have recovered.He said among the eight Omicron cases, five were from Kullu and one each from Shimla district, Solan and Chamba, respectively.One case of Omicron was reported from a cluster in Sirmaur district on Wednesday, he said, adding that with this, the total number of Omicron cases has gone up to 15 in the state.Six Omicron cases were reported in international passengers—three from Mandi, two from Una and one from Kullu. The first case was reported on December 6 and five on January 17.Initially, the Omicron variant was reported only in international travellers, but now the infections have been found in the community also, he said, appealing to the public to follow Covid norms strictly and get vaccinated.Bairwa said the state has seen over five-fold increase in the active cases in last 11 days. There were 15,618 active cases in the state as on January 20.There has been a consistent rise in the number of active cases since January 8. The active case trend of Himachal Pradesh shows that the number of active cases has increased from 2793 on January 8 to 15,618 as on January 20.He said that the bed occupancy has also increased by nearly five times in during this period.A total of 51 patients were admitted to the hospitals till January 8, of them 31 patients required oxygen and only three needed ventilators.As on January 20, 228 Covid patients required admission, 121 of whom are on oxygen support and 85 in the ICU.Health minister Rajeev Saizal has said that Himachal Pradesh may see peak of the third wave by the end of January.He said that rising number of infections and deaths due to the virus was very concerning and the state government may impose more curbs if the situation requires so.2,368 fresh casesMeanwhile, Himachal Pradesh on Thursday logged 2,368 Covid-19 cases taking the state’s tally to 2,54,410 while the death toll mounted to 3,899 after seven more patients succumbed to the infection.Highest 402 cases were reported from Sirmaur, 371 from Shimla, 338 from Solan, 329 from Mandi, 229 from Shimla, 227 from Hamirpur, 137 from Kullu, 131 from Una, 110 from Bilaspur, 64 from Chamba, 20 from Kinnaur and 10 from Lahaul-Spiti.Three fatalities were reported from Kangra, two from Shimla and one each from Una and Mandi.The active cases have climbed to 15,618 and recoveries reached 2,34,850.Kangra is the worst hit-district with 57,378 cases reported since the pandemic outbreak in March 2020 followed by Mandi (34,805) and Shimla (31,730).
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Cold wave continues in Himachal, higher reaches get fresh snow; Kufri shivers at -2°C||Cold wave continues to persist in Himachal Pradesh as the higher reaches in the state got fresh spell of snow while moderate rains occurred in middle hills and plains. The MeT department has forecast bad weather till January 24. Director of Shimla MeT centre Surender Paul said a yellow alert has been sounded for hailstorm and heavy rains in plains and heavy snowfall in middle and higher hills on January 22 and 23. The Rohtang Pass in Kullu got 10 inches of snow, Chanshal peak of Shimla 5 inches of snowfall and South Portal of Atal Tunnel 4 inches. Gulaba too got five inches of snow. Khara Pathar, Jalori Pass, and Koksar experienced 3 inches of snow each while famous hill stations Kufri and Narkanda got 2 inches of snow. Sissu in Lahaul-Spiti and Khirki in Shimla also got 2 inches of snow. Kotgarh, Solang, Jahlma, Darcha, Kotgarh, Udaipur and Karchham got one inch of snowfall. Chamba was the wettest place recording 11.5mm rainfall and Dalhousie 10mm rains. Dharamshala got 8.4mm rainfall, Kangra 8mm, Palampur 5.6mm, Bhunter 4.6mm, Shimla 2.2mm, Una 1.4mm and Nahan 1mm rainfall. The rain and snow have also resulted in the mercury plunging several notches in parts of the state. Keylong remains the coldest with minimum temperature recorded at minus 7.9 degrees Celsius, Kalpa minus 2.6 degrees C, and Kufri minus 2 degrees C. Manali was cold at 2.4 degrees C, Dalhousie 0.1 degrees C, Dharamshala 5.2 degrees C and Palampur 6 degrees C. State Capital Shimla saw a low of 3.1 degrees C. 149 roads closedAs many as 149 roads are closed for the traffic due to snowfall in the state. The highest 111 roads are closed in Lahaul-Spiti and 23 in Kullu. More than 30 water supply schemes have been hit. Twenty-four supply schemes have been affected in Lahaul-Spiti and 10 in Chamba.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cold-wave-continues-in-himachal-higher-reaches-get-fresh-snow-kufri-shivers-at-2c-101642709493579.html
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Cong struggling to name a challenger to Capt Amarinder in Patiala Urban||The Congress appears to be finding it tough to choose a formidable candidate from Patiala Urban to challenge former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who has been representing the seat in the Punjab assembly since 2002. Amarinder has improved his winning margin with every election since 2002. For the Congress, fielding a credible face is quite a task since the candidate from the segment had never been point of discussion since 2002 until Capt Amarinder’s unceremonious exit as chief minister four months ago. With Capt Amarinder having left the Congress and formed his own party, the Congress is fighting the void. Also, almost the prominent faces among the party cadres have switched to Capt Amarinder’s side. “I am going to contest from my traditional seat, and will secure a thumping victory. People are with me,” Capt Amarinder had said. Irrespective of how the rest of Punjab reacts and responds to Capt Amarinder’s new outfit, in Patiala, he continues to hold the sway, primarily because of his royal roots. Capt Amarinder first contested Patiala the seat in 2002, although he had unsuccessfully tried for the Akali Dal ticket from here in 1997. Before that, the Patiala Town, as it was known before it became Patiala Urban in the 2009 delimitation process, was represented by Brahm Mohindra since 1980. He was shifted to Samana in 2002 when Capt Amarinder was the state Congress president. During the last four Vidhan Sabha elections, Capt Amarinder has consistently improved his vote tally and the victory margin. In 2002, he was polled 46,750 votes while his rival Sarup Singh Sehgal from Shiromani Akali Dal got just 13,167 votes. In 2007, Capt Amarinder was polled 60,338 votes while his Akali rival Surjit Singh Kohli, a former minister and father of the current Aam Aadmi Party candidate Ajitpal Singh Kholi, bagged 27,596. In 2012, Capt Amarinder got 66,010 votes while (Surjit) Kohli was polled 23,711 votes. In 2017, Capt bagged 72,217 votes against Balbir Singh of the Aam Aadmi Party’s 19,852, while Akali candidate former army chief Gen JJ Singh (retd) got just 11,613 votes. Gen Singh recently joined the BJP. Though about a dozen people have applied for the Congress ticket, the party has not found a strong candidate yet. Last week, PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu had roped in former mayor Vishnu Sharma, whose name is making rounds as a probable candidate. There were also talks of Brahm Mohindra being fielded from the deat, but he had refuted any such possibility. A section of the local Congress leaders is also propagating the idea of fielding Navjot Sidhu against Amarinder. District Congress president Narinder Lalli has openly demanded ticket for Sidhu or his wife Navjot Kaur. The Congress is likely to announce its candidate for the seat in the next list, which is expected next week. 
21-01-2022||Other||Punjab sees another spike in Covid with 7,986 cases||Chandigarh Punjab on Thursday registered another spike in Covid cases with daily count recorded at 7,986 cases, and death toll from the virus reaching 31 over the past 24 hours. The positivity rate of the state also remained 18.76% on Thursday, with SAS Nagar district registering the maximum rate of 39.99% with 1,360 cases. Ludhiana district registered maximum 1,048 cases, 975 in Jalandhar, 631 in Bathinda , 545 in Hoshiarpur, 525 in Amritsar. Active cases in the state are now 47,400 cases. Amritsar registered the maximum deaths at seven, as did Patiala, which also reported 473 new cases. With 5,932 persons recovered from the virus, the number of cured persons has reached 6,28,244, the state government bulletin said. To date, 16,882 deaths have been reported in the state with 6,84,664 persons found positive. Over 3 lakh vaccine doses were administered on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-sees-another-spike-in-covid-with-7-986-cases-101642708892339.html
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Minister Rana Gurjeet launches campaign for ‘Cong rebel’ son||In an audacious move, Punjab cabinet minister Rana Gurjeet Singh on Thursday launched the election campaign for his son from Bussowal, the native village of sitting Congress’ Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Singh Cheema. Rana Gurjeet’s son Rana Inder Partap Singh has announced to contest the polls as an independent candidate against party’s official candidate Cheema. The move comes after Cheema, along three other leaders of Doaba region — Phagwara MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal, Jalandhar North MLA Avtar Singh Bawa Henry and former Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira — wrote to the Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi, seeking Rana Gurjeet’s expulsion for anti-party activities. Addressing a gathering after inaugurating the election office of his son at Bussowal village, Rana Gurjeet said Cheema will be first from the bottom in the election results. “Cheema got appointed corrupt officials in Sultanpur Lodhi who looted the people,” he said. The minister also visited Dadwindi village and sought votes for his son.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/minister-rana-gurjeet-launches-campaign-for-cong-rebel-son-101642708772303.html
21-01-2022||Other||Gurugram: Around 1,000 huts demolished in Saraswati Kunj||The enforcement wing of the department of town and country planning (DTCP) demolished 1,000 illegal huts and a few other structures in Saraswati Kunj colony on Thursday, said officials.According to the DTCP officials, they made public announcements on Wednesday, asking the occupants of these 1,000 illegal huts to move to other places. The remaining 2,000 huts in the colony will also be cleared in coming days, they added. RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement), said that these illegal huts were put up on rent. “Earthmoving machines were pressed into service to clear the land. Some of the structures were partially demolished, and the owners were told to refrain from further construction there... Several other construction works being carried out by plot owners there were also stopped on Thursday,” Bhath said, adding that the demolition drive was carried out in presence of several police personnel. The DTCP sealed nearly six houses in Saraswati Enclave on Wednesday, as multiple commercial establishments were being operated from there. This was carried out following the directions of the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, Dr Yash Garg, at a task force meeting held last month. The DTCP officials said that they will soon seal similar structures at adjoining private licenced colonies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-around-1-000-huts-demolished-in-saraswati-kunj-101642708712394.html
21-01-2022||Other||{Amritsar family suicide of 2004} HC suspends sentence of ex-DIG of Punjab||Chandigarh The Punjab and Haryana high court has suspended the sentence awarded to a former deputy inspector general of police (DIG), Punjab, Kultar Singh in the case of five members of an Amritsar family committing suicide in 2004.“The appellant who is in a stage of dementia, and on account of his physical condition of a bad hip which cannot be operated upon for a third time and he being unable to perform his daily routine tasks without assistance, would become a further liability on the sate resources which are bound to provide him with basic minimum needs which would include hygienic living conditions, wholesome diet, clothing, bedding and timely medical services,” the bench of justice Jaishree Thakur said, while allowing plea of 76-year-old Singh.It was on the intervening night of October 30-31, 2004, that Hardip Singh of Chowk Karori in the walled city, along with his wife, mother and two children, committed suicide by consuming poison. Before taking the extreme step, the family had written the reason for committing suicide on the walls of the rooms of their house and had even posted suicide notes to their friends. On the basis of these notes, the police had registered a case of abetment to suicide against four relatives of Hardip and arrested them.There were references, also to Kultar Singh, who was then the Amritsar SSP. In 2012, it came to light that some crucial documents had gone missing from the court file. Around 610 pages were reconstructed in the case on the directions of the high court in 2013. In February 2020, a trial court awarded him eight-year jail term for criminal conspiracy. He had appealed against this judgment.The present application was mainly for suspension of sentence in view of his medical condition. It was argued that he was suffering from dementia/advanced Parkinson’s disease, has difficulty in walking and has been advised to be in a wheel chair and also requires constant help of an attendant. His medical record too was submitted. Upon this plea, the court had sought an independent report from the experts form PGIMER, who had opined that he has been diagnosed with Parkinson’s disease with dementia with hypertension and coronary artery disease. He is dependent, even for routine activities, and is unable to perform any physical activity.‘MEDICAL CONDITION PUNISHMENT ENOUGH’The court observed that every matter regarding bail, suspension of sentence etc. has to be considered on its own merit and in this particular case there are two medical reports of different medical boards of reputed institutes giving the same opinion.“His medical condition is a punishment enough. It is time and again settled by the Supreme Court that mere conviction cannot denude the convicts of all fundamental rights and does not render them inhuman. Right to live is not restricted to a mere animal existence. It connotes something more than just the physical survival of a being,” the bench said, suspending his sentence pending decision on the appeal, which stands admitted for hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amritsar-family-suicide-of-2004-hc-suspends-sentence-of-ex-dig-of-punjab-101642708592346.html
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||With Bhagwant Mann’s entry, Dhuri becomes the axis of ‘face’ politics||The Dhuri segment will witness a ‘fight of faces’ this time as the Aam Aadmi Party has fielded its chief ministerial candidate Bhagwant Mann from the segment for the 2022 state assembly elections. The sitting Dhuri MLA and Congress candidate Dalvir Singh Goldy Khangura claims that he is a local face and voters will elect ‘their own son’ and not ‘outsiders’. Being a railway junction, Dhuri is well connected but it is completely a rural segment comprising 74 villages and one town. Though Mann got a lead of 24,071 votes in the 2019 parliamentary elections from Dhuri assembly segment, Goldy had bagged the seat by a margin of 2,811 votes over his nearest rival AAP’s Jasbir Singh Sekhon in 2017. Sekhon was polled 46,536 votes against Goldy’s 49,347. Over the years, the Dhuri segment has elected both party-backed and independent candidates. In the 2015 by-poll, Gobind Singh Longowal (SAD) bagged the seat after the sitting Congress MLA Arvind Khanna resigned. Before that, Iqbal Singh Jhundan won as an independent in 2007, Gaganjit Singh of SAD in 2002 and Dhanwant Singh as an independent in 1997.“I welcome Bhagwant Mann but there is no wave this time. The seat was being represented by outsiders in the past, but people now want one of their own to represent them,” said Goldy. “It does not matter that the CM face of AAP is contesting from Dhuri. I am very confident. I have worked hard and people will not choose an outsider. The next CM will be from the Congress party anyway,” he added. Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) denied the ticket to the family of former chief minister Surjit Singh Barnala and has fielded ex-Sangrur MLA Parkash Chand Garg. Garg said if Mann wanted to rule Punjab, he should have contested against Sukhbir Singh Badal, Navjot Singh Sidhu or Charanjit Singh Channi. “If Mann is the CM face of AAP, I am also deputy chief ministerial face of the SAD,” Garg said with a smile. AAP’s senior leader and Sunam MLA Aman Arora said, “The president of a party can contest from any seat. All seats are safe for Bhagwant. It is a proud thing that a leader from Sangrur district is going to become the chief minister of Punjab.” 
21-01-2022||Other||Gurugram logs over 2,800 fresh Covid-19 cases, two deaths||The district on Thursday reported 2,845 fresh cases taking the active case tally to 24,831, even as the test positivity rate declined by 8% in the past three days, according to the district health bulletin.The district recorded a test positivity rate of 22% on Thursday, a dip from 26% on Wednesday. The positivity rate was 30% on Tuesday, the data shows.The district on Thursday also reported two Covid-19 deaths.  Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer, said, “One of the deceased was a 74-year-old male, who was not vaccinated and had comorbidities like hypertension, dementia, and parkinsonism. Another death was of an 82-year-old man who was fully vaccinated with comorbidities like diabetes mellitus and coronary artery disease. So far, most deaths have been due to comorbidities this month and only one person died due to Covid-19,” The district has reported 12 deaths due to Covid-19 so far this month. Of the total active cases, only 166 are hospitalised on Thursday, the officials said, adding that 2,845 people also recovered from the viral infection in the district. The health department collected 12,591 samples for testing in the past 24 hours. On Thursday, a total of 12,173 doses were administered, including 4,208 first doses, 6,097 second doses and 1,868 precautionary doses. With this, over 4.69 million doses have been administered in the Gurugram district till now. Covid-19 relief WhatsApp chatbot started againMeanwhile, the district administration has started a Covid-19 relief WhatsApp chatbot once again. The district administration had launched this service in May last year during the peak of second wave. Sharing details about the chatbot, Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram said, “As most people use WhatsApp nowadays, residents can just save +91 96432 77788 and send a message to get started. With this number, residents can get free home consultation from doctors, information about nearby RT-PCR test centres and camps, mental health services, ambulance, oxygen supply or other queries regarding Covid-19.” Residents can also dial 1950, the district Covid-19 helpline number in case of queries, the officials said. Gurugram gets another 500LPM oxygen plant The deputy commissioner also inaugurated a 500 litres per minute (LPM) capacity oxygen plant at Sector 5, Manesar on Thursday, which has been set up under the CSR initiative. “Gurugram district is now moving towards becoming self-sufficient in oxygen production. A network of oxygen plants has been prepared in the district. Now, we have enough medical oxygen to meet any emergency,” said Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-logs-over-2-800-fresh-covid-19-cases-two-deaths-101642708352465.html
21-01-2022||Other||BSP names 14 candidates; Punjab chief to contest from Phagwara||Jalandhar The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), the alliance partner of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), officially announced 14 candidates for the February 20 assembly polls in Punjab. As part of the agreement with SAD, BSP is contesting on 20 of 117 seats; with the Akali Dal contesting on 97. The party has fielded its state chief, Jasvir Singh Garhi from Phagwara (Kapurthala); general secretary Nachttar Pal from Nawanshahr (Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar) and Jaspreet Singh from Payal (Ludhiana). The others are Rakesh Mahasha from Bhoa; Jyoti Bhem from Pathankot; Kamaljit Chawla from Dina Nagar; Davinder Singh Dhapai from Kapurthala; Kuldeep Singh Lubana from Jalandhar North; Sushil Kumar Sharma from Dasuya; Lakhwinder Singh Lakhi from Urmar Tanda; Varinder Singh Parhar from Hoshiarpur; Nitin Nanda from Anandpur Sahib; Shiv Kumar from Bassi Pathana and Balwinder Singh from Raikot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bsp-names-14-candidates-punjab-chief-to-contest-from-phagwara-101642708232256.html
21-01-2022||Other||Gurugram may see rainfall for next three days: IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Thursday issued a thunderstorm and lightning alert over the next three days in the south Haryana region, including Gurugram and Faridabad. According to the weekly forecast of the IMD, Gurugram is likely to witness an overcast sky with one or two spells of rain or thundershowers over the weekend. Manmohan Singh, director of the meteorological centre in Chandigarh, a regional unit of the IMD, said, “A fresh active western disturbance is likely to affect northwest India from Friday onwards. Due to this, isolated to scattered rainfall is very likely in south Haryana on Friday and increase thereafter, with fairly widespread to widespread rainfall on Saturday and Sunday. Over the next three to four days, minimum temperature is likely to rise by two to four degrees and decrease thereafter.” On Thursday, Gurugram recorded a maximum temperature of 17.5 degrees Celsius, which was 2.7 degrees below normal and the highest maximum temperature for the day across the state. The minimum temperature was recorded at 8.3 degrees, which was three degrees above normal. Meanwhile, Gurugram reported ‘very poor’ quality of air with an air quality index (AQI) of 324 for the third consecutive day according to the 4pm bulletin issued by the Central Pollution Control Board. According to the weather bulletin issued by the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi-NCR, the air quality over the national capital territory is likely to remain in ‘very poor’ category on Friday also. The air quality is likely to improve significantly and reach ‘poor’ to ‘moderate’ category owing to rain, strong winds and better ventilation conditions on Saturday and Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-may-see-rainfall-for-next-three-days-imd-101642708052309.html
21-01-2022||Other||1 injured in firing at SAD event in Nakodar||Jalandhar Even as the model code of conduct is in force, firing at a Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) event at Chuhhar village in Nakodar injured a local resident on Thursday evening, Sarabjit Singh Sodhi. Police sources said the groups had simmering enmity, but the exact motive of the incident will be known after they make some arrests. The incident happened after SAD MLA Gurpratap Singh Wadala had left the spot after the meeting concluded. After the incident, Nakodar DSP Lakhwinder Singh and Nakodar City Police SHO, Parminder Singh, rushed to the spot. Jalandhar rural SSP Satinder Singh said that they had registered a case against four people, with the main accused being Labha of Wadala village in Kapurthala district, who pulled the trigger. “We are verifying the weapon used in the incident, which in all probability would be illegal weapon,” the SSP added.The case has been registered under 307 (attempt to murder) section of Indian penal code and relevant sections of arms act at Nakodar police station in Jalandhar district||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1-injured-in-firing-at-sad-event-in-nakodar-101642707992244.html
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Cong complains to EC against ‘politically motivated’ ED raids||The Congress on Thursday complained to the Election Commission against “politically motivated” raids by the Enforcement Directorate on Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s nephew ahead of the February 20 elections in the state. A Congress delegation led by general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala, which met chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra virtually, submitted a memorandum, alleging that raids were carried out by the agency solely with a view to malign and defame the chief minister and the incumbent government in the state. “This is a brazen misuse of the official machinery and part of a larger pattern of malicious intimation that is being done to directly influence the outcome in five election-bound states,” reads the memorandum. The party has sought the EC’s intervention and immediate directions to the Union finance ministry, ED officials and other central investigative agencies to stop carrying out alleged “political vendetta” through motivated raids in violation of the model code of conduct. The delegation that included Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Chaudhary among others also urged the poll panel to address the issue by taking stern action against ED officials. The ED had carried out raids at 10 places, including the house of Channi’s nephew Bhupinder Singh Honey’s house, in Ludhiana, Pathankot, Mohali and other areas two days ago. It recovered ₹10 crore during the anti-money laundering probe against illegal sand mining operations. Channi, on Wednesday, accused the Centre of attempts to frame him in order to take revenge against “failure” of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s rally in Ferozepur. In its memorandum, the Congress has also reiterated Channi’s allegation besides questioning the timing of the raids and targeting of the chief minister’s family members. “The raids have been timed to be crucially close to the 2022 assembly elections for the state of Punjab, when clearly the FIR was registered in the year 2018,” according to the memorandum. After the meeting, Surjewala said that the BJP and AAP have colluded in Punjab to hatch a “cheap conspiracy” against CM Channi to defame him, fearing defeat in the assembly elections. “This has been Kejriwal’s character. He first levelled allegations against (BJP leader) Arun Jaitley and then apologised to him in court. In Punjab, he did the same with (Akali leader Bikram) Majithia,” the Congress leader said, adding “We have requested the EC to take note and put an end to this campaign”. Verka slams BJP for targeting Dalit CMCabinet minister Raj Kumar Verka on Thursday accused the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) of deliberately targeting Punjab’s first Scheduled Caste chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi by plotting ED raid on his relatives. Addressing a press conference at the party’s state headquarters, Verka alleged that the BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi were trying to suppress people of the SC community through such “cheap politics”. He claimed that when ED raids BJP leaders, no action is taken but Channi is being deliberately humiliated. Congress spokesperson Alka Lamba was also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cong-complains-to-ec-against-politically-motivated-ed-raids-101642707932381.html
21-01-2022||Other||Medical infrastructure to fight Covid-19 inadequate in Karnataka, says Siddaramaiah||Bengaluru: Former chief minister of Karnataka and leader of the opposition Siddaramaiah on Thursday lashed out at the Basavaraj Bommai-led BJP government over inadequate infrastructure to combat the raging Covid-19 pandemic in the state.In a series of tweets, the Congress leader criticised the government for depending on restrictions without equipping itself with adequate infrastructure.“@BJP4Karnataka govt is saying that #Covid19 is fast spreading to even rural areas. Why has it failed to improve medical infrastructure in the rural areas in spite of previous experience? Why is the govt depending on restrictions, curfews & lockdowns?” he asked.Siddaramaiah also criticised the government for handing over Covid-19 responsibilities to private medical practitioners.“@BJP4Karnataka govt is sleeping tight by handing over the responsibility of #Covid19 care to private hospitals. @CMofKarnataka. Instead of spreading lies through ads, I urge you to read the facts published in the same newspapers,” Siddaramaiah said.The statements come at a time when Karnataka continues to register record Covid-19 infections, raising apprehensions of a repeat of the second wave last year which led to a near collapse of the medical infrastructure.Bommai is scheduled to hold a key meeting on Friday with experts to review the restrictions in the state that include night and weekend curfewsKarnataka registered 47754 new infections in a 24-hour-period, taking its active caseload to over 2.93 lakhs, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department on Thursday.The positivity rate stood at 18.48%. There was some glimmer of hope as 22143 persons recovered from covid-19.There were 29 more fatalities in the state, taking the toll since the beginning of the pandemic to 38515.Bengaluru recorded 30540 new infections, taking its caseload to over 2 lakhs. There were eight fatalities in the capital city, taking its toll to 16478, according to the bulletin.Siddaramaiah also pulled up the state government for not being able to set up enough hospital beds to treat those infected by the disease.“According to media reports, out 1.94 lakh beds dedicated for #Covid19 ‘only 51,093’ are with the govt. Is this in the interest of people or private hospitals?” Siddaramaiah said.According to the online real-time hospital bed availability portal, there are a total of 44,732 beds of which just 2143 are occupied and 42589 are vacant.Of this, there are 2318 Intensive care unit beds with Oxygen and just 73 are occupied and 2245 are available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/medical-infrastructure-to-fight-covid-19-inadequate-in-karnataka-sayssiddaramaiah-101642707752393.html
21-01-2022||Other||Gurugram: GMDA wants sewage line under Iffco Chowk flyover to be shifted||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) has asked the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to shift the sewer pipeline passing under the Iffco Chowk flyover, saying any leakage in the two-decade-old pipeline could damage the flyover. The GMDA officials on Thursday said that they have sent around ten letters to the highways authority in the last two months regarding this matter. The NHAI, however, said there is need for this as the flyover is safe and runs parallel to the pipeline. The sewer pipeline running under the Iffco Chowk flyover carries the sewage of areas between Shankar Chowk and Iffco Chowk and is susceptible to leakages, said the GMDA officials. The Iffco Chowk is one of the busiest traffic junctions in the city and the flyover for traffic to move from Delhi to Jaipur was completed in 2019 as part of a project launched in 2016 to decongest the Delhi-Gurugram Expressway. On August 23 last year, a portion of the retaining wall of the flyover had caved in due to leakage in the sewerage line. At that time, NHAI officials had said that due to collection of large amount of water, the retaining wall of the flyover collapsed. Praveen Kumar, executive engineer, GMDA, said, “We have written several letters to the NHAI, and the response is awaited. In case of leakage in the pipeline, the wall of the flyover which is on the sewage line can collapse,” said Kumar. The GMDA officials also said that an estimate of ₹19 crore for transfer of this sewer line was also prepared but it could not be ascertained why the shifting of pipeline was not carried out. Saurabh Singhal, NHAI consultant, who was also involved in construction of this flyover, said that the sewer pipeline runs parallel to the flyover and does not come under the retaining wall or any other portion of the constructed structure. “The shifting of sewage line was not under the scope of the NHAI project and the retaining wall and other structures are completely safe,” he said, adding that repair done by the authority after the August incident was adequate. 
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana to rejuvenate Saraswati river with water of Somb river||In an attempt to fulfil its commitment rejuvenate the extinct Saraswati river, the BJP-led Haryana government will construct a dam and reservoir to flow waters of the rainy Somb river into Saraswati.Since there is no water to flow in the Saraswati river, the Haryana government will spend ₹216 crore on construction of a dam and a reservoir on around 80 acre on the Haryana-Himachal border near Adi-Badri which is considered the origin of the Saraswati river. Water from Somb river, a tributary of the Yamuna that originates in the Shivalik hills, will be stored to flow into Saraswati.The Manohar Lal Khattar-led state government has taken help of the BJP-led Himachal Pradesh government to provide around 80 acre land for construction of the dam and reservoir and a memorandum of understanding (MoU) will be signed by the Haryana and Himachal Pradesh governments on Friday.Officials monitoring the project said the dam and the reservoir will be used to store around 224 hectare metre water of which, 162 hectare metre will be stored to ensure flow of water in Saraswati river and the remaining 62 meter water will be given to Himachal Pradesh.The entire ₹215.33 crore will be spent by the Haryana government and the Himachal Pradesh government will get benefits of the project and a share in the water.Arvind Kaushik, superintending engineer of Saraswati Heritage Circle Kurukshetra of the irrigation department, said, “A dam and a reservoir will be constructed to store water of Somb river. Later, it will be used to ensure round-the-clock flow of 20 cusecs water into Saraswati river.”He said the land for this project will be provided by the Himachal Pradesh government and construction work will be carried out by the Haryana government.On when the project will be completed because the government is facing problems to acquire land for the river as a 7-km stretch of Saraswati river is missing from the revenue records in villages of Yamunanagar district, he said, “The issues have already been sorted out and work on the project will be completed by 2024.”Dhuman Singh Kirmach, vice-president of the Saraswati Heritage Development Board said work on the project will start soon after the Haryana government inks the MoU with the Himachal government.He said this water cannot be used for agricultural purposes but the flow of water throughout the year will help recharge the water table, especially in the dark zones of Kurukshetra and Kaithal districts.Efforts to find and revive the river began in 2003 when the then BJP-led NDA government launched the Saraswati Heritage Project.The BJP government in Haryana revived the project in 2015 and the Saraswati Heritage Development Board was formed under the chairmanship of the chief minister. In January 2019, the Haryana government approved 11 projects for rejuvenation of the mythical Saraswati river.
21-01-2022||Other||ED raids have busted Channi’s common man image: BJP||Chandigarh Punjab Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Ashwani Sharma on Thursday said the false image cultivated by the chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, that of a common man, has been exposed. “The Enforcement Directorate (ED) raids have torn into the sand mafia cartel, with close links to the chief minister,” Sharma alleged at a press conference. Sharma added that it was shameful that the CM’s nephew had been found with ₹10 crore of unaccounted money, rolex watches and gold worth ₹21 lakh. “Sand is an important resource of the state and every Punjabi’s resource. The sheer loot and dacoity by the Congress has ruined the economy of this state,” Sharma alleged, adding that Channi was trying to hide behind statements of his party-men that he was being targeted as he was a Scheduled Caste.  “Corruption has no religion and BJP will never tolerate it. Our party follows zero tolerance to corruption and law enforcement agencies should ensure that this scam is traced to its roots,” Sharma alleged, adding that the Congress has lost all moral authority and will be routed on the polling day of February 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ed-raids-have-busted-channi-s-common-man-image-bjp-101642707693575.html
21-01-2022||Other||New employment policy to help youngsters, job aspirants in state: Bommai||BengaluruKarnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday said the proposed employment policy would be beneficial for the youngsters in the state.“The proposed employment policy of the state would be beneficial to the youth and employment aspirants of the state,”according to a statement by the chief minister’s office (CMO), attributing it to Bommai.The chief minister announced a new policy for employment in October last year that seeks to extend incentives to industries as well as entrepreneurs who create new jobs in the state.The reiterating of bringing out the employment policy comes at a time when several businesses in the state have had to shut shop owing to the recurring Covid-19 pandemic, incurring huge losses to operators and affecting lives and livelihoods of millions in the state.The state government had brought in the industrial policy in 2020 which aims to attract investment of ₹5 lakh crore and generate 2 million jobs by 2025 in Karnataka.Several factors, including the pandemic-induced economic stress and slowdown, have led to an acute fund crunch in the state over the last two years.The state government has also iterated its intent to bring out a policy for research and development (R&D) to attract investments from around the world.Karnataka is currently in talks with billionaire Elon Musk-led Electric Vehicle (EV) maker, Tesla to set up shop in the state. Tesla has already set up its first office in Bengaluru after the company was registered last year.“(The) state’s economy would grow if the working class is empowered economically,” Bommai said on Thursday at an event where he distributed online scholarships for students from families of construction workers being implemented by Karnataka State Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.The state government also announced the launch of a centre of excellence for AVGC.“Through this, the Karnataka government which owns the credit of the first State in India to introduce an AVGC policy way back in 2012, has also become the country’s first to set up such a center of excellence which is also coveted to be the biggest in Asia,” Dr. C.N.Ashwath Narayan. Minister for Electronics, Karnataka’s minister for IT, BT and higher education said,“India now commands around 10% of the global AVGC market and has the potential to reach 20-25% by 2027. The State of Karnataka has been driving the AVGC sector in the country. Our government is proud of this CoE and this Centre will take us to greater prominence in the sector,” he added.He also said that a new AVGC policy would come out within one year and required land will be provided within a year to set up a dedicated ‘Digital Media Entertainment Area’.“Karnataka accounts for a 20% share of the Indian entertainment & AVGC industry. A total of over 300 animation, VFX & gaming studios operate in Karnataka employing over 15,000+ professionals. With the launch of this CoE, the AVGC ecosystem will be further benefitted,” said E.V. Ramana Reddy, ACS, Department of Electronics, IT/BT, and S&T.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/new-employment-policy-to-help-youngsters-job-aspirants-in-state-bommai-101642707692319.html
21-01-2022||Lucknow||UP’s total Covid-19 cases cross 19 lakh||Uttar Pradesh’s total Covid-19 caseload crossed the 19-lakh mark on Thursday with 18,554 new Covid-19 cases. However, it was the second consecutive day when more patients recovered than new Covid-19 cases were reported.UP’s total caseload reached 19,00,457 and 23,000 deaths have been reported till now. During the day 19,328 patients were declared as recovered. Seven patients died including two in Lucknow. Active Covid-19 cases numbered 97,329 in the state with the maximum 17,829 in Lucknow.“There are a little over 1,300 patients in hospitals. The number of active cases under treatment in hospitals is between one and two percent of the active cases,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical and health, at a press conference.“The test positivity rate in the past 24-hours was 7.5%. The overall recovery rate in the state is 93.7%,” said Prasad.Lucknow and Ghaziabad reported two deaths each, while one death each was reported in Meerut, Prayagraj, Mainpuri, Firozabad, Sonebhadra and Baghpat. Among the new Covid-19 cases, Lucknow reported 3,643 cases, Gautam Buddh Nagar 1,684, Ghaziabad 1,456, Meerut 728, Varanasi 503 and Agra 927.Lucknow reports two deathsTwo Covid-19 patients died during treatment in Lucknow taking the total number of deaths in the state capital to 2,656 on Thursday.The patients were under treatment at private hospitals. One of the patients was a 84-year-old man, a native of Juggaur, and was under treatment at a hospital on Faizabad Road. The patient was on oxygen support and was diabetic. The other patient was 42-year-old from IIM Road and was under treatment for a kidney ailment.Among the new Covid-19 cases, Aliganj reported 530 cases, Chinhat 430, Alambagh 474, NK Road 275, Indira Nagar 252, Sarojininagar 203. “Over 2,100 new cases are male and over 1200 females,” said Yogesh Raghuvanshi, district health education officer.“Lucknow has till now reported 2,69,013 Covid-19 cases, of which 2,48,528 have recovered. The recovery rate is 92.38%. Till now 2,656 deaths have been reported in the state capital,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary-general, Association of International Doctors.The state capital has 17,829 active Covid-19 cases, the maximum among all districts in the state, followed by Gautam Buddh Nagar 8,991 and Ghaziabad 7,448 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ups-total-covid-19-cases-cross-19-lakh-101642707632376.html
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Only 30% of 9.3-lakh first-time voters enrolled in state||The Election Commission of India (ECI) is concerned over the low registration of first-time voters as only 30% (2,78,969) got enrolled against a projected population of 9,30,406 in the state. The voters in this category comprise just 1.31% of the 2.12 crore total registered electorates in the state for the February 20 polls. The main reason for low registration is said to be the movement of a large number of youngsters to foreign countries or other cities for study purposes. “It is a cause of grave concern that very less number had registered in the category. I have even written to the Union ministry of external affairs to get details of the students who have gone abroad on study visas to get them enrolled as voters,” chief electoral officer (CEO), Punjab, S Karuna Raju, said. In recent months, the local officers of the election commission had run campaigns to register maximum eligible youngsters as voters in the state. The EC even approached schools, colleges and universities to improve registration. An officer in the office of CEO Punjab said the task was challenging. “We even made registration as a voter the pre-condition for admission in colleges and universities, as Form 6 was attached with the admission forms,” he said. The government departments of health, medical education, sports, labour and youth services were asked to facilitate registrations, especially of first-time voters. The regional transport authorities in the state were also told to register young voters who approach them for getting a driver’s licence. Similarly, the voter registration was low in the 20-29 age bracket as out of projected 59 lakh population, only 40 lakh enrolled (67.7%). However, in the 30-39 age bracket, the voter registration surpassed the projection of 50 lakh. “56.9 lakh voters registered in this category, showing that people from outside Punjab came in search of employment,” said an office in the CEO’s office. 
21-01-2022||Other||Secondary agriculture unlikely to ‘double’ farmer income in Karnataka||Bengaluru: The setting up of a secondary agriculture department in Karnataka to help value addition to agricultural produce as a means to increasing--or doubling--farmer income is part of an additional “bureaucratic process” that will be of little consequence to the sector, experts say.The idea stems from the possibility of adding value to farmer-grown produce, which would help increase revenues, but overlooks the systemic challenges the sector and its practitioners face, they say.“This (secondary agriculture department) will definitely not help as they (government) could not find solutions to existing problems,” Dr Prakash Kammardi, a farm expert and former chairman of the Karnataka Agricultural Prices Commission (KAPC), said.According to the Basavaraj Bommai-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Karnataka, the decision to set up the department “is the means to taking agriculture forward and achieving the goal of doubling of farmer’s income.”The setting up of the department is an extension of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ambitious proposal to double farmer’s income by 2022 in the country where most of them have been reeling under piling losses and surviving from one calamity to the other.The forced withdrawal of the contentious farm laws by the union government, people aware of the developments said, is likely to have contributed to the setting up of the secondary agriculture thought process as a way to help big industries.“Since all the three acts (farm laws) were withdrawn, it is possible that they (governments) are looking at it differently and this (secondary agriculture) could be in disguise to help the corporate sector or anyone other than the genuine farmers,” Kammardi said.The proposal comes at a time when farmers across the country have been at the receiving end of market and monsoon vagaries, adding to existing problems that stem from growing pressure on land, small holdings, piling losses, fluctuation of prices, which were exacerbated by the Covid-19 pandemic as well other several other factors.Between October 1 and November 21, the state received 307 mm of rainfall as against a normal of 166 mm during the same period, according to data by the Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA). The state witnessed excess rains of over 85% on average with 23 out of 31 districts recording excess to large excess rainfall.Statewide, there has been a departure of 271% more rains in November as Karnataka recorded an average of 129 mm as against a normal of 35mm.This has damaged crops in lakhs of hectares of agricultural and horticultural lands, compensation for which is yet to reach farmers or has been simply inadequate to make up for the losses, adding to the growing agrarian crisis in the southern state.“It is already 2022, the only thing that has doubled is farmer’s deaths, not their income,” Kurubur Shanthakumar, a farmer activist said.Karnataka has defined the scope of secondary agriculture as those which use raw material, the primary product and by-products of agriculture and other biological resources available locally in its rural agrarian neighbourhood and which deploys locally available skills or a high level of rural manpower to manage the production of goods and services.The intent of the proposal also is to promote farm, cottage and village-level rural industries by utilising low intensity of capital and technology.“Secondary agriculture includes food and non-food bio-resource based products for human and industrial use,” according to the Karnataka government.Bommai on Wednesday, in a two-part post on twitter, said; “In response to the call for doubling farmers’ income, given by Hon’ble PM @narendramodi ji, Govt of Karnataka has set up Directorate of Secondary Agriculture. This new body will work towards popularising Integrated Farming System(IFS) in each agro-climatic zone by providing better markets and market intelligence.”People aware of the developments said that while the doubling of farm income itself is in doubt as there is no measure to quantify what a farmer earns currently as the largest chunk of people in the sector own less than an acre.“Doubling (incomes) etc, these are all slogans. Now no one talks about doubling anymore,” Siraj Hussain, a farm expert and retired civil servant said.However, he said; “If higher value farmers can produce crops or horticulture or produce that can be sold at a higher value, obviously they will earn more if there is not much fluctuation of prices.”Kammardi said that a farmer with less than one acre is forced to work as agricultural labourer in another place; with MNREGA wage or financial support from other earning members in the family, they run a small shop or any other means to get money which cannot be classified as income earned from farming.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/secondary-agriculture-unlikely-to-double-farmer-income-in-karnataka-101642707453819.html
21-01-2022||Other||GMDA to install 1,000 CCTV cameras in Gurugram this year||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority will install 1,000 CCTV cameras across the city this year under Phase 2 of the Safe City project, said officials on Thursday. The focus in this phase will be on increasing camera surveillance on stretches which are under development and likely to become busier in the coming months, they said.PK Aggarwal, a senior official from the smart city division of GMDA, said, “In the first phase of the project, 1,200 cameras were installed and now we will be installing 1,000 more cameras this year. We will try to cover areas where there are high construction activities such as Sohna Road and Dwarka Expressway. We are working with the police department to identify such areas and work will start within the next three months.” The officials said that with the 1,200 cameras installed in the first phase, general surveillance and traffic rule enforcement has started seeing improvement in the city. Some of the prominent locations where cameras for detecting traffic violations have been installed include Bakhtawar Chowk, Rezangla Chowk, MG Road, Galleria Market, IFFCO Chowk metro station, HUDA City Centre, Rajiv Chowk, Subhash Chowk, Bristol Chowk, Vatika Chowk, Signature Towers, Hero Honda Chowk, and IMT Chowk. “We have received a good feedback from the authorities after the first phase as surveillance has improved a lot. The most improvement has been in enforcing traffic norms. With the cameras being connected to the Integrated Command and Control Centre, tracking down violators has become easy. These cameras are being installed to strengthen the e-intelligence system in the city and provide better safety to residents,” added Aggarwal. The authority has been working to develop an e-intelligence infrastructure in the city by installing different types of cameras. In August last year, the GMDA had installed full surveillance cameras at 28 points in the city under the Safe City Project, in addition to general surveillance cameras. In March last year, the GMDA had also started installing 12 facial recognition cameras to track movements of criminals in the city and improve security services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gmda-to-install-1-000-cctv-cameras-in-gurugram-this-year-101642707212407.html
21-01-2022||Other||Hijab row political, wearing it at school flouts protocol: Karnataka minister BC Nagesh||Bengaluru: Karnataka education minister BC Nagesh on Thursday alleged that the controversy over hijab at an educational institution in the state is politically motivated keeping elections in mind.Six Muslim students at a government college in Karnataka’s Udupi district have accused the authorities of barring them from entering classrooms for the past three weeks because they wear hijab. Responding to the controversy, Nagesh said, “Elections are coming up next year. Since there ​are no issues (for the Opposition), they are raking up this matter and making a controversy out of it, with an aim of creating religious disharmony.” “I admit that there is no fixed uniform code for schools and colleges. But SDMC (School Development and Monitoring Committee) in 1985 has given a guideline for uniform, which should be followed by people. These guidelines came up when the BJP was not in power,” he added. Minister Nagesh said that close to 100 Muslim students were studying in that government college, but none apart from these six students have raised concerns. Later speaking to a news channel, the education minister said that wearing a hijab amounts to indiscipline. “Educational institutes are not the places to practice your religion,” he said. On Tuesday, senior officials of the education department had met the principal of the education institute to sort out the matter, however, the protesting students said that their version of the events was not heard. “We hoped that during the meeting someone will understand our concerns, but they were siding with the institute. They didn’t hear our side of the issue,” said one of the students. One of the girls, Alia Banu, said that the college has been seeking leave applications on the ground of ill health. On Monday, Aliya Assadi, one of the six students, had said that they were threatened to be pushed out of the classroom if they didn’t remove their hijab. “One day, we had gone inside the classroom, but the teacher’s response was, ‘If you don’t go out of class, I will push you out,” she added. According to the college principal , Rudra Gowda, the students can wear headscarves on the college premises, but not inside the classrooms. The rule is being implemented to ensure uniformity in classrooms, he said. “There are no provisions to have hijab as the uniform in our school’s rules. They can attend classes if they remove the hijab. We have called their family members and discussed the issue,” Gowda. Meanwhile, the All-India Lawyers Association For Justice has written to the state government, demanding an investigation against the college administration. “The actions of the college administration and staff against the students are per se violative of the fundamental rights of the students. It is important to remember that the Constitution recognises that every person has the right to be treated equally (Article 14), to live with dignity (Article 21), a right to education (Article 21) and profess a religion of their choice (Article 25). The constitutional value of being able to profess one’s religion freely and live with dignity has time and again been emphasised by the courts in various court judgments,” read a statement from the association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hijab-row-political-wearing-it-at-school-flouts-protocol-karnataka-minister-bc-nagesh-101642707152211.html
21-01-2022||Other||ECI’s Covid-19 restrictions: Leaders resort to unique antics to woo voters||Politicians gearing up to contest the state assembly polls are resorting to unique antics to draw voters to them, due to the restrictions on road shows, rallies and public meetings imposed by the Election Commission of India (ECI), in light of the Covid-19 threat. From making jalebis and kachodis besides tea as well as frying pakodas at roadside kiosks to playing co-driver to an auto-rickshaw, politicians, including two UP Cabinet ministers, Sidharth Nath Singh and Nand Gopal Gupta ‘Nandi’, are trying everything these days to woo voters amidst ECI restrictions.Interestingly, although most bigger political parties including the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Congress and Samajwadi Party (SP) have not yet announced the names of its candidates from the 12 assembly seats of Prayagraj, few sitting MLAs and aspirants are both seen resorting to these antics. Leading the politicians in these unique antics is spokesperson of the Yogi Adityanath-led state government, Sidharth Nath Singh. Grandson of former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri, Singh had started out weeks before even announcement of state poll by the ECI as he was spotted near a kiosk at Prayagraj airport, making samosas and frying pakodas. He continued with the practice often during his campaign on his seat of Allahabad West. Apart from making pakodas, he was also seen purchasing fruits and veggies for his household at local vegetable markets—all aimed at hard-selling the man next door image. Joining his colleague is another minister in the Yogi cabinet, Nand Gopal Gupta ‘Nandi’. The minister for civil aviation, Nandi visited the famous Chandra Shekhar Azad Park a few days back and played the role of co-driver of an auto-rickshaw. His pictures went viral among his supporters. On Wednesday too, he was spotted making tea at a roadside stall while campaigning door-to-door in his assembly constituency of Allahabad South. Nandi, however, dubs these acts as “just being me” and not “antics”. He said, “It is the people of Prayagraj who have given me so much love and blessings that today I am a minister in the state cabinet. Otherwise, making tea, samosas and other eatables at a roadside shop was the means through which I used to earn a living for my family. It is because of all this that I understand the problems of all shopkeepers and traders, be it big or small.” Likewise, a ticket aspirant of Samajwadi Party (SP) from Phaphamau assembly seat, Adil Hamza, who has extensively helped locals of this assembly seat during first and second wave or pandemic and during recent floods, feels that these are no antics but rather an effective way to connect with voters. During his campaign, Hamza likes to travel by cycle along with his supporters. “Although, my party has not yet declared the name of the candidate from Phaphamau, I know that since the cycle is the symbol of my party, it will leave a permanent impression among voters to know which party I represent.”
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||HPSC scam: Balhara, an accused not chargesheeted by vigilance bureau||The chargesheet presented by the Haryana vigilance bureau (VB) in the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) dental surgeon exam scam though mentions Jasbir Singh (Balhara), owner of a software agency, as an accused and a suspect but he was neither arrested nor chargesheeted by the investigating agency, as per the challan.Quoting the complainant, the chargesheet clearly stated that Jasbir’s accomplice Naveen had asked his friend to find candidates who can pay ₹35-40 lakh to get their dental surgeon exam cleared.“Naveen said his friend Jasbir Singh Balhara, whose software agency, Safedot E-Solution Pvt Ltd, Sector 11, Panchkula, has been given the work of online application portal by the HPSC introduced him to Ashwani Sharma, who has been allotted the work of preparing results of various recruitment examinations held by the HSSC and HPSC,” the chargesheet said.Naveen confessed of striking deal with Balhara“I fixed a deal via Jasbir and Ashwani to get Dalbir’s written exam cleared for ₹20 lakh and ₹15 lakh for final selection. Today, I received ₹20 lakh bribe, which the vigilance bureau has recovered from me. I took this bribe for me, Ashwani and Jasbir,” said Naveen, an accused in the case, who has been quoted in the VB chargesheet.Naveen also shared the details of other examination scams like the HCS 2021 preliminary exam wherein ₹20 lakh were taken from two candidates, ₹10 lakh each were taken from 40 staff nurses, 15-16 ANMs.“I did this scam with Balhara and Sharma,” reads Naveen’s statement in the chargesheet.‘Not essential for initial confessions to figure in chargesheet’Vigilance bureau superintendent of police Himanshu Garg said Balhara’s name is mentioned in the initial documents during the first confession of Naveen.“However, it is not essential that whatever is confessed in first go would be included in the final chargesheet. Further investigation is done. Balhara is not being made part of the chargesheet,” Garg said.The SP said there is a legal requirement of submitting chargesheet within 60 days. So, that’s why the first chargesheet was submitted. The investigation is proceeding and the second chargesheet will be submitted soon,” he said.On whether Balhara’s name will figure in the supplementary chargesheet, the SP refused to comment.The complainant in the case, as per the chargesheet document, had said that Balhara got the work of online application in 2012-13 during the Congress rule but in January 2021, the then HPSC chairman got to know about his frauds and subsequently his agency’s contract was terminated.“But he managed to get the work again as the new officers apparently did not know about his frauds. He has several agencies which are into application portal, scanning of papers,” the complainant mentioned.Khattar had put to rest contentions about Balhara’s involvementHaryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had told the state assembly last month that the investigation had revealed that the work for two examinations under investigation in the ongoing case was entrusted to Paru Data Solutions Pvt Ltd owned by accused Ashwini and was done by him and not Jasbir Singh who owns Safedot Solutions Pvt Ltd.Khattar had made statement on the floor of the House to put to rest the contentions made by Opposition MLAs about Balhara’s involvement in the scam.“Safedot E-Solutions Pvt Ltd was not enlisted for inviting applications for HCS preliminary examination and dental surgeon examination. Earlier, the Commission had allotted work related to inviting online application form to Safedot E-Solution Pvt Ltd on April 25, 2013,” Khattar had said.“Thereafter, vide a letter dated September 3, 2019, the services of the said company were terminated on the ground that its work is not satisfactory and it causes delay in urgent works,” Khattar had said in the statement made on the floor of the assembly.
21-01-2022||Other||Fake call centre duping US citizens busted in Gurugram||Police on Wednesday night raided an illegal call centre operating from a building in DLF Phase 3 and arrested three persons for allegedly duping foreign nationals by posing as security support service executives of two e-commerce companies. Police said the call centre had been operational for the past 15 days. The suspects were identified as Shubhram Yadav of Alwar in Rajasthan and Sumit Ahuja of Gurugram, both owners of the call centre, and manager Devvrat Singh from Himachal Pradesh. Three of them were arrested from the spot, said police. According to police, at least 500 people from the US and the UK were duped of amounts ranging from $100 to $1,000 each. The call centre employees used to allegedly send emails informing the victims of some suspicious transactions and persuade them to contact them to resolve the issues. When the victims connected with them, the suspects used to request remote access to the victims’ computers or laptops for checking the transactions and duped them by transferring money through e-vouchers, police said, adding that the call centre employees were not aware of the illegal act of the owners. The owners of call centre procured details of the US and UK citizens through illegal means, police said. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that on Wednesday night, they received a tip-off that an illegal call centre was operational from the second floor of a residential building in Block U of DLF Phase 3. “We formed a team, which included cybercrime officials, and raided the floor. Two partners had formed a company that was not even registered. They had no permission to operate a call centre. Employees were found making calls and both the partners were also present there,” he said. Rao said the employees also used to send emails offering to provide free services for products bought through an e-commerce site and resolve issues. The call centre employed 15 persons on a monthly salary of around ₹30,000, besides incentives, police said, adding that the office space was rented for ₹70,000 per month. Police confiscated several computer sets, laptops, hard disks and five mobile phones from the spot and sent them to a laboratory in Madhuban of Karnal for forensic examination. “The suspects revealed that they made internet-based calls to ensure they did not come under the police radar. They used voice over internet protocol (VOIP) to make these calls and were using virtual numbers to make the victims feel that they are getting calls from outside India,” Rao said. A case was registered on Thursday under sections 420 (cheating) and 120B (conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and sections 66D and 75 of the IT Act at the Cyber police station. “We are getting a forensic audit of the seized devices to know the details of the victims who have been duped. This year, we have already busted three illegal centres operating in the city and strict directions have been given to all the station house officers to ensure no illegal operations are carried out from their areas,” said Rao. 
21-01-2022||Lucknow||Lucknow shivers at 5.5 degrees, cold wave to continue in state||Uttar Pradesh witnessed another day of severe cold on Thursday as the average day temperature across the state stayed around 16 degrees Celsius and the average minimum temperature hovered around the 6-degree mark.At least a dozen West UP districts in Meerut and Aligarh region experienced brief showers that added to the chill.The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a forecast for rain over the weekend and alert for similar weather conditions across UP on Friday. The daytime temperature in Lucknow was recorded at 17.8 degrees Celsius which was four degrees below normal. The minimum temperature slumped to 5.5 degrees Celsius at night, 2 degrees below normal.Cloudy sky, heavy fog accompanied by Westerly Winds added to the chill, forcing people to stay indoors. Lucknow will experience similar weather on Friday with day temperature expected around 16 degrees Celsius and night temperature around 6 degrees Celsius. In several places across Uttar Pradesh the day temperature dropped to the 11-degree mark.According to the alert issued by IMD, “Very cold and cold weather is very likely over Lakhimpur Kheri, Sitapur, Hapur, Ghaziabad, Guttambuddha Nagar, Bulandshahar, Aligarh, Mathura, Agra,Hardoi, Bahraich, Sravasti, Balrampur, Siddharth Nagar, Maharajganj, Kushinagar and adjoining areas on Friday.”“Dense fog is very likely over Saharanpur, Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, Bijnor, Moradabad, Rampur, Amroha, Meerut, Baghpat, Hapur, Ghaziabad, Guttam Buddh Nagar, Bulandshahar, Aligarh, Hathras, Mathura, Agra, Firozabad, Sambhal, Badaun, Bareilly, Pilibhit, Shahjahanpur, Lucknow, Rae Bareli, Farrukhabad, Barabanki, Ayodhya, Ambedkarnagar, Sultanpur, Gonda, Basti, Santkabir Nagar, Gorakhpur, Deoria, Azamgarh, Mau, Ballia, Jaunpur, Ghazipur, Etah, Kasganj, Amethi and adjoining areas,” the IMD warning reads.Considering the forecast, the state MeT department has alerted district authorities about the adverse weather conditions suggesting them to make appropriate arrangements to fight the cold.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-shivers-at-5-5-degrees-cold-wave-to-continue-in-state-101642706672239.html
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Private sector job quota: Exemptions to water down law fail to enthuse industry captains||Sensing a backlash from the industry, the Haryana government has tried to water down the controversial 75% private sector job reservation law by granting certain exemptions to employers in the hirings.However, entrepreneurs, particularly those running micro-small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), look less than pleased.The private sector job quota law which came into effect from January 15 makes it mandatory for the companies and industrial establishments to hire 75% local candidates who have a domicile certificate for jobs having a gross monthly salary of ₹30,000 or less from now on. The law has been termed regressive by India Inc.The state government tried to placate the industry by bringing down the upper limit of gross monthly salary to ₹30,000 from ₹50,000 for jobs under the ambit of private sector job quota law.Who all are exemptedA set of exemptions were ordered on January 17 by the state government to mollify the industry. These included exempting start-ups, and information technology (IT) and IT-enabled services, which come into being after January 15 from local hirings for two years, short-term employment of less than 45 days, vacancies under employers who engage in agricultural activities such as growing and harvesting of crops, fruits, vegetables, nuts, seeds, tea, coffee, raising animals, fish farming, and vacancies under an employer for domestic work or services in residential homes.In-house placements within state exemptedThe state government has also ordered those vacancies being filled up through promotion or transfer or by absorption of surplus staff of any unit of the same employer in the state will be exempted from the local hiring.However, there is no clarity on in-house placements from outside Haryana. Besides, any class, post, skill and category of employment where local candidates of the desired skill, qualification or proficiency are not available will also be exempted.What’s not exemptedAgriculture-allied activities involving manufacturing, trading, processing of agricultural products or produce, however, have not been exempted.Also, agriculture-allied activities covered under the definition of establishment (a shop or commercial establishment) under Section 2 (viii) of the Haryana Shops and Commercial Act or factory as defined under Section 2 (m) of the Factories Act have not been exempted.Trade captains not entirely convincedIndustry captains and entrepreneurs, however, do not sound entirely pleased with the exemptions. PK Jain, former president of the PHD Chamber of Commerce and founder president of Gurgaon Chamber of Commerce, said big players will not be much affected by the job reservation law but the MSMEs will suffer.“The state government should consider exempting MSMEs from the ambit of the law. The government has exempted new start-ups and IT units. Health of the MSME sector which is driver of the state’s economy is in a pretty bad shape because of the pandemic situation,” Jain said.Gurgaon Industrial Association (GIA) chairman Jagan Nath Mangla said they have challenged the private job quota law in courts. “How well these exemptions will help the industrial sector will be known only with the passage of time,” Mangla said.Though, he admitted that reducing the monthly salary cap for new hirings to ₹30,000 is a welcome move.Many industrialists who did not wish to be named said they are anticipating multiple problems due to enactment of the job quota law.“I have been in the manufacturing trade for more than 20 years and know well that there is a dearth of semi-skilled and skilled manpower in Haryana. Why would we hire workers from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar if local manpower is available,” said a Gurugram-based industrialist.A Sonepat-based entrepreneur said their experience with the local hirings has been quite disappointing.“I do not see many local youngsters coming forward to work in factories. Haryana youth is only interested in government jobs. People choose to remain idle and wait for a government job rather than toil in a factory. Is the government doing enough to make people meaningfully skilled to cater to the requirement of the industry?” he said.
21-01-2022||Other||Two labourers buried alive at Gurugram site, two booked||Two daily wage workers, a 28-year-old man and his sister-in-law, were buried alive when a mound of earth collapsed on them at an under construction house in Sector 56 on Wednesday evening. The house owner and a contractor have been booked, police said on Thursday.The deceased were identified as Malkhan Ahirwar and his sister-in-law Guddo Devi (40), both natives of Galan village in Chattarpur district of Madhya Pradesh. The incident took place around 4.30pm when they were digging for a basement, police said, adding that the victims were rushed to a hospital, but were declared brought dead on arrival.Assistant commissioner of police (Sadar), Aman Yadav, said that five labourers were working on a 300 square yard plot in Block D of Sector 56 , which is located near a private hospital. “Two of the labourers were digging in the basement, around seven feet below the ground level, when a huge heap of mud from the retaining wall caved in and trapped them underneath,” he said. Three other labourers who were working near the basement survived, said police. The bodies were handed over to the family members after an autopsy on Thursday evening. Rajkumar Ahirwar, Malkhan’s brother who works as a painter in the city, said he had spoken to his brother on Wednesday morning when he told him that there were no safety measures at the site. “I had asked him not to work any longer at that site, but he said the contractor would not release the payment for the entire week if he refused. The contractor had threatened to block the labourers’ payments if they refused to work in the basement,” he said. Malkhan was earning ₹700 per day and was saving for his wedding which was planned in November this year. He was also supporting his younger brother who lived in Delhi, said his relatives. Family members alleged that the negligence of the contractor and the house owner led to the incident. Sunil Ahirwar, Guddo’s son who works as a driver in Noida, said that his father was away at their village and his mother was working at the site. “My mother was unhappy working at the Guurgram site. She had even told me that digging basement could take her life as there were no safety measures in place. The wall which collapsed was about 15 feet tall,” he said. According to police officials, the contractor had informed police and had taken both the labourers to the nearest hospital in Sector 56. A case was registered against the house owner and the contractor, based on the complaint filed by Rajkumar, under sections 304A (culpable homicide) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code at Sector 56 police station. The officials said the contractor and house owner are at large. “We have formed teams to arrest them. Further investigation in the case is going on,” ACP Yadav said. 
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Panipat naval officer’s body cremated with state honours at native village||The mortal remains of Krishan Kumar, 48, master chief petty officer first class (MCPO) in the Indian Navy, were cremated with state honours at his native village Sutana in Panipat district on Thursday.Krishan was among the three navy personnel killed in an explosion onboard INS Ranvir at the naval dockyard in Mumbai on Tuesday.Soon after the body reached the village, people gathered in large numbers from Sutana and nearby villages to join the funeral procession and paid their tributes to the officer.Krishan’s son Abhishek performed the last rites amid sloganeering of ‘Shaheed Krishan Amar Rahe’.This was the second supreme sacrifice by Krishan’s family as his elder brother Vishnu Dutt was martyred while serving in the army around eight years ago. Krishan is survived by two sons, a daughter and wife.Panipat deputy commissioner Sushil Sarwan and local representatives of different political parties also joined the funeral procession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panipat-naval-officer-s-body-cremated-with-state-honours-at-native-village-101642706204787.html
21-01-2022||Other||Vigilance raids former AIADMK minister KP Anbazhagan in disproportionate assets case||Chennai: Vigilance raids were conducted on Thursday in 58 places connected to AIADMK leader and former education minister K P Anbazhagan on charges of amassing wealth disproportionate to his income, Directorate of Vigilance and Anti Corruption (DVAC) officials said.Anbazhagan is the fifth former minister to be booked and searched by the DVAC since the DMK government took over in May. The DVAC had earlier raided former ministers C Vijayabhaskar, S P Velumani, M R Vijayabhaskar and P Thangamani. The DVAC on Wednesday registered an FIR against Anbazhagan on charges that he and his family members amassed wealth of ₹11.32 crore disproportionate to his income. The check period is between 2016 and 2021 and during this time the pecuniary resources and properties acquired by him and those in the name of his family should not have exceeded ₹10.1 crore, according to the FIR. A case has been registered against Anbalagan (62), his wife A Malliga (55), his sons A Sasimohan (29) and A Chandramohan (32), and S Vaishnavee (32), wife of Chandramohan. “The raids are being carried out across Tamil Nadu in the districts of Chennai, Dharmapuri and Salem,” said a DVAC official. One place in Telangana was also raided. “We have learnt that the main accused (Anbazhagan) had acquired many assets in his name, in the names of his family, relatives, and associates, which are disproportionate to his known sources of income, in various places in and around Tamil Nadu and outside,” the official said.The DVAC in a statement said that they could not find the material objects and documents pertaining to the case. “During the course of the search, an amount of ₹2,87,98,650, gold ornaments weighing about 6.637 kilograms, 13.85 kilograms of silver and other incriminating documents were found and among them unaccounted cash of ₹2,65,31,650, bank locker key and documents pertaining to the case were seized,” the agency said, adding that this case continues to be under investigation.According to the FIR, it has been revealed that Anbalagan runs a hot mix plant and a rough stone quarry in Dharmapuri district in the name of his son-in-law P Ravishankar and that of his brother-in-law P Saravanan. He runs a granite factory, Ganesh Granite, located in Chennai in the name of his sister’s daughter Deepa and her son-in-law N Sivakumar. The FIR says Sivakumar holds 80% shares in Sri Vaishnavi Granite Industries’ office located in Telangana. The former minister and his family members have been booked under various sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. Anbazhagan was elected as an MLA from the Palacode constituency five times consecutively from 2001 until now. He was minister for higher education from 2016 to 2021. He was also holding the post of minister for agriculture from 2020 to 2021. He held the portfolios as minister for municipal administration, rural development and the minister for information between 2001 and 2006. Supporters of Anbazhagan gathered outside his residence in Dharmapuri and raised slogans against the DMK government and chief minister M K Stalin. AIADMK’s joint coordinator and former chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami called the raids as DMK’s diversionary tactics to shift focus from irregularities pointed out in the Pongal gift hamper scheme. The DMK government distributed Pongal gifts of 21 grocery items, including 100 gram of ghee produced by the state-owned Aavin, varieties of dal and a full sugarcane, to more than 20 million ration card holders ahead of the three day-festival which concluded last week. Allies AIADMK and BJP have accused the DMK of corruption in this scheme. “When people are angry over huge corruption in the Pongal welfare distribution, they have conducted these raids to distract people,” Palaniswami told reporters in Salem. “From the time the DMK government took over, they have been using the agency (DVAC) to file false cases against AIADMK leaders. The DMK is seeking revenge and enacting such drama.”DMK’s spokesperson A Saravanan denied that there have been irregularities in the Pongal welfare scheme. “There is no problem with it. Never before have 21 items and all quality items been distributed to 2.10 crore people,” said Saravanan. “Somewhere some jaggery had melted and that’s all the AIADMK is talking about. It shows their desperation.”
21-01-2022||Other||Crime Branch opposes Dileep’s anticipatory bail plea in new case||The Crime Branch wing of the Kerala police on Thursday filed a statement in the Kerala High Court opposing the anticipatory bail plea filed by actor Dileep in a case registered against him and five others for allegedly threatening investigation officers probing the sexual assault of an actress back in 2017.In its statement, the Crime Branch said it is the first time in the history of Kerala that a person accused of a serious offence hatched a criminal conspiracy to harm the life of investigating officers.“Having regards to the facts and circumstances of the case and considering the involvement of the petitioners in serious offence and that too to harm the life of the law enforcing officers of the State, the petitioners are not entitled to invoke such extraordinary discretionary remedy of pre-arrest bail,” the Crime Branch said in the statement.Besides Dileep, his younger brother — P Sivakumar — and brother-in-law — T N Suraj — have also moved the high court seeking the same relief.The Crime Branch said the allegations against Dileep and other petitioners are ‘very serious’ and said custodial interrogation of the accused is required to unearth the criminal conspiracy hatched by them. The Crime Branch had recently registered the case on a complaint filed by an investigating officer based on a purported audio clip of Dileep, which was released by a TV channel in which the actor was allegedly heard conspiring to attack the official.The actor and five others were booked under various provisions of the Indian Penal Code, including Sections 116 (abetment), 118 (concealing design to commit offense), 120B (criminal conspiracy), 506 (criminal intimidation), and 34 (criminal act done by several people).The joint plea moved by all three has claimed that the complaint lodged against them by the officer — DySP (Crime Branch) Baiju Paulose — was “false”.They have contended that the allegations in the FIR, registered on the base of the complaint, are “wholly false and baseless”.The actor and his relatives have alleged, in the petition filed through advocate Philip T Varghese, that the intention behind registration of the case was to take them into custody and humiliate them before the public.This apprehension is borne out of the past conduct of the complainant officer who right from the start has been trying to falsely implicate the actor in the sexual assault case, the petition has alleged.The victim — an actress who has worked in Tamil, Telugu and Malayalam films — was abducted and allegedly molested inside her car for two hours by some of the accused, who had forced their way into the vehicle on the night of February 17, 2017 and later escaped in a busy area. The entire act was filmed by some of the accused to blackmail the actress.There are 10 accused in the case and initially, police arrested seven people. Dileep was arrested subsequently and released on bail later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/crime-branch-opposes-dileep-s-anticipatory-bail-plea-in-new-case-101642706072165.html
21-01-2022||Other||TRS demands national festival status to Sammakka Saralamma fair||The ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi, which has been aggressively attacking the Bharatiya Janata Party, has sought to corner the saffron party by demanding that the Centre grants national festival status to Sammakka Saralamma jatara, the biggest tribal festival of the country to be held in the state next month.The biennial tribal fair, which would be attended by over 10 million tribals from across the country, is being held from February 16 to 18, at Medaram in the Tadwai forests of Telangana’s Mulugu district.Senior TRS legislator and former deputy chief minister Kadiyam Srihari on Thursday said if the state BJP leaders were so much concerned about the tribals of the state, they should bring pressure on the Central government to declare Sammakka Saralamma jatara as a “national festival.”“Though the BJP has been in power at the Centre for the last eight years, the party has failed to respond to the repeated requests of the Telangana government to get the national festival tag to Sammakka Saralamma fair, which draws millions of tribals from all parts of the country to the Telangana,” Srihari said.The demand from the TRS came within a day of Telangana BJP holding a meeting in Hyderabad of the party’s coordination committee on the assembly constituencies reserved for Scheduled Tribes, where BJP state president Bandi Sanjay accused the TRS government of neglecting the welfare of tribals.“The Telangana government has allocated ₹75 crore for the conduct of Samakka Saralamma Jatara this year. But the Centre has not released even a single rupee as a grant for the biggest tribal fair of the country,” the TRS leader said.The tribal fair is celebrated to worship two tribal women – Sammakka and her daughter Saralamma of the 13th century, in the form of deities, on “Magha Suddha Pournami” (the full-moon day of the month of Magha). It draws devotees from Telangana Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. Even non-tribal devotees attend this fair in large numbers.The tribals believe that Sammakka and Saralamma had laid down their lives fighting the mighty emperors of the Kakatiya dynasty who had attacked their little tribal hamlet demanding royalty and sought to destroy their life and culture.State tribal welfare minister Satyavathi Rathod said arrangements were being made for the celebration of the festival. “Re-carpeting of roads leading to Medaram, drinking water supply, development of banks of Jampanna stream where tribals take holy bath, erection of lighting facilities, construction of temporary compartments for dress-changing, barricading and food arrangements etc are being done at war footing,” she said.However, the major concern for the authorities is the outbreak of Covid-19 at such a massive congregation. “It is not possible to verify the vaccination certificates of each and everybody. Even maintenance of social distance is impossible,” said Dr Allem Appaiah, district medical and health officer.He, however, said the department is focussing on extensive campaigns among the devotees to wear masks, use hand sanitisers and maintain social distance as far as possible, using public address systems and distribution of pamphlets.The authorities have also set up medical camps around the fair so that anybody found with any symptoms could be immediately attended to. “If any positive cases surface in the area, arrangements have been made to shift them and those associated with them to Mulug district hospital for treatment,” he said.
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Roll back HRDF cess hike: Surjewala||Terming the Haryana government’s decision to increase the Haryana Rural Development Fund (HRDF) cess on paddy “anti-farmer”, Congress national general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala on Thursday demanded an immediate roll back of the hike.In a statement, Surjewala condemned the decision of the Khattar-Chautala government to increase the cess by three-times from 0.5% to 2% on all varieties of paddy including 1509, Muchhal and Sarbati, terming it a short-sighted decision which will harm the cause of farmers.“Now, the farmers of Haryana will be compelled to either sell off their crop in the neighbouring states’ agricultural mandis or sell paddy to traders at a price cheaper by at least ₹100-120 per quintal. Six months back, the BJP-JJP government had increased market fee from 0.5% to 2% on all varieties of paddy,” he said.“Last year, 42.5 lakh metric tonne basmati and 1509 paddy, and 56 lakh metric tonne Parmal rice was procured in Haryana. The increase in HRDF cess will cause additional economic burden not only on the farmers but also on the arhtiyas and labourers working at grain markets,” Surjewala said.He said if farmers go to mandis of other states to sell their crops, they will suffer financial losses, but at the same time, the state government will also generate less revenue. “With paddy grown in our state reaching the neighbouring states, the state government will not get the tax,” he added.In the event of farmers selling paddy in Haryana, traders will recover the increased market and HRDF fee from them as against the prices prevailing in open market in India or abroad, which comes to about ₹100 to ₹150 per quintal, he said.As a consequence to this, there will be an extra economic burden of about ₹500 crore on farmers of Haryana, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/roll-back-hrdf-cess-hike-surjewala-101642706012076.html
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Dushyant Chautala lays foundation stones of development projects in Rewari||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Thursday laid foundation stones of multiple development projects worth ₹15.60 crore in Rewari.Chautala also held a meeting of administrative officials and directed them to speed up the projects that are under process. Union minister Rao Inderjit Singh also attended the meeting through video-conferencing.The deputy chief minister said his party has fulfilled one of its key poll promises by implementing 75% reservation for local youth in the private sector.“More than 9,000 youths have applied for jobs on government portal. We urge the youths to register their details on the portal as the government is committed to provide them employment as per their qualification,” he added.Commenting on Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) lone MLA Abhay Singh Chautala’s comment that the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) will be merged in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Dushyant said people (Abhay) who were opposing the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in Punjab are moving towards merging their party with them.“Digvijay Chautala had rightly said that the INLD will be merged in the JJP ahead of the 2024 assembly polls and we will implement this merger as well,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dushyant-chautala-lays-foundation-stones-of-development-projects-in-rewari-101642705772416.html
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Police arrest three persons from Nagaland for killing Jind trader||The Haryana Police have arrested three persons, including the main accused who was carrying a bounty of ₹1 lakh on his head, from Nagaland in connection with the murder of a trader in Jind on October 23, last year.The accused have been identified as main accused Baljeet and his two aides Kuldeep and Manjeet, all residents of Jind. Jind deputy superintendent of police (headquarters) Jitender Khatkar said they arrested the accused from Dimapur in Nagaland.“The Jind police have initiated a process to bring them on transit remand. The Haryana Police managed to arrest the accused after DGP Prashant Kumar Agarwal urged Nagaland higher authorities to extend help in this regard. Baljeet has a criminal background and was the main accused in the case. With these arrests, we have managed to arrest all the accused involved in the murder,” the DSP added.Earlier, the Jind police had arrested four persons, including second main accused, Dharmendra Pahalwan, a few days back from Delhi. The district police had lodged an FIR against 12 identified persons and others in connection with the murder of local trader Shaym Sunder Bansal.The incident had taken place when the trader was sitting outside his shop near Devi Lal Chowk in Jind on November 23. His nephew Honey Bansal had sustained bullet injuries and the police had registered a case on his complaint.Congress leader Randeep Surjewala and former Haryana CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda had taken out processions in the town seeking strict action against the criminals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/police-arrest-three-persons-from-nagaland-for-killing-jind-trader-101642705592517.html
21-01-2022||Other||Tamil Nadu receives nod for excavations at 7 sites||Chief minister MK Stalin on Thursday announced that Tamil Nadu has received a nod from the Central Advisory Board for Archaeology (CABA) to conduct excavations in seven sites which includes three new sites and continuing phases at four old sites set to begin this year. The state also proposed to undertake a reconnaissance survey in the sea off the coast of a Sangam age port, Korkai (in Thoothukudi district) in collaboration with the Indian Maritime University and the National Institute of Ocean Technology. Korkai, is a major port from the celebrated Sangam era, located 8 km interior from the present seashore. The famous urn burial site Adichchanallur and Sivagalai lies 15 km and 20 km west of Korkai respectively on the bank of the same river. Besides the Sangam literature, Korkai also finds mention in the Periplus Erythrean Sea and the work of Green astronomer and geographer Claudius Ptolemy who refer to this port as ‘Colchis’ and ‘Kolkhoi’. The excavation conducted by the state department of archaeology in 1968 unearthed a structure with nine courses of bricks in six rows at the depth of two-and-a-half feet from surface level and three large-sized rings were placed one over the other, below the brick course, said a statement shared by an official from the department. Charcoal samples collected from the site were dated to 785 BCE.Korkai had a brisk maritime trade with the West particularly with the Roman Empire and Sri Lanka and also probably with southeast Asian countries, the statement read. “In a recent excavation at Korkai, the Northern Black Polished ware and black slipped ware of Gangetic valley datable prior to 5th century BCE are unearthed, which clearly suggests that Tamil Nadu was well connected with different parts of India through internal trade,” the statement added. “Korkai might have served as one of the important ports even before the 8th century BCE as indicated by the Carbon-14 dates obtained in earlier excavations.” In continuation of these explorations and excavations, the department has proposed off-shore explorations.Meanwhile, the announcement for excavation at the seven sites comprise Keeladi, Sivagalai, Gangaikondacholapuram, Mayiladumparai and it will be conducted for the first time in Vembakkottai, Thulukkarpatti and Perumbalai. These excavations are meant to give a picture of the lives of the people that transformed from Microlithic times to Neolithic to Iron Age and early historic periods covering a time span of around 30,000 years.Carbon dating of artefacts unearthed from Keeladi and Sivagalai have found that they date back to 2,600 and 3,200 years old, pushing the Sangam Literature further behind a few centuries. In September last year, Stalin announced in the state assembly results from carbon samples from excavations in Sivakalai (in adjacent districts of present day Thoothukudi and Tirunelveli) sent for AMS Carbon Dating Test to the Beta Analytical Laboratory in Miami, US found that rice and husk found in an offering urn yielded the date of 1155 BCE which means the people of Sivakalai lived there before 3200 years. The findings are the oldest time period established from excavations carried out so far in Tamil Nadu. The dates also form the fag end of the Indus Valley Civilisation.--which is the earliest known in the Indian subcontinent lasted from 3300 BCE to 1300 BCE.With these findings, the state made a link with the Indus Valley Civilisation and it was a revelation for Tamil Nadu’s archaeological community too.“Since it has been established that the earliest date we have found in Tamil Nadu for the first time showed that Tamil people had a relationship with the Indus Valley Civilisation, the state is now continuing in that order in the old sites to find more,” said S Rajavelu, archaeologist and adjunct faculty, Alagappa University. “The three new sites have also been picked only after substantial evidences and artefacts were found.”“The digging will begin in seven sites in 2022 in a bid to dig into the past of the ancient Tamils and add to their glory and rich past,” Stalin said in a statement on Thursday. “These excavations will help us scientifically prove that the history of the Indian subcontinent is written from the Tamil landscape.”
21-01-2022||Other||Wooden replica of KV Corridor a hit among tourists||Wooden model of Kashi Vishwanath Corridor also known as Kashi Vishwanath Dham is in high demand, wooden toy makers of Varanasi said.These toy makers Bihari Lal Aggarwal and Amar Agarwal said that after the inauguration of Shri Kashi Vishwanath Dham by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on December 13, its wooden model has become the first choice of tourists visiting Varanasi.Besides tourists, wooden model of KV Corridor is in high demand among corporate houses, said Aggarwal. “KV corridor inauguration has been like a blessing for us,” he said.“The demand for the KV Corridor model made by craftsmen or wooden toy makers in Varanasi has been increasing. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath had also made an appeal to the people to be vocal for local,” said deputy director industries Virendra Kumar.“Their appeal to buy the products made by traditional craftsmen had also added to the sale of geographical indication (GI) tagged wooden toys. Now, wooden toy industry was generating employment opportunities for the people,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wooden-replica-of-kv-corridor-a-hit-among-tourists-101642705352173.html
21-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi riots: 5-year jail to man who burnt woman’s home||In the first ever jail sentence in the riots that rocked northeast Delhi in 2020, a city court on Thursday sent Dinesh Yadav, 25, to jail for five years for torching a 73-year-old woman’s house in Gokalpuri during the communal violence in February that year.Although the second sentencing in the cases surrounding the northeast Delhi riots, Thursday’s ruling marked the first conviction and sentencing after a full-fledged trial. In the first, there was no trial as the accused pleaded guilty and was let off for the period already spent in custody.Additional sessions judge Virender Bhat sentenced Yadav alias Michael for being part of an unlawful assembly (Sec 149 of the Indian Penal Code holds every member of such an assembly guilty when an offence is committed), armed rioting using a deadly weapon, trespassing into a house, robbery, and arson.On December 6, 2021, the court convicted Yadav in the case; the sentencing has been pending since then.Yadav was arrested in June 2020 and the charges in the case were framed on August 1, 2021. A total of 12 prosecution witnesses were examined during the trial.According to the prosecution, Yadav was an “active member of the riotous mob” and took active part in vandalising and setting afire the house of Manori Devi on February 25,2020.The woman, who was the complainant in the case, alleged that a mob of around 150-200 rioters attacked her house when her family was not present and looted all their belongings, including a buffalo.In its Thursday order, the court said that even though the offence was a serious one, no evidence was provided by the prosecution to prove that the unlawful assembly was in pursuance to some conspiracy.The judge noted that Yadav was a first time offender and has no record, adding that his young age has to be considered while deciding the quantum of sentence.“It is also to be kept in mind that the convict has been held guilty only by virtue of section 149 IPC and there was no evidence that he directly committed the incident of violence in which the house of victim Manori Devi had been vandalized and burnt. The young age of the convict also deserves to be kept in consideration while deciding the quantum of sentence to be imposed upon him,” the court said in a five-page order.It also noted that Yadav, did not have any movable or immovable properties, and is currently jobless, adding that it will be totally unjustified to direct him to pay any further compensation to Devi.The court awarded him five years imprisonment for arson (436 IPC) while also imposing a fine of ₹12000 for various offences which will be paid to the victim.It also sentenced him to six months imprisonment for the offence of 143 (unlawful assembly), one year imprisonment for the offence of rioting, three years for the offence under section 392 (robbery) and two years imprisonment for the offence under section 457 (trespass or house-breaking by night ) . All sentences will run concurrently. While convicting the accused, the judge had said that his presence IN the mob at the scene, with a wooden pole, indicated that he shared the common objective of unlawful assembly and to target a different community.The judge said that although the testimony of the beat police officials, the two eyewitnesses to the incident, revealed that Yadav had not taken any active part in vandalizing, looting or arson, it cannot be said that he was only a bystander or a passive spectator. Yadav is guilty of all those offenses which have been committed by the members of the unlawful assembly for the reason that he shared the common object of other members of the assembly, the judhe ruled. In the first sentencing on December 17, 2021, the court let off Kaleem Ahmed who accepted his guilt of harbouring Shahrukh Pathan, who was accused of rioting.
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Congress Ludhiana councillor Rakesh Prashar jumps ship, joins AAP ahead of the Punjab assembly elections||In a jolt to the Congress party in Ludhiana central constituency ahead of assembly elections, five-time councillor Rakesh Prashar, along with few other former councillors and district unit office bearers, on Thursday joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).The leaders were inducted into the party fold by AAP state president and chief ministerial face Bhagwant Mann in Chandigarh.Prashar left Congress following a rift with sitting congress MLA (central) Surinder Dawar. The latter had earlier raised a complaint to district party president Ashwani Sharma, alleging that the five-time councillor was indulging in anti-party activities by secretly campaigning for his brother Ashok Prashar Pappi, who had joined AAP in October last year before being named as the party’s candidate from the central constituency.After jumping ship, Parshar said Dawar’s incessant levelling of baseless allegations against him was what pushed him to switch parties.Reacting to the same, district Congress president said Prashar quit after being warned of disciplinary action due to his anti-party activities. He further said that both Prashar and Pappi had joined AAP in 2016 and returned to Congress after the latter was denied the party ticket in 2017, before adding that their exit will not affect the party’s chances in the constituency.In addition to Prashar, over a dozen more leaders including former councillors Satnam Ahuja, Ajay Nayyar (Tanki), former congress district vice-president Mahinder Saini, Manjinder Chauhan, Mukesh Verma, Babbu Walia, Amnish Prashar, Nirmal Virk among others also joined AAP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-ludhiana-councillor-rakesh-prashar-jumps-ship-joins-aap-ahead-of-the-punjab-assembly-elections-101642705115091.html
21-01-2022||Mumbai||Mumbai schools to reopen on Jan 24||MUMBAI: The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said on Thursday that all schools in the city, including pre-primary classes, will reopen on January 24. Earlier in the day, Maharashtra government had given its nod to reopen schools across the state on January 24 and had empowered local administrations to take a final call depending on the Covid situation in their respective jurisdictions. Mumbai guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray tweeted, “In line with the State Govt’s decision to let District Admins take a call on school reopening, Mumbai’s schools from pre-primary to 12th std will open with Covid SoPs from Monday, 24th. Keep the mask, and stay safe, while we can keep our learning going on.” Later, BMC commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal confirmed that all schools in Mumbai will reopen from Monday. A detailed list of standard operating protocols (SOPs) will be issued soon, BMC officials said. The state school education department had proposed the January 24 reopening to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who consented on Thursday, school education minister Varsha Gaikwad said. “The chief minister gave his consent to reopen offline schools for classes 1 to 12,” Gaikwad said. “Until now, pre-primary schools too were shut, but we have decided to reopen pre-primary schools as well. Wherever Covid cases have gone down, the schools will reopen from January 24. However, Covid-appropriate behaviour, the SOPs issued by the government must be followed by the schools.” She added, “We are not talking about blanket reopening of schools. Local bodies are empowered to decide depending on the Covid-19 situation in the city or district.” The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday night issued a set of guidelines for reopening schools from January 24 (Monday).In the circular signed by BMC education officer, Rajesh Kankal, the civic body said that parents who will be sending their children to school will have to submit a written consent letter to the school authorities. The guidelines also said that besides offline classes, online classes will also continue as per routine.Furthermore the BMC said that all the eligible students should be inoculated with Covid-19 vaccines at the earliest by arranging vaccination camps within the premises of their schools. The BMC administration has also ordered that teaching and non-teaching staffs appointed for verification of Covid vaccination certificates at railway stations and other BMC offices should be asked to report back to their schools at the earliest.The minister said parents’ consent is important. The government has requested parents to not send children to school if they are unwell. Schools have been told to ensure isolation facilities, in case any student shows symptoms. Gaikwad said the department had received several representations from stakeholders to reopen schools, and the department has made the decision to keep the safety of children in mind. Offline classes in schools and colleges had resumed in December 2021 as the second wave of Covid-19 was ebbing. However, with a surge in Coronavirus infections in January, the state government decided to keep offline classes shut. Besides the early signs of the third wave ebbing in some parts of the state, the growing pressure from various quarters to reopen schools prompted the nod by the chief minister’s office, officials said. “We received several representations from parents’ associations, schools, elected representatives, etc, to reopen schools,” Gaikwad said. “They all contended that the children are missing out on the social development, school atmosphere, interactions, etc. Our priority has always been the safety of children but as Covid cases are reducing we decided to reopen schools, and the final call will remain with the local municipal bodies.” Meanwhile, the higher and technical education department is also planning to send a proposal to the CMO to restart offline classes in colleges. Uday Samant, the higher and technical education minister, said, “Covid cases in many parts of the state are going down. Like the reopening of schools, we will send a proposal to the chief minister to restart colleges in areas where Covid-19 cases have decreased.” Vaccinations will be made mandatory for eligible students to attend physical classes, the minister added. While some schools and parents welcomed the state government’s decision of reopening schools for Class 1 to Class 12 from January 24, some were hesitant and apprehensive. “I think the right decision is been taken. The only problem is that the state keeps shutting and opening schools, which puts students in a state of confusion. Whenever I interact with my students, most of them are willing to join offline,” said Saba Patel, principal of Anjuman-I-Islam School, Bandra. Educational institutes that completely shut down in March 2020 following the nationwide lockdown, reopened in October 2021. In the last week of September, school education minister Varsha Gaikwad announced reopening physical classes for class 5 to 12 in rural areas while in urban areas physical classes from class 8 to 12 started from October 4. Classes 1 to 7 started physical classes only from December 15. Similarly, state higher education minister Uday Samant called for reopening of colleges in a phased manner only for fully vaccinated staff and students. All institutes were asked to adopt hybrid teaching mode until further updates. However, all educational institutes were shut in January 2022 following the surge in cases. “It is a wonderful decision, but I hope they do not close schools again,” said Father Francis Swamy, principal of Campion School. “Even if they close schools, the local body should take the decision based on the situation and there should not be a blanket decision implemented across the entire state. Covid is now a part of our lives, and we have to learn to live with it.” Prajodh Rajan, CEO and Co-founder of Lighthouse Learning, said, “Closing of schools has led to developmental loss amongst children. We are very excited to welcome our students back, and all necessary protocols are in place for safe resumption. We will be allowing only fully vaccinated staff and teachers to attend our schools and initially, the physical classes will also take place in small batches to ensure physical distancing is maintained.” While several representations from parents’ associations and schools demanded reopening, some schools and parents are still hesitant. Anubha Sahai, president of India Wide Parents Association, said, “It is too early. More than 80,000 children in Mumbai are infected with Covid at present. The state should decide on reopening colleges first.” According to Rupa Roy, principal of Balmohan Vidyamandir in Dadar, “There is a lot of uncertainty. Every third person is unwell, including some of our teachers. We will take a call on this tomorrow (Friday).” (with inputs from Pratip Acharya)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-schools-to-reopen-on-jan-24-101642705112675.html
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab assembly elections: District election officer apprises political parties of new modification at polling stations in Ludhiana||District election officer (DEO)-cum-deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma on Thursday conducted a meeting with the representatives of political parties at Bachat Bhawan to apprise them of certain modifications at the polling stations. During the meeting, the DEO said the polling stations had undergone a few modifications as per the guidelines issued by the Election Commission of India (ECI). He revealed that a polling station will now be set up for every 1250 voters as opposed to the previous count of 1200. He further announced the setting up of 14 auxiliary polling stations in the district, a few other modifications made at 62 additional stations and the change in the nomenclature of 133 polling stations given that names of the government schools housing them has earlier been changed after upgrades made by the government.Sharma informed party representatives that all the updated information related to polling stations had been posted on Ludhiana District Administration’s official website.He assured the representatives of level playing field before urging them to follow all directions issued by the ECI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-assembly-elections-district-election-officer-apprises-political-parties-of-new-modification-at-polling-stations-in-ludhiana-101642705058244.html
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Gang of robbers assault shopkeeper in Ludhiana, him of ₹1.57 lakh, valuables||Four persons barged into a mobile shop in Mandi Mullanpur on Wednesday evening and took away ₹1.57 lakh and other valuables, after assaulting the shop owner and his friend. In his complaint, the shop owner, Maninder Singh of Patti Gill village of Sudhar, said that one of the robbers had come to his shop earlier to get a mobile phone repaired. The complainant identified the accused as Sandeep Singh alias Bhaghel of Jangpur village. The robbery took place around 7.45pm when the shop owner was sitting with a friend. Suddenly, three men barged in and pulled the shutters of the shop down. One of their accomplices stood guard outside the shop.The accused assaulted the shop owner and his friend, and even threatened them with sharp-edged weapons, before taking ₹1.50 lakh from the cash box, ₹7,000 kept in his pocket, a laptop, and two hard discs.Before leaving, one of the robbers even asked for the mobile phone which had deposited at the shop in the afternoon for repairs.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Hameer Singh, the investigating officer, said the shopkeeper had claimed to have noted down the name and address of one of the alleged robbers, when he had visited the shop for mobile repair earlier. The ASI said that police are scanning closed-circuit television cameras to identify the accused. A case under Sections 379-B (snatching) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against unidentified accused at Dakha police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gang-of-robbers-assault-shopkeeper-in-ludhiana-him-of-1-57-lakh-valuables-101642705057085.html
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab assembly elections : Residents seek FIR, hefty fines on political parties for illegal posters||Defacement of public and private properties ahead of the state assembly elections by illegally pasting the posters has rubbed the city residents up the wrong way, with several of them criticising leaders and politicians of undoing all the work done under such projects as the Smart City Mission with these defacements.Posters put up by candidates from all the parties including Congress, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) among others can be seen pasted in large numbers at park walls, bridges, government and private properties in most parts of the city. The same were also see pasted on the boundary wall of the Municipal Corporation’s (MC) sub zone office near Middha chow, before the civic body teams removed them.Taking action, members of different non-governmental oraganisations (NGO) and independent activists have sought an FIR and imposition of hefty fines against not only leaders indulging in the practice, but also the contractors and printers who facilitate it.Social activist Dr SB Pandhi said hefty penalties should be imposed against the violators to discourage the practice, adding, “Even as the authorities have removed posters from the walls of MC sub office and a park near the office, the remains of the posers, which cannot be removed, still dot the properties.”“As a solution for this problem, the authorities should provide certain prominent sites to the candidates where they can install the posters for campaigning. Defacing properties should to be allowed at any cost as it defeats the purpose of developing a smart city,” he further suggested.Earlier in 2020, the MC had approved a resolution to impose a penalty of up to ₹50,000 for printing of illegal hoardings in the city, but alleged political interference has kept the civic body from taking any concrete action at the ground level.RTI activist Kuldeep Khaira said the leaders and contractors have now started pasting the posters at night in a bid to avoid the drawing attention of the authorities. He added that the act results in a loss to public exchequer as well as losses for owners of private properties as it requires repainting of walls.An Atam Nagar area resident, Amanpreet Singh said several supporters of a leader accompany the staff while pasting the posters and even harass the public for raising objections.MC additional commissioner Aaditya Dachalwal, meanwhile, said different teams have been deputed in all the four zones and the posters from the properties are removed as soon as a complaint is raised. He added that the power to take action against the candidates lies with assistant returning officers appointed by the Election Commission of India and that the MC could at best deploy more personnel to remove the illegal posters and hoardings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-assembly-elections-residents-seek-fir-hefty-fines-on-political-parties-for-illegal-posters-101642705055890.html
21-01-2022||Lucknow||Covid care: UP docs advise against self medication, stocking medicines||Doctors have advised people against stocking medicines just as they did during the Covid second wave. “It is not necessary that you may need same medicine you stock. Majority of expensive medicines used during the Covid second wave weren’t required now,” said Dr NS Verma, head of the department of physiology at the King George’s Medical University. Uttar Pradesh (UP) has been reporting around 15K new covid cases daily for nearly a week and people have started stocking medicines. “Paracetamol and azithromycin are more in demand,” said Vikas Rastogi, spokesperson for the Lucknow Chemist Association (LCA), the body of retail chemists. “Medicine has to be taken on medical advice only, as self-medication is risky. Unnecessary buying will create artificial crisis,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general association of international doctors. Suresh Kumar president of the LCA and a wholesale medicine dealer said though not as much it was during the second wave, but demand for medicine has certainly gone up. “During second wave there was lockdown and people feared more. Now market is open and supply is consistent hence there is no panic buying. But yes, sale of certain medicines including paracetamol and azithromycin, gloves, and masks have gone up by 80 to 100 percent,” he said. Chemists said demand for steamers too have gone up manifold for the past one week. “Not just Lucknow, retailers from nearby districts like Barabanki, Bahraich, Gonda, Sitapur, Hardoi, Raebareli too are purchasing more paracetamol, vitamin-C and multi-vitamins,” said Mayank Rastogi, a medicine trader. Retail chemists from adjoining districts purchase medicine from wholesale medicine traders in Lucknow’s Aminabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid-care-up-docs-advise-against-self-medication-stocking-medicines-101642705054660.html
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Basketball players in deprived of nutritious diet||Despite bringing numerous laurels to the country and making an impact on the National Basketball Association (NBA), the premiere global basketball league, players at the District Basketball Academy (DBA) are struggling to meet the basic nutrition necessary for them to compete in important tournaments.Players representing the Punjab Institute of Sports (PIS), most of whom are also pursuing their education in the city, have alleged a lack of proper diet being provided to them during their stay at the DBA hostels.A senior player staying at the hostel said, “We get simple dal and roti for lunch and dinner. We get two eggs with bread in the morning which is just not enough for us to train hard. We don’t even get a glass of milk. Those who are vegetarians are left with no other option but to train by having bread for breakfast. Despite making a lot of hue and cry, no one really bothers. .”The situation has worsened since the pandemic, with the service of a non-vegetarian diet being discontinued.“The quality of the food is poor, but we can’t voice our concerns with coaches or management here or else we would be thrown out of the team as there is mushrooming of players here,” another player said. “Not every player can afford the non-veg diet as their parents are already struggling with their school or college expenses, but we sacrifice other important needs to buy proper nutritious meals for us,” he added.A senior DBA official, sharing his concern, said no one in the administration has shown any interest in nourishing the talent.“Sports ministry and other senior sports officials make tall claims of strengthening the foundation of the players since the beginning but everything remains on paper and nothing is being delivered. They are there to steal the credit of the success of the players who work hard with their coaches without fulfilling their basic needs as a player”, the official said.He added that players cannot be expected to bag medals in big global sporting events if they have to continue to struggle for something as basic as a proper and nutritious diet.A sports department official, meanwhile, claimed that a new contractor for providing the food at the DBA hostels may be appointed after the state assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-institute-of-sports-players-at-district-basketball-academy-hostels-in-ludhiana-deprived-of-basic-nutritious-diet-101642705053463.html
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Dyeing industry slams Congress for attaching Ludhiana MC sewer lines with CETP||LudhianaAt a time when the Congress councillors and Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) from the east constituency Sanjay Talwar have been targeting the dyeing industry for dumping excessive waste illegally into the Municipal Corporation (MC) sewer lines, the Focal Point-based industry representatives on Thursday, accused a Congress councillor Sandeep Kumari of of ordering the attaching the sewer lines with the lines of 40 mld Focal point Common Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP), which has been established for treating the dyeing industry waste. The connection was attached in Vishwakarma colony in Ward Number 23. The industry representatives alleged that the accused councillor’s husband Gaurav Bhatti ordered the attaching of civic body sewer lines with the sewer lines meant for the CETP, despite objections raised over the same. Fearing damage to the CETP machinery worth over ₹40 crores, the industrialists have submitted a complaint with Deputy Commissioner Varinder Sharma, MC Commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) among other authorities.A Focal Point Special Purpose Vehicle’s (SPV) Director Rahul Verma said,” The 40 mld Focal Point CETP has been established at Tajpur road at a cost of around ₹96 crores. On Thursday morning, we came to know about the illegal practice of attaching MC sewer with the sewer line of CETP in Vishwakarma colony. We reached the spot and objected to the same. However, area councillor Sandeep Kumari’s husband, Gaurav Bhatti got the connection attached despite our objection.” “The sewer waste is now getting into the CETP which is established to treat the industry waste. We fear that machinery worth over ₹40 crores installed in the plant might get damaged. A complaint has been submitted with PPCB, MLA Talwar and police to take action in this case and get the sewer connection detached at the earliest,” he added. Despite attempts were made to reach councillor Sandeep Kumar and her husband Bhatti, they were not available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dyeing-industry-representatives-slam-congress-leaders-for-attaching-ludhiana-mc-sewer-lines-with-cetp-warn-of-40-cr-worth-of-damages-101642705052216.html
21-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | GADVASU organises lecture series on development of higher education||The College of Animal Biotechnology (CoABT), Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, (GADVASU), under the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) scheme on “Strengthening and Development of Higher Education in India” organised a programme aimed at widening students’ knowledge in fields of emerging scientific and social areas.Vice-chancellor Inderjeet Singh and Dean CoABT Dr Y S Malik were the chief patron and patron for the event respectively. In the inaugural session, the former discusses the dire need for students to update their knowledge in new and emerging trends in the world of science.He stressed on the importance of students being self-reliant, adding that CoABT is trying to ensure its students are able to face the world independently. R S Sethi and Simrinder Singh Sodhi were coordinators of the programmes, which also hosted different guest speakers.Ashoo Toor of the Punjab Agriculture University spoke on the “Diction in Academic Writing”’ and the understanding of the “Process of Technical and Research Writing”, apprising students of writing skills for research papers and thesis.Rajiv Kaul of the University of Delhi, meanwhile, delivered a lecture on “Next generation of vaccines: the lessons from history and implications for future”, focusing on the importance of vaccines with special reference to the ongoing pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-gadvasu-organises-lecture-series-on-development-of-higher-education-101642704938139.html
21-01-2022||India||Channi: Will file defamation case against Kejriwal over post on ED raids||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday said he will file a defamation case against his Delhi counterpart and Aam Aadmi Party’s national convener Arvind Kejriwal for dubbing him a “dishonest” person, after the Enforcement Directorate (ED) raided a few premises, including one linked to the Congress leader’s nephew, earlier this week. “I have sought permission from the Congress high command to file a defamation case against AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal for posting a morphed photograph of mine with cash on his official social media accounts and calling me a dishonest person. It is highly condemnable and unacceptable,” Channi told reporters. The Congress leader recalled how Kejriwal had made derogatory remarks against other political leaders in the past and had to apologise to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders Nitin Gadkari and Arun Jaitley, besides Shiromani Akali Dal leader Bikram Singh Majithia.“Similarly, now before the elections, Kejriwal is playing cheap political tactics by launching malicious and dubious attacks on me,” the Punjab chief minister said. “It is unacceptable to see him blame me for the ED raid on my relative, even though I have nothing to do with it. Had I been involved, ED would have arrested me by now. But Kejriwal, without any proof, levelled baseless allegations and crossed all limits by posting my doctored photograph with cash on social media,” he added. Analysts consider AAP and the Congress to be the front-runners in the Punjab election, which is scheduled for February 20. Results will be announced on March 10. Kejriwal earlier announced that Bhagwant Mann would be his party’s chief ministerial candidate. The Congress is yet to announce its CM candidate, with both Channi and the head of the state party unit Navjyot Singh Sidhu keen on the post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/channiwill-file-defamation-case-against-kejriwal-over-post-on-ed-raids-101642789178661.html
21-01-2022||India||To curb drug trafficking, Rajasthan police to set up Special Task Force||To restrict the increasing cases of smuggling of narcotic substances, the Rajasthan Police department has proposed to set up a special investigation team headed by an ADG rank official. A proposal for the same has been prepared by the state police, which will be sent to the Rajasthan government. The state is witnessing an increase in cases related to narcotics – 1,878 cases were lodged in 2018, which increased to 2,589 in 2019, 2,731 in 2020, and 2,989 in 2021. According to the proposal, the task force will be headed by an additional director general of police rank officer. This special wing will work across the state, solely focusing and working against narcotics and its rampant smuggling. Additional Director General of Police, Crime, Ravi Prakash said in view of the increasing cases of narcotics and for effective monitoring, a proposal for a special task force has been prepared, which will soon be sent to the government. A senior official familiar with the development said Rajasthan has areas where the poppy husk is grown such as Chittorgarh, Pratapgarh, Jhalawar, and Kota. Earlier, the state used to give licences for its cultivation but it has been stopped. The farmers do not destroy the residual crop, which is later sold in the grey market. Besides, the use of drugs and tablets in the Hanumangarh and Ganganagar areas is also increasing. The young generation is coming in contact with such substances, he said. In a recently held review meeting of the Home Department, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has said that the modus operandi of crime has changed with the passage of time. There are a lot of complaints related to cyber-crime. He also directed to set up a dedicated unit to check the illegal trade of narcotics and drugs in the state. The chief minister said that according to the changing times, the police should make the maximum use of information technology and various platforms on social media. This month, the Odisha government has also constituted a special task force against drug trafficking and drug abuse. The mandate of the task force will be to coordinate, suggest action in drug demand reduction, raise community awareness, increase community participation and public cooperation, focused intervention in schools, colleges and among the youth. 
21-01-2022||India||Myanmar national held in Mizoram with 2,500 kg of explosives||A Myanmar national along with two others was arrested in Mizoram with 2,500 kilograms of explosives and 4,500 metres of detonators. The Assam Rifles recovered the explosives and arrested the three men while carrying out an operation on Thursday night. Acting on a tip-off, Lunglei Battalion of Headquarters 23 Sector Assam Rifles under the aegis of Headquarters Inspector General Assam Rifles (East) along with the Mizoram Police carried out an operation and recovered war-like stores in General Area Zawngling, Saiha district on Thursday. The recovered items comprise 2,500 kilograms of explosives and 4,500 metres of detonators, Indian currency amounting to ₹73,500, Myanmar currency of Kyat 9,35,000 and a vehicle (with registration number MZ 07 7936), said Major Rawat from Assam Rifles headquarters, Masimpur, Assam. “Two Indian citizens and a Myanmar citizen from the Chin National Front (CNF), who transported the explosives and detonators, have been apprehended in the operation,” Major Rawat said.CNF is a Chin nationalist political organisation fighting for a federal union based on self-determination, ethnic equality and democracy in Myanmar. Its armed wing is the Chin National Army (CNA), Rawat said. Major Rawat also indicated that the Assam Rifles had prevented the loss of precious lives of civilians by recovering these items. However, the team did not reveal the identity of those arrested to maintain secrecy and proceed further in the investigation of the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/myanmar-national-held-in-mizoram-with-2-500-kg-of-explosives-101642787859914.html
21-01-2022||India||Union minister thrashed us with chair, say 2 Odisha officials; he calls it a ploy||BHUBANESWAR: Two Odisha government officials on Friday accused Odisha MP and union minister Bishweswar Tudu of assaulting them with a chair because they didn’t bring an official file with them to a meeting called by Turdu at the local Bharatiya Janata Party office in Baripada town of Mayurbanj district.Turdu, the union minister of state for tribal affairs and jal shakti, represents Mayurbhanj constituency in the Lok Sabha.Mayurbhanj district planning board assistant director Debasish Mohapatra, who reportedly ended up with a broken arm, said he along with deputy director Aswini Mallick were called for a review meeting of MPLADs scheme at the minister’s office in Baripada town’s BJP office on Friday afternoon when Tudu suddenly flew into a rage and started beating them up with a plastic chair.Tudu, who was elevated as a union minister in last year’s cabinet reshuffle, however, rejected the charge. “These are typical ploys by (Biju Janata Dal) ahead of the panchayat polls to derail our campaign. I am more focussed on the party campaign,” he said.Voting for Odisha’s panchayati raj institutions is scheduled in five phases between February 16 and 24. The counting of votes will be held on February 26, 27 and 28Mohapatra and his colleague, deputy director Ashwini Mallick, insisted that the minister was wrong.“My left hand was fractured due to the sudden attack by the minister,” Mohapatra said from the hospital bed. Hours later, they filed a formal complaint against the ministerInspector Birendra Senapati of Baripada town police station said the investigation in the case is on. A first information report (FIR) has been registered under sections 323 (Voluntarily causing hurt), 325 (grievous hurt), 294 (using obscene words) and 506 (criminal intimidation) at Baripada town police station.Deputy director Ashwini Mallick said the minister’s personal assistant first asked them on Thursday to meet the minister at the party office along with a file related to Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) on Thursday but they declined, citing the code of conduct that has kicked in due to the panchayat polls.“We told his PA that the minister can come to the district planning office or we can meet him in the Circuit House with the file. On Friday morning, he again called up asking us to visit him at a shopping mall in Baripada with the file. Later, his PA said we can meet him at his party office with the necessary information (but without the file) which we agreed,” said Mallick.Mallick said when he and Mohapatra met the minister at the latter’s party office, he lost his temper because they hadn’t brought the MPLADS file. “He verbally abused us and then started hitting us with a plastic chair without any provocation. We somehow managed to run away,” said Mallick. Tudu, who once worked as an engineer with the state water resources department, has been at loggerheads with the state government, accusing it of creating hurdles in the implementation of various central government welfare schemes.The union minister landed in a controversy in October last year after a video of his outburst against government officials at a review meeting in Odisha’s Keonjhar district emerged. In this, the minister was heard saying that in his home district Mayurbhanj, officers would be given a sound thrashing for neglecting their duties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-thrashed-us-with-chair-say-2-odisha-officials-he-calls-it-a-ploy-101642787378371.html
21-01-2022||India||Covid 3rd wave: Delhi's R-value drops below 1; Karnataka withdraws curbs | 5 points||The weekend lockdown in Delhi, imposed two weeks ago, will be in place this weekend too, as lieutenant governor Anil Baijal rejected the Delhi government's proposal to lift the weekend lockdown. However, private offices are now allowed to operate at 50% capacity instead of a complete work from home. Karnataka has withdrawn the weekend restriction starting from this week only. Sunday lockdown will be in place in Tamil Nadu as well.Here are 5 points about the present Covid-19 situation of the country:1. Delhi on Friday reported 10,756 fresh infections and 38 fatalities. Mumbai, at the same time, reported 5,008 new infections and 12 deaths. The 24-hour tally of Bengaluru was 29,068. Kerala reported 41,668 fresh infections.2. Maharashtra is preparing to reopen schools from Monday. Pune on Friday reported 16,618 fresh infections in the highest single-day addition so far.3. In a major drop of the R-value (reproduction value) which denotes the rate of the transmission of the infection among people, India's reproduction value stood at 1.1 on January 18. a significant fall from 2.24 on January 13, 4.03 on January 19, the Cambridge tracker of India's Covid-19 pandemic said.4. The reproduction value of Covid in Delhi (0.68), Maharashtra (0.87) and West Bengal (0.69) has fallen below 1 indicating that the transmission of the infection has slowed down in these places.5. India on Friday reported 3,47,254 fresh infections a day after the 24-hour tally breached the 3 lakh mark in the ongoing third wave of the pandemic. According to scientific projections, India's daily tally will not cross 4 lakh in the third wave and will fall below 3 lakh by end of January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-3rd-wave-delhi-s-r-value-drops-below-1-karnataka-withdraws-curbs-5-points-101642785950392.html
21-01-2022||India||Assam political parties oppose land-swap deal with Meghalaya to solve border row||Several political parties in Assam have opposed the proposed plan of Assam and Meghalaya governments to end the five-decades-old border dispute between them with a give and take formula by swapping border areas. On Thursday, chief ministers of both states had met union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi and apprised him of the recommendations of regional committees of the two states which suggested division of 6 of the 12 disputed areas. As per the recommendations, of the total 36.79 sq km disputed land in six areas-Gizang, Tarabari, Boklapara, Khanapara-Pilingkata and Ratacherra--Assam would get 18.51 sq km while Meghalaya would get 18.28 sq km. The recommendations were approved by cabinets of both states. “Have Assam or Assamese people encroached on land of other neighbouring states? No, we haven’t. But now in the name of resolving border dispute, Assam government has agreed to give our land, which was encroached by Meghalaya,” Raijor Dal president and Sivasagar MLA Akhil Gogoi said in a statement. “Imagine, I encroach a 10 ‘bigha’ plot that belongs to you. Soon a controversy erupts over it. To sort it, discussions are held and I was asked about my view. I said that I want the plot I encroached. This was agreed by both sides. This is the formula arrived at to solve the Assam-Meghalaya border row,” he added. Gogoi said that if the same measure is used to sort out the other 6 disputed areas with Meghalaya, Assam would lose more land. And by that same yardstick, Assam would lose a total of 690 sq km of its land to sort out border disputes with Meghalaya, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram. “The land swap deal done by Assam government by overlooking views of residents in those disputed areas has revealed that Assam would stand to lose. While we will give away our land to Meghalaya, the neighbouring state would hand us Assam’s land, which it had earlier encroached upon,” president of Assam Jatiya Parishad, Lurinjyoti Gogoi, said in a statement. “As per information tabled by the Assam government in the assembly on several occasions, Meghalaya had encroached nearly 35 sq km of our territory. As per the new formula agreed by both states, Assam and Meghalaya would each get half of that land. Is this an agreement or surrender?” he questioned. Both regional parties, Raijor Dal and Assam Jatiya Parishad blamed Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma of failing to listen to views of Assam’s populace and also of overlooking constitutional provisions while agreeing to give away the state’s land to Meghalaya. Earlier, Congress and All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), the two biggest opposition parties in the state assembly, had also opposed the land swap deal with Meghalaya and urged the BJP-led Assam government to discuss the issue in detail in the assembly before taking any hasty decision. 
21-01-2022||India||Assam Padma Shri awardee accused of raping minor sent to judicial custody||A Padma Shri awardee from Assam was on Friday sent to 14 days of judicial custody on charges of allegedly raping a 13-year-old girl who was in his foster care. Uddhab Bharali, a serial innovator who had won the Padma Shri in 2019, was sent to judicial custody by the court of chief judicial magistrate of Lakhimpur district after he surrendered before it on Friday. On Thursday the Gauhati High Court had cancelled Bharali’s anticipatory bail based on an audio-visual statement of the victim who alleged that the accused had subjected her to rape. Last month, police in Lakhimpur district had booked the 59-year-old under section 6 of the POCSO Act for aggravated penetrative sexual assault against the 13-year-old victim and sections 376 and 354 of IPC for rape and using criminal force to outrage modesty. But on December 28, based on a petition by Bharali, Justice Arun Dev Choudhury of Gauhati High Court granted interim bail for three-weeks to the Padma winner “considering the antecedents of the petitioner” with directions not to contact the victim or try and influence investigation. According to details of the case, two minor girls were placed under the foster case of Bharali and his wife by the Lakhimpur district child welfare committee (CWC) in August 2020. But in October last year, when he failed to renew the annual agreement of foster care despite repeated intimations, the CWC asked Bharali to produce both girls (one of whom had turned an adult) before them. After Bharali took both girls to the CWC, they remained in their care since October 28 last year. In December, the CWC asked Bharali to return the foster care agreement and on December 17 they cancelled the agreement on the ground that the minor child wasn’t willing to return to Bharali’s home. A CWC member informed on condition of anonymity that the minor disclosed that she was repeatedly raped by Bharali while she was in his home. On December 17, the CWC forwarded the matter to the district legal services authority (DLSA) who in turn conducted a medical test of the child and informed about it to the local chief judicial magistrate (CJM). Based on the DLSA report and preliminary findings, which confirmed rape, the CJM directed the police to file a case. While the police registered the case on December 18, Bharali wasn’t arrested and it allowed him time to apply and secure interim bail on December 28. Bharali has maintained his innocence and stated that he has some dispute with CWC chairman Anil Kumar Borah and that the FIR was filed “to humiliate and malign his reputation”. Borah, however, refuted the accusation. 
21-01-2022||India||Shifting of Amar Jawan Jyoti, new Netaji statue trigger political protest in Bengal||The West Bengal Congress and Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Friday opposed the shifting of the Amar Jawan Jyoti in New Delhi and criticised the Prime Minister and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for announcing a new statue of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose at the India Gate. Narendra Modi announced on Friday that a statue of Netaji would be set up at India Gate in the heart of the national capital and till it is made there will be a three-dimensional holographic statue which he will inaugurate on Bose’s 125th birth anniversary on January 23. “At a time when the entire nation is marking the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, I am glad to share that his grand statue, made of granite, will be installed at India Gate. This would be a symbol of India’s indebtedness to him,” tweeted the Prime Minister and posted images of the holograph and the proposed statue. “Till the grand statue of Netaji Bose is completed, a hologram statue of his would be present at the same place. I will unveil the hologram statue on 23rd January, Netaji’s birth anniversary,” said a second tweet from the Prime Minister. During the day, the Centre also moved the torches at Amar Jawan Jyoti - a memorial set up in Delhi in 1972 by then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi as homage to Indian soldiers who laid down their lives in the 1971 Bangladesh Liberation War - to the newly constructed National War Memorial nearby. The TMC criticised both the decisions. “Indira Gandhi had lit the Amar Jawan Jyoti after the 1971 Bangladesh War. L K Advani compared her to Goddess Durga for that victory against Pakistan. Modi, on the other hand, set up the National War Memorial in 2019. Both flames could have been allowed. The BJP and the RSS had no contribution in India’s freedom struggle. The BJP wants to wipe out our history and present a distorted narrative,” said TMC Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy. Though he welcomed the decision to set up a new statue of Netaji, Roy said it was an effort to divert people’s attention from the protest against denial to the tableau on Netaji that the Bengal government planned for the Republic Day parade in Delhi. “The Centre could have allowed the tableau. They rejected it because of their narrow-minded politics. The Centre wants to install the statue because the BJP has been exposed. It has no respect for our national heroes,” said Roy. Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury also targeted the BJP, saying it had insulted soldiers of the Indian army. “The BJP wants to distort every episode in history. The shifting of the flame is an insult to soldiers who laid down their lives. Similarly, the announcement on a new statue of Netaji is a hasty afterthought to divert public attention from the denial to the tableau. The BJP is doing politics with Netaji with an eye on elections,” Chowdhury said. Netaji’s daughter, Anita Bose-Pfaff, who lives in Germany, told news agency PTI on January 17 that Bose’s legacy has often been exploited for political reasons. “.....the opening of the anniversary year was celebrated in a bigger way, of all places in Kolkata, had something to do with election and election prospects in Bengal. The fact that nothing happened this year…..certainly the issue is not as important as last year,” she had told PTI in an interview. In January last year, the Prime Minister announced the formation of a high-level committee headed by him for holding year-long programmes to commemorate the 125th birth anniversary of Bose. The 85-member committee included union ministers, parliamentarians from Bengal, chief ministers, historians and members of the Bose family. Union home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh, chief minister Mamata Banerjee, former prime ministers, Manmohan Singh and H D Deve Gowda and Congress leaders, Ghulam Nazi Azad and Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury were made members of the committee. “This is a befitting tribute to the legendary Netaji, who gave everything for India’s freedom. Netaji is an epitome of India’s true strength & resolve. Congress has left no stone unturned to forget the immortal contributions of India’s brave son,” Shah tweeted on Friday. Netaji’s grand-nephew Chandra Kumar Bose, a BJP leader from Bengal, is also a member of the committee. Bose, who had criticised the BJP on several occasions in the past, said during the controversy over the tableau that the committee was defunct. “Tug of War with #Netaji Tableau- no one thought about the content being displayed on the Tableau depicting #NetajiINA! People questioning the expertise of the #Expert Committee to judge the history being projected! What was the necessity of the #High-Level Committee when it is defunct,” Bose tweeted on Wednesday. Defending the Centre, Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said: “The Congress and the Leftists, who made all efforts to downplay Netaji’s role in the freedom struggle, are raising their voice when the BJP is celebrating Netaji’s birthday as Parakram Diwas (day of valour). This is nothing but an effort to create an unnecessary controversy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shifting-of-amar-jawan-jyoti-new-netaji-statue-trigger-political-protest-in-bengal-101642784022281.html
21-01-2022||India||Daily Covid cases likely to drop below 3 lakh by end of January: Cambridge tracker||The Cambridge tracker of Covid pandemic, a tracker developed by the UK's University of Cambridge, in its latest report, said India will reach the peak of the 3rd wave on January 24 and by the end of January, the trend value of reported daily cases will drop below 3 lakh. As on January 18, when the latest report has been published, the global R-value stood at 1.1, showing a declining trend in the transmission of the disease.Daily cases are clearly past their peaks in Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Goa, Jharkhand, Maharashtra and West Bengal, in terms of their underlying trends. Their reproduction numbers are below one and daily growth rates are negative, the report said.According to the report, Daily cases in Chandigarh, Gujarat, Haryana, Mizoram, Punjab, Rajasthan, Telangana, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh can be expected to peak within this week. Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh are likely to peak towards the end of January.Covid 3rd wave: India unlikely to cross 4 lakh cases per day, scientists project The peak is not yet in sight for Kerala, where the daily growth rate appears to be approaching its plateau at 21%.States which have an R-value over 1, as estimated on January 18, include Andra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Chandigarh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, J&K, Karnataka, Kerala, Ladakh, Lakshadweep, Madhya Pradesh, Nagaland, Manipur, Meghalaya, Odisha, Puducherry, Punjab, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand.The R-value indicates the rate of transmission of the infection. If it is over 1, it means one infected person is spreading the infection to more than 1 person. A value below 1 indicates a declining trend.On Friday, India reported 3,47,254 fresh infections and 703 fatalities.  On Thursday, the 24-hour tally was a little over 3 lakh 17,000 which was the highest spike in the last eight months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daily-covid-cases-likely-to-drop-below-3-lakh-by-end-of-jan-cambridge-tracker-101642782190717.html
21-01-2022||India||India, Canada to probe death of 4 Indians including infant who died near US border||NEW DELHI: Indian authorities will work with their Canadian counterparts to investigate the death of four Indian nationals from exposure to severe cold on the Canadian side of the border with the United States during an apparent human smuggling operation.External affairs minister S Jaishankar on Friday directed the Indian envoys to the US and Canada to respond to the incident. The Indian nationals, including an infant, reportedly died after they were abandoned near the US border. The dead also included a male teenager, an adult male and an adult female who are yet to be identified. US authorities have arrested a 47-year-old resident of Florida named Steve Shand for allegedly “smuggling undocumented foreign nationals”. Reacting to the development, Jaishankar tweeted: “Shocked by the report that 4 Indian nationals, including an infant have lost their lives at the Canada-US border. Have asked our Ambassadors in the US and Canada to urgently respond to the situation.” Ajay Bisaria, India’s high commissioner to Canada, described the incident as a “grave tragedy”.“An Indian consular team is travelling today [Friday] from @IndiainToronto to Manitoba to coordinate and help. We will work with Canadian authorities to investigate these disturbing events,” he tweeted.On Wednesday, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) in the province of Manitoba received information that the US Customs and Border Protection (USBP) had apprehended a group of individuals who crossed into the US from Canada near the town of Emerson in Manitoba. RCMP said in a statement that one of the detained adults had items meant for an infant but no infant was with the group.Following a search, RCMP officers initially found the bodies of three individuals on the Canadian side of the border. After continuing their search, the officers located the body of the teenage male. On the US side of the border, American law enforcement personnel found five Indian nationals a quarter mile south of the Canadian border on Wednesday. They said they had walked across the border “expecting to be picked up by someone” and “estimated they had been walking around for over 11 hours”, according to a statement from the US attorney’s office for the District of Minnesota. One of the five Indians was carrying a backpack for a family of four Indian nationals “that had earlier walked with his group but had become separated during the night”, the statement said. The backpack contained children’s clothes and medication, a diaper and toys. USBP received a report from RCMP about the four bodies found frozen on the Canadian side of the border. These bodies were tentatively identified as the family of four that was separated from the other Indians. 
21-01-2022||India||Meghalaya CM Conrad Sangma tests positive for Covid-19 in Delhi||Meghalaya chief minister Conrad K Sangma on Friday tested positive for Covid-19 in New Delhi. Soon after he addressed the 59th Meghalaya Day celebrations via video conferencing from the national Capital, Sangma tweeted that he had tested positive for the viral infection.“I have tested positive for COVID-19. I am isolating myself for the required time. I have mild symptoms. All those who came in contact with me over the last few days are requested to observe their symptoms and test if necessary,” he wrote on Twitter.The Meghalaya CM had accompanied Assam chief minister Himanta B Sarma to the national Capital yesterday to meet Union home minister Amit Shah and submit the joint reports of the two states over the areas of differences and the partial resolutions arrived at recently between them.Yesterday, taking to twitter after meeting Shah, Sangma informed that the HM was apprised of the regional committee reports and that the Ministry of Home Affairs will examine the reports, following which, both the chief ministers will meet Shah after January 26. Sangma had stated, “We have also considered ethnicity as something very important. Both the Assam and the Meghalaya governments have felt strongly that any of the states may try to claim an area but the people living in that area, if they don’t wish to be in a particular state, one cannot force them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalaya-cm-conrad-sangma-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-delhi-101642781443025.html
21-01-2022||India||German warship’s visit to Mumbai reflects Berlin’s new focus on Indo-Pacific||The German frigate Bayern sailed into Mumbai port on Friday after traversing the South China Sea as part of Berlin’s focus on maritime and security cooperation in the Indo-Pacific, marking the first visit by a German warship to India in almost a decade. Ahead of the warship’s arrival in Mumbai, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and defence secretary Ajay Kumar held separate meetings with the German Navy chief, Vice Admiral Kay-Achim Schönbach, in New Delhi on Thursday. Their talks focused on maritime security cooperation and greater engagement with Germany in the Indo-Pacific. The visit of the German frigate follows forays into the Indo-Pacific by other European navies. France deployed its carrier group to the region in 2019 and the UK’s largest warship, the aircraft carrier HMS Queen Elizabeth, and its strike task group sailed through the Indian Ocean and South China Sea in 2021. The Bayern, a 3,600-tonne F123 Brandenburg-class frigate, will dock in Mumbai for a day and conduct a passing exercise with the Indian Navy before sailing home after a seven-month deployment aimed at encouraging free and peaceful trade in the Indo-Pacific. The last German warship to visit India was the frigate Bremen in 2012, and the Bayern’s visit to Mumbai highlights the emerging importance of the Indo-Pacific on the world stage, the German embassy said in a statement. The warship was received at Mumbai port by Maharashtra minister Aditya Thackeray and German envoy Walter Lindner, who noted that 50% of global GDP comes from the Indo-Pacific and three major economies – the US, Japan and China – are located around this region. He also pointed to the need to ensure maritime routes remain free and peaceful. “But on the other side, we have regional tensions. We have at least three nuclear powers here. So, it is important to have free maritime routes and...a peaceful area with stability...the stability where conflicts are solved with mutual understanding,” he said. Referring to Germany’s Indo-Pacific policy unveiled in September 2020, which envisages greater security and economic cooperation, Lindner said: “This ship’s visit shows that we are not just talking.” “Germany recognises a significant shift of the world’s political and economic centre towards the Indo-Pacific. India is a key player in the region and our strategic partner and long-standing friend,” he said. “The message we want to promote is that of free navigation, maintenance of a rules-based international order and peaceful seas for flourishing trade.” Both France and Germany played a key role in forging the European Union’s Indo-Pacific policy that focuses on freedom of navigation and overflight and upholding a rules-based order. These moves came against the backdrop of China’s growing assertiveness in the Indo-Pacific, especially in South China Sea, where it is engaged in disputes with several countries. The Bayern has been in the Indo-Pacific since August 2021 on a patrol and training mission. This deployment is a direct outcome of the German Indo-Pacific guidelines and in line with the new EU Indo-Pacific strategy, and signals the significance of the region for Europe and Germany, the German embassy said. “Germany and the European Union are actively engaged to uphold the principle of free navigation and the rules-based international order. Germany has vital interests in the Indo-Pacific, a region that grows in significance, politically and economically. Germany and India are advocates of free trade,” it said. 
21-01-2022||India||Time for me to stand for Manohar Parrikar’s values, says son Utpal; quits BJP||Utpal Parrikar, the son of former union defence minister and four-time Goa chief minister Manohar Parrikar on Friday resigned from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and announced he will contest as an independent from Panaji, the seat represented by his father for 25 years.Utpal Parrikar was denied a ticket by the BJP, which chose to hand over the party’s ticket to Atanasio “Babush” Monserrate, who won the seat in 2019 on a Congress ticket in the by-election held to fill the vacancy resulting from Parrikar’s passing.Announcing his decision, Utpal said: “People of Panaji did not vote for Manohar Parrikar just because he is MP. They voted for him because he stood for some values. The time has come for me to also stand for those values. I would like to announce that I will be contesting as an independent candidate from Panaji constituency.“I tried my best even during last elections and this election to convince my party that I enjoy not only the support of all the workers, who have built this party for the last 30 years, who had toiled with my father to build this party in Panaji. They are also toiling with me today. I have also enjoyed their support and the support of the general population of Panaji. In spite of that for some reason I have not been able to get the candidature of Panaji constituency. It has been given to someone who has opportunistically come within the party within the last two years. Due to these circumstances, I have no choice but to stand for the values my father believed in and go ahead and let the people of Panaji decide my political fate,” he added.Utpal was offered to contest from another two seats in Goa, both of which he rejected and questioned party leader Devendra Fadnavis who had earlier said that the BJP does not hand out tickets just because he is Manohar Parrikar’s son.”“If the party does not hand out tickets just because you are somebody’s son then why was I being offered to contest from other seats? I am not asking for the ticket because I want something on the platter,” Utpal said.“I am not here for some position or post or becoming MLA. I am fighting for some values which I believe in. I am fighting for Panaji. Let the people of Panaji decide. The candidate given by the party, I feel even embarrassed to talk about him. In Panaji, where the party has grown over 30 years,to give a ticket to someone with such a rapsheet who joined two years ago, I had no choice. I have to go to the people,” he added.Asked whether he would support the BJP in the future in a possible post-poll scenario, Utpal said that he will place such decisions before the people of Goa “at the right time.”Utpal Parrikar also welcomed the support he was receiving from other political parties notably the Shiv Sena which said that should Utpal decide to contest, other parties should support him.“Any support required to fight the type of candidate I am fighting is welcome,” Utpal said. .The ruling BJP in its first list of candidates ignored Utpal’s claims for the Panaji seat and instead chose Babush Monserrate, who joined the BJP from the Congress in 2019 along with nine other Congress MLAs. Monserrate who is facing trial for charges including rape, rioting, etc was preferred on grounds of “winnability” with party incharge Devendra Fadnavis saying that he was given the ticket because he was the ‘sitting MLA.’“A sitting MLA has been given a ticket in Panaji. Parrikar’s family is our family. They are close to us. I had given Utpal Parrikar two options, from where he could contest. BJP has respected the Parrikar family,” Fadnavis said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/time-for-me-to-stand-for-manohar-parrikar-s-values-says-son-utpal-quits-bjp-101642778980556.html
21-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Co-WIN now allows 6 members to register from one number and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Co-WIN registration limit extended, now 6 members can sign up from one numberThe registration limit for Co-WIN, the central government's web portal for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccination, was on Friday extended to now support six members from one mobile number instead of four. In addition, a new utility feature has been added under which an existing beneficiary can apply to have their vaccination status changed from fully vaccinated to partially vaccinated or even unvaccinated. Read MoreDelhi's Covid tally continues to dip with 10,756 new cases, positivity rate goes below 20%Delhi on Friday maintained its declining trend in fresh cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) with as many as 10,756 infections, according to the health bulletin data. The figures are 1,550 fewer than Thursday when 12,306 new Covid-19 cases were logged in 24 hours. With the new additions, the overall case tally of the national capital has reached 17,71,028, the bulletin data revealed. Read MoreSC refuses to entertain plea against Kangana Ranaut, says ‘more you publicise..’The Supreme Court on Friday refused to entertain a plea brought by a Sikh advocate, Charanjeet Singh Chanderpal, seeking censorship on Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut's social media statements. A bench of Justice DY Chandrachud and Justice Bela Trivedi suggested that the petitioner has two possible solutions: one is to ignore the utterances made by Kangana or avail remedy under law. Read MoreIndia blocks 35 YouTube channels, calls them ‘Pakistan’s fake news factories’India has ordered blocking of 35 Pakistan-based YouTube channels and two websites for “spreading anti-India fake news in a coordinated manner over digital media”, the government said on Friday. Read MoreYuvraj Singh takes a dig at India's fielding against South Africa: 'Guys are looking at each other on overthrows'Former India all-rounder Yuvraj Singh is not impressed with the standards of fielding the Indian team has displayed during the ODI series against South Africa. Following the first ODI, which India lost by 31 runs, Yuvraj, one of India's finest fielders of all time, expressed displeasure over the team's ground fielding. Read MoreParineeti Chopra, Bharti Singh cry as Hunarbaaz contestant’s son won’t talk to him, Mithun Chakraborty recalls insultsThe judges of Hunarbaaz - Mithun Chakraborty and Parineeti Chopra--as well as host Bharti Singh were moved to tears by the story of a contestant, whose son is not on talking terms with him. Manoj Jain wowed everyone with his magic tricks and even hypnotised host Haarsh Limbachiyaa. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-co-win-now-allows-6-members-to-register-from-one-number-101642777768986.html
21-01-2022||India||194 schools register to get affiliation from Sainik School Society||A total of 194 applications have been received from schools to get affiliation from the Sainik School Society, the government said in a statement on Friday.In September last year, the Union Cabinet cleared the proposal of affiliation of 100 schools, including both private and public, with the Sainik School Society, an autonomous organisation under the ministry of defence. The decision was taken in line with the new National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 that advocates “value-based education, enabling children to develop pride in the rich culture and heritage of this nation, effective leadership with character, discipline, sense of national duty and patriotism.”Currently, there are 33 Sainik Schools in the country that account for a large number of candidates who join the armed forces. Until now, Sainik Schools were set up after receiving requests from state governments/union territories that have to provide infrastructure such as land and educational/ residential buildings.“So far, 194 schools have registered at https://sainikschool.ncog.gov.in. Subsequently evaluation of schools will be carried out by the School Evaluation Committee at the district level and the report will be submitted to Sainik Schools Society by the last week of January 2022. The evaluation committee will consist of the District Magistrate/Collector as Chairman, principal of NVS/KVS located in the same district, and the principal of the closest Sainik School,” the statement stated.The schools approved by Sainik Schools Society will start following Sainik Schools’ curriculum and activities from the upcoming academic session i.e April 2022 from Class 6 onwards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/194-schools-register-to-get-affiliation-from-sainik-school-society-101642778078336.html
21-01-2022||India||Now six members can register on CoWIN through one mobile number||Six members can now be registered using one mobile number on CoWIN portal for Covid-19 vaccination as opposed to the current cap of four family members, as the government on Friday announced having made changes to the system.“In continuation of updates on various utility features of Co-WIN for the beneficiaries, the following features are added in the self-registration portal of CoWIN: a) registration on Co-WIN –Instead of the existing limit of 4 members, now 6 members can be registered using one mobile number on Co-WIN...,” the Union health ministry said in a statement. Also, since some registered beneficiaries have been getting erroneous messages regarding their vaccination status, the government has made a provision for revoking vaccination status in the CoWIN system.“A new utility feature has been introduced under raise an issue in Co-WIN account through which a beneficiary can revoke the current vaccination status from fully vaccinated to partially vaccinated or unvaccinated status and also partially vaccinated to unvaccinated status,” read the health ministry statement.The ministry also clarified that the vaccination status can be corrected by the beneficiaries, where in occasional isolated cases, the vaccination certificates are generated due to inadvertent data entry errors by the vaccinator in updation of vaccination data of beneficiaries.The changes, however, may reflect 3-7 days after submitting the online request through raise an issue utility on the portal. Such beneficiaries can get their due vaccine dose, may be at the nearest vaccination centre, as per the existent standard guidelines once new vaccination status is successfully updated in the system.The backbone of the Covid-19 vaccine delivery system has been CoWIN, the IT platform modified for implementation of the national immunisation programme. The CoWIN platform was created by upgrading the earlier digital platform used for Universal Immunization Program (UIP) vaccine distribution based on Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (eVIN) system.The government has been making changes at regular intervals to the system to make it easier for the beneficiaries to avail of the facility.“From self-registration, to making changes in personal details, and to be able to download your digital vaccination certificate etc., the system has been modified over a period of time for the ease of beneficiaries; to make the process convenient for them. User feedback has also been important for us as it has helped in making the system better. Initially there were some issues but with time and improvement it is functioning very well,” said a senior government official aware of the matter, on condition of anonymity.
21-01-2022||India||SC refuses to entertain plea against Kangana Ranaut, says ‘more you publicise..’||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to entertain a plea brought by a Sikh advocate, Charanjeet Singh Chanderpal, seeking censorship on Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut's social media statements. A bench of Justice DY Chandrachud and Justice Bela Trivedi suggested that the petitioner has two possible solutions: one is to ignore the utterances made by Kangana or avail remedy under law."You are doing your cause a disservice by publicising what she said. The more you publicise it, the more you serve her cause. So, please stop repeating," Chandrachud said in reference to the petitioner's object to what Kangana said about the Sikhs.In the plea, the advocate referred to Kangana's Instagram statement where she wrote, "Khalistani Terrorists may be arm twisting the Government today, but let's not forget one woman, the only woman Prime Minister ne inko apni jooti ke neeche crush kiya tha (the only woman PM who crushed them under her shoes)...No matter how much suffering she caused to this nation… she crushed them like mosquitoes at the cost of her own life…. Lekin desh k tukde nahi hone diye…even after decades of her death… aaj bhi uske naam se kampte hain yeh…. Inko vaisa he guru chahiye… (they shiver from her name even today…they need such a guru)."Petitioner Chanderpal said Kangana is going on and on with her “outrageous” and "defamatory" statements that “Sikh Farmers were Khalistani Terrorists” and tried to portray the community as “anti-national”. "When we go to Gurudwaras, when we sit with the normal Sikhs over there, people don't distinguish between who is a Khalistani and who is a Sikh," the petitioner said."Don’t you think that common Indian citizens understand this and know the differences?" the bench asked him.The petitioner sought to club multiple FIRs lodged against Kangana to which the bench said, "You want all FIRs to be clubbed and investigated exclusively by the Khar police? Who are you to do all this? You are not the accused, you are not the complainant, you are some person in the public, you are a member of the bar..."(With inputs from PTI and LiveLaw)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-refuses-to-entertain-plea-against-kangana-ranaut-says-more-you-publicise-101642774696753.html
21-01-2022||India||Kerala’s ruling CPI(M) suffers setback as HC bans public events for a week||The ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) suffered a setback on Friday after the Kerala High Court banned all programmes that exceed 50 people putting a question mark on the ongoing party district committee meetings in Thrissur and Kasaragod. Hearing a public interest litigation questioning participation in party meetings during the pandemic, a division bench of the court said if participation in the Republic Day parade was limited to 50 people it can be applicable to party meetings also. It also said the government’s explanation in this regard was not satisfactory and banned all programmes that exceed more than 50 people for a week. Petitioner Arun Raj contended that earlier the Kasaragod district collector had issued a directive banning all public functions but later he was forced to issue a fresh circular to facilitate the party district conference. He said Covid -19 restrictions were compromised to facilitate the party district meet and he also cited the so-called “superspreader party event” in Thiruvananthapuram last week. The court questioned the logic behind organising major party programmes when less than 50 people were permitted for Republic Day events in the state. The court also said in Kasaragod district the test positivity rate was more than 36 per cent. The court later gave an interim order banning all programmes that exceed 50 people. Opposition Congress has welcomed the decision of the court. “The party should realise its blunder at least for now and suspend the ongoing meetings,” said opposition leader V D Satheesan. CPI(M) leader A N Shamseer said the party state leadership will take an appropriate decision after going through the court directive. Both district meetings were inaugurated on Friday morning. Despite a heavy virus caseload and subsequent restrictions, the CPI(M)’s decision to go ahead with two district committee meetings invited widespread criticism. Opposition Congress and BJP alleged that pandemic restrictions were tweaked by the government for the smooth functioning of the meets and the party was repeating its mistakes. After the Thiruvananthapuram district conference last week about 100 delegates including education minister V Sivankutty and two legislators tested positive. Mega ‘Thiruvathira’ dance programme during the Thiruvananthapuram conference in which more than 500 women artists participated drew a lot of flak and later the party had to admit that it was wrong to conduct such a mass dance programme during the Covid-19 pandemic. “The government manipulated restrictions to conduct party meets. In both districts, the test positivity rate is more than 35 per cent. The party thinks that it can do anything and get away easily. How can the government insist that the common man should follow restrictions?” asked Satheesan. Instead of postponing these meets the party was posing a challenge to others and reduce itself to a laughing stock, he said. He added that the Congress has postponed all its programmes due to a spike in cases and the ruling party should have been more considerate and responsible. “Blind with power the party has lost its balance and semblance. When cases mount it is in a race to organise mega meets. Its Thiruvananthapuram meet has turned super spreader and it is yet to learn a lesson from its mistakes,” said BJP leader S Suresh. But party politburo member M A Baby scoffed at the criticisms. “These meets are conducted in a scientific and Covid-appropriate manner. Our political rivals are cooking up stories to take the spirit out of the meets,” he said. Kerala on Friday reported another spike with 41,668 cases after 95,218 samples were tested with a TPR of 43%. Active cases also rose to 2,23,548 and it also reported 33 deaths taking the death toll to 51,607, according to the data released by the state health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keralas-ruling-cpi-m-suffers-setback-as-hc-bans-public-events-for-a-week-101642773277583.html
21-01-2022||India||India blocks 35 YouTube channels, calls them ‘Pakistan’s fake news factories’||NEW DELHI: India has ordered blocking of 35 Pakistan-based YouTube channels and two websites for “spreading anti-India fake news in a coordinated manner over digital media”, the government said on Friday.“These channels were toxic and spreading anti-India propaganda,” information and broadcasting ministry secretary Apurva Chandra said in a Press conference. “More and more such channels will continue to be blocked. Not only intelligence agencies, we urge the people to come forward and notify us of such content.”Chandra also reminded YouTube that the company should have also kept track of the content uploaded on its platform. “This is also the responsibility of the intermediaries. YouTube should also see that these are absolutely fake news,” he said, referring to India’s new intermediary rules notified last year.This is the second instance of the government blocking YouTube channels and websites linked to Pakistan in the last month. On December 21, the government said 20 YouTube channels were ordered to be blocked under emergency provisions incorporated in the information technology rules last February. YouTube later took down those channels.Union minister of information and technology Anurag Thakur said that any social media account trying to mislead the public would be taken down. “Any account that is trying to spin a conspiracy or mislead the people will be actioned,” he told reporters.An officias statement released on the action against “Pakistani fake news factories”, said these channels had over 12 million subscribers and over 1,320 million views. They include Khabar with facts, Khabar Taiz, Information Hub, Flash Now, Mera Pakistan With, Hakikat Ki Duniya and Apni Dunya Tv.“These channels were spreading misinformation about the Indian army, including conspiracies that the death of chief of defence staff Bipin Rawat was an assassination,” said Vikram Sahay, the ministry’s joint secretary and designated officer under the information technology law. “These threaten the sovereignty and the integrity of India.”According to the ministry, the YouTube channels, websites, and other social media accounts blocked were used by “Pakistan to spread anti-India fake news about sensitive subjects related to India”. “These include topics such as the Indian Army, Jammu and Kashmir, and India’s foreign relations with other countries. It was observed that rampant fake news was spread through the YouTube channels regarding the demise of the former Chief of Defence Staff Late General Bipin Rawat. These YouTube channels had also started posting content to undermine the democratic process of the upcoming elections in five states,” the ministry said in an official statement.“The channels propagated content to encourage separatism, divide India on the lines of religion, and create animosity among the various sections of the Indian society. Such information was feared to have the potential to incite the audience into commission of crimes adversely affecting public order in the country.”The directions to block the content has been issued using the emergency powers granted to the secretary of I&B, who can order an immediate takedown of content under the new social media and intermediary guidelines. The interim order will be placed in front of the inter-departmental committee for review.The inter-departmental committee forms the apex of the three-tier redressal mechanism, which includes a self-regulatory mechanism, followed by regulation by industry bodies. The committee, in a first, also has members from the industry body — one member each from the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry and Confederation of Indian Industry, one member from the Bar Council of India and a member from the Press Council of India. Besides these, the committee also has members from ministries such as the ministry of women and child development, ministry of law and justice, ministry of home affairs, ministry of electronics and information technology, ministry of external affairs and ministry of defence.The guidelines have, however, been challenged by various media consortiums in court for leading to censorship of news content.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-blocks-35-youtube-channels-calls-them-pakistan-s-fake-news-factories-101642772737569.html
21-01-2022||India||Co-WIN registration limit extended, now 6 members can sign up from one number||The registration limit for Co-WIN, the central government's web portal for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccination, was on Friday extended to now support six members from one mobile number instead of four. In addition, a new utility feature has been added under which an existing beneficiary can apply to have their vaccination status changed from fully vaccinated to partially vaccinated or even unvaccinated.The latest changes come as part of a series of updates on various utility features for Co-WIN rolled out by the government for beneficiaries of the web portal.According to an official release, these are the latest updates that were added to the Co-WIN platform:1. Registration on Co-WIN: Instead of the existing limit of four members, now six members can be registered using one mobile number on Co-WIN.2. Revoke vaccination status: A new utility feature has been introduced under the “Raise an issue” complaint in the Co-WIN account. Through this new feature, a beneficiary can ask for their current vaccination status to be revoked from fully vaccinated to partially vaccinated or even unvaccinated.This feature has been introduced so that the vaccination status can be corrected by the beneficiaries themselves, as in isolated cases the vaccination certificates are generated due to inadvertent data entry errors by the vaccinator while updating vaccination data for the beneficiaries.The changes may however take 3-7 days to reflect since the issue first has to be raised via an online request from the portal itself. Once their new vaccination status is successfully updated in the system, such beneficiaries can get their due vaccine dose at the nearest vaccination center as per the preexisting standard guidelines, the government said.Meanwhile, India's cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage has exceeded 160.43 crores after over 70 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the last 24 hours, said the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Friday.Over 159.91 crore (1,59,91,02,495) vaccine doses have been provided to states and Union territories so far through the free of cost channel of the central government and through the direct state procurement category. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the central government has been supporting the states and UTs by providing them Covid-19 vaccines free of cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cowin-registration-limit-extended-now-6-members-can-sign-up-from-one-number-101642771469230.html
21-01-2022||India||Manohar Parrikar's son Utpal resigns from BJP, to contest as independent; says BJP will remain in heart||Manohar Parrikar's son Utpal Parrikar on Friday announced that he is resigning from the BJP and will be contesting in the upcoming Goa assembly election as an Independent candidate. This development comes after days of bargaining and lobbying for the Panaji constituency, which was represented by former Goa chief minister Manohar Parrikar until 2019, the seat that his son has been eying on, but the BJP denied him in favour of the sitting MLA.Earlier in the day, Utpal said he would announce his decision in a press conference amid speculations of his contesting without any party from Panaji. Till last moment, the BJP continued claiming that talks were on with Utpal and he has been offered some alternative assembly seats.“I was left with no other choice. I have resigned from the party and I would be contesting as an independent from Panaji," Utpal Parrikar said adding that BJP will always remain in his heart. “It is a difficult choice for me, I am doing it for the people of Goa. No one should be worried about my political future, people of Goa will do it,” he said“I am fighting for the values which I believe in. Let the people of Panaji decide. I cannot negotiate with my party,” he added.Full coverage of Goa Assembly Election 2022On Thursday, the BJP released its first list of 34 candidates for Goa and fielded incumbent MLA Atanasio Monserrate from Panaji. Devendra Fadnavis said it is not fair to replace the sitting MLA, who won the bypoll after Manohar Parrikar's death in 2019. The seat was with Parrikar for almost 25 years. “For our party, the Parrikar family is always our family. But from the seat that Utpal wanted to contest from we already have a sitting MLA and it would not be fair to drop the sitting MLA. However, we had given him the option of contesting from two other seats and the talks are progressing in that direction,” Fadnavis said. Soon after BJP's snub, Aam Aadmi Party chief Arvind Kejriwal extended an offer to Utpal, after Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said the non-BJP parties should support Utpal if he contests in the election as an independent.  "If we support Utpal, we will also take an assurance from him that he would not support the BJP if it is voted to power," Raut said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manohar-parrikar-s-son-utpal-resigns-from-bjp-to-contest-as-independent-101642770043145.html
21-01-2022||India||Coming from ‘at-risk’ nation? No need for admission to 'isolation facility' if testing positive on arrival||In a slight modification of its previous order, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) has done away with the provision of ‘management at isolation facility’ for passengers coming from countries designated as ‘at-risk’ and testing positive for Covid-19 after arrival at an airport in India.
21-01-2022||India||Data meant for CoWIN portal leaked online, over 20,000 Indians likely affected||Personal data of thousands of people in India has been leaked from a government server which includes their name, mobile number, address and Covid test result, and these information can be accessed through online search.The leaked data has been put on sale on Raid Forums website where a cyber criminal claims to have personal data of over 20,000 people.The data put on Raid Forums shows name, age, gender, mobile number, address, date and result of Covid-19 report of these people. Cyber Security researcher Rajshekhar Rajaharia also tweeted that personally identifiable information (PII) including name and Covid-19 results are made public through a content delivery network (CDN).He said that Google has indexed lakhs of data from the affected system."PII including Name, MOB, PAN, Address etc of #Covid19 #RTPCR results & #Cowin data getting public through a Govt CDN. #Google indexed almost 9 Lac public/private #GovtDocuments in search engines. Patient's data is now listed on #DarkWeb. Need fast deindex," Rajaharia said in his tweet.An email query sent to the Ministry of Electronics and IT did not elicit any reply.The sample document shared on Raid Forums shows that the leaked data was meant for upload on Co-WIN portal.The government has heavily relied on digital technologies in terms of controlling and creating awareness about the Covid-19 pandemic as also its vaccination programme. Several government departments mandate people to use Aarogya Setu app for Covid-19 related services and information.Rajaharia in a follow-up tweet on January 20 said that he is not reporting any vulnerability in this incidence but cautioning people to remain alert from fraud calls, offers related to Covid-19, etc that they may get as their data is being sold in the dark web.Data sold in the dark web is often exploited by cyber criminals and fraudsters for various kind of frauds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/data-meant-for-cowin-portal-leaked-online-over-20-000-indians-likely-affected-101642767559692.html
21-01-2022||India||On Netaji’s 125th birth anniversary, PM to unveil grand statue of iconic freedom fighter||Ahead of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s 125th birth anniversary, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced that he will unveil a hologram statue of the legendary freedom fighter on his birth anniversary on January 23 at India Gate.“At a time when the entire nation is marking the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, I am glad to share that his grand statue, made of granite, will be installed at India Gate. This would be a symbol of India’s indebtedness to him,” Prime Minister Modi tweeted on Friday.He further said, “Till the grand statue of Netaji Bose is completed, a hologram statue of his would be present at the same place. I will unveil the hologram statue on 23rd January, Netaji’s birth anniversary.”The statue will be placed in the canopy and will replace the Amar Jawan Jyoti, which will be merged with the eternal flame of the National War Memorial Torch on Friday. The dimensions of the upcoming statue will be 28 feet X 6 feet, people aware of the development said.Home Minister Ait Shah tweeted that the statue is a befitting tribute to Subhas Chandra Bose. “Netaji is an epitome of India’s true strength and resolve. Congress has left no stone unturned to forget the immortal contributions of India’s brave son,” he tweeted.Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said that nothing that the Prime Minister does will undo the historical betrayal of Netaji by Hindu Mahasabha under Savarkar.“When Netaji was organising the INA to liberate the North East from British rule, Savarkar exhorted recruitment of Hindu Mahasabha in the British army. That same army then indulged in large-scale killing of INA soldiers. If the PM were to read the shameful history of his ideological forefathers, he would first apologise to the nation.”Last week, a government official had said that the Republic Day celebrations from this year will start on January 23 instead of January 24 to include the birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, in line with the Narendra Modi government’s “focus to commemorate important aspects of our history and culture.”Last year, the Central government announced that January 23 will be celebrated as Parakram Diwas or day of valour. Ahead of Netaji’s 125th birth anniversary this year, Chandra Bose, who is a member of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, asking him to have the freedom fighter’s image on currency notes. He also suggested declaring January 23 a national holiday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-netaji-s-125th-birth-anniversary-pm-to-unveil-grand-statue-of-iconic-freedom-fighter-101642766737029.html
21-01-2022||India||Covid 3rd wave: What about the peak of death in Delhi? Experts weigh in||That Delhi is past the peak of the third wave of the Covid pandemic has been asserted by Delhi ministers and experts as for the past few days the national capital recorded a steady decline in the number of daily positive infections. On January 13, Delhi reported over 28,000 cases which is believed to be the peak.Doctors, however, opine that there is another peak to watch out for, which is the peak of the fatalities. This takes place generally a week or two after the peak of the daily cases.The fastest peak in daily cases followed by an increase in death has been the characteristic of the ongoing wave driven by the Omicron. On Thursday, Delhi reported 43 deaths which was the highest death in the city since June 10.Night and weekend curfew to continue in Delhi as DDMA issues fresh guidelines"Any patient who has got admitted after testing positive generally dies after his or her condition deteriorates in the next one week or so, and hence, death tally will peak later than the cases tally," a doctor at the Delhi government-run Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences said to PTI.Delhi has reported nearly 400 deaths in January so far but the majority of these have been attributed to comorbidities, not Omicron."After that record surge a week ago, which is being seen as a peak, cases have come down. Even the number of calls I was getting for medical consultations from patients have come down a lot in the past few days, indicating the situation is improving," Dr Suranjit Chatterjee, a senior consultant at Apollo Hospitals, said.The Delhi government on Friday sent a proposal to lift the weekend curfew to Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, which has been rejected. Baijal, however, has accepted the government's proposal to allow private offices to function with 50% staff strength.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-3rd-wave-what-about-the-peak-of-death-in-delhi-experts-weigh-in-101642765831088.html
21-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Channi says will file defamation case against Kejriwal, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Will file defamation case': Channi on Kejriwal's ‘dishonest man’ jibe after ED raidsPunjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi said that Arvind Kejriwal is using his photos on “bundles of notes” though the ED raids were conducted on and the money was recovered from “someone else.” Read moreCovid-19 alert: Tamil Nadu to continue with complete lockdown on SundaysTamil Nadu chief minister on Friday announced a complete lockdown on Sundays, starting from January 23. The decision was taken as Covid-19 cases in the state continue to rise. Read moreKarnataka lifts weekend curfew, other curbs at night and 50% occupancy continuesThe Karnataka government on Friday said that it has decided to lift the weekend curfew with immediate effect, though other restrictions on movement at night as well as occupancy will continue across the state. Read moreIND vs SA: Virat Kohli surpasses Rohit Sharma, Rahul Dravid in unwanted list following his five-ball duck in 2nd ODIHe may have scored a fifty in his first game for India after relinquishing Test captaincy, but Virat Kohli on Friday perished for a duck to register an unwanted record under his belt. Read moreWith throwback pics of Ladakh, Vaani Kapoor speaks of magic and significanceVaani Kapoor is in the mood for travel – the throwback pictures on her Instagram profile is proof of the same. The actor, who is currently in the plains, is dreaming of being in the mountains. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-channi-says-will-file-defamation-case-against-kejriwal-and-all-the-latest-news-101642759015657.html
21-01-2022||India||Karnataka lifts weekend curfew, other curbs at night and 50% occupancy continues||The Karnataka government on Friday said that it has decided to lift the weekend curfew with immediate effect, though other restrictions on movement at night as well as occupancy will continue across the state.Karnataka’s Minister for Revenue R Ashok said that the relaxations will come into effect from this weekend.“Weekend curfew has been removed. But if the hospitalisation rate increases above 5%, then these restrictions are likely to return,” he said in Bengaluru on Friday.Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai held a meeting on Friday with experts, cabinet ministers and other senior officials to review all existing restrictions that came into effect just after Christmas last year.However, night curfew as well as 50% occupancy rules will continue, he said.The decision comes after outrage and concerns expressed by the business community in the state over the piling losses due to the curbs that had severely impacted lives and livelihoods.Though there were varied opinions on considering different restrictions for different parts of the state, depending on the positivity rate, Ashok said that it was decided to consider Karnataka as a unit and the same rules would apply across the state.The minister said that as on January 20, there were over 2.93 lakh active cases and around 2.86 lakh people were in home isolation.He added that there were 5,333 Covid-19 infected people in hospitals and of this 340 were in the intensive care unit and just 127 who needed oxygen.Ashok said that protests, fairs, rallies and other events of large gatherings will continue to remain banned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-lifts-weekend-curfew-other-curbs-at-night-and-50-occupancy-continues-101642763916880.html
21-01-2022||India||Covid-19 alert: Tamil Nadu to continue with complete lockdown on Sundays||Tamil Nadu chief minister on Friday announced a complete lockdown on Sundays, starting from January 23. The decision was taken as Covid-19 cases in the state continue to rise. The lockdown will begin at 10pm on Saturday and remain in place till 5am on Monday.Only essential services will be allowed to function during the lockdown hours, the government announced.Tamil Nadu had imposed a complete lockdown on every Sunday from January 9 when coronavirus infections in the state started rapidly rising.Meanwhile, a night curfew from 10pm to 5am remains in place on all days.Also Read | Amid record Covid-19 surge in Kerala, lockdown-like curbs on next two SundaysIn the last 24 hours, Tamil Nadu recorded 28,561 new cases and 39 deaths, according to the latest health bulletin data.The state's active tally has touched 1,79,205, while the total cases breached the 30-lakh mark.The capital city, Chennai, accounted for highest number of fresh cases despite a decline with 7,520 infections, followed by Coimbatore at 3,390 and Chengalpet at 2,196.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-alert-tamil-nadu-to-continue-with-complete-lockdown-on-sundays-101642762263960.html
21-01-2022||India||Denied ticket, Goa PWD minister quits BJP, to contest as independent||Goa Minister for Public Works Deepak Prabhu Pauskar on Friday resigned as minister and from the party after the BJP denied him a ticket. Pauskar, a first time MLA was made minister after he defected from the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party along with party colleague Manohar Ajgaonkar back in 2019 when party leader Sudin Dhavalikar was evicted from the cabinet. Pauskar said he wasn’t upset by the BJP’s decision but that the party he had built in his constituency has been deeply hurt by the decision to deny him a ticket, which has forced him to make the move. “I have decided to contest as an independent. I had enrolled more than 16,000 members for the Bharatiya Janata Party from my constituency and more than 60% of them have now resigned along with me. I will work to be re-elected as an independent,” Pauskar said after quitting. Pauskar was in the centre of a storm over recruitment in the Public Works Department where his own party MLAs accused him of large-scale corruption and favouritism in the selections of candidates. Following the allegations, the Goa government constituted a three member committee of officers to look into the recruitment procedures while simultaneously keeping the recruitment on hold. Besides Pauskar, former Chief Minister Laxmikant Parsekar who has been denied a ticket in favour of Dayanand Sopte who joined the party from the Congress in 2018 has also announced that he will be contesting as an independent after consulting his supporters. The party is also facing dissent in Canacona where deputy Speaker Isidore Fernandes who joined the BJP from the Congress mid-term along with nine other MLAs in 2019, has been overlooked in favour of former MLA Ramesh Tawadkar for the party’s ticket. Savitri Kavlekar, the wife of deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavlekar has also quit the BJP after she was denied a ticket pointing out that the wives of Vishwajit Rane and Atanasio Monserrate were given tickets but she was not given one.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/denied-ticket-goa-pwd-minister-quits-bjp-to-contest-as-independent-101642762416855.html
21-01-2022||India||In historic move, Amar Jawan Jyoti merged with National War Memorial flame||The flame of the Amar Jawan Jyoti at the India Gate in Delhi was on Friday merged with the eternal flame at the National War Memorial, in a move that the central government called “historic” for India. In a short ceremony, a part of the Amar Jawan Jyoti flame was taken and merged with the flame at the NWM, which is 400 meters away on the other side of India Gate.The ceremony was presided over by the Integrated Defence Staff chief Air Marshal Balabadhra Radha Krishna, who carried out the significant move of merging the two flames.Watch LIVE: Amar Jawan Jyoti flame at India Gate to be merged with the flame at the National War Memorial https://t.co/iOw3m7zwg8Several political leaders, including Congress' Rahul Gandhi, had earlier questioned the central government for effectively shutting down the Amar Jawan Jyoti flame and replacing it with the permanent one at the National War Memorial. However, government sources refuted claims that the Amar Jawan Jyoti was being “extinguished”, and clarified that it was only being merged with the one at the National War Memorial.Also Read | Amar Jawan Jyoti to be merged with National War Memorial flame. This is whyAccording to the government, the flame at Amar Jawan Jyoti in the India Gate memorial paid tributes to the martyrs of 1971 and other wars, however, none of the names who made that supreme sacrifice for the country were present there.The National War Memorial, which was built in the India Gate complex by the Narendra Modi government and was inaugurated in 2019, has the names of all the Indian defence personnel who have lost their lives in different operations from the 1947-48 war with Pakistan to the Galwan valley clash with Chinese troops. The names of troops who lost lives in the counter-terrorist operations are also included on the walls of the memorial.Also Read | Delhi Traffic Police issue advisory for R-Day rehearsal parade. Details hereThe India Gate memorial, on the other hand, was built by the British government in memory of the British Indian Army soldiers who lost their lives between 1914-1921. The Amar Jawan Jyoti there was only included in the 1970s after the massive victory of India over Pakistan in which 93,000 troops of the enemy country surrendered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-historic-move-amar-jawan-jyoti-merged-with-national-war-memorial-flame-101642759893068.html
21-01-2022||India||Why Karnataka ends weekend curfew amid 47,000 daily Covid cases. Minister says this||The Karnataka government has decided to end the weekend curfew in the states starting from this weekend, though night curfew will remain in place. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting on Friday chaired by chief minister Basavaraj Bommai. Karnataka becomes the second state after Maharashtra to announce some relaxations amid the ongoing third wave of the pandemic. Unlike Maharashtra, Karnataka, however, is still peaking and Bengaluru on Thursday reported over 30,000 fresh Covid infections. Maharashtra has decided to resume offline classes in schools from coming Monday. Night curfew will be in place in Karnataka, revenue minister R Ashok said. The weekend curfew will be brought back if the rate of hospitalisation goes above 5%, the minister said. Other restrictions mandating 50% occupancy at public places will also be maintained. Covid 3rd wave reaches South: Kerala reports 46,387 cases; Karnataka over 47,000Unlike Delhi and Mumbai, where the Omicron wave is believed to be plateauing, Bengaluru is yet to reach its peak. On Thursday, it contributed 30,540 fresh cases to Karnataka's 24-hour tally of 47,754 cases.
21-01-2022||India||Uttar Pradesh polls: Congress launches manifesto for youths||NEW DELHI: After announcing 40% reservation in tickets for women, the Congress on Friday unveiled a strategy to boost employment in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh as it launched its manifesto for the youths. The manifesto is seen as part of efforts to woo young voters and to counter the caste and religious factors in the state, where the party has been out of power for over three decades.At the launch, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, the Congress general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh, made it clear she is the party’s face in the state. “Can you see any other face?” she said when asked who is leading the Congress in the assembly elections. She said the party was open to supporting any party other than the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party to form the next state government. “If any such situation arises, we would be open to joining it but our manifesto has to be at the centre of such a coalition.”Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi, who was present at the launch, criticised the Union government and said India requires a new vision. “If you want to propose a new vision, you need to start in Uttar Pradesh. It is a step towards giving a vision to the country.” He hit out at the parties, which have been in power in Uttar Pradesh, and added the youngsters have understood that in the last 25 years, they did not get anything.Congress’s employment boosting strategy focuses on 1.2 million vacant government jobs as well as another 800,000 in the private sector and promotion of local skills.Priyanka Gandhi called the manifesto a strategy and not empty words. “The question is how to give you employment. In Uttar Pradesh, every 24 days, 880 people lose jobs. In the last five years, 1.6 million youth lost jobs. Youth needs a new vision and Congress is the only party that can give this vision.” She added they will remove problems to generate employment. “We will curb the scams in public job exams.” She added 150,000 posts are vacant in primary schools and 8,000 in higher education alone.Priyanka Gandhi said the Yogi Adityanath government’s “one district, one product” plan would be revised and that Congress would promote a cluster approach to support local industries if voted to power. She added fees for job exams would be waived and a single-window scholarship portal would be launched. The manifesto promises new opportunities for children of sanitation workers and that most backward classes would get ₹5 lakh loans for business. “A deaddiction centre with headquarters in Lucknow, youth festival annually to showcase local talents and world-class cricket academies for cricket and other sports would be built.”
21-01-2022||India||Man attempts self immolation outside Supreme Court, hospitalised||A 50-year-old man set himself on fire and attempted suicide outside the Supreme Court, the Delhi Police said on Friday. The police said he was rushed to the hospital, as reported by news agency ANI. He had suffered burn injuries and is being treated.The man tried to self-immolate near the new building of the top court for reasons yet to be known. According to reports, he has been identified as a resident of Noida.In a video, presumably shot on a mobile phone by a bystander, the man could be seen lying on the road and crying as the police tried to help him.“I am from a poor family. My family is starving,” the man could be heard saying as he told the police why he set himself ablaze.This is the second such incident outside the Supreme Court in the last six months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-attempts-self-immolation-outside-supreme-court-hospitalised-101642757520045.html
21-01-2022||India||Under ‘double engine’ rule, Tripura becoming land of opportunities: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday virtually addressed the people of Meghalaya on the occasion of their 50th statehood day and said that Tripura is gradually becoming a land of opportunities under the current “double engine government”, performing well on multiple parameters of development.Notably, Tripura, Manipur, and Meghalaya attained statehood on January 21, 1972, under the North-Eastern Areas (Re-organisation) Act, 1971. Tripura is currently governed by a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led regime under Biplab Kumar Deb, who took oath as the chief minister in 2018, ending 25 years of Left Front rule in the state.“Today Tripura is becoming a land of opportunities,” the Prime Minister said today in his virtual address to the citizens. “The double engine government is working continuously to meet the small needs of the common people of Tripura. That is why Tripura is performing well today on many parameters of development.”Pointing out that Tripura is leading ahead of many other states in utilising modern, state-of-the-art facilties, Prime Minister Modi said that recently, the Tripura government has started providing 100 per cent facilities to every village and is also one of the only six states in the country where new technology is being used in housing construction.“Today, on the one hand, Tripura is doing commendable work in providing pucca houses to the poor, and on the other hand, it is also adopting new technology rapidly,” said Prime Minister Modi. “From transparency in administration to modern infrastructure, the Tripura that is being built today will prepare the state for decades to come.”Tripura is achieving new heights in development, and the collective “wisdom” of the people of the state is responsible for this, the Prime Minister said, adding, “…three years of meaningful change is proof of this wisdom.”“The history of Tripura has always been full of dignity,” he explained. “From the majesty of the Manikya dynasty emperors to the present day, Tripura has strengthened its role as a state. Be it tribal society or other community, all have worked hard and unitedly for the development of Tripura.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/under-double-engine-rule-tripura-becoming-land-of-opportunities-pm-modi-101642755941939.html
21-01-2022||India||Meghalaya becoming attractive destination for world: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said that Meghalaya is becoming an attractive destination for the country and the world.While virtually addressing the people of Meghalaya on the occasion of their 50th Statehood Day, PM Modi said, "Over the past 50 years, the people of Meghalaya have cemented their identity of being close to nature. To see the beautiful waterfalls, to experience the clean and serene environment, to connect with your unique tradition, Meghalaya is becoming an attractive destination for the country and the world."The Prime Minister also said that the state has given the message of nature and progress, conservation and eco-sustainability to the world."I have had the privilege of visiting Meghalaya several times when you gave me the opportunity to serve as the Prime Minister for the first time, then I came to Shillong to participate in the North Eastern Meet. It was an unforgettable occasion for me to reach Shillong after three to four decades as a Prime Minister to participate in this event. Our brothers and sisters from Khasi, Garo, and Jaintia communities deserve special appreciation for this," said PM Modi.He further said that the Central Government has worked for the development of the state."Meghalaya is full of talent. In the last seven years, the Central Government has sincerely tried to accelerate the development journey of Meghalaya. The central government is fully committed specially to ensure better road, rail and air connectivity in the state," he said.He further said that Meghalaya has achieved a lot, but it still has a lot to achieve."Apart from tourism and organic farming, efforts are also necessary for the development of new sectors in Meghalaya. I am with you for all your efforts," he added.Under the North-Eastern Areas (Re-organisation) Act, 1971, Tripura, Manipur and Meghalaya attained statehood on January 21, 1972.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalaya-becoming-attractive-destination-for-world-pm-modi-101642754644256.html
21-01-2022||India||Heading to airport? Beware of the new 'one hand bag' rule for passengers||Passengers taking domestic flights will no longer be allowed to carry more one hand baggage, the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS) has ordered in a new circular, imposing ‘One Hand Bag rule’ across airports. The new rule has been imposed with an aim to ease out congestion and security concerns on ground and reduce burden at screening points at airports.The decision bars any passenger from carrying more than one cabin baggage on flights within India, with an exception to the items listed by the government in the circular. “As per BCAS AVSEC Circular Nos. 06/2000 & Lt12000, no passenger should be permitted to carry more than one hand bag other than those items already listed in the circular including lady's bag,” BCAS said in an order issued on January 19."It has been seen that passenger on an average carries 02-03 Nos of hand bags to the screening point. This has led to increased clearance time as well as delays, congestion in PESC point and inconvenience to passengers,” the order read.The civil aviation body instructed airlines, airport operators and other stakeholders to ensure the enforcement of the ‘One Hand Bag rule’ and display it on hoardings as well as passenger tickets and boarding passes for clarity.“Airline may be made responsible and depute staff to guide pax, check and verify their hand bag status etc, before allowing the passenger for Pre-embarkation security checks," the BCAS stated."All airlines may be directed suitably to inform passengers and to display 'one hand bag rule' on their tickets/boarding passes very conspicuously,” it added.The new order comes as an additional restriction for travellers, while smoothening the process of security check at airport. The Centre had already imposed a one-bag policy for check-in baggage to ease congestion and ensure health protocols during the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heading-to-airport-beware-of-the-new-one-hand-bag-rule-for-passengers-101642751385263.html
21-01-2022||India||'India reclaiming history': All you need to know about Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose's statue to be installed at India Gate||Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Friday that a grand statue of iconic freedom fighter Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose will be installed at India Gate. Till the statue, made of granite, is completed, a hologram statue of his would be present at the same place, he said.“Till the grand statue of Netaji Bose is completed, a hologram statue of his would be present at the same place. I will unveil the hologram statue on 23rd January, Netaji’s birth anniversary,” he said on Twitter.The Prime Minister further said that Bose’s grand statue will be made of granite and will be a symbol of India’s indebtedness to him.Senior government officials said that with the decision, India is reclaiming its history. The Canopy earlier had a statue of Kind George 5th, which was removed in 1968, they added.The officials further said that the dimensions of Netaji’s statue would be 28 feet X 6 feet.Reclaiming it’s history 🇮🇳The Canopy where Netaji's statue would be installed, earlier had a statue of Kind George 5th, which was removed in 1968.Some photos with the statue and after the statue was removed - pic.twitter.com/l2JZsN4lBnThe announcement was hailed by many Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, Union ministers and civil society members.Earlier, speaking at the inauguration ceremony of the new circuit house near Somnath Temple in Gujarat, the Prime Minister said that the Congress government constructed new things only for their families after independence while his government is building monuments of national importance.He added that the country is leaving behind that narrow thinking and building new places of pride, giving them grandeur."Today, the development of tourist centres is not just a part of the government scheme, but a campaign of public participation. The development of our cultural heritage is a great example," he added.The Prime Minister further urged people to travel and discover their own roots by visiting hidden gems of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reclaiming-history-all-you-need-to-know-about-bose-statue-101642751872541.html
21-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: 3 held for derogatory remarks on Muslim women on Clubhouse, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Clubhouse chat case: 3 arrested for derogatory remarks against Muslim womenA two-minute video clip of the Clubhouse chat was shared on Twitter in which participants were heard making abusive and derogatory remarks against Muslim women. Read moreUnpaused Naya Safar review: Nagraj Manjule and Ayappa KM deliver solid entries in pandemic-themed miniseriesThree out of five stories in the coronavirus pandemic-based Unpaused: Naya Safar center on frontline and gig workers. The anthology miniseries is the sequel to Unpaused, released in 2020. Read more'Can't drop him after one failure': Ex-India opener warns Rahul and co. against 'chopping and changing' in XI in SA ODIsTeam India faced a defeat in the first ODI against South Africa on Wednesday and will be aiming for a strong comeback when it takes the field later today in Paarl. Read moreAnanya Panday sets internet on fire in bralette and leather pants for Gehraiyaan promotions: Suhana Khan reactsThe Gen-Z fashionista slipped into a trendy bralette and faux leather pants for the occasion and set the internet on fire. Fans and Ananya's BFF Suhana Khan also fell in love with her style. Read moreEye on countering Xi's China, top US official says India's role ‘crucial’Laura Rosenberger, part of Biden's National Security Council, has revealed the US President's China strategy. The National Security Council is the US President's principal forum for foreign policy decision making. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-3-held-for-derogatory-remarks-on-muslim-women-on-clubhouse-and-all-the-latest-news-101642747792869.html
21-01-2022||India||'Delhi averted Covid-19 danger': Health minister Satyendra Jain as cases dip steadily||The national capital is expected to record 10,500 Covid-19 cases on Friday, Delhi health minister Satyendra Jain said on Friday, adding the positivity rate is expected to hover between 17-18 per cent, news agency PTI reported.Delhi had on Thursday logged 12,306 fresh Covid-19 cases and 43 fatalities. Out of these 43 deaths, Covid-19 was a primary cause in only three, Jain further said, giving an indication of stabilising Covid-19 situation in the city."Experts said Delhi will record 1 lakh cases daily, but we averted that danger," he also said. The health minister also announced that the Delhi government will take a call on lifting more curbs within 3-4 days.Earlier in the day, the Delhi government sent a proposal to Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal with a recommendation to relax some Covid induced restrictions in the city. As per the proposal, the Arvind Kejriwal-led government has suggested lifting the weekend curfew. It has also suggested ending the odd-even system for opening of shops and allowing private offices to run with 50 per cent staff in the city.After weeks of exponential growth in daily Covid-19 cases, the daily tally has fallen steadily in the last few days.The city had recorded 28,867 Covid-19 cases last Thursday, the sharpest single-day spike since the beginning of the pandemic. The number then declined to 24,383 on Friday, 20,718 on Saturday, 18,286 on Sunday, 12,527 on Monday, and 11,684 on Tuesday.The positivity rate stood at 30.6 per cent on Saturday, the highest in the ongoing wave of the pandemic so far. It fell to 27.9 per cent on Sunday, 28 per cent on Monday and 22.5 per cent on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-averted-covid-19-danger-health-minister-satyendra-jain-as-cases-dip-steadily-101642749387810.html
21-01-2022||India||Subhas Chandra Bose birth anniversary: India Gate to have Netaji statue soon, announces PM Modi||A ‘grand statue’ of Subhas Chandra Bose will be installed at India Gate, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Friday, two days before the freedom fighter’s 125th birth anniversary. “I am glad to share that the grand statue, made of granite, will be installed at India Gate. This would be a symbol of India’s indebtedness to him,” Prime Minister Modi tweeted.At a time when the entire nation is marking the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, I am glad to share that his grand statue, made of granite, will be installed at India Gate. This would be a symbol of India’s indebtedness to him. pic.twitter.com/dafCbxFclKHowever, till the time the statue is constructed, a hologram bust of ‘Netaji’ will be put up at the iconic monument in the national capital, PM Modi further said.  “I will unveil the hologram statue on 23rd January, Netaji’s birth anniversary,” he posted. Till the grand statue of Netaji Bose is completed, a hologram statue of his would be present at the same place. I will unveil the hologram statue on 23rd January, Netaji’s birth anniversary. pic.twitter.com/jsxFJwEkSJThe dimensions of the upcoming statue will be 28 feet*6 feet, people aware of development said. The canopy, under which it will be placed, previously featured a bust of Britain's King George V, which was removed in 1968, they added.Also Read | 'India reclaiming history': All you need to know about Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose's statue to be installed at India GateLast week, the Union government announced that starting this year, the annual Republic Day celebrations will commence on January 23, instead of January 24, to coincide with the birth anniversary of Subhas Chandra Bose. Also, since last year, January 23 has been observed as ‘Parakram Diwas’ in memory of the former commander of the erstwhile Indian National Army (INA).Today's announcement by PM Modi also comes in the backdrop of controversy surrounding the ‘merger’ of India Gate's Amar Jawan Jyoti flame with the eternal flame at the National War Memorial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/grand-statue-of-subhas-chandra-bose-to-be-installed-at-india-gate-pm-modi-101642749061498.html
21-01-2022||India||Amar Jawan Jyoti: Congress hits out at govt for ‘removing history’||NEW DELHI: The Opposition Congress on Friday hit out at the government and accused it of “removing history” by extinguishing the Amar Jawan Jyoti at the India Gate for merging it with the immortal flame at the National War Memorial in New Delhi.In a tweet in Hindi, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi said “some people cannot understand patriotism and sacrifice”. He added Congress will light the Amar Jawan Jyoti again. “It is a matter of great sadness that the immortal flame for our brave soldiers will be extinguished today.”The criticism came even as news agency PTI quoted unnamed government saying there is “a lot of misinformation on the matter”, and added the flame of the Amar Jawan Jyoti was not being extinguished but merged.In a tweet, ruling Bharatiya Janata Party leader Sambit Patra hit back. “It is ironic that people who did not make a National War Memorial for seven decades are now making a hue and cry when a permanent and fitting tribute is being made to our martyrs.”Congress leader Manish Tewari likened extinguishing of the flame to removing history. “Extinguishing Amar Jawan Jyoti tantamount to extinguishing history. For it commentates sacrifice of those 3,483 brave soldiers who cleaved Pakistan into two parts and redrew the map of South Asia post-partition,” he tweeted. Tewari called it ironical that in the 50th year of Bangladesh’s liberation, the government “seems to be working overtime to erase” India’s finest hour in post-independent history.“Amar Jawan Jyoti is imbued in the national consciousness. A billion people have grown up venerating it. Why can’t India have two eternal flames? Amar Jawan Jyoti and National War Memorial.” He called extinguishing the eternal flame nothing short of a crime. “I am surprised that the nation is silent as a national icon would be snuffed out in the project to re-write history.”Congress lawmaker Shashi Tharoor said the government has no respect for democratic traditions and established conventions. He added the government is “snuffing out” the sanctity of the Amar Jawan Jyoti.Rashtriya Janata Dal lawmaker Manoj Kumar Jha said such moves are “neither good politics nor good optics”. He added it is understandable that the present regime may not have a sense of “attachment/belonging with the glories of the past but it is beyond comprehension when you resort to such memory erasure tactics.”(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amar-jawan-jyoti-congress-hits-out-at-govt-for-removing-history-101642749276077.html
21-01-2022||India||'Matter of great sadness': Rahul Gandhi on Amar Jawan Jyoti issue||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday attacked the central government, accusing it of extinguishing the Amar Jawan Jyoti at India Gate in New Delhi. The former Congress president said that "some people cannot understand patriotism". This despite the government clarifying that the eternal flame will not be extinguished but merged with the flame at the National War Memorial, 400-metres away from India Gate."It is a matter of great sadness that the immortal flame that used to burn for our brave soldiers will be extinguished today. Some people cannot understand patriotism and sacrifice - never mind. We will once again light the Amar Jawan Jyoti for our soldiers," Gandhi wrote on Twitter.According to officials, the merger of flames will be done in an elaborate ceremony which is scheduled for 3:30pm today at India Gate. The flame will be moved in a torch to the National War Memorial along with Guard Contingent and the two flames will be merged.The India Gate memorial was built by the British government in memory of the British Indian Army soldiers who lost their lives between 1914-1921.However, the Amar Jawan Jyoti was included in the memorial structure in the 1970s after the massive victory of India over Pakistan in which 93,000 troops of the rival country surrendered.The National War Memorial was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2019. It honours Indian military soldiers who fought in armed conflicts of independent India. This includes soldiers who fought during the armed conflicts with Pakistan and China as well as the 1961 war in Goa, Operation Pawan in Sri Lanka and other operations including Rakshak in UT of Jammu and Kashmir.The names of troops who lost lives in the counter-terrorist operations are also included on the walls of the memorial.Meanwhile, as several leaders raised their voice against the move, peopleaware of the development said that a lot of misinformation is being spread with regards to the same. They said that the names of all Indian martyrs from all the wars, including 1971 and wars before and after it, are housed at the National War Memorial. Hence it will be the "true homage to have the flame paying tribute to martyrs there", they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/matter-of-great-sadness-rahul-gandhi-on-amar-jawan-jyoti-issue-101642747050599.html
21-01-2022||India||Clubhouse chat case: 3 arrested for derogatory remarks against Muslim women||Mumbai police have arrested three people from Haryana in connection with a chat on the Clubhouse app where derogatory and abusive remarks were made against Muslim women.Based on a complaint by a woman, the cyber cell of the Mumbai crime branch has registered a case against the three accused – identified as Akash, Jeshnav Kakkar and Yash Parashar – under sections 153(a), 295(a), 354(a), 354(d) of IPC, and section 67 of Information Technology Act 2000. Two of the accused will be produced in a local court later in the day, reported PTI quoting an official."We have registered a case against a vulgar Clubhouse app chat and arrested one person from Karnal, Haryana and is taken to 3 days SIT remand. 2 other accused are picked up from Faridabad and the process for their transit remand is in progress," Milind Bharambe, Joint CP Crime, said.Bharambe confirmed that two chat rooms were created on the Clubhouse app, one on January 16band the other on January 16. He said that many participants were involved in making derogatory remarks about women and talking about auctioning their body parts."Kudos @MumbaiPolice, they have got cracking on the Clubhouse chats too and some arrests have been made. Say no to hate. #Clubhouse," Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi said in the tweet after the arrests.A two-minute video clip of the Clubhouse chat was shared on Twitter in which participants were heard discussing Muslim women under the topic ‘Muslim Gals are more beautiful than Hindu Gals’. They were also heard making comparisons between the Babri masjid demolition and sexual intercourse with Muslim women.After public outcry, the Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) Swati Maliwal issued a notice to the cybercrime cell of the Delhi Police, seeking action against people making derogatory remarks."In the said conversation, participants can be clearly heard making obscene, vulgar, and defamatory remarks over women and girls especially from the Muslim community," the notice said.Mumbai police made arrests a day after the Delhi police sought details from the Clubhouse app and search engine Google about the organiser of the audio group chat. The Delhi police had identified some men and women participants of the group audio chat as part of the investigation, reported PTI quoting people familiar with the development. The Delhi police had also registered FIR under sections 153(a), 295(a) and 354(a) of IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/clubhouse-chat-case-3-arrested-for-derogatory-remarks-against-muslim-women-101642746056987.html
21-01-2022||India||Somnath Temple circuit house inauguration: PM Modi lists 4 ways to boost tourism sector||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday virtually inaugurated a new circuit house which has built been near the iconic Somnath Temple in his home state of Gujarat. Addressing the gathering on the occasion, PM Modi listed four ways to boost the tourism sector in the country--cleanliness, facilities, time and thinking.Also Read | PM Modi to inaugurate new circuit house near Somnath Temple today“Today, the nation looks at tourism in a holistic way. Therefore, we need to do the following four things to boost this industry,” he said.Speaking on cleanliness, Modi said that earlier, tourist sites, and even places of pilgrimage, fared poorly on this aspect. However, it was his government's Swachh Bharat Abhiyan which brought about a change.Facilities, PM Modi opined, should not be limited only to tourist sites. “Facility means facility of transportation, internet, correct information, medical and health etc. Today, all-round work is being done in this direction,” he remarked.The Prime Minister equated time with a Twenty20 match of cricket, saying that this is important because today, people want to cover many places in a short span of time. Lastly, and importantly, having a modern and innovative thought process is welcome, but what also matters is how much pride we have in our ancient heritage, Modi said.Prime Minister Modi further listed initiatives undertaken by his government to honour eminent personalities. “After independence, buildings were constructed in Delhi only for selected families. However, it is this government which built the Baba Saheb Memorial in Delhi and APJ Abdul Kalam Memorial in Rameshwaram. Similarly, attention was given to places related to Subhas Chandra Bose and Shyamji Krishna Varma,” he said.About Somnath Temple circuit house:According to a release from the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), the new facility has been built at a cost of ₹30 crore. A new circuit house was needed as the existing one is far away from the temple. This new facility has VIP and deluxe rooms, suites, conference room, auditorium hall etc.It also makes available sea view from every room.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/somnath-circuit-house-inauguration-pm-modi-lists-4-ways-to-boost-tourism-sector-101642743867645.html
21-01-2022||India||PM Modi tops approval ratings of global leaders, UK's Johnson most unpopular. Here's the list||Prime Minister Narendra Modi continues to top the chart of global leaders with the highest approval ratings, leaving US President Joe Biden and Canadian counterpart Justin Trudeau. The latest approval ratings by data intelligence company Morning Consult suggest that PM Modi has a net approval rating of 50, with 71 per cent of respondents voting in approval while 21 per cent voting in disapproval.Since the time Morning Consult started tracking each leader, PM Modi's approval rating was at its peak in May 2020 during the nationwide lockdown, while dipping to its lowest during the disastrous second Covid wave last year.The company is currently tracking the approval ratings of government leaders of Australia, Brazil, Canada, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Mexico, South Korea, Spain, Britain and the US.British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who has been facing criticism over the reports of him partying in the lockdown, has received a net approval rating of -43 as 69 per cent of respondents disapproved of the Conservative UK leader. The other leaders who have a net negative approval rating are Biden, Trudeau, Brazil’s Jair Bolsanaro, France’s Emmanuel Macron, South Korea’s Moon Jae-in, Australia’s Scott Morrison, and Spain’s Pedro Sachez.The ratings are based on a seven-day moving average of adult residents, with sample sizes varying by country.List of global approval ratings of world leaders:Narendra Modi: 71%Andrés Manuel López Obrador: 66%Mario Draghi: 60%Fumio Kishida: 48%Olaf Scholz: 44%Joe Biden: 43%Justin Trudeau: 43%Scott Morrison: 41%Pedro Sánchez: 40%Moon Jae-in: 38%Jair Bolsonaro: 37%Emmanuel Macron: 34%Boris Johnson: 26%List of global disapproval ratings of world leaders:Boris Johnson: 69%Emmanuel Macron: 59%Jair Bolsonaro: 56%Moon Jae-in: 54%Pedro Sánchez: 53%Scott Morrison: 52%Justin Trudeau: 51%Joe Biden: 49%Olaf Scholz: 40%Fumio Kishida: 36%Mario Draghi: 33%Andrés Manuel López Obrador: 26%Narendra Modi: 21%||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-tops-approval-ratings-of-global-leaders-uk-s-johnson-most-unpopular-here-s-the-list-101642739570408.html
21-01-2022||India||Centre backs ‘exemplary punishment’ for corrupt jail staff||NEW DELHI: Exemplary punishment for corruption by jail staff alone can ensure incidents such as those involving former Unitech promoters Sanjay and Ajay Chandra bribing officials of Tihar Jail to “propagate criminal activities” from jail can be prevented, said the Centre in an affidavit filed in the Supreme Court on Wednesday.The court on August 26 directed the Chandra brothers to be shifted out of Tihar Jail to separate jails in Mumbai. It sought a report from Delhi Commissioner of Police Rakesh Asthana on the deficiencies in the prison management system at Tihar. His report of September 28 was forwarded by the court to the Centre for taking remedial steps. It was pursuant to this order of October 6 that the Centre filed its response. The court suspended the jail officials, who were allegedly bribed. The officials are also being probed as part of a criminal case registered against them.The affidavit said, “Any act of corruption detected in prisons should not go unpunished and exemplary punishment should be awarded by prison authorities, which will serve as a deterrent for other officials.”Referring to the Chandra brothers’ cases which triggered calls for jail reforms, the affidavit said, “If the Model Prison Manual 2016, advisories and instructions already issued by the MHA are followed assiduously and with earnest intent by the states and UTs, incidents such as the one that took place in Tihar Jail involving the accused Sanjay and Ajay Chandra can be prevented from occurring again.”Since prisons fall under the State List and laws on this subject can be adjudicated upon by the concerned states and UTs, the Centre told the court, “The real test of the Manual lies in the hands of the states who are the implementing agencies at ground level and have to revise their Jail Manuals in accordance with the guidance provided on a range of issues in the Model Manual.” Delhi has adopted the Model Jail Manual of 2016 besides 11 other states and UTs.Some of the measures under the Model Jail Manual include disciplinary proceedings by independent authority for corrupt practices or misconduct involving jail staff.“...if implemented in letter and spirit by the respective state governments and prison authorities at senior level, would go a long way in reducing the deep-rooted and persistent issue of corruption in prisons in India,” the Centre said.A bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah directed additional solicitor general Madhavi Divan, appearing for the Centre, and Enforcement Directorate to submit a fresh status report on the pending trial and investigation against the Chandra brothers and other family members.Asthana’s report highlighted 23 actionable points requiring immediate attention. They include the installation of security apparatus, improved surveillance, training to jail staff, and promoting good conduct among prisoners. The affidavit said the Centre fully agreed with Asthana’s recommendations and had forwarded them for consideration to the Delhi Chief Secretary.The Centre informed the court about the earmarking of ₹950 crore for modernising the prison system. The affidavit said, “Financial support will be provided to all states and UTs over a period of five years starting from the current financial year to fulfil the objectives of filling the existing gaps in security infrastructure in jails, providing new security equipment to jails in line with modern-day technologies, strengthening monitoring of jail security system through security equipment like door frames, hand-held metal detectors, baggage scanners…”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-backs-exemplary-punishment-for-corrupt-jail-staff-101642739254937.html
21-01-2022||India||India reports 3,47,254 new Covid cases, 703 deaths in 24 hours||India on Friday recorded 3,47,254 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to the latest data released by the Union health ministry. The country also recorded 703 fatalities in the last 24 hours, the ministry's data further showed.The active cases of Covid-19 topped the two-million mark as the Omicron-led surge continued in the country. The active cases have increased to 20,18,825, the highest in 235 days, the ministry data showed. The active cases comprise 5.23 per cent of the total infections, as per the data.Also Read | Delhi's daily Covid tally dips to 12,306, logs highest deaths since June; Satyendar Jain says easing of curbs unlikelyThe overall caseload now stands at 3,85,66,027, according to the data published by the Union health ministry. While the related-death toll is at 488,396.The number of Omicron cases reached 9,692, the ministry also informed. According to the data, Friday recorded an increase of 4.36 per cent since yesterday in daily Omicron cases.Also Read | Amid record Covid-19 surge in Kerala, lockdown-like curbs on next two Sundays. Details hereThe daily positivity rate surged to 17.94 per cent, while the weekly positivity rate is at 16.56 per cent, the ministry also added.As many as 2,51,777 people have been recuperated from the viral disease in the last 24 hours, taking the total recoveries to 3,60,58,806. Meanwhile, the country has administered 160.43 crore vaccine doses so far under the nationwide vaccination drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-3-47-254-new-covid-cases-703-deaths-in-24-hours-101642736830383.html
21-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Rain predicted in several states for next 2 days, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Amar Jawan Jyoti to be merged with National War Memorial flame. This is whyAt 1554 hours today, Air Marshal Balabadra Radha Krishna, Chief of Integrated Defence Staff, in the absence of serving Chief of Defence Staff will merge the flames of Amar Jawan Jyoti with the eternal flame at the National War Memorial in a ceremonial function. Read more…Western disturbance to cause rainfall in Rajasthan, other states for next 2 daysDelhi is likely to have a partly cloudy sky with the possibility of light rain towards Friday evening, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted as the maximum temperature in the national capital settled two degrees Celsius below the season’s average on Thursday. The weather department has also predicted rain in parts of Rajasthan during the next two days due to the influence of a new western disturbance. Read more…Why Bhim Army chief is risking direct fight with CM Yogi | Poll BaaziThe Azad Samaj Party has become the first party in Uttar Pradesh to announce a candidate to contest against Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath from Gorakhpur. Bhim Army Chief Chandra Shekhar Azad will contest his first assembly election from Gorakhpur Sadar against BJP’s Yogi Adityanath, which is his stronghold that elected him to Lok Sabha for five straight terms till 2017. Watch videoICC announces schedule for T20 World Cup 2022; India begin campaign with blockbuster tie against Pakistan on October 23India will open their 2022 T20 World Cup campaign with a blockbuster tie against Pakistan at the iconic Melbourne Cricket Ground on October 23 this year as the International Cricket Council on Friday announced the schedule for the 2022 T20 World Cup. It will be the first World Cup match between the two Asian teams at the MCG. Read more…Bhoothakaalam movie review: Shane Nigam and Revathy's film is moving mental health drama disguised as horrorKumbalangi Nights actor Shane Nigam’s first release in two years, Bhoothakaalam, is an excellent film made from unfinished ideas. Its outer shell is that of a haunted house horror film. But its actual concern is mental illness. Think Jennifer Kent’s 2014 Australian horror film The Babadook, in which the widowed protagonist and her son’s poor mental health manifests as the eponymous monster. Read more…Loved Janhvi Kapoor's bold tropical print swimsuit for taking a dip in the pool? It is worth ₹17kActor Janhvi Kapoor spent the last weekend chilling with her friends and taking dips in the swimming pool under the balmy sun. The star took to Instagram to share several pictures from her relaxing holiday and served fans with major fashion goals. One of the striking and bold looks from the photo series shows the star posing inside the swimming pool wearing a printed bikini set in a soothing yellow tone. See pics here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-rain-predicted-in-several-states-for-next-2-days-and-all-the-latest-news-101642732834846.html
21-01-2022||India||Amar Jawan Jyoti to be merged with National War Memorial flame. This is why||At 1554 hours today, Air Marshal Balabadra Radha Krishna, Chief of Integrated Defence Staff, in the absence of serving Chief of Defence Staff will merge the flames of Amar Jawan Jyoti with the eternal flame at the National War Memorial in a ceremonial function.According to South Block officials, the merger of flames will be done in an elaborate ceremony which begins at 3:30pm with the arrival of CISC at the Amar Jawan Jyoti at India Gate. The flame will be moved in a torch to National War Memorial along with Guard Contingent and the two flames will be merged.The merger of flames was done as the Amar Jawan Jyoti was lit up in 1972 after the 1971 Indo-Pak war under the India Gate, which is a memorial to 90,000 soldiers of the British Indian Army who died between 1914 and 1921in the World War I, in France, Flanders, Mesopotamia, Persia, East Africa, Gallipoli and the Third Afghan War. While the Amar Jawan flames represent the immortal soldier, the India Gate is representative of Colonial India.The National War Memorial, unveiled on February 25, 2019, honors and represents soldiers of Indian military who fought conflicts for independent India. The name of armed forces personnel killed during the armed conflicts with Pakistan and China as well as 1961 war in Goa, Operation Pawan in Sri Lanka and other operations including Rakshak in UT of Jammu and Kashmir are inscribed in the memorial in golden letters. This allows the near and dear ones of the fallen brave heart as well as the public to pay respects to the fallen warrior.The decision to merge the two flames was taken as there cannot be two war memorials in close proximity to each other and it is the National War Memorial which represents independent India and eternal soldier.
21-01-2022||India||As Meghalaya turns 50, govt plans year-long celebrations to mark the occasion||The northeastern state of Meghalaya is celebrating its 50th formation day on Friday. To mark the golden jubilee celebrations, the Meghalaya Democratic Alliance (MDA) government has planned to celebrate the occasion by inaugurating projects throughout the year.Meghalaya was carved out of Assam on January 21, 1972. It was previously part of two districts the United Khasi Hills and Jaintia Hills, and the Garo Hills.The state had planned grand celebrations, but the plans were scuttled due to the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, chief minister Conrad K Sangma said on Monday. "We have listed close to about 300 projects… We have decided that rather than inaugurating things in one day on the 50th year of statehood golden jubilee celebration, we will inaugurate them throughout the year so that the meaning increases," he also said.The official programme is scheduled to be held today at the JN Complex, which can accommodate close to 3,000 plus people. However, only 30 per cent occupancy has been permitted in view of the Covid-19 protocol. The guests are also required to strictly follow Covid protocols like wearing face masks and sanitising their hands at regular intervals.All the districts will be connected online to the programme in Shillong as separate events will not be held in the districts given the Covid-19 situation, the chief minister had also informed.Meanwhile, on Thursday, Meghalaya reported as many as 329 fresh cases of Covid-19 in the highest one day spike. The state has a total of 1,629 active cases and the death toll stands at 1,494. The overall caseload is 87,404.With 1,117 active cases and 1016 deaths, state capital Shillong is among the worst-hit districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-meghalaya-turns-50-govt-plans-year-long-celebrations-to-mark-the-occasion-101642731058758.html
21-01-2022||India||PM Modi to inaugurate new circuit house near Somnath Temple today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate a new circuit house in Gujarat’s Somnath on Friday. According to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), the ceremony will take place via video conferencing at 11am.The Prime Minister will also address the gathering on the occasion.The new circuit house has been built at a cost of over ₹30 crore and is located near the famous Somnath Temple.In a release, the government said that it is equipped with top class facilities, including VIP and deluxe rooms, and suites, conference room and auditorium hall.The landscaping has been done in such a manner that sea view is available from every room, the release further said.The need for the new circuit house was felt as the existing government facility was located far off from the temple, the PMO said.In a bid to strengthen religious tourism in the country, the Prime Minister had inaugurated several projects in Somnath and laid the foundation stone for Parvati Temple in August last year. It is proposed to be constructed with a total outlay of ₹30 crore.Other projects like the Somnath Promenade, Somnath Exhibition Centre and the reconstructed temple precinct of Old (Juna) Somnath were also inaugurated.About Somnath TempleThe Somnath temple has a unique place in Hinduism. The famous temple located on the coast near Veraval in Gujarat was desecrated and invaded by Mohmud of Ghazni and other Muslim invaders between 11 to 17th century. However, after every attack, the temple was rebuilt including the present structure which was built at the instance of the first home minister of India Sardar Patel and was inaugurated by the first president Dr Rajendra Prasad in May 1951.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-new-circuit-house-near-somnath-temple-today-101642729309676.html
21-01-2022||India||Daughters to inherit self-acquired properties of fathers dying without a will: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Thursday said the daughters of a male Hindu dying without a will would be entitled to inherit self-acquired and other properties obtained in the partition by the father. The court also said that such daughters would get preference over other collateral members of the family such as sons and daughters of brothers of the deceased father. The judgement dealt with the property rights of Hindu women and widows under the Hindu Succession Act.“If a property of a male Hindu dying intestate (without a will) is a self-acquired property or obtained in the partition of a coparcenary or a family property, the same would devolve by inheritance and not by survivorship, and a daughter of such a male Hindu would be entitled to inherit such property in preference to other collaterals (such as sons/daughters of brothers of deceased father),” a bench of justices S Abdul Nazeer and Krishna Murari said in a 51-page judgment.The court also dealt with the question of whether such property will devolve onto the daughter upon the death of her father or on to “father’s brother’s son by survivorship” in the absence of any other legal heir.“Right of a widow or daughter to inherit the self-acquired property or share received in the partition of a coparcenary property of a Hindu male dying intestate is well recognized not only under the old customary Hindu Law but also by various judicial pronouncements...,” the verdict said.In case a female Hindu dies without leaving a will, the court said, the property she inherited from her father or mother would go to the heirs of her father while the property she inherited from her husband or father-in-law would go to the heirs of the husband.“The basic aim of the legislature in enacting Section 15(2) (of the Hindu Succession Act) is to ensure that inherited property of a female Hindu dying issueless and intestate, goes back to the source,” it said.The judgment came on an appeal against the Madras high court verdict dismissing the partition suit of the daughters.The top court said, “...since the property in question was admittedly the self-acquired property of a father despite the family being in a state of jointness upon his death intestate, his sole surviving daughter will inherit the same by inheritance and the property shall not devolve by survivorship.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daughters-to-inherit-self-acquired-properties-of-fathers-dying-without-a-will-supreme-court-101642728464410.html
21-01-2022||India||Supreme Court to hear Tarun Tejpal's plea for in-camera hearing in 2013 sexual assault case today||The Supreme Court will on Friday hear an appeal filed by former Tehelka editor-in-chief Tarun Tejpal against the Bombay high court's order rejecting a plea for an in-camera hearing of the proceedings challenging his acquittal in a 2013 sexual assault case.A bench comprising Justices Nageswara Rao and BR Gavai will be hearing the plea. Last year in November, a Goa bench of the Bombay high court had rejected the application, in which Tejpal sought an in-camera hearing of the proceedings under Section 327 of the CrPC.The journalist is accused of sexually assaulting his then-colleague in a lift of a five-star Goa hotel in 2013.He was acquitted by a sessions court in May 2021, however, it was challenged in the Goa bench of the Bombay high court by the state government. Challenging Tejpal's acquittal, the state government had said that the court’s judgment was “coloured by prejudice and patriarchy”.After the Goa police filed an appeal against Tejpal's acquittal, he moved the high court with an application seeking an in-camera hearing of the matter, which was rejected.“Section 327 applies for the purpose of inquiring into or trying any offence. It has limited application during inquiry or trial. The appeal is something very clear. Appeals, revisions, etc are neither investigation nor inquiry nor a trial,” Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Goa government, had argued.Senior advocate Amit Desai, who was representing Tejpal, had referred to the law commission and various judgements of high courts supporting his application for an in-camera hearing. The high court, however, rejected the submissions.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-hear-tarun-tejpal-s-plea-for-in-camera-hearing-in-2013-sexual-assault-case-today-101642726716508.html
21-01-2022||India||Packages of drug ingredients to carry QR codes for tracking: Govt||The Union government has made QR (quick response) codes mandatory on packages of drug manufacturing ingredients, both domestic and imported, in a bid to crack down on fake medicines.Earlier this week, the Union health ministry gazette notified guidelines, saying “every active pharmaceutical ingredient (API; bulk drug) manufactured or imported in India shall bear a quick response code on its label at each level, packaging that store data or information readable with software application to facilitate tracking”.The data stored in the code is expected to have unique product ID, name of the API, brand name, name and address of the manufacturer, batch number, batch size, date of manufacturing, date of expiry or retesting, serial shipping container code, manufacturing licence or import licence number, and special storage condition required.API is the core ingredient for manufacturing a drug. If it is fake or sub-standard, then the whole medicine quality is jeopardised. A major chunk of APIs is imported to India from China. However, the government is taking measures to ensure that India is able to manufacture most of it indigenously.The changes in the drugs rules were made under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940, after consultation with the regulator’s subject expert panel— the drugs technical advisory board. The initiative will help easily distinguish between the real and fake drugs.India’s drug regulatory authority is also in the process of amending the Drugs and Cosmetics (D&C) Rules, 1945.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/packages-of-drug-ingredients-to-carry-qr-codes-for-tracking-govt-101642726168424.html
21-01-2022||NA||Breaking News Highlights: West Bengal logs 9,154 new Covid-19 cases, 19,112 recoveries and 35 deaths||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:West Bengal reports 9,154 new Covid-19 cases, 19,112 recoveries, and 35 deathsWest Bengal reports 9,154 new #COVID19 cases, 19,112 recoveries and 35 deaths in the last 24 hours.Active cases 1,34,816 pic.twitter.com/zYyrVUd83HMumbai logs 5,008 new Covid-19 cases, 12,913 recoveries and 12 deathsMumbai reports 5008 new #COVID19 cases, 12,913 recoveries and 12 deaths in the last 24 hours.Active cases 14,178 pic.twitter.com/dAq5mFLjPWPrima facie, it appears leak is not related to Co-WIN, matter being examined: Govt on alleged data leakRegarding data leak from CoWIN - We are getting the matter examined. However, prima facie it appears that the alleged leak is not related to Co-WIN as we neither collect any information on address or the #COVID19 status of beneficiaries: Ministry of Health & Family Welfare pic.twitter.com/fZAMGLYzkFDavos forum to be held in person May 22-26, says World Economic Forum The Davos summit will be held in person for the first time since the start of the Covid-19 pandemic, from May 22-26, the World Economic Forum announced Friday.Karnataka reports 48,049 new Covid-19 cases, 22 deathsKarnataka reports 48,049 new #COVID19 cases, 18,115 recoveries, and 22 deaths in the last 24 hours.Active cases 3,23,143 Positivity rate 19.23% pic.twitter.com/Z4deYdlFR8Delhi reports 10,756 new Covid-19 cases, 38 deathsDelhi reports 10,756 new #COVID19 cases, 17,494 recoveries and 38 deaths in the last 24 hours.Active cases 61,954Cumulative Positivity Rate 5.16% pic.twitter.com/JJOm9bhngF35 Pak-backed YT channels taken down for ‘spreading anti-India’ propaganda35 Pakistan-backed YouTube channels have been taken down for ‘spreading anti-India’ propaganda, ministry of information and broadcasting secretary Apurva Chandra said on Friday during a press brief at the National Media Centre in New Delhi.Meghalaya CM Conrad Sangma tests positive for Covid-19Meghalaya CM Conrad Sangma tests positive for #COVID19. "I am isolating myself for the required time. I have mild symptoms," he tweets. pic.twitter.com/4A2ZzhQKHxBJP releases first list of 34 candidates for Punjab assembly electionsToday BJP is announcing the first list of 34 candidates for the #PunjabElections2022: Punjab BJP in-charge Dushyant Gautam pic.twitter.com/gHYT6thA03In historic move, Amar Jawan Jyoti merged with National War Memorial flameThe Amar Jawan Jyoti flame at the India Gate was on Friday merged with that at the National War Memorial in a short ceremony in Delhi, during which a part of the Amar Jawan Jyoti flame was taken and merged with the flame at the NWM, which is 400 meters away on the other side of India Gate. Read MoreExpelled Uttarakhand BJP minister Harak Singh Rawat joins Congress in DelhiExpelled Uttarakhand BJP Minister Harak Singh Rawat joins Congress, today pic.twitter.com/XDDgIns6wfAAP releases third list for Uttar Pradesh assembly electionsAam Aadmi Party (AAP) releases the third list for Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections 2022 pic.twitter.com/mjmE6NHrVP50-year-old tried to self-immolate near Supreme Court new building: Delhi copsA 50-year-old man tried to self-immolate near the new building of the Supreme Court. He was rushed to hospital: Delhi PoliceHimachal: Fire breaks out at house in Chirgaon Rohru area of ShimlaHimachal Pradesh | Fire broke out at a house in the Chirgaon Rohru area of Shimla district pic.twitter.com/etYLS13djqIS gunmen in Iraq kill 11 soldiers in brazen barracks attackGunmen from the Islamic State extremist group attacked an army barracks in a mountainous area north of Baghdad early Friday, killing 11 soldiers as they slept, Iraqi security officials said.After Delhi CM sends proposal to lift weekend curfew, L-G Baijal says status quo should be maintained#BREAKINGLG Anil Baijal not in favor of lifting weekend curfewIn reply to CM @ArvindKejriwal's proposal to end weekend curfew, LG says status quo should be maintained till Covid-19 situation further improvesPrivate offices to be allowed 50% work from office@htTweets50th statehood day of Meghalaya: PM Modi addresses nationMeghalaya has given the message of nature and progress, of conservation and eco-sustainability to the world, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi as he addressed the nation on the 50th statehood day of the northeastern state. PM Modi to unveil hologram statue of Subhas Chandra Bose on his 125th birth anniversaryAt a time when the entire nation is marking the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, I am glad to share that his grand statue, made of granite, will be installed at India Gate. This would be a symbol of India’s indebtedness to him. pic.twitter.com/dafCbxFclKPrime Minister Narendra Modi to unveil hologram statue of Subhas Chandra Bose at India Gate on his 125th birth anniversary.UP polls: Rahul, Priyanka release youth manifestoCongress leader Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi launch Uttar Pradesh's Youth Manifesto, at the All India Congress Committee (AICC) headquarter in Delhi, ahead of state assembly elections. Pakistan achieved ‘GDP growth of 5.37% in 3 yrs': Imran Khan“I want to congratulate my government on achieving GDP growth of 5.37% in 3 years leading to substantial jobs creation and rise in per capita income. Our econ reforms success recognised internationally. Bloomberg predicted Pak will sustain high growth trajectory and employment levels," tweets Pakistan prime minister Imran Khan.‘Delhi averted danger,' says health minister Satyendra JainExperts said Delhi will record 1 lakh cases daily, but we averted that danger.Will take call on lifting more curbs within 3-4 days, says health minister Satyendra Jain, as per PTI. PM Modi inaugurates new circuit house in Gujarat’s Somnath via video conferencingPrime Minister Narendra Modi has inaugurated a new circuit house in Gujarat’s Somnath via video conferencing.Mumbai police arrest 3 for making abusive comments against womenThree people have been arrested for making abusive and cruel comments about women in the Club House app chat. Mumbai Cyber Police is investigating after registering a case on the complaint of a woman, reports ANI. Delhi govt sends a recommendation to Lt Gov to end weekend curfewDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal sends a recommendation to Lt Gov to end weekend curfew as Covid-19 cases dip. The government has also proposed to end odd-even system for shops in markets. Private offices may be permitted to call 50% staff to office. Currently 100% is work from home. Delhi's air quality remains in 'very poor' categoryThe air quality in the national capital on Friday remained in the 'very poor' category according to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR).India reports 3,47,254 new Covid cases, 703 deaths in 24 hours; active cases cross 2-million markCovid-19 active cases in cross 2-lakh mark in India as the Omicron-led surge continues. The overall caseload was up by 3,47,254 and it now stands at 3,85,66,027.  PM Modi extends greetins on statehood day of Manipur, Meghalaya, TripuraGreetings to the people of Manipur, Meghalaya and Tripura on their Statehood Days. These states are making vibrant contributions to India’s development. Praying for their constant progress.Amar Jawan Jyoti to be merged with National War Memorial flameAt 1554 hours today, Air Marshal Balabadra Radha Krishna, Chief of Integrated Defence Staff, in the absence of serving Chief of Defence Staff will merge the flames of Amar Jawan Jyoti with the eternal flame at the National War Memorial in a ceremonial function. Read MoreSputnik V effective against Omicron, say developersRussian anti Covid-19 vaccine, Sputnik V, has two times higher virus neutralizing antibodies to the Omicron variant than the Pfizer vaccine, announced its developers on Wednesday based on a preprint study. Read More17 dead, 59 injured in explosion in western GhanaAs many as 17 killed, 59 others have been injured in explosion in western Ghana, reports AFP citing government.France plans to relax Covid induced restrictions next monthFrance will relax some restrictions early next month in a bet the pandemic will recede thanks to faster inoculations and plans to shut the unvaccinated out of most social activities. Austrian lawmakers passed the European Union’s first law making coronavirus vaccinations mandatory.UP elections: Keshav Prasad Maurya rises up ranks after OBC leaders exit BJPUttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya is suddenly everywhere -- appealing to other backward class (OBC) leaders exiting the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to reconsider their decisions; welcoming defectors to the party; or targeting the Samajwadi Party and its leader Akhilesh Yadav. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-january-21-2022-101642726142743.html
21-01-2022||India||‘FB unable to contain hate speech’: Whistleblowers push for action||Facebook whistleblowers Sophie Zhang and Frances Haugen on Wednesday joined a collective of advocacy groups to press Facebook to release its India Human Rights Impact Assessment (HRIA) and address allegations the company is not doing enough to stop human rights abuses in India.At a press conference, Zhang and Haugen, said the social media company was not able to contain hate speech and misinformation. The groups identified themselves as India Civil Watch International (ICWI) and the Real Facebook Oversight Board.“If Facebook was required to publish the performance of its Hindi language violence incitement hate speech classifiers, it would show that India does not get the safety it deserves” for its “300 million users”, said Haugen, a former product manager on the Civic Misinformation team at Facebook.She added that for a linguistically diverse country like India, Facebook needs to organize safety mechanisms to protect its users on the app.Zhang, the company’s former data scientist, said:“Facebook claims benevolence, but in the end, they feel no responsibility to protect democracy… At Facebook, the policy department- the people responsible for making decisions- are the same as the ones responsible for lobbying the government. So, it’s no surprise that there is a conflict of interest.”“Given the complexity of this work, we want these assessments to be thorough. We will report annually on how we’re addressing human rights impacts, in line with our Human Rights Policy,” said Miranda Sissons, director of Human Rights Policy, Meta. Facebook, the parent company of the social media network, was rebranded as Meta recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fbunable-to-contain-hate-speech-whistleblowers-push-for-action-101642725646720.html
21-01-2022||India||Western disturbance to cause rainfall in Rajasthan, other states for next 2 days||Delhi is likely to have a partly cloudy sky with the possibility of light rain towards Friday evening, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted as the maximum temperature in the national capital settled two degrees Celsius below the season’s average on Thursday. The Met department forecast suggests foggy conditions, which delayed many Delhi-bound trains, will continue in Delhi in the morning.“There will be partly cloudy sky with possibility of light rain or drizzle towards evening on Friday. There will be shallow fog in the morning,” the IMD said.The weather department has also predicted rain in parts of Rajasthan during the next two days due to the influence of a new western disturbance. The disturbance, likely to form an induced circulation system over southwest Rajasthan on Friday, could lead to light-to-moderate rain with thunder in Jodhpur, Bikaner, Ajmer, Jaipur, Kota, and Bharatpur from January 21 night onwards.Many places in Ajmer, Alwar, Bharatpur, Dausa, Dholpur, Jaipur, Karauli, Sikar, Sawai Madhopur, Tonk, Bikaner, Churu, Ganganagar, Hanumangarh, Nagaur, Jodhpur and Pali districts are likely thunder and lightning. Some places in Jaipur, Alwar, Sikar and Churu districts may witness hailstorms.Under the influence of a fresh western disturbance and other synoptic situations, isolated to scattered rainfall or snowfall very likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand during the next 2 days. The rain, thereafter, is likely to spread with fairly widespread to widespread rainfall or snowfall on Saturday and Sunday.The IMD has predicted isolated to scattered rainfall over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, West Uttar Pradesh and East Rajasthan on January 20-21 and increase thereafter with fairly widespread to widespread rainfall on January 22 and 23. Isolated heavy rainfall is likely over Punjab on January 22 and isolated heavy rainfall likely over Assam and Meghalaya on January 24.“Under the influence of a cyclonic circulation over Southwest Bay of Bengal and another over south Tamil Nadu in lower tropospheric levels; isolated light rainfall/thundershower over Tamilnadu, Puducherry & Karaikal and Kerala & Mahe during next 4-5 days,” the IMD said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-western-disturbance-to-cause-rainfall-in-these-states-uts-for-next-2-days-101642725213894.html
21-01-2022||India||Officials: Fewer officers on deputation hits work||Even as some state governments have signalled their intent to challenge the Centre’s proposed amendments to All India Services Rules that will allow it get more officers on Central Deputation, data reviewed by Hindustan Times shows that the number of such officers on deputation has declined over the past decade. Union government officials said that this has affected the functioning of the Central Government .Documents reviewed by HT show that the number of IAS (Indian Administrative Service) officers available on central deputation reserve (CDR) has gone down from 309 in 2011 to 223 as on date. The proportion of CDR utilization has gone down from 25% in 2011 to 18%.This has come despite an increase in the number of IAS officers at Deputy Secretary/Director level from 621 in 2014 to 1130 in 2021; the number of officers at this level on central deputation has almost remained the same -- changing from 117 to 114.The situation in the Indian Police Service (IPS) is far worse and exemplified by a letter written by Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla to West Bengal Chief Secretary H K Dwivedi last June. In his missive, the Home Secretary stated that the CDR earmarked for West Bengal Cadre is 75, but only 14 IPS officers are presently working on Central Deputation.That the state governments are refusing to send IPS officers on central deputation is hitting the efficiency and working of the central paramilitary forces, the officials cited in the first instance added. There is evidence, they said, to show that on January 1, 2022, there is a vacancy of 186 IPS officers at the DIG level against a sanctioned strength of 252 officers. The vacancy at Superintendent of Police (SP) level is 97 (sanctioned strength 203) and at Inspector General (IG) level it is 30 (140). Data as of today shows that West Bengal utilizes only 16% of central deputation reserve followed closely by Haryana (16.3%), Telengana (20%), Karnataka (21.74%), Maharashtra (26.47%), and Punjab (29.73%) . There is a shortage of 633 IPS officers on central deputation with only 442 officers on deputation.While the Union government has sought state government responses to the proposed amendments to IAS cadre rules by January 25, after the last reminder on this was sent on January 6, some state governments have called this a blow to the federal structure of governance as they will be forced under the new rules to relieve officers for central deputation.The Hindu first reported on January 19 that at least six states, including some ruled by BJP governments have written to the Centre opposing the changes.Among the amendments proposed is one that says the Centre will arrive at the number of officers on CDR in consultation with states, another that in case of any difference of opinion between the Centre and the state, the latter will go with the decision of the former, and within a specified time and a third that the Centre could pick a specific officer from a state in public interest.While some states are questioning this right of to seek services of a particular officer, the officials cited in the first instance pointed out that sometimes, in a specific situation such as a major disaster, or where a counter-insurgency or counter-terrorism or anti-Naxalite operation needs to be carried out, there is requirement of specialist officers as not every one can handle the situation at hand.“The Centre is willing to discuss the proposed amendments with the states. It is not going to be a unilateral decision, but the fact is that officers with experience of states are need at the Union level. Further, the growth of state officers will remain stunted if they are not exposed to the central and international stage. This is why the IAS, IPS and IFS were categorized as All India Services,” said a top bureaucrat, explaining the rationale behind the proposed amendments.
21-01-2022||India||Former AAP Goa convener is Congress candidate for Panaji||PANAJI: The Congress on Thursday declared its sixth and final list of candidates for the upcoming Goa assembly elections with former bureaucrat and former Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state convener Elvis Gomes fielded from the state capital Panaji. Gomes, who quit the civil service to join the Aam Aadmi Party ahead of the 2017 assembly elections, joined the Congress in December 2020, claiming the AAP no longer represented the ideals it was set up for. He will now take on the BJP’s Atanasio “Babush” Monserrate and possibly Manohar Parrikar’s son Utpal who is likely to make an announcement on Friday that he will contest as an independent. Besides Gomes, the Congress has also nominated former BJP MLA Carlos Almeida, who will contest from the Vasco da Gama constituency, a seat he has been representing for the past two terms. The party has also opted for Anthony “Tony” Dias (Benaulim), Amit Patkar (Curchorem) and Tukaram Borkar (Siroda) for its three seats. The Congress has entered into an alliance with Goa Forward Party and has conceded three seats to its alliance partner. Meanwhile, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) too has announced a list of four candidates with former minister José Philip D’Souza fielded from Dabolim, Rehan Muzawar from Navelim, Digvijay Priolkar Verlekar from Priol and Subhash Prabhudesai from Shiroda. The NCP, which has announced a pre-poll alliance with the Shiv Sena has said that the two parties will jointly contest around a dozen seats in Goa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-aap-goa-convener-is-congress-candidate-for-panaji-101642712972866.html
21-01-2022||India||Goa: Pratapsingh Rane refutes Fadnavis’ claims over daughter-in-law’s candidature||PANAJI: Senior Congress leader Pratapsingh Rane has refuted claims that he has granted the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) his “consent” to field his daughter-in-law Divya Rane from his sitting seat, Poriem. Reacting to comments made by BJP Goa election in-charge Devendra Fadnavis, who said that Rane was “approached” and asked to “give the seat to the BJP, he said: “It is not right. My name is being used, it should not be done. Poriem is not my backyard. This is fake news. Fadnavis met me several days ago. He had visited me. But I have not spoken any politics with him. Whether I contest or not is a different matter. First this needs to be clarified,” Rane told reporters on Thursday evening. The octogenarian Rane who has been representing the Poriem seat for nearly five decades has remained faithful to the Congress but his son Vishwajit who has been representing the neighbouring Valpoi seat since 2007 joined the BJP in 2017. The BJP has now fielded Vishwajit’s wife Divya from Poriem. Speaking in Delhi on Thursday morning Devendra Fadnavis said that the BJP has “requested” Pratapsingh Rane not to contest from the seat he has been representing for the past 50 years and instead “give the seat to the BJP” by either contesting on a BJP ticket or withdrawing from the race. “He accepted and said that I have aged so I will not contest, Divya Rane will contest instead. Congress will contest the seat, but we will defeat them,” Fadnavis said. Pratapsingh Rane, a 10-term legislator, is Goa’s longest serving MLA. He also holds a record for having served as chief minister of the state for a little less than 16 years across six terms between 1980 and 2007. He was the assembly speaker between 2007 and 2012. He has been continuously elected since 1972 to the then legislative assembly of the Union Territory of Goa, Daman and Diu. The 82-year-old veteran politician has also stayed firmly with the Congress for decades. In December last year, Rane announced that he will be contesting the upcoming Goa polls saying that the decision was arrived at after demands from his well-wishers, supporters and party workers. His decision to contest prompted outrage from his son and BJP legislator Vishwajit Rane, who quite unkindly suggested his father should retire. Pratapsingh was subsequently announced as the Congress’ official candidate from Poriem. The senior Rane, however, appeared to backtrack from his decision to contest, saying it was perhaps time to retire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-pratapsingh-rane-refutes-fadnavis-claims-over-daughter-in-law-s-candidature-101642710212678.html
21-01-2022||India||Fee hike demand by colleges delayed counselling for MDS seats: Karnataka to SC||NEW DELHI: A last-minute demand for an increase in fees by private dental college associations in Karnataka led to the delay in counselling for post-graduate dental admissions in the state, the Karnataka government told the Supreme Court on Thursday and requested that the last date for counselling for admission to Master of Dental Surgery course be extended till January 31.Counselling for the MDS course across the country ended on November 20 but Karnataka conducted it from December 4 to 18. When the Centre and Dental Council of India refused the state’s request to regularise the admission of 633 students admitted to the MDS course, a private dental college in Karnataka approached the top court to seek its intervention, arguing that the students should not have to suffer due to the state government’s decision to delay counselling.When the Karnataka government adopted a hands-off approach at a Supreme Court hearing on January 12 - it argued that the government had already made it clear to the students that their admission was provisional - the top court ordered the state government to explain it delayed the counselling.In its response filed on Thursday, Karnataka principal secretary, department of medical education Naveen Raj Singh said: “The delay in the admission process was attributable to the time taken in entering into consensual agreement and in order to provide an opportunity for students with lowered percentile. The private colleges were demanding 20% increase in the fees and the government was not willing to accept the demand as the people at large were already undergoing financial hardships due to Covid-19 pandemic in the year 2020.”For this reason, the state added, although consensus was reached between the state and private dental colleges association on the seat-sharing agreement as early as November 18, two days before the cutoff date, the agreement was not signed.The Karnataka official said the demand for fees was made by the colleges at a meeting with the state government on November 2.“In the said meeting (of November 2) all private colleges requested the state to write a letter to DCI seeking an extension of 45 days’ time for counselling. Since counselling is a common counselling, the same was not done even for the 15 governmental seats. This was because the future of a large number of students was at stake,” the Karnataka government said.The agreement came to be signed on November 29 and 30 between the state and three dental college associations - Karnataka Religious and Linguistic Minority Professional Colleges Association, Karnataka Professional Colleges Foundation and Association of Minority Professional Colleges in Karnataka.The affidavit said, “All the associations knew, on the date of signing of these agreements, that they were way past the cutoff date and these agreements were signed with a hope that central government shall intervene in the interest of 923 students (total MDS seats in the state of which 633 were filled).”The government said that as soon as the agreement was signed, the state acted expeditiously.The affidavit also requested the court to make an exception in the interest of students and allow counselling to be completed by January 31 for the 633 seats including 15 government college seats, 210 government seats in private dental colleges, 16 NRI seats, 294 seats filled up by private colleges on merit, and 98 by way of other categories.“There was no intentional delay on the part of the state. Karnataka has already conducted counselling and granted admissions to 633 students. It is humbly stated that the last date of admissions may be extended to January 31 in the larger public interest and the interest of the students in the state of Karnataka,” the state urged the court. Karnataka added that the Centre and DCI have rejected the request to extend the deadline and a response to the third communication to the Centre reiterating the request is awaited.The court is hearing a petition filed by a private college - Maratha Mandals Nathajirao G Halgekar Institute of Dental Sciences and Research Centre. The state government said that filing a petition in court was an afterthought as on December 13 when the college filed the petition, it shot a communication the same day asking Karnataka Education Authority not to allot any seat to the college due to delayed counselling.Some of the affected candidates who took admission are also before the court. While taking admissions, the students were informed about the risk of taking admission beyond the cutoff date. The students represented by lawyer Charu Mathur earlier told the court that a delay in commencement of the 2021-22 will automatically delay the next batch leading to total disturbance in the academic cycle.The case will be heard next on January 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fee-hike-demand-by-colleges-delayed-counselling-for-mds-seats-karnataka-to-sc-101642709612461.html
21-01-2022||India||Calcutta high court lawyers seek stern action against TMC MP Kalyan Banerjee||KOLKATA: A section of lawyers of the Calcutta high court wrote a letter to the Chief Justice of India, chief justice of the Calcutta high court and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee seeking stern actions against Trianmool Congress MP and senior advocate of Calcutta high court Kalyan Banerjee. The two-page letter signed by 157 lawyers and members of the Calcutta high court accused Kalyan Banerjee of nepotism, giving undue preference to certain lady lawyers and speaking ill against West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. “There have been numerous instances where certain lady lawyers have been given undue preference over deserving lawyers in exchange of unexplainable favours. Other female lawyers have also complained of Kalyan Banerjee’s behavior and stated that his approach towards them has been dishonorable and depraved,” the latter said. This comes after Kalyan Banerjee spoke out against Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee who is also the party’s national general secretary. While Abhishek Banerjee last week opined that all political gatherings should be suspended for the next two months, more than 53,000 Covid tests were conducted in his Diamond Harbour parliamentary constituency. The MP tweeted that it was a record. Kalyan Banerjee, however, said: “I have no other leader than Mamata Banerjee. He (Abhishek) is opposing the Mamata Banerjee government. In this way, the state government has been challenged.” The letter sent by the lawyers also said: “It is pertinent to mention that Kalyan Banerjee despite being most unpopular, has been using his political position and power to make room for his puppets including his son and daughter in the government panel of lawyers.” Kalyan Banerjee, however, refused to comment saying that he was following the instructions of Mamata Banerjee in the true spirit. “I am following didi’s instructions in true spirit. I won’t make any comment. Didi is looking after the entire episode,” he said. Meanwhile, speaking to media persons in Goa on Thursday, Abhishek Banerjee said that Kalyan Banerjee’s statements prove there is democracy within the party. “Even I have no other leader than Mamata Banerjee. So, what’s wrong with Kalyan Banerjee’s statements? Also, his statements prove that there is democracy within TMC, which is good,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/calcutta-high-court-lawyers-seek-stern-action-against-tmc-mp-kalyan-banerjee-101642706372460.html
21-01-2022||India||Modi, Mauritius PM launch social housing project worth $45 million||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Mauritius counterpart Pravind Jugnauth on Thursday inaugurated a $45-million social housing project with 956 units and launched work on a solar power plant and a civil service college to be built with Indian aid of more than $500 million. At a virtual event joined by the prime ministers, the two countries also concluded agreements for India to provide about $200 million as assistance for a metro rail and other infrastructure projects in Mauritius and for small but high impact development projects in fields such as education, healthcare and disaster risk reduction. Referring to the long-standing ties between the two sides based on history, ancestry, culture, and the waters of the Indian Ocean, Modi said in his opening remarks that the development partnership has become a key pillar in the close ties. “Mauritius is a prime example of India’s approach to development partnership which is based on the needs and priorities of our partners and respects their sovereignty,” he said, in an apparent reference to China’s Belt and Road Initiative that has been criticised for creating a “debt trap” in several Indian Ocean states. Modi added: “Mauritius is also integral to our approach to the Indian Ocean. It was in Mauritius, during my 2015 visit, that I had outlined India’s maritime cooperation vision of SAGAR – Security and Growth for All in the Region.” Jugnauth interspersed his address with remarks in Hindi to convey his government’s gratitude for the wide-ranging cooperation and technical and financial assistance provided by India over the years. “We never cease to acknowledge that without the financial assistance of the government of India, this [metro] project would not have been implemented so fast,” he said. He said one of the major stations on the metro rail system will be named after Mahatma Gandhi to express the gratitude of Mauritius. Noting that the loans and grants reflect India’s commitment to the progress of Mauritius, Jugnauth invited Modi to visit the country in November or December for the inauguration of the full metro service. The 956 social housing units located at two sites were built with an Indian grant of $20 million and a line of credit of $25 million. This was one of five large infrastructure projects that were part of an Indian $ 353-million special economic package unveiled in 2016. The units were built by an Indian firm to bolster the Mauritius government’s affordable housing scheme. The two leaders virtually laid the foundation stone of the civil service college to be built with a grant of $4.74 million. The college, to be completed in 18 months, will build capacity in public sector management and governance. The 8-MW solar farm at Tamarind Falls, to be built with a line of credit of $500 million from India’s Exim Bank, is expected to be completed in 11 months. The facility will be the largest solar farm in Mauritius and will generate 14GWh a year. The plant will help Mauritius achieve its target of having 60% of renewables in its energy mix by 2030, and reduce the use of coal and oil imports. The two agreements concluded on Thursday included a line of credit for $190 million from India’s Exim Bank for the metro rail and other infrastructure projects, and a memorandum of understanding on small but high impact development projects worth $10 million in fields such as education, healthcare, community development, women’s empowerment, disaster risk reduction and energy. The first phase of the metro rail was inaugurated in 2019 and it has carried more than 5.6 million passengers since commercial operations began in January 2020. The second and third phases of the flagship project will be completed by the end of 2022 and work is already underway on the fourth phase. Modi also pointed to ongoing maritime security and defence cooperation between the two sides, saying this has translated the vision of SAGAR into action. “Despite the constraints of Covid, we were able to hand over a Dornier aircraft on lease and complete the short refit of the Mauritian Coast Guard ship Barracuda,” he said. The Dornier aircraft was leased in September 2021 and the free refit of the Coast Guard vessel was completed in October 2021. “In the coming days, we will begin work on several important projects such as the renal transplant unit, the Forensic Science Laboratory, the National Library and Archives, the Mauritius Police Academy, and many others. I would like to reiterate today that India will always continue to stand by Mauritius in its development journey,” Modi said. 
21-01-2022||India||Himachal Pradesh: 7 killed in Mandi hooch tragedy, four arrested||Seven people were killed after consuming illegal spurious liquor in Sundernagar town of Mandi district since Wednesday, police said on Thursday, adding that four people have been arrested so far in connection with the case. According to police, five people died on Wednesday while two others -- Sita Ram of Khanyor village and Bhagat Ram -- died a day later. Of them, Sita Ram died after falling ill in his house while Bhagat Ram was undergoing treatment at Lal Bahadur Shashtri Government Medical College and Hospital (LBSGMC), Nerchowk. Meanwhile, three more people were admitted to the LBSGMC on Thursday, taking the total number of people hospitalised to five. One of them, who was admitted at Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla, in serious condition has now been referred to PGI ChandigarhSub-divisional magistrate Dharmesh Kumar said that 10 vehicles fitted with public address system have been deployed in the area to make people aware and urging them to seek medical advice if symptoms occur.The Himachal Pradesh government has constituted a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the case. The SIT will be headed by deputy inspector general (DIG, central range) Madhududan with SP Kangra Khushal Chand Sharma, SP Mandi Shalini Agnihotri and SP (Crime) CID Shimla Virendra Kalia as its members.On Wednesday, Mandi superintendent of police Shalini Agnihotri said the liquor vend from where the hooch had been purchased had been sealed, and two people had been taken into custody.The Mandi police on Thursday arrested four people including a panchayat ex-pradhan and kin of a serving pradhan in the case. They have been identified as Jagdish Chand, ex-pradhan of Salapar panchayat and Acchar Singh, the father-in-law of the serving pradhan of the panchayat. Two other accused were identified as Sohan Lal and Pradeep Kumar. Police have recovered 12 bottles of ‘Santra’ brand liquor from Sohan Lal.All four were booked under sections 304 (cupable homicide), 308 (punishment for culpable homicide) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code.The incident gave way to a political slugfest with the opposition Congress accusing the ruling BJP of sheltering the liquor mafia in Sundernagar area. The BJP however, hit back saying that one of the accused was associated with Congress.Former chief parliamentary secretary and Congress leader Sohan Lal Thakur alleged that illicit liquor was being sold in Sundernagar for a long time, but the administration was “under pressure” not to act against the mafia. He alleged that spurious liquor was smuggled from Chandigarh and sold in border areas of Sundernagar sub-division, including Salapar, Kangu, Harabagh, Jarol, Pung, Mahadev, Dhanotu, Bhaur, Naulakha, Dadour and Kanaid.Dhabas adjacent to the National Highway (NH) from Mandi to Kullu-Manali had reportedly been selling this liquor, alleged Sohan Lal.Meanwhile, police found that the spurious liquor was being sold in original cartons. Police had recovered several cartons dumped at secluded places after the tragedy unfolded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-pradesh-7-killed-in-mandi-hooch-tragedy-four-arrested-101642705952684.html
21-01-2022||India||ED raids on Channi’s nephew were politically motivated: Congress to EC||A Congress delegation on Thursday met Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra to register a complaint against the “politically motivated” raids conducted by the Enforcement Directorate on a relative of Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi ahead of the assembly elections.In their memorandum to the poll body chief, the delegation, which also comprised senior leaders Randeep Singh Surjewala and Abhishek Singhvi, alleged that raids were a “violation of the model code of conduct”, which came into force on January 8 after the poll schedule was announced.“Politically motivated raids by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on a relative of Punjab chief minister Sardar Charanjit Singh Channi solely with a view to malign and defame the chief minister and incumbent Congress government,” the memorandum said. Furthermore, they sought the intervention of the Commissioner as the party believes the raids are a violation of the Model Code of Conduct.Also read | Channi’s kin minted crores through illegal sand mining, alleges Harsimrat“The case sought to be built up by the Investigative Agency is deliberately contrived and self-serving and designed to serve the interest of BJP and its allies, who are becoming irrelevant in the political landscape of Punjab,” it added.The ED on Wednesday said that it seized ₹10 crore in cash from the premises of Bhupinder Singh, the nephew of Channi, and his business partner after raids in connection with illegal sand mining in the state.Channi said the raids were an attempt to frame him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-raids-on-channi-s-nephew-were-politically-motivated-congress-to-ec-101642705652134.html
21-01-2022||India||As cases plateau, Delhi to wait before easing Covid curbs||The Delhi government’s health department reviewed the city’s Covid-19 outbreak at present and decided to further observe case trends over the next few days to propose any relaxation of curbs, a decision questioned by experts who said some restrictions can now be rolled back.The Capital added 12,306 new cases, which accounted for 21.48% of the tests conducted – both numbers were a drop from what was recorded a day earlier. The hospital occupancy rate too has remained stable, with more than 82% of the hospital beds having remained vacant over the last week.The officials too accepted that the situation was stable. “We are closely monitoring the situation. While the hospitalisations in Delhi have been stable for the last one week, we are yet to see a clear decline in cases. We will wait for some time before we can relax the restrictions,” said a senior health official, asking not to be named.Strict restrictions on activities and movement of people are in place in Delhi since cases began rising at the beginning of the month, with all leisure and discretionary activities like eating out and going to the cinema banned. A curfew comes into force on between 10pm and 5am and over the weekends, when people can only leave their homes for certain essential activities.Also read | Delhi caps RT-PCR test at private labs, for home collection: Know the new ratesThese curbs have caused significant losses, particularly the hospitality sector. Medical experts said at the current stage, they are excessive.“The government can start lifting restrictions in a phased manner. We have seen that this variant is impacting the unvaccinated, people with co-morbidities and senior citizens more, so while protecting this segment, the rest of the population can be allowed to slowly start resuming their lives and livelihoods. What we are seeing now is that because of regular restrictions, the working class are desperate,” said Dr Sumit Ray, head of department (critical care), Holy Family Hospital.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of department of community medicine at the Safdarjung Hospital, said continuing restrictions could, in fact, drag out the infection curve.“Since this variant is so transmissible, restrictions are only delaying the decline in infections. Another important thing to consider is that the longer we allow the virus to stay in the community, the greater are its chances to mutate, which in the larger sense would delay the end of the pandemic itself. In my opinion, the restrictions are more of a psychological consolation for people that the government is in action-mode and because of this, authorities also do not want to stick their necks out and impose no restrictions,” said Dr Kishore.At its peak this month, the city reported 28,867 cases. The positivity rate reached a high of 30.64%. But the numbers have come down from these levels.After recording a minor increase in new Covid infections on Wednesday, Thursday’s numbers were a decline. But, the city on Thursday added 43 deaths, the highest single day deaths in the Omicron wave so far, surpassing the 40 reported on January 12.The last time the city reported such a high death count was on June 10 last year, with 44 deaths.According to the Delhi government health bulletin, there was also a fall in the positivity rate. Out of the 57,290 samples tested, 21.48% came out positive, as opposed to 23.86% on Wednesday and 22.47% on Tuesday.As government officials pointed out, hospital admissions continued to remain stable, with only 2,698 beds (17.31%) in dedicated beds in Covid-19 hospitals being occupied out of the total 15,589. This means, 12,891 (82.69%) remained vacant.While reviewing the Covid-19 spread in the national capital, the health department also asked districts to ensure that the number of daily testing is amped and stricter action against the violation of Covid norms is also ensured.“The daily testing had dropped slightly, but what we need to understand is that even if tests are slightly lower we can still get the city’s broad picture of infections with the positivity rate. We have ordered the district magistrates to start testing people in crowded places again,” a health official said.
21-01-2022||India||Bengaluru reports highest single day spike in Covid cases; decision to restrictions on Friday||Bengaluru city on Thursday recorded 30,540 Covid-19 cases, its single-day highest since the pandemic broke out. On May 6, 2021, Bengaluru had reported 23,706 new cases and 139 deaths, which was the highest number of cases reported in the city so far, according to a state health department bulletin.As per the bulletin, the active cases in the state stand at 2,93,231.As many as 29 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state on Thursday, with Bengaluru Urban recording 8 deaths. The death toll in the state so far has risen to 38,515. The state recorded 22,143 discharges from hospitals on Thursday, taking the total discharges to 30,45,177.Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai is expected to review the restrictions imposed in the state on Friday at a meeting with an expert panel. The restrictions currently in force in Karnataka include night and weekend curfews, a ban on rallies and protests and a bar on more than 100 people attending any social event in closed spaces.“Many people, including political leaders, have opined that curbs can be lifted in districts where cases are under control. There are some 15-20 districts like that. To protect lives, we need to make a strong decision. At the same time, we must allow livelihood, especially of daily wagers, vegetable vendors and so on,” said Karnataka revenue minister R Ashoka.Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar attacked the government for dragging its feet on deciding the curbs. “They’re killing people. What will happen to trade and business? Overseas governments have decided not to impose curbs. I went to Hyderabad where there are no curbs,” he said.On Thursday, Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar announced that a team of 15 “official spokespersons” from Bengaluru is being formed and only they will be authorised to speak to the media on the Covid-19 situation.Explaining that a few medical practitioners were giving incomplete, inaccurate and unsubstantiated information and contradicting statements on the pandemic, Dr Sudhakar stressed that the government order with names of doctors has been signed and will be issued soon to the media.This comes a day after the government asked doctors to exercise caution while giving statements to the media on Covid-19. In a statement, the Commissionerate of Health and Family Services had said some medical practitioners were allegedly giving incomplete, inaccurate, and unsubstantiated information about Covid-19. “Such misinformation leads to confusion in public at large on the prevailing Covid scenario in the state and encourages them to deviate from well laid out guidelines issued by the health and revenue authorities,” the statement said.The health department asked medical professionals to exercise utmost care and caution while communicating with the public on Covid-19 and to refer to the government guidelines, circulars, and orders thoroughly before appearing on any media or social platform.“Any misinformation or non-factual data on Covid-19 shared on such platforms would be deemed as an offence and necessary action would be initiated as per section 54 of Disaster Management Act, 2005 and section 4(K) of Karnataka Epidemic Disease Act, 2020,” the department added in its statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-reports-highest-single-day-spike-in-covid-cases-decision-to-restrictions-on-friday-101642705532161.html
21-01-2022||India||Centre looks to build brand around National War Memorial||The government has started work on an overarching plan to take the National War Memorial (NWM) to the people through a large-scale branding exercise, a move that has been welcomed by former servicemen. NWM is a monument dedicated to soldiers who fell in post-Independence wars and operations, and was inaugurated in 2019 to fill a key gap -- until then, India did not have a memorial for its fallen heroes. The defence ministry has sought the help of the information and broadcasting ministry for the elaborate branding exercise, officials directly involved in the matter said on condition of anonymity. Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the war memorial almost three years ago, on February 25 2019. Since then, around 3.1 million people have visited it and paid homage to the country’s fallen soldiers whose names are inscribed on its walls. As on date, the names of 26,466 brave warriors are inscribed on the memorial. The government believes a lot more can be done to publicise the war memorial, and attract more visitors to it, the officials added. . Hindustan Times has learnt that a meeting chaired by defence secretary Ajay Kumar on January 11 focussed on “the subject of branding and increase in registrations for NWM.” The chief points noted for action at the meeting included “the facilitation of visits of dignitaries visiting Delhi during National Film Awards, including members of film/TV fraternity, highlighting NWM through various media platforms (DD/AIR/Social Media) and broadcasting next of kin (NoK) ceremony through AIR/DD,” according to a government note seen by HT. Other publicity measures planned include a film on NWM by the Films Division of India, commissioning of articles on the memorial in various newspapers , and scheduling of programmes on DD, AIR and regional channels. On January 10, the defence ministry wrote to the information and broadcasting ministry seeking the latter’s help to devise a “suitable action plan” to publicise NWM, its history and what the monument stands for. The letter, written by joint secretary (ceremonial) in the defence ministry, states that the one of the aims of setting up NWM was “to inculcate a sense of high moral values, sacrifice, national spirit and belongingness in each and every citizen, while paying befitting tribute to our soldiers.” HT has seen a copy of the letter, which is a follow-up to a previous communication on January 5 from the defence secretary to the information and broadcasting secretary regarding specific decisions on NWM. “This involves broadcasting live visuals of NWM in national functions like the Republic Day parade, formulating an action plan for better branding of NWM to attract citizens from all corners of the country, release a new video on NWM for publicity each year, deployment of audio-visual team to capture the visits by citizens and expression of their emotions (with their consent) during such visits through appropriate video, social media platforms and using visuals through drones,” read the January 10 communication. The letter also highlights the need for proper publicity of celebrity visits from the world of cinema, media and journalism. “A suitable action plan in this regard is requested to be formulated. It is requested that a suitable point of contact for same be nominated and intimated for further coordination on the issue,” the letter added. “It’s an excellent initiative. We got the NWM in 2019 after waiting for a national memorial for decades, and now we need to take it to the people,” said former director general of military operations Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd). On January 26, the National Cadet Corps (NCC) will launch a programme called Shaheedon ko Shat Shat Naman, as part of the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav (the celebrations of India’s 75th year of independence) , to honour the sacrifices of fallen heroes. NCC cadets will present the ‘Plaque of Gratitude’ to NoK of 5,000 braves, with each plaque signed by the PM. This activity will be carried out around the same time when the PM pays homage at NWM. This will mark the beginning of the programme, which will carry on till August 15, 2022 by when the cadets would have felicitated the NoK of all 26,466 fallen heroes whose names are inscribed on the memorial.
21-01-2022||India||Punjab leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira got financial benefits from drug traffickers: ED charge sheet||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a charge sheet against Punjab Congress leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira for allegedly laundering money in the 2017 Fazilka drug smuggling racket , people familiar with the development said.The kingpin of Fazilka drug racket, Gurdev Singh, has also been named as accused in the ED charge sheet, filed in the first week of January under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).ED has found that Khaira made substantial cash deposits in his and his family members’ bank accounts over the years, which he could not satisfactorily explain during interrogation. The charge sheet states that between 2014 and 2020, Khaira spent over ₹6.5 crore on himself and family members. His income during this period was less than ₹3 crore, but expenses were in excess of ₹3.5 crore, said an official, requesting anonymity.Investigators at the agency who didn’t want to be named said they have provided substantial evidence to establish that the former legislator was involved with drug traffickers and received financial benefits from them.Khaira, 56, was arrested by the central anti-money laundering agency on November 11 for his links with drug smugglers and forgers making fake passports. At the time of arrest, Khaira denied any wrongdoing and said he was being targeted by central agencies as he has been vocal against the Centre’s three new farm laws (since repealed). “It is political vendetta. Nothing else,” said Khaira to media while being taken away by ED on November 11, 2021.Khaira won the assembly election in 2017 from Bholath in Kapurthala district (Punjab) on an Aam Aadmi Party ticket. However, in January 2019, he quit the party and formed Punjab Ekta Party (PEP), which he merged with the Congress in June 2021.He came under ED’s scanner in January 2021 in two matters -- the first pertaining to a cross-border drugs smuggling network unearthed in Fazilka, Punjab in 2015, in which 1.8 kg of heroin, 24 gold biscuits, two weapons, 26 live cartridges and two Pakistani SIM cards were seized by Jalalabad police (Punjab); and the second to a fake passport racket being run in Delhi.Nine smugglers were sentenced in the Fazilka drugs smuggling case in October 2017 including Gurdev Singh, Manjit Singh, Harbans Singh and Subhash Chander.According to a senior ED officer who didn’t want to be named, Khaira was particularly very close to Gurdev Singh, the leader of Fazilka drugs smuggling racket and used to often shelter him.The politician’s name cropped up in the case in 2017 as well. Although he was not named in the Punjab police charge sheet, a Fazilka court issued summons to him on November 30, 2017. However, the Supreme Court granted him relief by quashing the proceedings against him. At that time, he was Punjab’s Leader of opposition and an Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA.The main allegation against him is that he was supporting the gang of international smugglers and enjoying the proceeds of crime.Last year, the central agency questionned AAP national secretary Pankaj Gupta and former party leader Kumar Vishwas as well in connection with foreign funds raised by the party in 2016 in the run up to Punjab assembly elections. Khaira travelled to the US in 2016 to raise funds for AAP from the non-resident Indians (NRIs) in the run-up to Punjab state assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-leader-sukhpal-singh-khaira-got-financial-benefits-from-drug-traffickers-ed-charge-sheet-101642705232067.html
21-01-2022||India||Andhra woman beheads husband, surrenders with head in bag: Police||A 50-year-old woman beheaded her 53-year-old husband and walked into the Renigunta police station with the severed head to surrender before the police in Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor district on Thursday, police said.The incident took place at Renigunta town, about 10 km away from the temple town of Tirupati on Thursday afternoon, police said. The deceased was identified as Ravichander from Narsaraopet in Guntur district and the woman as Vasundhara form Giddalur in Prakasam district.“Prima facie, family disputes are the reason for the brutal murder of the man,” a police official from Renigunta (urban) police station said.According to the police, the couple had been staying at a police lines street in Renigunta town with their 20-year-old son. “Enquiries with their neighbours revealed that the husband and wife had been frequently quarrelling for the last one year,” he said.On Thursday, police said the couple had a heated argument and were heard shouting at each other. “The son was not in the house, when the parents were quarrelling. In a fit of rage, Vasundhara picked up a sharp knife, stabbed him repeatedly and later beheaded him,” the police said.Later, she put Ravichandar’s head in a plastic bag and reached the police station. “We were shocked when she placed the bag on the table and said she had killed her husband,” the police official said.He said Vasundhara was being questioned further. Ravichander’s torso was recovered from the couple’s house and the body was sent to a government hospital for post mortem, police said.“We have booked the murder case against the woman. We are investigating the case. The reason for the murder is being ascertained,” the police official said.Renigunta urban inspector of police Anju Yadav, who reached the murder spot for investigation, could not be reached for further details.
21-01-2022||India||UP elections: Mulayam’s one more kin, face of Congress’s women drive join BJP||Former Samajwadi Party MLA Pramod Gupta, relative of the party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav and Priyanka Maurya, the face of Congress’ ‘Ladki Hoon, Lad Sakti Hoon’ poster in Uttar Pradesh, joined the BJP here on Thursday.Gupta’s joining comes a day after Yadav’s daughter-in-law Aparna Yadav joined the Bharatiya Janata Party in Delhi on Wednesday.The duo joined the party in the presence of former state unit president, and head of the BJP Joining Committee, Laxmikant Bajpai.“An important political name and a member of Samajwadi Party family and former MLA of Auraiya, Pramod Guptaji is joining the BJP family today,” Bajpai said welcoming Gupta.“I want to remind that from the family of Mulayam Singhji who is respected by all of us... after his ‘samdhi’ Hariom Yadavji, daughter-in-law Aparna Yadav and today his ‘saadho’ (brother-in-law) Pramod Guptaji is joining the BJP family and you all know the value of ‘saadho’ in a family,” Bajpai said.Introducing Maurya, Bajpai said she is the poster girl of the Congress leader Priyanka Vadra Gandhi and exuded confidence that she will now use her power and capabilities in giving strength and momentum to the election campaign of the BJP.Maurya is a homeopath and a social activist having a large following on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, Bajpai said.Along with them, Ayodhya’s folk singer Vandana Mishra also joined the BJP.Speaking to media persons, Gupta alleged “No one is being allowed to meet Mulayam Singh Yadav, who has been kept as hostage by Akhilesh Yadav.””Mulayam Singh and Shivpal Singh have been harassed in the Samajwadi Party and the party workers are very sad. Those who used to use foul language against Mulayam Singhji are being given importance in the party. Where will the socialist ideology go under such circumstances,” Gupta asked.Gupta was the SP MLA from Auraiya’s Bidhuna constituency in 2012. He is related to Sadhna Gupta, the second wife of Samajwadi Party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/upelectionsmulayams-one-more-kin-face-of-congress-s-women-drive-join-bjp-101642705113933.html
