29-01-2022||Lucknow||Allahabad University to reopen for teachers, staff from February 2||After remaining closed since January 9 this year, Allahabad University (AU) will reopen with full capacity for teachers, officials and staff from February 2. However, the classes will continue to be conducted in online mode only. AU Registrar Prof NK Shukla issued a fresh notification on Friday wherein he has informed that AU and its constituent colleges would observe a holiday on February 1 on account of the Mauni Amavasya bathing festival. Thereafter, from February 2, the central university, its departments and centres would reopen and function under the set protocols of Covid-19. According to the notice issued by the registrar, all the offices of the university and affiliated colleges will open from Monday to Friday from 9 am to 5 pm with full capacity. All the teachers have been asked to take online classes after reaching their departments and centres till February 4. “After commencing the normal functioning of the department and classes, we can hold the meeting of the heads of department and deans and the vice-chancellor can take the decision on taking the online classes further,” said assistant public relation officer of AU, Chitranjan Kumar. With the reopening of AU, research scholars have also been allowed to restart work in their respective departments. The estate officer has been directed to get all the departments, offices, facilities and sections sanitized. Following the resurgence of Covid-19 cases AU administration, on January 6, had decided that only internal official working will be carried out in the offices of the university and no public visitor/outsider will be allowed on the campus till further orders. All students were also directed to refrain from coming to the university with immediate effect and were asked to attend their classes in online mode which the teachers were to take from their respective departments and centres. Later, from January 9, AU and its constituent colleges were closed till further orders and even teachers were asked to start taking online classes from their respective homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/allahabad-university-to-reopen-for-teachers-staff-from-february-2-101643480713552.html
29-01-2022||Noida||Noida: Woman dies, male friend goes missing after they jump into Yamuna river||In a possible suicide pact, a 24-year-old woman died, while her male friend, (34), went missing after the duo jumped into the Yamuna river near Kalindi Kunj in Noida on Saturday afternoon. Bharat Kumar Rathi, the station house officer (SHO) of Sector 126 police station, said that the duo reached the spot in the man’s car. “They parked the car and jumped into the river. Some local residents witnessed the incident and informed police. A police team accompanied by divers reached the spot and she was rushed to the district hospital in Noida, where doctors declared her brought dead,” he said. SHO Rathi said that the divers were trying to trace the man, but he was yet to be found. He said that it appears the man was swept away by the river currents. The two were residents of Sangam Vihar in Delhi. SHO Rathi said that the man was married and had three minor children. “We informed his family members, who reached Noida in the evening. Primary investigations revealed that he ran a garment business in Delhi and the deceased woman was his employee for the last four months. The man’s family members said that they are unsure of the reason that led to the tragic incident,” he added. Police said the woman’s identity was established and her family members were informed. “The woman was single. It is not exactly clear what led to the incident,” SHO Rathi said. The woman’s body has been sent for a post-mortem and the medical report is awaited. Police said they are yet to file a complaint. Rajesh S, the deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Noida, said cops at Sector 126 police station are investigating the matter from all angles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-woman-dies-male-friend-goes-missing-after-they-jump-into-yamuna-river-101643480648778.html
29-01-2022||Noida||Noida: Man flees with SUV on pretext of test drive, arrested||A-30-year-old man was arrested on Tuesday evening for allegedly fleeing with an SUV 500 on the pretext of a test drive in Noida Phase 2. The complainant, Sachin Tyagi (42), is a resident of Noida’s Sector 82 and works as a clerk in a college in Bhangel village. Tyagi said last week, he placed an ad on an online platform to sell his SUV. “On January 25, the suspect contacted me on phone and showed interest in buying my SUV. He asked for a test drive. I agreed and called him to Bhangel on Tuesday,” he said. Tyagi said the suspect took the driver’s seat while he sat next to him. “He wanted to go on a long drive... but I refused. We had travelled around five kilometres when the suspect said he was satisfied with the vehicle and wanted to fix the deal for ₹6 lakh. He stopped the SUV in Noida Sector 110 and asked me to get down, so that he could make an advance payment of ₹10,000. I believed him and got down from the vehicle. The suspect pressed on the accelerator and fled the spot,” said Tyagi. The complainant said he tried to contact the person but his mobile number was switched off. He then dialled 112 and informed police. Sarita Malik, sub-inspector and in-charge of Sector 110 check post, said a police team soon started chasing the suspect after getting information. However, by then, the suspect had fled the spot. A case was registered against the suspect under sections 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) of the IPC. “We scanned multiple CCTV cameras along the route and arrested the suspect on Tuesday evening from Gejha village in Noida’s Sector 93. The suspect was identified as Nitesh Bharadwaj, a resident of Noida’s Sector 168. During interrogation, he said he was jobless and hence, committed the crime,” Malik said. Police have seized the SUV from the suspect, who was produced in court and sent to judicial custody on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-man-flees-with-suv-on-pretext-of-test-drive-arrested-101643480590381.html
29-01-2022||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar reports three Covid deaths, highest in seven months||The number of new cases almost doubled in Gautam Budh Nagar as the district on Saturday reported 620 fresh Covid-19 cases, compared to 376 cases registered on Friday, and three fatalities--the highest number of Covid deaths to be reported in the district in a day in the last seven months. The last time the district reported as many deaths in a day was on June 3 last year. However, the active case load in the district dropped to 3,559 from 3,907 on Friday as 967 patients were declared ‘recovered’ on Saturday. So far, there have been 12 Covid deaths this month, which is also the highest in the last seven months. According to official records, the district has been reporting two deaths everyday between January 26 and 28. According to officials of the district health department, all three fatalities reported on Saturday were accidental findings. While two patients were in the age group of 25-30 years, one was 40-years-old. Officials said all three patients had not taken any of the vaccine doses. “All the three patients were undergoing treatment for their comorbidities at different private hospitals in the district. They tested positive for Covid-19 after their RT-PCR tests were conducted by the hospital as a routine procedure. The patients died on January 28,” said Dr Manoj Kushwaha, district surveillance officer. When asked about the high Covid death toll in January, Kushwaha added, “All the deaths reported this month have been accidental findings at hospitals as the patients were admitted for treatment of their comorbidities. None of the cases were such that they went to the hospital because of Covid symptoms”. Meanwhile, the test positivity rate in the district on Saturday was 17%, higher from Friday’s 10%. At the peak of the third wave, the positivity rate had reached 48% in the district on January 16. Officials said the health department has been testing over 3,500 samples every day.Since the pandemic began in March 2020, the district has reported 94,075 Covid-19 cases while 480 people have succumbed to the virus. 
29-01-2022||Noida||SP-RLD promise development in Ghaziabad, announce new sops||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav promised a new development agenda for Ghaziabad on Saturday, besides announcing the opening of subsidised canteens and grocery stores for the poor, and enacting a law to guarantee urban employment if voted to power in the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. Yadav announced the proposed initiatives at a joint press conference with his election ally Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) chief Jayant Chaudhary in Ghaziabad on Saturday. The SP has fielded three candidates and the RLD two for the five assembly seats in the region. All five are currently held by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Voters in Uttar Pradesh will elect a new assembly through polls in seven phases from February 10 to March 7. The results for all 403 seats will be declared on March 10. Ghaziabad will vote in the first phase, along with in 53 other seats in western UP, which has become a hotbed of hectic election campaigning as the SP-RLD alliance looks to wrest the initiative from the BJP in the crucial farm belt. A large section of farmers in western UP participated in the year-long agitation against the contentious farm laws that have now been repealed.“We will revive the MSME sector units. I know that a private cycle unit in Ghaziabad was shut down; once we come to power, we will revive the unit with the help of a special package. It is because the cycle (the Samajwadi Party symbol) is close to my heart. It will also help people in many allied units get jobs,” Yadav said. He said that during his previous term, a school was constructed in Khoda Colony and efforts were made to convert the area into a nagar palika (municipality). “We promise a hospital, degree college and drinking water to households in Khoda Colony as it houses a major population of people from UP and Bihar. Everyone knows that it was Netaji (Akhilesh Yadav’s father Mulayam Singh Yadav) who initiated works for the Metro projects in Ghaziabad. We will take up traffic management plans, and environment, pollution and solid waste issues. We will construct places where people can go for outings. We plan to make the city at par with Delhi,” Yadav added. Khoda Colony comprises an estimated 300,000-400,000 voters and has the potential to turn the election in favour of a particular candidate. Yadav said that if voted to power, his government would construct a hospital and a special trauma centre in Modinagar. He also promised the people a hospital in Sahibabad.“In Sahibabad, we will provide the people with a hospital as most cannot afford treatment in private hospitals. During Covid, people were forced to withdraw from their savings. That time people were in great need of government help,” he added . Meanwhile, Jayant Chaudhary chose to comment on the condition of roads in Ghaziabad. “When we form a government, we will work seriously here. The roads in upmarket colonies in Ghaziabad are potholed. We are working on a development agenda as the people are also seeking development,” he added. Meanwhile in Muradnagar, chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who also held a meeting on Saturday, dismissed the SP leader’s claims of providing residents with free electricity up to 300 units if the party came to power. Earlier this month, Yadav promised 300 units of free electricity to households as well as free power to farmers for irrigation. “People during whose tenure there was no electricity are now promising free electricity. We are providing free tests and free treatment besides free vaccine (for Covid). If this pandemic had come during the previous regime, things would have been devastating,” Adityanath said Saturday. “There were no doctors, no medicines during those times. I called an all-party meeting regarding the Covid situation at Raj Bhavan (governor’s office), but no one from SP arrived. They said they were not concerned with Covid. The Opposition parties were missing during the pandemic and it was the UP government and BJP workers who lent the people a helping hand,” Adityanath added. Adityanath also highlighted the development works taken up during his government’s tenure, and said: “Why were they were not able to take up development works during their tenure? Why was the work for the Rapid Rail not taken up earlier? We are constructing a sports’ university at Meerut and developing a film city nearby (in Noida). The Ganga Expressway will link Meerut to Prayagraj. So, people can start their journey in the morning and be able to take a holy dip at Sangam within six hours.” Political experts said that all parties are highlighting the development agenda. “They know that people want development. The poll promises by the SP are interesting but they should also be implementable. The BJP, on the other hand, is banking on the development works they already did in the region. So, it is now up to the voter to decide,” said KK Sharma, associate professor (history) at MM College at Modinagar.In Ghaziabad, Yadav announced other sops as well: “We will arrange for food in these canteens, and a plate will be made available for ₹10. The idea is to get rid of the problem of hunger from the state. Earlier, we started this scheme, where a plate was available for ₹20, but the BJP stopped it... We will also bring in an urban employment guarantee act on the lines of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGA). This will help youth and people who come to cities in search of jobs.” Yadav also accused the BJP of “negative politics” and said his government’s focus would be on Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb (Ganga-Yamuna culture. The term is used as a euphemism to denote the fusion of Hindu and Muslim elements).
29-01-2022||Delhi||Salaries of NEET-PG protesters cut in 2 Delhi govt hospitals, claim doctors’ bodies||Nearly a month after resident doctors across various hospitals in the national capital called off protests against the delay in NEET-PG (National Eligibility cum Entrance Test) counselling, following assurances from the government that no disciplinary action or salary deductions will be initiated against them, medics at Delhi government’s Guru Teg Bahadur (GTB) Hospital and Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences (IHBAS) said that the salaries have been cut for many doctors who took part in the protests. Resident Doctors Association (RDA) of University College of Medical Sciences (UCMS) and its associated GTB Hospital said on Saturday that the salaries of doctors who participated in the protests in November and December last year were deducted this month. Some doctors have also been marked absent for the protest period. “Salary of resident doctors deducted for the period of protest. We stood for augmenting healthcare workforce pan nation. Despite multiple assurances from various authorities regarding no economic and academic harm, GTB Hospital has cut salary,” the RDA said in a statement. In a statement, the RDA of IHBAS also said, “Attendance and salary of residents deducted for period of protest. We stood for the cause, with the nation. Despite multiple assurances from various authorities regarding no punitive action, salaries of IHBAS residents is deducted, when other institutes haven’t.”RDA representatives of GTB hospital said that they have written letters to Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and health minister Satyendar Jain to intervene in the matter so that deducted salaries can be reversed and the attendance restored. “We have taken up the matter with the CM and the hospital administration. The matter is yet to be resolved. For some doctors, the deduction is nearly 50% of their salary,” said Dr Aditya S, president of UCMS and GTB hospital RDA. Dr Aditya said that nearly 35 senior residents and over 50 junior residents have been impacted by this pay cut. The administrations of IHBAS and GTB hospital, and the Delhi government did not respond to HT’s requests for comments. In a meeting with the Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association (India), which spearheaded the doctors’ protests, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on January 28 had assured the doctors that no punitive action will be initiated against doctors who took part in the protests to expedite NEET-PG counselling, based on which the association decided to call off their protest on January 31. “We strongly condemn the salary deduction of resident doctors by GTB Hospital and IHBAS for participating in the protests to expedite NEET-PG counselling. We request Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain to intervene in the matter urgently,” the FORDA said in a statement responding to the salary cuts. 
29-01-2022||Mumbai||MVA partners plan to move SC over delay by Governor in nominating 12 Council members||Swapnil Rawal swapnil.rawal@hindustantimes.com  In the wake of the Supreme Court striking down the suspension of 12 BJP MLAs, the Maharashtra government is expected to take legal opinion on the ruling in the coming week. The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) partners are also planning to approach the apex court over the delay by the Governor in nominating 12 members to the Council. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Saturday said the Assembly Deputy Speaker, Council Chairman, and legislature secretariat will take views from legal experts before taking any decision. According to MVA insiders, a decision on revoking the suspension is unlikely before February 28 when the budget session of the state legislature begins. “As everybody is aware, the powers of parliament and the Assembly have been well defined. The [Council] Chairman, deputy chairman, and Deputy Speaker [of the Assembly] will study the order and seek the guidance of legal and constitutional experts. The [Vidhan Bhavan] complex falls under their jurisdiction, so they will decide,” Pawar told reporters in Pune. When asked if he feels the SC ruling is an encroachment on the rights of the legislative branch, Pawar said, “It is not appropriate for people like us to comment on the court order. Legal experts and officials of the legislature would be an authority on it.” In an attempt to counter the BJP, Shiv Sena minister Uday Samant said they are planning to move the SC over the delay by Raj Bhavan in the appointment of 12 Council members. He said he had a preliminary talk with Sena leader and state tourism, environment minister Aaditya Thackeray on the issue. Samant said they will take the advice of legal and constitutional experts on whether they can move the apex court over the matter. The delay is unfair for the 12 recommended people who come from various sections of society, the minister said. “The cabinet recommended names and forwarded it to the Governor over a year ago. We will take advice from constitutional experts and approach the Supreme Court to plead our case... We think we will get justice in the matter of vacant seats in the Council on the lines of the Supreme Court’s order [on suspension]. The court must intervene and the 12 people must get the opportunity to serve the state,” he said. Once finalised by the MVA partners, the plea in the SC could be filed by Nitin Bangude-Patil, an expert on Maratha warrior king Shivaji. Bangude-Patil, deputy leader of the Sena, has been nominated by the party to the council. “I have had a preliminary discussion with Aaditya; he too feels we must go ahead after seeking legal opinion. I will speak to chief minister Uddhav ji and deputy chief minister Ajit dada [Pawar]. I have spoken to Bangude-Patil, and we are planning to approach the court after consulting constitutional experts,” Samant said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mva-partners-plan-to-move-sc-over-delay-by-governor-in-nominating-12-council-members-101643480350965.html
29-01-2022||Lucknow||UP reports 25 deaths, caseload crosses 20-lakh mark||Uttar Pradesh reported 25 new deaths of Covid-19 patients after a gap of seven months, while the total caseload crossed the 20-lakh mark on Saturday.With 8,338 more people testing positive for Covid-19, the state’s case load reached 20,05,245 and the death toll 23,164, according to the state health department data. It was on June 28, 2021 that the state had reported 25 Covid-19 deaths on a single day.The state’s recovery rate is 95.9% while that of Lucknow is 95.03%.“A total of 2,02,582 Covid-19 samples were tested in the state in the past 24-hours and till now 9,90,86,748 samples have been tested,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical and health. In the past 24 hours, 13,910 patients recovered, and till now, 19,22,480 have recovered.”Gautam Buddh Nagar, Jhansi and Kushinagar reported three deaths each while Kanpur, Gorakhpur, Chandauli reported two deaths each. Prayagraj, Varanasi, Agra, Bulandshahr, Hardoi, Moradabad, Siddharthnagar, Rampur, Amethi, and Basti reported a death each, according to the data from the state health department.Among the new Covid-19 cases, a maximum 1,705 were reported from Lucknow while all other 74 districts in the state reported fresh cases below 1,000. “Lucknow’s total Covid-19 case load has reached 2,86,471 including 2,662 deaths and 15,170 active cases under treatment at present,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary-general, Association of International Doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-reports-25-deaths-caseload-crosses-20-lakh-mark-101643480114760.html
29-01-2022||Lucknow||Gate of Lucknow’s Imambada Sibtainabad restored to former glory||The outer gate of the 173-year-old Imambada Sibtainabad, in Hazratganj, that collapsed in 2020 during lockdown has been reconstructed and restored by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI).Though officials with the ASI are yet to finalise the date of its inauguration, they confirmed that the re-construction work has been completed. Officials said that during the restoration, efforts were made to keep it exactly identical to the original gate of 1847 – the year when the Imambada Sibtainabad was completed.It took over 45 labourers to complete the re-construction task in around 360 days. The estimated construction cost is said to be over ₹30 lakh. “We are planning a little beautification work around the gate. Traffic movement will be restored in the next two or three days,” said Aftab Hussain, superintending archaeologist, ASI, Lucknow Circle. Officials with ASI said the restoration work was planned in keeping with old photographs of the gate that were procured from the archives. “The Imambada Sibtainabad gate was one of the most beautiful gates in the city. But due to negligence and encroachment in its surroundings, the gate had fallen victim to apathy and eventually collapsed on April 2, 2020,” a senior official with ASI, Lucknow Circle, said. Officials said they had hired a city-based firm —SN and Company for the refurbishment. This company has restored Gulistan-e-Eram, Chhatar Manzil and other heritage structures in Lucknow and those in other parts of UP. “Prior to embarking upon the re-construction exercise, we first had to find out the cause for its collapse,” said Nitin Kohli, owner of the company and an expert who led the team carrying out the re-construction work. On studying the rubble, Kohli said it was found that the structure collapsed due to overloading. “Being an old structure, it was already weak. The encroachers around the gate had laid a double RCC slab over the gate, which eventually brought it down,” he said. Kohli said the restoration work was carried out in three phases. “In the first phase, we ensured the removal of encroachment and the modern structures that damaged the structure to the core. The second phase comprised re-construction and strengthening, which was the trickiest part,” he added. The third phase involved the beautification of the gate.S Mohammed Haider, mutwalli Imambada Sibtainabad thanked the ASI for restoring the gate to its original shape and demanded an anti-encroachment drive in and around the gate. “There are still many shops that are running illegally within the gate. If not removed, the gate will again fall victim to their operations. The district administration and the ASI should ensure that the gate remains encroachment-free in the future”. Historians said the gate was built in 1847 along with the Imambada, construction of which was started by Amjad Ali Shah, the fourth Nawab of Awadh. But it could not be completed during his lifetime, and it was left to his son, Wajid Ali Shah, to complete the edifice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/gate-of-lucknow-s-imambada-sibtainabad-restored-to-former-glory-101643479513806.html
29-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi: 3 held for choking doctor, robbing her in Shalimar Bagh park||New Delhi: The northwest district police arrested three men for allegedly choking a 47-year-old doctor and robbing her diamond ring, gold chain and mobile phone at a park near her house in Shalimar Bagh. Police said they have also arrested two others, who allegedly bought the stolen goods from the three robbers, and recovered the loot.According to police, the doctor, who is posted in the pathology department of a private hospital in Shalimar Bagh, was out for an evening walk on January 26 when she was allegedly targeted by the suspects. She briefly lost consciousness and lay on the walking track, police said. Later, she reached home and informed her family members, who reported the incident to police.On the doctor’s complaint, a case of robbery with common intention was registered under Indian Penal Code’s sections 392 and 34 at the Shalimar Bagh police station. In her complaint, the doctor claimed that she went to the park near her house for a walk around 7 pm. She said the three men were already sitting next to the walking track and when she walked past them, one of the men allegedly choked her from behind, following which she collapsed on the track. The suspects snatched her mobile phone, removed her gold chain and diamond ring, and ran away, leaving behind the unconscious doctor, said deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Usha Rangnani.“Understanding the seriousness of the crime, several teams led by Inspector special staff and station house officer (SHO) of the police station were formed and they were asked to identify and nab the robbers at the earliest. The teams scanned CCTV camera footage of the streets leading to the entry and exit gates of the park. In one of the video footage, the suspects were seen leaving on an e-rickshaw,” said DCP Rangnani.The special staff team scanned more footage from cameras installed on the route taken by the three-wheeler, and also questioned drivers of such battery-operated vehicles in the neighbourhood. The investigators found that the suspects had de-boarded in Wazirpur JJ Colony and, through local intelligence, they were identified as Ravi alias Kala (30), Monu aka Badshah (30), and Tangwel alias Kishan (25). The three suspects were missing from their respective jhuggis during raids, said Rangnani.“Our teams continued collecting information about the suspects and eventually caught Ravi on Friday from near Kanhaiya Nagar Metro station. His questioning led to the arrest of the other two from Wazirpur. They had sold the gold chain and diamond ring for ₹8,000 and ₹25,000 respectively to a goldsmith in Burari named Gagan (38), and the mobile to one Mohammad Akhlakh (20). The two receivers were also arrested and all the stolen items were recovered,” she added.Police said Ravi was previously involved in 10 crimes and had come out of jail on November 2 last year. He is registered as a habitual criminal at Bharat Nagar police station. Monu is a habitual criminal of Ashok Vihar police station and is involved in 34 crimes. He was last arrested by the special staff team in May but he came out of jail two months later. Tangwel, who is involved in three crimes as per police records, came out of jail in November 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi3-held-for-choking-doctor-robbing-her-in-shalimar-bagh-park-101643479448811.html
29-01-2022||Delhi||Anti-CAA protest not organic or women-driven, Delhi Police tells court||New Delhi: The Delhi Police on Saturday told a city court that the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and National Register of Citizens (NRC) in north east Delhi in 2020 were “neither organic” nor “women-driven”, and that they were “organised at Muslim-dominated areas” in the poorest localities of the city to create a secular facade and use them as “cannon fodder” to increase participation.Opposing the bail application of JNU student Umar Khalid, special public prosecutor (SPP) Amit Prasad for the Delhi Police, told additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat that the main conspirators were “entertainers” who did “damrubaazi”.Also Read | Parallels between riots, 9/11 terror attacks: Police in court during Khalid’s bail hearing“When you do announcement from masjid, you identify place, you make sit-in protest, you… try to show a secular face by performing puja there and making a pandit give a speech, what is the activity you have done? You are creating protest sites in Muslim-dominated areas, in poorest localities in Delhi, wanting to create a secular facade. When that message is going to public at large, you want to change the narrative,” Prasad submitted.He said that people were “imported” from other parts of Delhi to participate as the locals did not support the protests.“You bring in artistes from outside, do this damrubaazi, it’s like a gathering, when they get monkeys to dance, do some kind of activity and they (locals) will get attracted…They are not interested in your civil society or agenda-based protest. But at the same time, each one of us gets attracted to some entertainment,” Prasad said.While reading out chats from a WhatsApp group “Delhi Protests Support Group (DPSG)”, he alleged that it was a “highly sensitive group”.The prosecution further claimed that the group members deliberated on every single decision, pointing out an example of a debate on a protest outside the Supreme Court holding copies of the Constitution.Earlier, advancing his arguments on behalf of Umar Khalid, senior advocate Trideep Pais had told the court that the statement of the witnesses showed that he was falsely implicated and a case can’t be made against him on half truths.Pais had contended that police had written fanciful stories in the chargesheet and asked whether his client could be charged under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) for calling road blockades in the city.Khalid and several others have been booked under UAPA, a stringent anti-terror law, and are accused of being the “masterminds” of the north-east Delhi riots in February, 2020 which had left 53 people dead and over 700 injured.Besides Khalid, JNU students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, Jamia Coordination Committee member Safoora Zargar, former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain and several others have also been booked under the stringent anti-terror law in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/anticaaprotest-not-organic-or-women-driven-delhi-police-tells-court-101643479210384.html
29-01-2022||Mumbai||Opposition ‘high’ on wine to protest govt move: Saamana||The Shiv Sena has sharpened its attack on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for its opposition to the Maharashtra government’s decision to allow the sale of wine in supermarkets and departmental stores across the state. Sena mouthpiece Saamana said the opposition party is ‘high’ on wine and is protesting the decision, which will help farmers, grape cultivators, and boost wine production. It asked if state BJP leaders will protest the party-ruled Madhya Pradesh government’s decision to boost sale of liquor. The BJP alleged that certain leaders from the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) have benefited from the move. Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis said there was a ‘deal’ behind the decision and an MVA leader had a meeting with a wine manufacturer. His party colleague Vivekanand Gupta said Sena MP Sanjay Raut’s daughters are directors in a company distributing wine and liquor. “The ruling parties should answer about the leader whose kin have started companies in association with liquor agencies in the last six-eight months. They should answer what was the deal behind the decision and for whose benefit it was taken. The people have every right to know about it,” Fadnavis said. Fadnavis also questioned if the decision was taken after a meeting (of a MVA leader) with a famous wine manufacturer. “Where did the meeting happen? Did it happen abroad? The decision was taken out of economic reasons. It’s a regressive decision and the BJP would oppose it tooth and nail.” “The opposition party understands the difference between wine and liquor very well. But they are high on ‘wine’ and are opposing the government’s decision,” the Saamana editorial said. Gupta, secretary, Mumbai BJP, said Raut’s two daughters are directors in Magpie DFS Private Limited. “The company is a subsidiary of Magpie Global which is into the supply and distribution of beverages, liquor, wine, and champagne. Magpie DFS is into trading and commissioning. Purvashi and Vidhita, daughters of Raut, have been inducted as directors of the company since April 16, 2021. Beer bars, malls in the city are receiving calls from the party office asking them to procure the liquor stock from this company. It needs to check if the induction of the new directors was done ahead of the proposal moved by the government or it was initiated after the induction,” he said. Raut refuted the allegations and asked whether it is a crime if his daughters are associated with wine distribution. “Do I own a winery? I am not associated with it (the company). Are they (his daughters) associated with wine distribution? They (BJP) must look into it. Even if they are, so can’t one be associated with wine production? The BJP leader keeps spreading rumours. The state has about 85 wineries and one must see how many of them are owned by BJP leaders.” Speaking to reporters, Raut said the decision taken by the state government is on the lines of the Narendra Modi government. “The state is following the Centre’s policy. There is nothing new in the decision. The previous Fadnavis government introduced the policy of home delivery of liquor. There is no need to take the opposition seriously as they keep criticising every decision.” He further said the opposition should also look at the statement by BJP MP Sadhvi Pragya who said “liquor is medicine, and should be drunk in small quantities”. In 2018, then Maharashtra excise minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule had said that his government was considering a policy for home delivery and online sale of liquor. But the proposal was not tabled in the House due to opposition. State tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray refused to comment on the allegation by Fadnavis. “He keeps criticising everything (by the MVA government), so I do not wish to reply to it,” he said. The Sena mouthpiece said some BJP-ruled states have decided to boost the sale of liquor. “Will the BJP leaders in Maharashtra clarify why BJP-ruled states have adopted policies for more sale of liquor... Neighbouring Madhya Pradesh has a BJP government where it has permitted a ‘home bar licence’. The limit to stock liquor at home has been increased too. Besides, the government has permitted to sell liquor in malls in four cities [of the state],” it said. Leader of opposition in the Council Pravin Darekar said, “They claim that the decision is for the benefit of the farmers, but it helps wine companies. Saamana is being used only to criticise the BJP. People of Maharashtra are seeing everything how the government is helping such companies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/opposition-high-on-wine-to-protest-govt-move-saamana-101643478850516.html
29-01-2022||Delhi||Slide in positivity rate continues as Delhi adds 4,483 new Covid cases||The Covid-19 test positivity rate in the national capital continued to dip on Saturday, falling to 7.41%, even amid a sharp uptick in testing that pushed up new cases by around 10%.Delhi on Saturday added 4,483 Covid-19 infections, 10.85% more than the 4,044 cases on Saturday. However, this increase was likely on account of higher testing, which jumped to 60,532 on Saturday as against 47,042 the previous day.Also Read | Genome checks for Covid patients in Delhi hospitalsOf the tests conducted on Saturday, only 7.41% samples returned positive results, showed the state government’s daily health bulletin, down from 8.6% a day ago.The test positivity rate in Delhi during the city’s fifth wave of infections has largely been on the decline since January 15, when it peaked at 30.64%.On January 16, this number fell to 27.87%, then to 22.47% on January 18, 18.04% on January 21, to 13.32% on January 23 and 10.59% on January 26.The city added 28 deaths of the infection on Saturday, showed the bulletin.More hospital beds were freed up in Delhi as well, with the number of occupied beds dipping to 1,771 (11.4% of the city’s total Covid-19 beds) on Saturday, from 1,928 a day ago.Health experts said that Delhi has also, like Mumbai, passed its worst Covid phase in this wave.“The daily cases are consistently dropping and this is indicating that the peak is over and the infections will fall further...The authorities should also now lift all the Covid curbs because all domain experts are of the opinion, based on scientific evidence, that restrictions do not work. They only delay the decline in cases. The only people who back restrictions are the ones who have vested economic interests,” said Dr Sanjay Rai, professor at the Centre for Community Medicine, All India Institute of Medical Sciences.
29-01-2022||Delhi||1 more minor boy apprehended over role in East Delhi gang rape||One more minor boy, aged 14, was apprehended on Saturday in connection with the abduction, gang-rape and public humiliation of a 21-year-old woman in east Delhi, taking the total number of apprehended alleged juvenile accused to three so far, police said.A special investigation team (SIT) under the supervision of an assistant police commissioner (ACP) was also constituted for the speedy investigation of the crime, apart from ensuring that the charge sheet in the case is submitted at the earliest, senior police officers privy to the development said on Saturday.Also Read | East Delhi gang-rape victim was living in fear since stalker died by suicide: FamilyApart from the three minor boys, eight women and a man were earlier arrested in connection with the case by the Shahdara district police. A total of 11 people were named in the first information report (FIR) that was registered on the statement of the woman and her family members. While the arrested women and man have been sent to jail, the minor boys were produced before a juvenile justice board that sent them to a correction home for boys, the police said.Deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram said, “A 14-year-old child in conflict with law, who was involved in the sexual assault of the woman, has been apprehended today (Saturday). Now all people named in the first information report (eight women and three minor boys) have been arrested and apprehended. A man involved in the crime was also arrested on Friday.”Also Read | Woman gang-raped in east Delhi: Suspect family’s role in 2019 cop murder under lensPolice said that they also recovered the auto rickshaw used in the woman’s abduction from outside her rented room in Karkardooma village, where she had shifted only one-and-a-half months ago, fearing a backlash from the family members of the 16-year-old boy who allegedly killed himself by jumping in front of a moving train in east Delhi on November 12 last year. His family members blamed the woman for his death after he stalked her, the police said.Since the teenager’s death, his family members, most of whom are involved in bootlegging in Kasturba Nagar near Vivek Vihar, had been threatening, assaulting and harassing the woman, her 17-year-old sister and their bed-ridden father. Due to the harassment and threats, nobody in the neighbourhood, including close relatives of the woman’s family, was willing to defend them. And because of that, the woman had rented a room with her husband and two-year-old son to ensure they were not harmed by the teenager’s family members.However, on Wednesday, the police said, the woman was abducted allegedly by the teenager’s family members who then allegedly gang-raped her , chopped her hair off, blackened her face, put a garland of footwear around her neck and paraded her through the lanes of Kasturba Nagar. Several onlookers shot videos of the incident which were later widely circulated on social media, sparking outrage and widespread condemnation.The woman is currently at a police safe house, where she is undergoing counselling sessions to overcome the shock and trauma.
29-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi: Row as South MCD directs officials not to share info with assembly panel||New Delhi: The South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s (SDMC) standing committee on Friday passed a resolution directing the municipal commissioner and other officials to not share information sought by the Delhi Assembly, attracting sharp criticism from the Aam Aadmi Party which said the resolution was in contempt of the House. The resolution was passed by the BJP-ruled civic body on the back of questions raised by an AAP MLA in the assembly during its last session on January 3-4 regarding the hoardings in Delhi being used by the saffron party. The question was later transferred to the Privilege Committee of the assembly. While the SDMC officials argued that “endless queries” were affecting day-to-day work, the AAP shot back saying it was an excuse for escaping accountability. North and East MCDs have not raised any objections to the Delhi assembly move so far. According to the resolution, a copy of which HT has seen, the Delhi assembly was not competent to seek the information after the 2020 amendment to the GNCTD Act, 1991. According to the amended law that was notified in April last year, the “government” in Delhi means the “Lieutenant Governor” and the city government will now have to seek the opinion of the LG before taking any executive action. The Delhi government has challenged the amendment in the Supreme Court.BJP councillor and leader of the SDMC House Inderjeet Sehrawat, said: “SDMC has submitted requisite information and documents in response to various starred and unstarred questions. However, the privilege committee has alleged non-receipt, unsatisfactory and incomplete replies by the SDMC and... attempts are being made to interfere in the day-to-day administrative functioning of SDMC, which is not permitted under the law. Most of the information sought by the assembly has nothing to do with the public interest, but it is in the nature of questioning administrative decisions taken with the due approval of competent authorities under the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act.” Senior AAP leader and party spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj said the SDMC resolution “has no basis”. “The South MCD standing committee’s proposal is in contempt of the Delhi Vidhan Sabha. An AAP MLA asked in the Vidhan Sabha whether the BJP pays the MCDs for all the advertisements it puts up in Delhi. The MCD commissioner replied saying he has no information on it. If at all the BJP paid the MCD for all its hoardings then it must clarify what amount it has been charged. Today, the MCD is being driven to its doom because the BJP puts up hoardings for free,” he alleged. “Following due process, this matter was sent to a committee. The same is done in Parliament too when a question is unresolved. If any question is answered falsely, then it goes against the privileges of the Delhi Vidhan Sabha, and is considered contempt. The query was handed over to the committee through a resolution in the House,” Bharadwaj added. According to the SDMC resolution, the mayor should be authorised to file a civil writ petition before the Delhi high court in the matter, if required. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said the South MCD’s decision was “logical”. “The government is not implementing the 4th & 5th Delhi Finance Commission recommendations regarding funds for MCDs, which it has accepted in Delhi assembly... When the Delhi government does not respect the Delhi assembly then, how does it expect South MCD to answer politically motivated questions on hoardings raised in the same assembly?” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhirow-as-south-mcd-directs-officials-not-to-share-info-with-assembly-panel-101643478250395.html
29-01-2022||Pune||SPPU to set up Mathematics museum||Pune: The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) will set up a ‘Mathematics Museum’ at its premises to teach the subject with fun factor to children and students. Students from Class 4 to 12 will be taught various fun elements about Mathematics. The concept is initiated from the PMO’s office to SPPU. University vice-chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar announced about the project on Republic Day. “The museum will come up on the university premises. Students will be encouraged towards Maths with play and fun activities,” said Prof Karmalkar. The project is funded by Baba Kalyani, owner-director of Bharat Forge company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-to-set-up-mathematics-museum-101643478188098.html
29-01-2022||Pune||SEC sends draft panel structure scheduled for PCMC||PUNE The state election commission has asked authorities to announce the panel structure of Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) on February 1 and have also asked for suggestions and objections, if any.  Though the PCMC programme has been announced, the schedule for Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is not in place.After publishing the PCMC draft panel structure, the suggestions and objections can be reported till February 14. PCMC will then have to submit this list to the election commission till February 16. The hearing will take place on February 26.State election commission’s secretary Kiran Karundkar has sent this programme to PCMC. After the completion of this drive, the election programme would be announced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sec-sends-draft-panel-structure-scheduled-for-pcmc-101643478133672.html
29-01-2022||Lucknow||UP STF guns down notorious contract killer in Gonda||A notorious contract killer carrying a reward of ₹50,000 on his head was gunned down by UP Special Task Force (STF) in Gonda district of eastern UP on Saturday morning, said UP Police additional director general (ADG), law and order, Prashant Kumar.He said the slain criminal was identified as Vijay Singh alias Vijendra Singh alias Vijji, 48, a resident of Akbarpur in Ambedkar Nagar district. He said Vijji was wanted in the sensational murder committed under Mehruwa police station limits of Ambedkar Nagar in January 2021. He said as many as 18 cases of heinous crimes, including those of murder, attempt to murder and loot, had been registered against him in different districts of eastern UP in the past few years.Sharing further details, a senior STF official said the police team had laid a trap on Paraspur-Nawabganj road under Paraspur police station limits of Gonda to arrest Vijji after being tipped-off about his movement. He said the criminal was reportedly going to Nawabganj to execute another killing there and was intercepted midway when he opened fire on the STF team.He said Vijji was injured in the retaliatory firing by the STF team and was rushed to a hospital where doctors declared him dead. He said the police were further verifying his criminal records and had informed his family members to claim the body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-stf-guns-down-notorious-contract-killer-in-gonda-101643477948850.html
29-01-2022||Pune||Feb to start on a cooler note in Pune: IMD||PUNE Since January 25, Pune city has seen minimum temperatures below 10 degrees Celsius with the January 29 reading recording the second coldest day of the season with 8.6 degrees Celsius. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), cold day and night conditions usually subside after January 15 in Maharashtra. But this year, even the first week of February will have below normal day and night temperatures, continuing the cold weather. According to the weather department, January 25 reported the coldest day of the season for Pune with 8.5 degrees Celsius during night. Since then, the minimum has been in single digit. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department at IMD Pune, said northerly winds have been penetrating towards Maharashtra for the last few days and it is likely to continue. “Currently it is seen that at the lower atmospheric levels there is one anticyclonic circulation. And because of this, the northern wind pattern is taking turns. And because of this, temperature is likely to increase but gradually. Northerly wind is taking a turn towards the east,” said Kashyapi. He said the weather in four subdivisions of Maharashtra is likely to remain dry till February-end. “Maharashtra will have dry weather and gradual rise in minimum temperature. But cold day conditions are likely to continue,” said Kashyapi, adding Pune city will see minimum temperatures around 10 to 12 degrees Celsius. “The night temperature may be below normal when February starts. And the day temperature will be around 28 degrees Celsius which is also below normal which means that days will continue to have a chilly feel,” said Kashyapi. According to the extended range forecast, till February 3, maximum temperature will be far below normal for Maharashtra with similar drop in minimum temperatures. “The night temperature will also continue to be below normal in Maharashtra till February 3,” said Kashyapi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/feb-to-start-on-a-cooler-note-in-pune-imd-101643477649211.html
29-01-2022||Lucknow||UP polls: AAP’s releases fifth list of 40 candidates, announces challenger to Yogi||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) released its fifth list of 40 candidates giving representation to all sections of the society on Saturday. Vijay Kumar Srivastava will be the AAP candidate from Gorakhpur (urban) seat from where CM Yogi Adityanath will be contesting his first assembly poll. Polling for the Gorakhpur assembly segment will be on March 3 which is the sixth and penultimate phase of the UP assembly election. Srivastava, a social worker, has been actively engaged with several organisations for the past eight years. He has been associated with the AAP since the panchayat polls in the state. “AAP will give a formidable challenge to the BJP in Gorakhpur. I have been fighting for local issues for the past eight years. I have good support of locals in Gorakhpur,” Srivastava claimed. AAP’s list has 15 general category candidates, three Muslims, 10 OBCs, 11 SCs and one Scheduled Tribe. 
29-01-2022||Mumbai||EOW books Andhra MP in ₹46.49 crore cheating case||Mumbai Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the Mumbai police has registered a cheating case against YSR Congress Party MP Kanumuru Raghu Rama Krishna Raju from Andhra Pradesh and six others for allegedly duping a Goregaon-based oil refinery to the tune of ₹ 46.69 crore. Raju’s Ind Bharath Thermal Power Ltd. and Ind Bharath Power Gencom Ltd. allegedly took 1,98,775 metric tons of coal from the complainant company between 2015 and 2017. Initially, Raju’s company made some payments. However, later it defaulted and allegedly caused a wrongful loss of ₹ 46.69 crore to the complainant’s company.Raju, however, denied all the allegations and said he has nothing to do with the matter, and it is a dispute between two companies. “I am nowhere involved,” he told HT. The FIR (of which HT has a copy) was first registered at the Goregaon police station on Thursday and was transferred to the EOW on Friday. The complaint is filed by Kunal Kailash Parekh, vice president of Gandhar Oil Refinery India Ltd., which has its registered office on SV Road at Goregaon. The FIR names Raju and six other directors of Ind Bharath Thermal Power Ltd and Ind Bharath Power Gencom Ltd. Both the companies are into power generation and require coal for the same. The Lok Sabha MP from Narasapuram in Andhra Pradesh and others have been booked by the police under sections 420 (cheating), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code. According to the police, both the companies had been transacting since 2013. But, between 2015-2017 things turned sour. “The two accused companies were supposed to pay a final settlement amount (in instalments) to us. However, they failed to make the payment, leaving no other options for us than approaching the police and filing a criminal complaint,” the complainant told this newspaper. When HT contacted Raju, he said, “The matter is still before NCLT owing to the filing of contempt of court charges (pressed by one of the parties) and I have not done anything wrong. It’s not a personal loan nor have I given any personal guarantee. It’s a dispute between two companies and the matter is in NCLT. I have nothing to do with the (accused) companies. Long back I was on the board.” Raju conceded that he was a director in the two accused companies when the alleged default took place but said he was nowhere involved in the decision making process.“The companies decided to buy. They have not got paid by the electricity board. They have not paid the (complainant) company. It was their (accused companies’) decision. I am nowhere concerned. I have not given any personal guarantee,” Raju said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/eow-books-andhra-mp-in-46-49-crore-cheating-case-101643477408464.html
29-01-2022||Pune||Form panel headed by principal secy to monitor Mutha river pollution: NGT tells PMC||PUNE The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has instructed the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to form an expert committee, headed by principal secretary of Maharasthra, to monitor dumping and sewage release in Mutha river. NGT issued the order on January 27. River activist Sarang Yadwadkar and others had filed a complaint with NGT over the issue of dumping and releasing of sewage in Mutha river. After the activists pointed out errors in the report submitted by PMC, the green watchdog asked the civic administration to form a committee within a month and submit report in three months. The committee is headed by principal secretary, environment department; secretary from irrigation department, urban development department and Pune municipal commissioner. NGT allowed the panel to meet online because of the Covid situation, but asked members to carry out site visit. NGT instructed PMC to prepare a realistic plan to address the river pollution issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/form-panel-headed-by-principal-secy-to-monitor-mutha-river-pollution-ngt-tells-pmc-101643477348465.html
29-01-2022||Pune||Watch: Firemen rescue 10 Persian cats from burning building in Pune||In a heartwarming incident in Pune, Maharashtra, fire officials rescued 10 Persian cats from a three-storey building where a fire broke out on Friday night. "The pets were stuck in a flat that was filled with smoke caused by the fire, but we managed to rescue them," news agency ANI reported quoting a fire official.#WATCH | Maharashtra: Ten Persian cats were rescued by Pune Fire Department from a 3-storey building where a fire broke out on Friday night. "The pets were stuck in a flat that was filled with smoke caused by the fire, but we managed to rescue them," a fire official said pic.twitter.com/tV30vuXakoThe news agency also shared a video on its official Twitter handle showing fire officials holding the rescued cats, while local residents laud.According to local media reports, the fire was likely caused by a short circuit. The fire broke out in Shantiniwas society in Ghorpade Peth. No flat residents were injured.The incident comes days after a massive fire was reported to the Mumbai Fire Brigade from a 20-storey building at Nana Chowk in Tardeo named Sachinam heights, also called as Kamala Building by the residents. The incident resulted in the deaths of at least seven people, while several others were injured and still recovering in hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/watch-firemen-rescue-10-persian-cats-from-burning-building-in-pune-101643477051164.html
29-01-2022||Mumbai||As Covid cases go down, testing takes a plunge||Mumbai While the number of cases and the daily positivity rate has come down in the city, the number of tests conducted has also reduced significantly in the second half of this month.However, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said that there is no specific target of tests conducted on a daily basis, but it also depends on the current trend of daily cases.According to the BMC data, 8,46,756 tests were conducted between January 1 to 15. However, the testing went down to 5,74,986 between January 16 to 29, a fall of 32%. In this period, the daily cases went up from 7,000 to 20,000 cases around January 10. Meanwhile, by January 29, the daily cases came down to around 1,500.According to BMC officials, the number of tests went down due to the overall cases reducing. HT had reported on Friday that the sale of home test kits has also gone down.On whether there is any minimum daily testing target set by the BMC, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said, “There is no target assigned for testing. It is a demand-driven issue.”On Saturday, the city reported 1,411 cases and 11 deaths, taking the tally to 10,43,552 and the toll to 16,602. In the last month, over 2,55,000 cases have been reported in the city, which is over 25% of the total Covid tally in the city.The city’s recovery rate is 96% with 1,012,024 recoveries and the mortality rate is 1.59%. There are 12,187 active cases in the city and 39 Omicron cases were reported on Saturday, and the total toll remains at 1,054. Further, the hospitalisation rate in the city has come down from 21% (20 days ago) to 6.5% on Saturday.Meanwhile, the BMC has said in the next 10 days, cases will go below 1,000 on a daily basis as the third wave subsides. Owing to the downfall, several relaxations in the timing of garden and playgrounds in the city is expected, however, timings of restaurants and bars will remain the same for at least now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/as-covid-cases-go-down-testing-takes-a-plunge-101643477228588.html
29-01-2022||Mumbai||Health minister dismisses rumours of lifting mask mandate||Mumbai While acknowledging the decline in Covid cases, the Maharashtra government has dismissed reports which said that the rule of mandatorily wearing masks may be lifted soon. State health minister Rajesh Tope said that the peak of the third wave has passed as the state was witnessing a decline in cases. The state reported 27,971 Covid new cases with 61 deaths on Saturday. Tope said that the peak of the third wave has almost passed through in Maharashtra. “We are getting less than 30,000 patients daily compared to 45,000 during the peak season. More than 92% of the beds are vacant and a majority of the patients are in home quarantine,” he said.He further pointed out the increasing number of cases in Nagpur, Nashik and Pune. “There is nothing to worry about as the majority of these patients are asymptomatic,” he added.The speculations that Maharashtra was removing compulsory wearing of masks gained ground as there were reports that this issue was discussed at the cabinet meeting held this week. Both Tope and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray asserted that masks are here to stay.Thackeray said that masks still remain the most effective weapon to fight against the virus. “I want to make it clear that this report is misleading. The World Health Organisation (WHO) has still not declared Covid as an endemic. It has still not been clarified whether the Omicron variant is weak or strong. I just want to make it clear that if we wish to save our lives, masks are the most effective shields,” said Thackeray.Dr Ameet Mandot, director, Gut Clinic, said that one needs to proceed with caution. “The virus is going through various forms by constantly mutating itself and we should learn to live with this. Most of our problems will be solved if we wear masks properly, observe social distancing and adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour,” said Dr Mandot.Meanwhile, Mumbai added 1,411 infections on Saturday with 11 deaths thus bringing its total death toll to 16,602.The total number of Covid patients right from the outbreak last year has now reached 76,83,525.There are currently 2,44,344 active cases of which Pune tops with 75,991 cases followed by Thane with 18,855 cases and Mumbai with 12,187.The death toll has now reached 1,42,522 with Pune leading with 19,969 deaths followed by Mumbai with 16,602 and Thane with 11,724.
29-01-2022||Lucknow||Closed campuses, delayed exams leave students in UP jittery||The UP government’s decision to extend Covid-induced closure of all educational institutions till February 6 has created a sense of restlessness among students, especially those pursuing higher studies, as they fear it will lead to delay in exams and subsequently the academic session as well.What we know so far is that Lucknow University and Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti (KMC) Language University will review the Covid situation on January 31 and take a call on examination dates accordingly as per the state government guidelines, said prof Alok Kumar Rai, vice chancellor of Lucknow University who was also given the additional charge of vice chancellor of KMC University last week.KMC Language University Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti (KMC) Language University vice chancellor prof Rai on Friday held a meeting with all deans, HOD’s and subject in-charges of the varsity to take stock of the status of the completion of courses and directed them to prepare time-table of their faculties and start (online) classes for next semester from January 31.“It was also proposed in the meeting that the varsity exams will start from February 5 in accordance with Covid guidelines and as per government instructions,” said Tanu Dang, media in-charge of KMC Language University.Now in the light of the government’s latest order, university authorities will meet on January 31 and take a call on exam dates, said the VC. When asked if exam will be held online or offline, Dang said, “Preparations will be made for both but exams will be conducted as per government guidelines.”Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU) has decided to postpone first and second year semester exams, scheduled in February, to March in view of the pandemic, said vice chancellor professor Pradeep Kumar Mishra.“There are about 1.25 lakh students for whom the exam will now be held in March instead of February,” he said.The students, however, want the university to hold online exams in February instead of offline exam in March because they fear that postponement will further delay the session or reduce duration of next semester to just two months instead of usual five to six months.The varsity, however, has not decided whether to hold online or offline exam. The vice chancellor, at the time of assuming office earlier this month, had told media persons that if Covid cases remained high, the university will prefer online exam.Now that Covid cases have gone down below 8000 in Uttar Pradesh and AKTU exams have been postponed till March, there is a strong possibility that the varsity may opt for offline exam. Students says that since classes were held online varsity should conduct exams in virtual mode. Lucknow University University of Lucknow will review Covid situation on January 31 and then take a final decision on semester exam, said vice chancellor prof AK Rai. Dean Students welfare, LU Poonam Tandon said, “We are in the process of assessing situation. We have hostels which are home to 2000 students. Recently a number of hostel inmates tested Covid positive. We have hundreds of colleges and not every student have computer or laptop. It is a trying situation and we are in a process to overcome it.”Students remain divided The tricky question of whether schools should reopen or not has left the students divided. A large number of university students want campuses to reopen because online classes were not meaningful.“Our battle against Covid is perhaps lifelong now. Tuberculosis, Dengue, Cholera, Chickenpox and even Ebola didn’t escape from the picture. Human beings adpated. Repetitive occurrence of withdrawal before a disease to dismantle education needs an alternative,” said Sadaf Tasneem of BA semester 5 of LU.She said, “It has been two years since the pandemic began and it is a failure on our parts that we’re unable to trace an alternative for lockdowns. Institutional lockdown unfortunately is the preliminary measure adopted to curb the spread of virus, instead of setting curbs on crowds in markets, malls and other public spaces. Education has been adversely impacted due to this and a reopening of campuses should be considered timely.”Fewer attendees, smaller duration: Prof Muzammil“Educational campuses are the hearts of academic society. If they remain open, they keep the academic world alive and vibrant and their having been shut for long takes life off from all minds alike. It is therefore important to open educational institutions albeit with lesser number of students and teachers,” said professor Mohd Muzammil former vice chancellor of Dr BR Ambedkar University, Agra and vice chancellor, MJP Rohilkhand University, Bareilly, Professor of Economics, Lucknow University). He said, “Instead of opening public places, cinema halls and restaurants with restricted numbers, government should think about opening educational institutions with fewer attendees and for smaller duration. Schools, colleges and universities in session will ensure effective learning for all which in turn will help realise the promise of education.”“The academia should not be kept on hold for long. Time lost in building quality human resources will not be regained. The learning outcomes of education need not be measured only in test scores that can be done online, it has to do a lot with improvement in team spirit, creativity and leadership qualities. Only active and vibrant campuses can ensure these. Therefore campuses need to be opened to keep hopes alive for future,” he added. Frequent postponement of exams is unnerving for students: Dr Amrita DassThe frequent postponement of various school boards and competitive exams is unsettling and unnerving for students. It impacts their well being and effective time management in preparing thoroughly for successful outcomes. The dates of all postponed exams should be announced at the earliest and there should be effective coordination between the school boards, NTA and other competitive exam bodies to avoid a clash of dates as this will have a detrimental effect on the future of students, said educationist, Dr Amrita Dass.“Colleges and Universities must start their academic sessions on time by offering ‘provisional admission’ to eligible students (a global best practice) and finalise it once the results are declared,” said Dass, career consultant and founder director, Institute for Career Studies.Prolonged closure to adversely impact higher education Prolonged closure of educational institutions, especially in higher education, adversely impacts the quality of education. Online classes are no substitute for classroom teaching, they can only supplement, said Prof Yashvir Tyagi, former controller of exam, Lucknow University.“Laboratory work suffers tremendously due to closure of institutions. The decision to extend the closure of universities and colleges is perplexing especially when other activities are being allowed and the vaccination of youths is in full swing. It would be better if colleges can resume their normal academic activities soon, of course with Covid protocols,” he said.
29-01-2022||Pune||Over 5k children under 6 to receive advanced treatment, diagnosis by Pune ZP||PUNE As of January end, Pune Zilla Parishad (ZP) has finished screening over 0.311 million kids aged under six years of age. The administration will now begin second-level screening of over 5,100 kids diagnosed with various health related issues. The administration for the first time will diagnose and treat these kids within a limited time, in the next 10-12 days, including nutritional intervention and surgical intervention if required. The administration has tied up with private labs and hospitals to carry our blood tests and advanced diagnostics, including body imaging. The kids if required would undergo medical surgery through government funds which will be completely arranged and managed by the Pune ZP. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer at Pune ZP, said, “We have diagnosed the kids for over 16 types of illnesses listed under the Rashtriya Bal Suraksha Karyakram (RBSK) for which about 90% of the kids could test positive for at least one of the ailments which could be as basic as malnourishment. However, we have identified over 5,000 kids who might require further intervention by paediatricians or even paediatric specialists. The second round for these 5,000 kids will start next month and we hope to finish the advanced level diagnostics in the next 10-12 days through blood tests and body imaging. We have tied up with private labs to collect blood samples of the children from various talukas and put to work sub-district hospitals and medical colleges for diagnosis and treatment. The only problem we face is specialist manpower like paediatric derma specialists or cancer specialists to various locations as the kids are spread across the district. If the ailment is not covered under RBSK, we will cover them under the Ayushman Bharat scheme or the Chief Minister’s Relief funds. If need be, we will take the children to Mumbai for advanced treatment like bypass or cancer related treatments.” “This is the first time any local administration has planned such meticulously and end-to-end diagnosis and treatment for every child. Earlier the kids were only diagnosed or treated if referred to by any doctor, but now we set up camps to screen every child aged under six which will continue as we have to screen the kids twice a year as they could develop developmental issues. We have been able to report over 5,000 kids this time whereas earlier only 300-400 kids in the entire district were reported.” Of the 0.311 million kids aged under six years who have been screened, 5,158 kids were reported to be suffering from birth defects, childhood defects, nutritional deficiencies, ear-nose-throat, ophthalmologist and skin conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/over-5k-children-under-6-to-receive-advanced-treatment-diagnosis-by-pune-zp-101643475308335.html
29-01-2022||Pune||Maneka Gandhi, animal rights activists oppose import of giraffes, zebras in Katraj zoo||PUNE Former minister and animal rights activist Maneka Gandhi and city’s animal activists have objected to import of zebras and giraffes to Pune Municipal Corporation-run (PMC) Rajiv Gandhi zoo located at Katraj. PMC standing committee recently approved Rs1.5 crore for erecting enclosure for giraffes and zebras after the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) okayed the plan to add these animals in the zoo. Though local animal rights activists have sought Gandhi’s help to stall PMC’s plan. In a text message to one of the activists, Gandhi said, “I have told the municipal commissioner that it is a bad idea as giraffe may die if it does not get special food that is majorly unavailable in India. Giraffes that were housed in Kolkata zoo later died. The Central Zoo Authority gave the permission as it will not directly import the animals. I suggest to launch campaign at the local level to oppose the plan.” City-based activists Sushma Date, Anjali Paranjape, Mithali Paranjape, Pushkar Kulkarni, Devnadi Swachata Abhiyan, Ramnadi Swachata Abhiyan, Save Hills Pune, Punarbhan Foundation, Sarand Yadwadkar and Qaneez Sukhrani have issued a press statement oppose the PMC plan. “PMC’s standing committee has approved a proposal to import two giraffes and two zebras to Pune’s Katraj zoo. The plan is to spend Rs1.5 crore on enclosures this year and import the animals in the next financial year. We strongly object to this proposal as it is not only cruel to capture, transport and condemn wild animals to a lifetime of captivity, but also a huge waste of public money when PMC is facing a financial crunch,” reads the activists’ letter. They said like bears and elephants, giraffes are particularly ill-suited to life in captivity. In the wild, giraffes have a life expectancy of about 25 years, but they rarely survive a few years in captivity, where they are highly prone to health problems and injuries. They also require special food that is unavailable in India. Giraffes are used to walking 20 to 50km daily, and restricted space negatively impacts their welfare like zebras. They said, “It is well recognised that zoos are an outdated concept. We are not living in 1960s. There are better ways to teach children about wildlife than to show them stressed and miserable animals in confined spaces. Children should instead be made aware how important it is for animals to be in their natural habitat - and for this, wildlife films on National Geographic and Animal Planet suit the purpose much better. “We urge the municipal commissioner to stop this cruel and unnecessary proposal and divert the money into better infrastructure at the Katraj rehabilitation and rescue centre.” the letter reads. Earlier in the day, Date tweeted: “What new horror is this? Zoos are outdated concepts and should have been banned long back. Giraffes and zebras belong to their native habitats in Africa - not in India, and especially not in captivity Why is Pune PMC wasting public money on this idiotic initiative?” Economist Sumita Kale while reacting to Date’s tweet said, “Agree. Lots of ways to use Rs. 1.5 crore, rather than importing zebras and giraffes - improve Katraj facilities as conservation, rescue centre. Showcase animals in their natural habitat through films there? #Pune” Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar was unavailable for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maneka-gandhi-animal-rights-activists-oppose-import-of-giraffes-zebras-in-katraj-zoo-101643475071724.html
29-01-2022||Pune||Pune district reports 9,514 new Covid cases, 12 deaths||PUNE As per the state health department, Pune district reported 9,514 new Covid-19 cases and 12 deaths on Saturday. This took the progressive count to 1.39 million out of which 1.30 million have recovered, 20,319 deaths and 75,991 are active cases.The rural areas reported 1,636 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 413,681 and the death toll went up to 7,069 as two more deaths were reported.Pune city reported 5,386 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 651,122 and the death toll went up to 9,348 as six more deaths were reported.Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 2,492 new Covid-19 cases, the progressive count went up to 334,096 and the toll went up to 3,552 as four more deaths were reported in the district.As of Saturday, Pune district a total of 16.60 million doses have been registered, as per the CoWin dashboard. Out of which 9.37 million are first doses, 7.09 million are second doses and 1,33,080 were precautionary doses. A total of 558 sites saw vaccination out of which 391 were government centres and 167 were private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-9-514-new-covid-cases-12-deaths-101643474711824.html
29-01-2022||Pune||Teen vaccination a challenge in city, reopening schools might help: Ajit Pawar||PUNE Pune’s teen vaccination turnout in the city area has been much lower than rural areas. One of the main reasons, according to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, is closure of schools in city areas. The district administration is hoping that with the reopening of schools and by placing mobile vans outside the campuses to attend to post-vaccination symptoms among students, the inoculation numbers could pick up. As of now, Pune city has seen only 34% and PCMC 43% of kids vaccinated which in rural areas the count is about 86%. Earlier, shortage of the Covaxin had hampered the teen vaccination drive in the city. Now, the turnout is less than expected despite enough stock of vaccines. At the Saturday Covid review meeting, Pawar said that while rural areas are showing a much better turnout than city areas, the reason for the same as told by the administration is that schools have been functioning in rural areas better as compared to urban areas and kids can get vaccinated in schools. Pawar said, “With the reopening of schools, hopefully the teen vaccination numbers will improve. In rural areas the numbers are much higher than those in the urban areas. Both PMC and PCMC have recorded lower than state average numbers when it comes to teen vaccination. However, we are not forcing parents to send their kids to school and parents will have to show consent before sending their kids to school. Also, we will set up mobile vans with doctors to help in case any side effects are reported post vaccination.” As of now, of the 0.224 million estimated teen population aged between 15 and 18 years of age who are eligible for the vaccination, only 77,000 or 34% have got the jab in Pune city and in PCMC out of the estimated 0.116 million population, more than 50,000 have got the jab which is about 43% while in Pune rural of the estimated 0.211 million kids, 0.182 million have got the vaccine which is about 86%. The district teen vaccination average stands at 56%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/teen-vaccination-a-challenge-in-city-reopening-schools-might-help-ajit-pawar-101643474473794.html
29-01-2022||Lucknow||Sant Sammelan: Saints demand India be declared Hindu nation||A demand to declare India as a Hindu nation was raised by seers from the sandy banks of Sangam at the ongoing Magh Mela-2022, on Saturday. At the same time, patriotic Muslims were declared part of the family and a decision to intensify their ‘homecoming’ campaign was also taken up at the Sant Sammelan organised by the steering committee of the Dharma Sansad at the Brahmarshi Ashram camp on Mahavir Marg of the tent city.Chief guest Sumeru Peethadheeshwar Jagadguru Swami Narendranand Saraswati said the government may not declare India as a Hindu nation, but all Hindus should start writing and speaking their country as “Hindu Rashtra”. “By doing so, the government would be compelled to declare the country as Hindu nation,” he claimed. He further said Islamic jihad was a big threat to humanity and to crush it, Chinese policy of sanctions have to be adopted. He said sanatanis were the target of everyone and for this, it was necessary that the system of equal education and justice be implemented in the country. He also demanded that there was a need to end government takeover of matts and temples. “If matts and temples are being acquired, then mosques and churches should also be acquired,” he said.Narendranand said Muslims were not minorities and their minority status should be withdrawn. “The life of revolutionaries like Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev should be included in school curriculum. Besides, provision should be made for capital punishment by keeping conversion in the category of treason,” he said.Mahamandaleshwar Annapurna Bharti of Niranjani Akhada said when religious leaders spoke about their safety in Haridwar’s Dharma Sansad, they were put in jail. “It was said that this (comments at Dharma Sansad) had hurt the sentiments of the people of a particular religion. But when Tauqeer Raza gathered a crowd of 20,000 in Bareilly and spewed venom against Sanatan Dharma, no action was taken. Did his action not hurt our sentiments? Owaisi’s threatening video is released but no action is taken,” she claimed. She also appealed to the saints and devotees present in mela area to write to the government for the release of Mahamandaleshwar Narasimhanand Yeti and Jitendra Narayan Singh Tyagi (formerly Wasim Rizvi) arrested for their statements in Haridwar meet.Shakti Peetadhivar Swami Lalitananda said every child is a Hindu by birth. “Later their rituals change. We have left our culture while others are adopting it,” Lalitananda said.Jagadguru Krishnaacharya emphasized the unity of saints. President of Varanasi-based Shankracharya Parishad, Swami Anand Swaroop, said at the time of partition of the country, there were 9 crore Muslims and today their population is about 40 crore. He alleged that there was pressure to stop the Sant Sammelan.Swami Sindhu Sagar said Hindus have no hatred towards Muslims. “Muslims like Dr APJ Abdul Kalam are respected,” he said. Mahamandaleshwar Yatindranand Giri, who presided over the sammelan, said “Lord Krishna was born in jail. If the doors of jail are opening for saints, then it means we have succeeded in our objective.”He said most of the Muslims of India were Hindus and forced to convert. In the Sant Sammelan, an appeal was made to Hindus to be united by being free from the shackles of caste and class. Jagadguru Swami Narendranand Saraswati said there can be no father of the nation. “There can be a son of the nation, not a father of the nation,” he said. He demanded that Subhash Chandra Bose be declared as the first Prime Minister of the country as his leadership was accepted by many countries.“Historians have presented wrong facts before the countrymen due to which today’s generation is confused,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sant-sammelan-saints-demand-india-be-declared-hindu-nation-101643474412065.html
29-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: EC releases SOP for transporting cash||The Election Commission of India has issued standard operating procedure (SOP) for transportation of cash by banks during the model code of conduct in Punjab, which will go to the polls on February 20. After the poll code came into force earlier this month, the enforcement wings have seized ₹16.73 crores of unaccounted cash till January 28, said chief electoral officer (CEO), Punjab, Dr S Karuna Raju.Raju said that as per the SOP, the bank has to ensure that cash vans of outsourced agencies carrying its cash do not, under any circumstance, carry the cash of any third party. The outsourced agencies have to carry letters issued by the bank concerned, giving details of the cash released to them and carried by them for filing ATMs and delivery at other branches, banks or currency chests. The personnel accompanying cash vans have to carry valid identity cards issued by the respective agencies. The CEO said various enforcement teams have made seizures worth ₹100 crore, including 17.61 lakh litres of illicit liquor worth ₹7.43 crore and psychotropic substances worth ₹74.64 crore. 317 more nominations filed Only 317 nominations were filed in Punjab on Saturday, taking the total to 619 in four days.The process began on January 25 and is to end on February 1. No nominations were filed on Republic Day and there will be a holiday on Sunday as well.The CEO urged electors to make maximum use of the mobile application ‘Know Your Candidate’, using which they can know the particulars and criminal antecedents of any candidate with their photo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-ec-releases-sop-for-transporting-cash-101643473988468.html
29-01-2022||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports over 27,000 new Covid-19 cases, Mumbai adds 1,411 to state’s tally||Maharashtra and capital city Mumbai witnessed a slight spike in the daily new Covid-19 infections on Saturday after the state saw 27,971 more people testing positive for the disease in the last 24 hours. With this the total confirmed infections in the state reached 7,683,525 and the death toll climbed to 142,522.Mumbai added 1,411 new cases to the state’s tally on the day. As many as 61 more people succumbed to the illness in the state on the day of which 11 fatalities were reported from Mumbai. So far, 1,043,552 infections and 16,602 deaths have been reported from the capital city.On Friday, the state reported 24,948 new infections and 103 deaths, while Mumbai logged 1,312 cases and 10 deaths.Also read | ‘Risk persists despite plateauing Covid-19 cases in India’: WHOMeanwhile, 85 more patients were found infected with the Omicron variant of the disease in Maharashtra, taking the tally to 3,125 cases of which 1,674 have been discharged. Of the new cases, 44 were from Pune city while 39 cases were from Mumbai. Pune Rural and Akola districts added one new case each.According to data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the city currently has 12,187 active cases of the disease.However, the spike in daily cases in Maharashtra came with a slight increase in the number of samples tested on the day. Medical workers conducted 169,862 tests in the last 24 hours while on Friday 150,900 samples were tested. As many as 74,333,720 samples have so far been tested in the state.On the vaccination front, the state has administered 147,571,716 doses of the vaccine to eligible beneficiaries as per data from the Co-WIN dashboard at 9.50pm. Also, 819,370 precautionary third doses have been administered to healthcare workers, frontline workers and citizens above 60 years of age with comorbid conditions.Earlier in the day, state health minister Rajesh Tope said that the peak of the third wave of infections in the state was over citing reducing case numbers from some cities.“I can say that peak of the third wave has over now because COVID-19 cases are reducing in cities like Mumbai, Thane, Raigad, Palghar where the situation was worst during the recent wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. Although in some parts of Maharashtra still, the cases are moving upward,” news agency ANI quoted the minister as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-over-27-000-new-covid-19-cases-mumbai-adds-1-411-to-state-s-tally-101643473583259.html
29-01-2022||Lucknow||BJP candidate’s proposer shot dead in Mathura||A village pradhan, who was proposer for BJP candidate from Chhata constituency of Mathura Chaudhary Laxmi Narain, was shot dead by an unidentified assailant in Mathura on Saturday morning, police said. Ramveer Singh (42), pradhan of Paigam village in Mathura, was close to Chaudhary Laxmi Narain, who is also minister for dairy development in UP government. “The incident took place on ‘parikrama marg’ of Shani Dev Dham on Kokiladham temple premises of Kosi Kalan town of Mathura. The assailant fired at Ramveer Singh four times in the head from close range. Singh died on the spot. The assailant appeared to be waiting for the pradhan,” said Sri Chand, SP (rural) Mathura. A case is yet to be registered but police have begun search for the attacker, said the SP adding that the exact reason for the attack has not been ascertained so far.Mathura goes to poll in the first phase of assembly election on February 10. Laxmi Narain had won 2017 election as BJP candidate from the Chhata constituency and was fielded again by the party. He had filed his nominations recently and Singh was the proposer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-candidate-s-proposer-shot-dead-in-mathura-101643473628723.html
29-01-2022||Patna||Starved of funds, trust set up to promote Gandhian thought is dying||Even as India marks the Martyrs’ Day on January 30, the death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, Bihar State Gandhi Smarak Nidhi in Patna, a trust founded to promote Gandhian thoughts, is gasping for life for want of funds, according to people associated with it.Bihar State Gandhi Smarak Nidhi is a part of the National Gandhi Smarak Nidhi, a public charitable trust set up after Mahatma Gandhi’s assassination in 1948. Its initial 24 trustees included Dr Rajendra Prasad, Jawaharlal Nehru and Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel.After the National Gandhi Smarak Nidhi came into being, its units were set up in different states, including in Bihar in 1952. These units were to sustain themselves on donations.“Initially, we used to undertake several kinds of activities, like publication of books, screening films and holding school level activities on Gandhi. But most of these activities have remained on hold for decades due to the severe financial constraints,” said Vinod Ranjan, who identified himself as the “minister” of the Bihar Gandhi Smarak Nidhi.“In fact, no donation has been made to the Gandhi Smarak Nidhi in the last four decades. The financial support that it used to get from the National Gandhi Smarak Nidhi too stopped nearly a decade ago. The state unit used to get around ₹15,000 per annum from the head office. It’s expected to generate funds at the local level to sustain itself, but donations dried up in the 1980s,” he said. The Gandhi Smarak Nidhi building in Patna once used to be the centre of students’ activities during the JP movement in the 1970s, which threw up leaders like chief minister Nitish Kumar, former CM Lalu Prasad, former union minister late Ramvilas Paswan, to name a few. “But no one makes any donations to the Gandhi Smarak Nidhi. We had to stop publication works due to fund crisis. We even stopped film screening,” Ranjan said.Earlier, a team of Smarak Nidhi used to visit villages for screening of films on Gandhi. It had a good collection of films and a projector machine. “But in 1980, the projector machine a developed technical snag. It couldn’t be repaired as we didn’t have fund. Since then, the machine and the film rolls have been lying here unused,” says Ranjan.
29-01-2022||Patna||Teachers in ‘dry’ Bihar protest order to tip off govt on tipplers||Teachers’ bodies in “dry” Bihar have strongly protested the state government’s directive issued on Friday that school teachers and headmasters should keep a watch for liquor smugglers and consumers and report them to authorities.“This is condemnable. Teachers should not be expected to do the police job. This is a strange order,” said Kedar Nath Pandey, president of Bihar Secondary Teachers’ Association (BSTA) and a member of Legislative Council (MLC). Education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary, however, sought to play down the matter. “The government has been appealing to people in general to be vigilant against smugglers and habitual violators of the prohibition law, which has been enforced with a good intention. The order is just an extension of the general appeal. The teachers have not been given any target,” he said.BSTA general secretary and former MP Shatrughan Prasad Singh said, “There have been reports in the media about killings of those passing information on liquor smugglers or consumers to authorities. As far as use of school campuses by liquor consumers is concerned, the first thing required is a boundary wall in all the schools and strong iron gates,” he said, also citing provisions of the New Education Policy to keep teachers away from non-academic work.Additional chief secretary (education) Sanjay Kumar had on Friday written to all the regional deputy directors (education), district education officers and district programme officers to direct the headmasters and teachers of all government schools to identify liquor suppliers and tipplers and pass the information to prohibition and excise department’s toll free numbers and their identity would be kept confidential.Ashwini Pandey, president of TET-STET qualified teachers’ association, said it was strange for the government to expect unarmed teachers with no support to do what its own police failed to do in the last six years. “This will only put them and their entire families at risk,” he said.Pradeep Kumar Pappu of the primary teachers’ association said that they would organise protests in all districts on January 30. “Earlier, the government had directed teachers to sell gunny bags used for storing Mid-day meal and keep a watch on open defecation. It is high time teachers were left to do teaching only, else the department should merge with police or prohibition department,” he said.Congress MLC Premchandra Mishra also tweeted that the order be withdrawn. “Teachers’ job is to teach, not to spot bootleggers and boozers,” he added. RJD chief spokesman and MLA Bhai Virendra termed the order as “Tughlaqi” (arbitrary) and one which could endanger the lives of teachers by bringing them in direct conflict with powerful “liquor mafia”.The Bihar government has been in an overdrive in the wake of serial hooch tragedies that have claimed more than 50 lives across half a dozen districts since November last year, bringing the prohibition law imposed in April 2016 under serious scrutiny.
29-01-2022||Patna||Council polls: BJP, JD (U) seal deal for 24 seats going to polls; Sahni sulks||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Janata Dal (United) in Bihar on Saturday reached a seat sharing agreement for the upcoming elections to 24 Legislative Council seats from local bodies’ constituency that fell vacant last year. As per the agreement, BJP would get 13 seats and JD(U) 11. From its quota, BJP will give one seat to its ally, the LJP (National) led by union minister Pashupati Kumar Paras.However, the two parties made no room for the smaller constituents of the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) — former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi’s Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) and the Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) led by Mukesh Sahni, who is a minister in the state government. “We will take our alliance partners in confidence and fight the Council polls unitedly,” union minister Bhupendra Yadav, who is BJP’s in-charge for Bihar, told reporters in the presence of education minister Vijay Kumar Chowdhary, who is from JD(U).Soon after the announcement, a furious Sahni declared that his party would contest on all the 24 seats. “We will contest on all 24 seats. There is going to be no compromise now. Alliance partners are taken in confidence before making an announcement and not after reaching an agreement,” he told HT. “Not only that, we will contest all the 40 Lok Sabha seats Bihar in 2024. As for now, NDA government will continue but I do not know what lies in store,” he said.HAM-S, however, reacted cautiously. “Our president is away. Once he comes back, we will discuss the issue,” said its spokesperson Danish Rizwan. “We have demanded two seats, But this is not going to break the NDA. We are intact,” he said.VIP and HAM-S have four seats each in the 243-member Legislative Assembly. Both had demanded two seats each to contest in Council polls. The total strength of Legislative Council in Bihar is 75.Meanwhile, JD (U) leader Chowdhary said his party wanted to contest on equal number of seats. “But since BJP wanted to accommodate LJP (National), we agreed on 13:11 formula,” he said.“I am sure this agreement will end all misgivings about our alliance,” Chowdhary said in an oblique reference to bitterness caused after BJP did not accommodate JD(U) for assembly polls in the neighbouring Uttar Pradesh.Seat dealBJP: Rohtas, Aurangabad, Saran, Siwan, Darbhanga, Purbi Champaran, Kishanganj, Katihar, Saharsa, Gopalganj, Begusarai and SamastipurJD(U): Patna, Bhojpur, Gaya, Nalanda, Muzafarpur, Paschimi Champaran, Sitamarhi, Bhagalpur, Munger, Nawada, MadhubaniLJP (National): Vaishali
29-01-2022||Pune||Nashik man booked for creating fake social media account of lawyer||PUNE A man from Nashik was booked for creating a fake social media account in the name of Advocate Rohan Jamadar Malwadkar and sending messages to his friends about using derogatory language towards Maratha emperor Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj.Advocate Malwadkar, who recently published a book about the battle of Bhima Koregaon, received the information from his friends who received such messages.The police have identified the accused and are on the lookout for him after Malwadkar’s complaint.“He formed an account with 174 in it which is similar to the complainant’s account. He sent messages to his relatives and friends to make it look like the complainant was sending them. We will take the necessary action,” said senior police inspector Sunil Tonpe of Sangvi police station.The accused also sent derogatory messages about the Peshwa and Maratha rulers’ regime in the country from the fake account.The topic of the battle of Bhima Koregaon has been a topic of public discussion ever since the riots that broke out to mark the 200 years of the battle. The history of the battle holds significance in the caste politics of the region because the members of the Mahar community are believed to be part of the British military that defeated the Peshwas in the battle.The Jaystamb in Perne village of Pune district was built to mark the victory of the British East India company’s win.A case was registered under Sections 420 (cheating) and 295(a) (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings) of the Indian Penal Code along with Section 66(a) of the Information Technology Act was registered at Sangvi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nashik-man-booked-for-creating-fake-social-media-account-of-lawyer-101643471588544.html
29-01-2022||Mumbai||10-year-old Thane girl cycles from Kashmir to Kanyakumari||A 10-year-old girl from Thane cycled 3,600km from Kashmir to Kanyakumari in 38 days. This is merely one of her many achievements. She had earlier cycled between cities in Maharashtra and had also set several swimming records.Sai Patil, a resident of Balkum, has been practicing for this journey since the lockdown with her father. Every day, she would cover 50km during practice while her mother ensured that she maintained a healthy diet. Sai began to show her interest in cycling and swimming when she was six years old.Her father, Ashish Patil, said, “Sai is dedicated to her goal and follows the routine perfectly. A student of Shrima Vidyalay, she aimed for this journey and has been practicing for over a year, simultaneously completing her school homework and other activities. Last year also, she went to Ladakh alone.”It was her father’s dream that encouraged her to do several such expeditions every time. This time, she was accompanied by her father from Kashmir to Kanyakumari, a journey that was completed in 38 days, cycling more than 120km per day. She began the journey on December 16 and completed it on January 20.Patil added, “She has further plans to embark on an East to West cycle journey in India and later go from India to Russia by cycle. We will complete this aim gradually by taking proper rest. In several areas of Maharashtra, people felicitated her for her bravery and dedication. We are really proud of her.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/10yearold-thane-girl-cycles-from-kashmir-to-kanyakumari-101643470810272.html
29-01-2022||Mumbai||City college student offered ₹30L pa package as placements kick off||Mumbai This year, higher education institutes saw more jobs, as well as higher pay packages and city-based degree colleges have also caught on to the trend. A third-year Bachelor of Management Studies (BMS) student of St Xavier’s College has bagged a job offer of ₹30 lakh per annum with a leading FMCG company.“Even during the pandemic (2020-21), our institute had attracted good job offers and this year, we have witnessed a quantum jump. A lot of new companies have opened up and the regular companies too have offered more jobs. The highest salary offered has increased and the average salary offered is nearly 30% higher compared to last year. Several students have been offered pay packages between ₹15 to 22 lakhs this year,” said Soni George, head of the management studies department, as well as the placement convenor for St Xavier’s College. She added that last year (2020-21), this student had interned with the same company, and managed to get a pre-placement offer to join the company. Most colleges affiliated with the University of Mumbai start their placement process by September-October and the interviews go on all the way till April-May. “The pandemic had pushed several companies across sectors towards digitisation, which eventually has made way for more job profiles. After a lull in hiring over the last two years, companies across sectors like banking, consultancy, marketing and finance are opening doors to young talent and this has resulted in better job offers across all higher education institutes,” said Ankush Ropar, a city-based hiring consultant.Overall, placement heads have noticed a rise of at least ₹2 to 4 lakhs in remuneration offered to students across colleges this year. “Students are very happy with the job offers and the fact that companies are also ready to negotiate in terms of remuneration. This year, demand for graduates from almost all departments have gone up, as opposed to just a few departments like management and finance that would attract offers until last year,” said Rakhi Sharma, academic head and head of training and placement at Jai Hind College, Churchgate. The highest salary offered to a student at the institute stands at ₹13 lakh this year, nearly two lakhs higher than last year and the placement season is still underway. Over 500 students of Narsee Monjee College, Vile Parle, registered for placements this year and once again, the highest salary offered to date stands at ₹19.5 lakhs per annum. “While companies offering jobs from the social sector are quite few this year, other sectors including finance, marketing, media, IT, FMCG as well as several start-ups have offered a host of jobs this year,” said Nainesh Koli, placement officer of the institute.Last year, due to the pandemic, placement interviews were being held online across colleges and in many cases, students started work online as well. This year, colleges offered both online as well as physical placement slots to the companies as per their convenience. “Highest number of jobs have come from finance as well as banking sector this year and digital marketing is a close second. Overall students are very happy with the offers they’ve received and we are expecting more offers soon,” said Navin Punjabi, vice principal and director placements, HR College, Churchgate. He added that the highest salary offered to a student of the institute this year is ₹14 lakh per annum for a consulting role.
29-01-2022||Mumbai||Cab driver gets 6-month jail term for abusing passengers||Mumbai: A metropolitan magistrate court on Friday sentenced a 34-year-old OLA driver to six months rigorous imprisonment for hurling abuses at a man and his elderly parents and threatening to drop them mid-way in the dead of the night.Metropolitan Magistrate S A R Sayed of the 63rd Court at Andheri convicted Yashwant Suranje, 34, a resident of Amrutnagar in Ghatkopar, under section 509 of IPC (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) and sentenced him to six months imprisonment.The court rejected his plea of releasing him on probation for good behaviour, observing that the victim did not know the accused.“The driver’s manner and conduct with the informant and his parents were absolutely not justified. His misbehaviour and abusive behaviour caused great inconvenience, hardships and harassment to the complainant and his parents,” the court said, adding that “such kind of gesture and misconduct on part of a cab driver with passengers do not warrant any benefit under the provisions of Probation of Offender’s Act.”According to the Sahar police, where the offence was registered, Sameer Sahani returned from Hong Kong with his aged parents on November 10, 2018. Around 2 am, they took a cab to reach their residence in Bandra.After picking them up from the airport, Suranje got into an argument with the complainant when he was asked to switch on the air conditioner. The driver abused and threaten them, after which the complainant lodged a report with the Sahar police station.The magistrate court accepted the testimony of the complainant’s agents. “There are no material contradictions and omissions in their evidence. They have categorically narrated entire evidence, specific abusive words and exact language in which those words were hurled by the accused against them.”The accused took the stand that the complainant and his family were carrying huge bags and they refused to help him pick up the bags leading to an argument.He claimed that the complainant told him that he was an advocate and went on to humiliate, threaten him. However, this claim was rebuffed by other ocular witnesses.The court discarded the cab driver’s defence and convicted him. Suranje also prayed for a lenient view to be taken, as he has a family and his daughter was undergoing treatment for cancer.The court, however, said that sentencing has a social goal and must send out a message to society and like-minded offenders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cab-driver-gets-6-month-jail-term-for-abusing-passengers-101643469308233.html
29-01-2022||Mumbai||Digha railway station to be ready by December 2022: MP Vichare||The work on Digha railway station, which is a part of the Airoli-Kalwa elevated corridor project, is in the final stages, claimed Thane MP, Rajan Vichare, after a review of the project on Saturday. He added that the station should be ready by the end of the year.Vichare inspected the station work with Mumbai Rail Vikas Corporation (MRVC) MD, Ravi Agrawal; chief project manager, Rajaram Rathod; Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) engineer Sanjay Patil; MSEDCL engineer among other officials.The elevated corridor that would connect central and harbour railway lines was announced in 2014 with a budget allocation of ₹428Cr. The project was flagged off in 2016 by PM Narendra Modi. There have been constant delays in the project due to unavailability of land and hence the project was categorised in two phases in which Digha railway station work was to be completed in the first phase.Speaking after the inspection of Digha railway station, Vichare said, “Sixty per cent of the work on the railway station has been completed. The station will have two platforms, 270m long and 12m wide each. There will be two lifts and four escalators along with four underpasses for the passengers, which are being developed.“A sum of ₹110Cr will be spent on the construction of the railway station. There will be ground-plus two storey structures on both the sides of the station for booking offices and four ticket windows in each. MRVC has confirmed that the work on the station will be completed by December 2022.”In the second phase, the Kalwa elevated railway station will be constructed. An elevated route will then be connected to Digha railway station. For this work to begin, 1,080 hutments will have to be rehabilitated, which has been taken up by Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA). The process is on and so far, 924 residents have reserved their home. Once it is done, work on the route will begin.”Commuters coming to Navi Mumbai from Kalyan, Dombivli, Ambernath and Badlapur for work or other purposes have to first travel to Thane railway station and then take the harbour route to Vashi station. This corridor will provide direct access to Navi Mumbai from Kalwa. It will also reduce the burden of increasing the number of passengers at Thane railway station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/digha-railway-station-to-be-ready-by-december-2022-mp-vichare-101643468951283.html
29-01-2022||Mumbai||Shiv Sena leader sacked for demanding sexual favours from auto driver||In an embarrassment to the Shiv Sena, a vibhag pramukh (ward leader) of Sainath Nagar, Virar E, has been sacked for allegedly harassing and demanding sex from a female auto driver. Jitendra Khadye has been dismissed with immediate effect, a Sena leader said. The police has registered a case of molestation under Section 354 of IPC against Khade, who is absconding. After Khadye sought sexual favours from the woman, she decided to teach him a lesson. She called Khadye  to her auto and in full public view, gave him a sound thrashing. A video of the incident went viral on social media, prompting Sena to sack him. Sr PI Suresh Warade of Virar police station said that Khadye  saw the victim driving auto and he got her mobile number. “He demanded sex and also harassed her for contact numbers of other women,” Warade said.On January 24, the woman asked Khadye  to meet her at Phoolpada in Virar E where she thrashed him with the help of locals. She also hauled him to the police station, where a molestation case was registered. Khadye, however, managed to escape while the complaint was being filed.“On the orders of CM Uddhav Thackeray, we have sacked Khadye  from the party with immediate effect,” said Vasant Chavan, Shiv Sena District President, Palghar. He said that Shiv Sena has zero tolerance against harassment of women and Khade has brought a bad name to the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-leader-sacked-for-demanding-sexual-favours-from-auto-driver-101643468468271.html
29-01-2022||Mumbai||315 hectares forest land to be diverted for Mumbai-Vadodara expressway||Mumbai: A total of 315 hectares of forest land and over 80k trees will be felled across Palghar, Thane and Raigad districts to make way for the Mumbai-Vadodara Expressway (MVE), confirmed the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI).Clearing of forest is expected to commence within the next two months, while remaining clearances for felling of mangroves is pending with Bombay High Court (HC) and stage-1 forest clearance with the forest department.The MVE is an eight-lane, 379-km greenfield expressway between Vadodara and Mumbai planned under the National Highways Development Project (NHDP) Phase VI and the Phase II, and will reduce travel time between the two cities to four hours from the current seven hours through the national highway (NH)-8.The 315 hectares of forest proposed to be diverted are divided into two land parcels, including the main expressway’s length from Talasari to Vasai in Palghar district, comprising 193 hectares of forest (including 3.95 hectares of mangroves). The second land parcel comprises 112 hectares of land, which will be felled to make way for the MVE’s connecting spur between Vasai and the Jawaharlal Nehru Port in Raigad district. NHAI official privy to the matter, requesting anonymity shared that for the Vasai-Talasari land parcel, they have received approval from the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority, the Dahanu Taluka Environmental Protection Authority, as well as stage-1 forest clearance. However, since the proposal for forest clearance involves removal of about 1,000 mangrove trees, they need to have the HC’s permission as well. There have been about three or four hearings in the matter already, and they expect to get a go ahead after a couple of more hearings.They added that about 38,000 trees will be felled to make way for the MVE between Talasari and Vasai, though the total number of trees present within the right of way (RoW) alignment comes to 88,349. The project’s EIA report, dated November 2019, mentions that 90,899 trees and 49,408 hedges have been proposed to be planted under a greenbelt development plan, while 1,91,589 plants are proposed to be planted under a separate compensatory afforestation plan.Though forest clearance has been obtained allowing the tree felling to commence, this project is still awaiting environment clearance (EC) from the centre without which, further construction work cannot proceed. The NHAI had applied for clearances under the FC Act for 94.5ha forest diversion in 2018, but retracted the proposal as a much larger forest area was subsequently earmarked for diversion. CRZ clearance for this proposal was granted by the MCZMA in July 2020, while the DTEPA’s sanction was given in August 2021.The official cited above informed, “For the second land parcel, from Vasai to JNPT, between 50-60,000 trees will be felled in Palghar, Thane and Raigad. This land parcel does not require permission either from the Dahanu authority or HC. The proposal is awaiting stage-1 forest clearance, but we are expecting that to come soon as well. We can safely say that the work orders will be issued and that clearing of the forest land will commence within the next two months.”The Vasai-JNPT extension of the Mumbai-Vadodara Expressway will also pass through Matheran eco-sensitive zone, and involves tunnelling through the Matheran Hill for about 4.39 km. Permission for the same has been accorded by the MoEFCC appointed Matheran Monitoring Committee in April 2013, and the alignment has also been included in the Zonal Master Plan for the Matheran ESZ, the project’s pre-feasibility report reveals. In November 2021, this portion of the MVE was recommended for environmental clearance by the MoEFCC’s expert appraisal committee.“There are approximately 55,355 trees within the proposed RoW; out of which 13,839 trees are in forest land and 41,516 trees in non-forest land,” the EAC’s minutes had noted under the head ‘Tree cutting’. The EIA report for the project, dated August 2021, mentions that the “proposed project involves felling of approx. 61,078 no. of trees,” adding that 69,680 trees and 40,098 hedges have been proposed to be planted to offset this loss under a green belt development plan. In addition, 2,45,226 plants are proposed to be planted under a separate compensatory afforestation plan.Environmentalists and experts have raised an alarm over the loss of this green cover, particularly in the light of where these contiguous projects are located, in the Dahanu ESZ, the Matheran ESZ and around the wetlands of Uran in Navi Mumbai. Debi Goenka, executive trustee of the Conservation Action Trust, pointed out that the Dahanu ESZ is being fragmented by the multiple linear intrusions other than this expressway, including the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train, the Western Dedicated Freight Corridor, a CNG pipeline between Gujarat and Maharashtra, and another set of pipelines to carry water from the Surya Dam to Vasai-Virar and Mira-Bhayander. “Environmental and forest clearances for these projects need to be considered keeping in mind their cumulative impact on the ecosystem. Such piecemeal clearances defeat the intent of the MoEFCC’s 1991 notification declaring the region as eco-sensitive,” said Debi.While Navi Mumbai based environmentalist BN Kumar, founder of the non-profit NatConnect Foundation, said that the ecology of Raigad district around Uran taluka is also being similarly fragmented. “You have the JNPT SEZ and Navi Mumbai SEZ coming up in an area dotted by degrading coastal wetlands, the Navi Mumbai Airport, the Mumbai-Trans Harbour Link, the Dedicated Freight Corridor and also the MVE extension from Vasai to JNPT. There has been no attempt to assess the cumulative impact of such rapid infra and industrial expansion on the coastal ecology, the avian biodiversity, or the communities which live there,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/315-hectares-forest-land-to-be-diverted-for-mumbai-vadodara-expressway-101643467748443.html
29-01-2022||Mumbai||26-year-old Thane man arrested for cheating people by creating bogus company||A 26-year-old man was arrested for allegedly creating a bogus company and duping several people on the pretext of giving them double returns on their invested money.A 57-year-old complainant of Khadakpada, Kalyan, met the accused, Aditya Redis, in Thane. Redis had created a company named Agro Multi State Co. Housing Society Limited.According to police officials, he lured several people to invest in the company and assured them of double returns on the same. The complainant gradually invested all his savings and asked a few of his friends to invest in the same to get more benefits. The complainant and two of his friends invested around ₹35 lakh.Vishnu Nagar police, Dombivli, had registered a cheating case in the matter in 2020 and during the course of investigation, found that there are more than 9,000 such investors who have been looted by the man using the same modus operandi.Economic Offences Wing (EOW) officials were searching for the accused for the past two years. Recently, they got a tip off that the accused was hiding near Badlapur and the team led a trap to arrest the accused.An officer from EOW said, “We arrested the accused from Badlapur and produced him in the court. He was hiding there for a long time. We have got his police custody up to January 31. Further questioning in the case is going on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/26yearold-thane-man-arrested-for-cheating-people-by-creating-bogus-company-101643466248115.html
29-01-2022||Chandigarh||Rebellion in Congress: MP Dimpa’s brother to contest from Khadoor Sahib||Disgruntled Congress MP Jasbir Singh Dimpa has upped the ante with his brother announcing to fight the Punjab assembly elections from Khadoor Sahib despite the party naming two-time MLA Ramanjit Singh Sikki as its candidate.Dimpa’s brother Harpinder Singh, aka Rajan Gill, on Saturday held a meeting with his supporters from four assembly segments of Khadoor Sahib, Baba Bakala, Jandiala and Khemkaran. “Our supporters have asked me to fight the assembly polls from Khadoor Sahib. Considering their voice, I have decided to contest the elections from there,” Gill told HT over phone. When asked whether he would fight as an Independent, Gill said it will become clear on Sunday, and said whatever the election symbol he fights on, “our supporters will support candidates fighting on it in all four segments”. There are talks that Gill could join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) before filing his nominations from the Panthic seat.The development comes days after Dimpa, who represents Khadoor Sahib in Lok Sabha, expressed his anguish over the Congress announcing Sikki’s candidature. He had been eying the assembly seat for himself or his family members. “What should be done if your party ignores hard work, loyalty and honesty & prefers stacks (sic),” the MP had tweeted on Wednesday. Dimpa was among the five Punjab MPs who didn’t attend Rahul Gandhi’s recent events in the state. He is apparently also annoyed over the party announcing his rival Santokh Singh Bhalaipur as a candidate from the Baba Bakala segment, where he had been backing Satinderjit Singh Chhajalwadi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rebellion-in-congress-mp-dimpa-s-brother-to-contest-from-khadoor-sahib-101643463847938.html
29-01-2022||Mumbai||Class under tree near brick kiln helps school dropouts to resume studies in Ambernath||For hundreds of children, whose parents are working in brick kilns across Ambernath, the basic education has become easier.Yuva Unity Foundation from Ambernath has initiated their education programme since December 2021. The classroom for these children has been set up under a random tree near the brick kiln by the teachers and the members of the Foundation.The volunteers of the Foundation, around 50 of them, have been visiting the brick kiln and workers living in the area, and found that most children are out of school and missing the basic education. They inquire the workers about their children, their native, their work history and health conditions.“We look for children who are out of school and provide them education in our project. These children could not attend their regular classes due to low income as well as lack of awareness on the importance of education. Our team has been counselling their parents to allow them to attend the class, which is set up just near the brick kiln where they work,” said Yogesh Chalwadi, founder of the Foundation.Around 20 qualified teachers are associated with the Foundation to take the regular classes in 10 schools in Ambernath, Mulgaon Badlapur. The Foundation has managed to provide education to a total of 300 students so far.Kamalbai Sonawane, a 58-year-old worker at the brick kiln, said, “We are from Jalgaon and migrated here to Ambernath to earn our livelihood. I work in a brick kiln near the South Indian College in Ambernath. My four grandchildren could not attend the school since the last two years as we have been migrating to places for work. When the Foundation approached us to let our children join the class, it came as a major relief for us as they could resume their studies.”
29-01-2022||Chandigarh||Need law against forcible conversions, but no one should be harassed: Kejriwal||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said that a law should be made against forcible religious conversions but nobody should be wrongly harassed through it. While stating that religion is a private matter and everyone has the right to worship, Kejriwal said, “Conversions done by scaring or offering any aid are totally wrong.” The Delhi chief minister was addressing a session with businessmen in Jalandhar. Several states including Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh have brought in laws to regulate forcible religious conversions, while others such as Assam are also mulling similar laws. On the issue of releasing 1993 Delhi bomb blast convict Davinder Pal Bhullar, who is undergoing life imprisonment after the Supreme Court commuted his death sentence, Kejriwal condemned the Shiromani Akali Dal for “doing dirty politics” on a “very sensitive matter”. Multiple Sikh bodies, including the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee, have been accusing Delhi’s AAP government for the delay in Bhullar’s release. Kejriwal said a sentence review board committee, comprising judicial and administrative officers, is looking into the matter, while adding that Delhi doesn’t have the status of a full state because of which issues related to law and order were with the lieutenant governor (LG). “When the matter was brought into my knowledge, I asked the Delhi home secretary to call a meeting of the review board immediately, and put its decision before the LG,” he said.10 guarantees for urban sector: No hike or new tax The AAP chief also announced 10 new guarantees, including no new tax or hike in the existing rates, for the urban sector in poll-bound Punjab. The party has already announced a slew of sector-specific guarantees, to be fulfilled if voted to power in the state. Addressing a press conference, Kejriwal said sanitation was a common issue across cities, including Ludhiana, Bathinda, Amritsar and Jalandhar. “If the AAP is voted into power, we will provide best cleanliness facilities, including proper sewerage, drainage and solid waste management,” he said, while adding that all cables will be moved underground to beautify the cities and remove the danger posed by them. The AAP chief, who was accompanied by party’s state president and CM face Bhagwant Mann, also promised to replicate the Delhi government’s initiative of providing government services at the citizens’ doorsteps, besides opening mohalla clinics, revamping civil hospitals, upgrading government schools, and providing round-the-clock power and water supply. “We will cover the entire state with CCTV network for women’s safety and to control crime,” he said, while claiming that Delhi has more CCTV cameras than in New York, London and other big cities of the world. Keeping the traders’ interest in mind, he promised to repair roads in market areas and provide proper parking spaces and public toilets. 
29-01-2022||Mumbai||Process of delimitation of wards for Thane Municipal Corporation elections begins||With the civic general elections slated this year, the process of delimitation of Thane Municipal Corporation’s (TMC) election wards have begun following a notification by the State Election Commission.As per the draft demarcation, the city will have 14 more wards and 11 more seats this election taking into consideration the increase in population.According to the notification, the suggestion/ objection for the new wards will be taken from February 1 to 14 while the hearing on the same will be from February 16 to 26. The final ward list will be issued on March 2. The new wards will be important to decide the political future of the city.TMC has sent a draft of the new ward demarcation to the State Election Commission for approval that has a three-panel system for every ward. Accordingly, the number of wards and the population in each ward is decided. The issue of OBC reservation is still pending with the Supreme Court. So, the ward demarcation has left out the OBC population and included the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe population while finalising the wards.An officer from the TMC said, “We will present the OBC population to the OBC Commission, who will present it to the Election Commission. This, however, will take time, so the State Election Commission has asked us to go ahead with the delimitation and complete the process by March 2.”The population of Thane city is 18,41,488, wherein the Schedule Caste population is 1,26,003 while the population of Schedule Tribe is 42,698.The officer added, “The total wards have increased from 33 in 2017 to 47 for the 2022 elections, while the number of seats has increased from 131 to 142. The 142 seats include 10 from SC, 3 from ST and 129 from the open category. Among the 142 seats, 71 seats will be reserved for women corporators.”While all the other wards will have a panel of three corporators, ward No. 44 is the largest ward with a population of 57,000. For this purpose, this ward will have a four-panel system instead of three.
29-01-2022||Delhi||More guests, more joy: Couples, wedding vendors elated with eased curbs in Capital||The latest guidelines raising the number of guests allowed at weddings in the Capital from 20 to 200 has come as a huge relief for wedding vendors and soon-to-be-married couples. Industry insiders state that they are getting non-stop calls for bookings and confirmation of dates as the wedding season just started. Meanwhile, couples also have safety on their mind and want guests to show negative test report for attending the wedding. “My phone has been ringing continuously since the news came out. Couples who were sceptical about the date and venue in Delhi are confirming now. Some postponed weddings are now back to their scheduled dates,” informs wedding photographer Amrit Arora.Makeup artist Rohit Verma is also delighted to see bookings back. “Any announcement in times of pandemic that brings us more work is a blessing. Brides have been getting in touch to block their dates,” he shares.For couples planning to get hitched, the easing of curbs has brought unmatched joy. Those who were stressed about having to shift venue out of Delhi, due to lesser restrictions elsewhere, are now relieved. Delhi-based Divya Vijan, who is set to tie the knot in February, says, “Night curfew is still okay, as the events can happen in the day, but I’m glad that the weekend curfew and guest-list restrictions have been eased.”Amid all this, safety remains a priority for couples. Soon-to-be-wed Pulkit Gulati has asked his friends and family to get RT-PCR or rapid tests done before attending his wedding. “We will have senior citizens present... It’s a safety measure, so that all can enjoy without any tension.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/more-guests-more-joy-couples-wedding-vendors-elated-with-eased-curbs-in-capital-101643460187984.html
29-01-2022||Delhi||Restaurateurs rejoice at just 3 dry days in 2022||After being dealt several blows amid the pandemic, the hospitality sector finally has a reason to cheer. Recently, the Delhi government decided to reduce the number of dry days from the existing 21 to three in 2022, which will be observed on Republic Day, Independence Day and Gandhi Jayanti. This move was welcomed by restaurateurs and Delhiites with a thumbs-up, with many calling it a “progressive step”.Talking about the losses faced by bars and pubs in the Capital during dry days, restaurateur Varun Khera, founder, Imperial Spice, says, “During dry days, we are not allowed to serve. But majority of the sale happens through liquor on those days. With pubs and bars closed, it used to be a huge loss for us.”Some felt that so many dry days were “unnecessary” and the change will bring the state at par with the international standards. Jaideep Anand, founder, Tamasha, says, “It’s a good step. All over the world, when it’s a day off or a special occasion, friends and families usually like to go out for a drink and celebrate. It’s the same principle globally. This [decision] will bring the Capital at par with most of the countries.”Supporting the decision, Riyaaz Amlani, CEO, Impresario Entertainment & Hospitality, shares, “Kudos for finally getting rid of the unnecessary dry days.”Prateek Arora, an IT consultant, 29, is happy that he wouldn’t have to worry a day in advance for booze on festivals anymore. He says, “I am relieved that we can go out on festivals such as Holi and manage to get a drink without worrying to stand in queues a day before.”Another city resident, Aayushi Sharma, 21, says, “It’s a great move and I just turned 21, so I am also waiting for the next announcement on lowering the legal drinking age.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/restaurateurs-rejoice-at-just-3-dry-days-in-2022-101643459647713.html
29-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi reports 4,483 new Covid-19 cases, 10.85% more than yesterday; 28 deaths||Daily Covid-19 cases in Delhi saw a marginal rise after recording a steady decline for over a week. On Saturday, Delhi logged 4,483 new infections in the last 24 hours, a jump of 10.85 per cent than the preceding day. On Friday, the city had registered 4,044 cases of Covid-19, according to the data by the state health department.With this, the total caseload has jumped to 18,22,815. The related-death toll stood at 25,797 with 28 fresh fatalities.The city has a total of 24,800 active cases and the daily positivity rate stood at 7.41 per cent, the data also showed.The daily number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi has reduced significantly in the last one week from 28,867 logged on January 13, to now it is hovering above below 5,000-mark. However, the containment zones count are still significantly higher.As of Saturday, the city has a total of 39,869, according to the state health department data.A containment zone is created by authorities to check the spread of infection if at least three cases of coronavirus are recorded in a household or in a neighbourhood. If a household or a neighbourhood is put under a containment zone category, then movement of people in and out of that region is restricted.On January 14, the city's positivity rate had touched 30.60 per cent, the highest during the ongoing wave of the pandemic. It took just 10 days for daily cases to drop below the 10,000-mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-4-483-new-covid-19-cases-10-85-more-than-yesterday-28-deaths-101643459154778.html
29-01-2022||Mumbai||7,000 out of 1.31 lakh Covid positive cases in Thane district in January fall in 0-20 years category||Out of the 1.31 lakh Covid positive cases registered across Thane district in January 2022 during the third wave, 7,000 are in the age group of 0-20 years. This is merely 5.31% of the total positive cases.Moreover, out of these 7,000, only 4.35% or 305 youngsters were hospitalised. All others are under home quarantine with flu-like symptoms and are recovering.While schools and colleges in the city are getting back to normal by resuming offline classes, Thane District Collector, Rajesh Narvekar, has asked families to not panic as the situation continues to be under control, as per these statistics.“From among the overall positive cases, the number of children getting infected is very less. With a change in climatic conditions, many were experiencing flu-like symptoms and some tested positive for Covid. However, the number of daily cases have come down drastically and hence the decision to reopen schools and colleges have been taken, keeping in mind the safety and Covid measures in place,” added Narvekar.From among the 7K positive cases, 57% or 4,040 are below 15 years of age and the rest 43% or 3,013 are between 15 and 20 years of age.“Senior citizens and children are mostly among the at-risk age group. However, as children have a better immunity, they manage to recover easily. This is not a worrisome figure as vaccination among this age group has only begun recently. Moreover, there are no fatalities among this age group across the district,” said a senior health officer from District Health Department, Thane.Various municipal corporations had made provisions for paediatric wards and special provisions anticipating a rise in the number of Covid cases among children in the third wave. However, these paediatric wards were rarely used. A total of 6,748 persons below the age group of 20 years infected by Covid have recovered under home quarantine. From among these, 58% are below 15 years and the rest between 15 and 20 years who are recovering under home quarantine, according to the district reports.Dr Parmanand Andankar, Chief Paediatric Intensivist, Jupiter Hospital, Thane, said, “This wave has definitely seen more children being affected. However, the impact has been very mild. For the last few months, we paediatricians have seen mild flu-like symptoms among children who come from Covid positive households. Out of these, a few have developed post-Covid complications and are now being treated under intensive care. Vaccination will definitely prove beneficial in curbing the impact of Covid among children and reduce post-Covid complications like multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children among others.”The multisystem inflammatory syndrome is an after effect of Covid among children. It varies from child to child. Its symptoms include stomach pain, diarrhoea, vomiting, fever, dizziness and skin rashes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/7000-out-of-1-31-lakh-covid-positive-cases-in-thane-district-in-january-fall-in-0-20-years-category-101643459108083.html
29-01-2022||Pune||IAS officer Sushil Khodwekar arrested for malpractices in TET||PUNE Sushil Khodwekar, an Indian administrative service (IAS) officer, was arrested by Pune’s cyber police station officials in the case of manipulation in Teacher Eligibility Test (TET) held in 2020.The IAS officer was arrested from Thane on Saturday morning and produced in court on the same day.Khodwekar is currently posted as the deputy secretary in the agriculture department. However, he was formerly serving as deputy secretary of the school education and sports department.He was remanded to police custody till January 31 by the court of Judge SJ Dolare with public prosecutor Vijaysinh Jadhav. Senior police inspector Kumar Ghadage is investigating the case.“Lot of evidence has pointed towards him with connections to the private players as well as those in the department. There are monetary trails as well. So far, his involvement is in TET 2020 but the investigation is underway,” said a senior officer involved in the investigation on condition of anonymity.Amitabh Gupta, commissioner of Pune police, had revealed on Friday that a total of 7,880 failed/ineligible candidates’ results were tampered with. A report on the same has been sent to the state government.Before his arrest, Tukaram Supe, head of Maharashtra State Council for Examination and Abhishek Savrikar, consultant to the education department, were arrested in the same case.In another case related to malpractices in TET 2017-2018, Ashwini Kumar of GA Software, and Sukhdev Dere, the predecessor of Supe have been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ias-officer-sushil-khodwekar-arrested-for-malpractices-in-tet-101643457127658.html
29-01-2022||Pune||In a bid to launch crackdown on land sharks, Maharashtra Waqf Board demands SIT to probe nexus||PUNE The Maharashtra Waqf Board which administers over one lakh acres of land worth crores of rupees has requested the Maharashtra government to constitute a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the large-scale misappropriation and loot of waqf properties in the state.Waqf Board chairman Dr Wajahat Mirza in a letter addressed to principal secretary (special ), dated January 28, stated, “We the members of Maharashtra Wakf Board do hereby request you to initiate a high level enquiry by constituting a Special Investigation Team to enquire into various cases involving illegal sale and purchases of wakf lands by using bogus or forged No Objection Certificates (NOCs) claimed to have been issued by the wakf board. Many other illegal means adopted to usurp wakf lands should also be investigated. In the last six months 14 FIRs across Maharashtra have been registered in different police stations whereby fraudulently the wakf lands have exchanged hands. ”A special board meeting was held in Mumbai to chalk out a detailed plan to prevent further loss of waqf land.The letter further stated that board members strongly believe that if investigated thoroughly a strong criminal nexus could be exposed involving officials from different government departments who in connivance with land sharks have indulged in all illegal means to access wakf lands.A number of Pune waqf lands have been under the scanner of several state and central agencies including the Enforcement Directorate (ED).According to waqf board officials, Pune has nearly 2,800 wakf properties on 3,724.55 hectares of land located in prime areas like Deccan Gymkhana, Kondhwa, Baner and Aundh estimated to be over ₹30,000 crores which have been illegally grabbed and under litigation .According to the waqf board officials at Pune, the issue related to a 50-acre waqf land belonging to a Mughal era mosque in Kondhwa Budruk, 80 acres spread from More Vidyalaya to the ILS Law College in Deccan including waqf land parcels Karve , 23 acres of waqf land Aundh and Pimple Nilakh are also being dealt with utmost priority. Waqf activists have demanded action against the waqf board members who served between 2011 to 2013 wherein they have been accused of issuing fraudulent NOCs to land sharks aiding them in selling off waqf properties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/in-a-bid-to-launch-crackdown-on-land-sharks-maharashtra-waqf-board-demands-sit-to-probe-nexus-101643456227600.html
29-01-2022||Pune||Bits’n’bytes: Know about startup, business news in Pune||Kissht raises ₹100 crore funding led by Trifecta Capital and Northern ArcKissht has raised ₹100 crore in funding led by Trifecta Capital and Northern Arc. The company has so far raised over ₹270 crore in equity and over ₹1,200 crore in debt investments. In the current round, Trifecta and Nothern Arc have each subscribed to ₹50 crore of Non-Convertible Debentures (NCDs).The company will utilise the funds to expand its scale of operations, further enhance its product offerings including credit cards for small business/shops and further improve underwriting capabilities even in smaller tier towns of India where instant credit is still a dream to many.Krishnan Vishwanathan, co-founder, Kissht, said that “Our aim at Kissht is to bring instant, hassle-free credit on the back of our self- learning, strong underwriting and collection capabilities paving the way for lower income and small-business owner segment. This funding will further aid our goal of removing financial constraints, expanding our footprint across tier-2 centres in India.”SecureThings.ai wins innovation award Automotive Cybersecurity product company SecureThings.ai has been lauded with the Technology Innovation Leadership Award by Frost & Sullivan.Vishal Bajpai, co-founder and CEO at SecureThings.ai said, “We are delighted to announce that SecureThings.ai has been recognised in effectively addressing cybersecurity challenges for automotive manufacturers.”Founded in late 2017, SecureThings.ai provides a machine-learning based real-time cyber security solution for connected vehicles. Their experts help automotive manufacturers understand the potential risks and vulnerabilities around their products by assessing the life-cycle of automotive production. “SecureThings.ai offers comprehensive and customised protection solutions for real-time in-vehicle, network, and in-vehicle network use cases,” said Kaushik Madhavan, vice president - mobility at Frost & Sullivan.Nasscom enterprise innovation challengeGlobal industry experts, researchers, academia, start-ups and enterprises from across the globe are set to come together to identify challenges, opportunities and develop market-ready tech-based solutions in ESG practices at the second edition of the Enterprise Innovation Challenge (EIC) platform organised by Nasscom Centre of Excellence (CoE) for IoT & AI in collaboration with the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY).Sanjeev Malhotra, CEO, Centre of Excellence, Nasscom, said, “This season of Enterprise Innovation Challenge (EIC) will aim at mapping the progress while looking at innovative strategies to create viable and localised use cases to overcome the unanticipated risks of environmental, social, and (corporate) governance (ESG). This challenge will further help in the discovery of promising start-ups that leverage cutting-edge technologies to develop impactful real-life solutions for problem statements identified by leading enterprises. We also aspire to help the industry set up flexible, ethical, and innovative standards for the future.”The flagship challenge is being organised from January to March 2022 and will provide an opportunity for ESG startups and scaleups to solve issues for enterprises by fostering state-of-the-art innovations and technologies in ESG (Environment, Social and Governance) practices.SignDesk rolls out an SMB eSign platformReg-Tech company ‘SignDesk’ has released a business eSign platform for India’s 3+ lakh SMBs (60+ million MSMEs) to create, sign and store documents completely online.The platform offers custom, legally valid templates for businesses to create documents instantly at scale and Aadhaar eSignatures for businesses to get documents signed remotely. Krupesh Bhat, founder of SignDesk said, “Adoption rates for Aadhaar eSignatures are low since the usual providers are neither a good price fit nor product fit for Indian businesses who need a cost-effective and lightweight solution that does the job. By adopting eSignatures and digital documentation, businesses stand to save up to 22,000 hours annually, cut expenses by 60-85 per cent, and save 2.5 billion trees in less than two decades.”Co-founder Ashok Kadsur said, “eSignatures can enable businesses to seamlessly move to a digital environment that is safe, secure, accessible and fast.”now.gg launches fungible games platformnow.gg, the mobile cloud company, announced its now.gg Fungible Games (NFG) platform for mobile games developed on Unity, Unreal and Cocos engines. now.gg Fungible Games combines several unique technical capabilities to create a mobile Metaverse. “I am a big Marvel fan and awed by how they interlink the movies to create the Marvel Cinematic Universe. The Mobile Metaverse is inspired by Marvel. Games today are like movies, what if you could interlink them with Matter, Avatars, Space and Time. Matter being things like weapons in a game, Avatars being the heroes, Space are things like maps with portals like Dr Strange can make, and Time is the time of the gamer.” said Rosen Sharma, CEO and founder of now.gg. NFG enables the unbundling of the game so pieces of it can be owned by different people, its dynamic re-composition in the cloud, and delivery to the gamer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bitsnbytes-know-about-startup-business-news-in-pune-101643455927666.html
29-01-2022||Pune||Schools, colleges in Pune to reopen from February 1||Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Saturday announced that schools and colleges in Pune district will reopen from February 1.Pawar, during the Covid-19 review meeting, said for Classes 1 to 8, the school timings will be half of the regular timings, although for Classes 9 to 10 as well as colleges will run as per the regular schedule.According to Pawar, fresh Covid-19 cases have reduced in the past few days as compared to last week. Pawar said the demand for oxygen and hospitalisations of patients is far less during the third wave compared to previous waves.On Friday, Pune district reported 6,928 new Covid-19 cases and 16 deaths. The progressive count stood at 1.38 million of which 1.28 million have recovered, 20,307 deaths and 85,629 are active cases.“Since the cases are falling, we have decided to reopen schools and colleges in Pune city, Pimpri-Chinchwad and rural parts of the district. Consent from parents will be required to attend offline classes. The further decision for Classes 1 to 8 will be taken in the meeting scheduled next week,” said Pawar.According to Pawar, the reason for keeping classes for standard 1 to 8 only for four hours is to allow children to return home and eat their tiffin instead of being at schools.The minister said there is a need for increasing vaccination in the age group of 15-18 years in the urban areas of the district.“In rural parts, vaccination in this age group is almost about 86%, but the same is less in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. We need to increase this and for the same reason inoculation drive will be conducted on the campus itself,” said Pawar.For colleges, students who have received both doses of vaccines will only be allowed to attend offline classes.Earlier this month the Maharashtra government had announced the reopening of schools from January 24 though, in Pune, rising cases had forced the administration to keep the schools closed till January 31.The state government has given power to decide on reopening of schools to local self-government by considering the situation.Pawar while speaking to the media said that the use of face masks is mandatory in Maharashtra and denied any discussion contradicting this, having taken place.“Some news channels wrongly showed news about discussion to relax the rule related to mask. I request everyone not to give such stories”, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/schools-colleges-in-pune-to-reopen-from-february-1-101643454787550.html
29-01-2022||Pune||At Katraj zoo: Covid lockdown helps relax zoo animals, make them feel ‘almost at home’||PUNE If the Covid-19 pandemic has changed the life of human beings and forced them to change their routine, then same is the case with animals. With the lockdown continuing at the Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park at Katraj for months now, forcing visitors to stay at home, zoo authorities are noticing a behavioural change in the animals. According to officials at the zoo, the animals are less aggressive while their minor illnesses have reduced drastically during the past two years. “The animals at the zoo are seen in their natural behaviour as seen in the wild area where they are free from noise pollution and captivation,” said Dr Suchitra Suryavanshi Patil, the veterinary officer at Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park. According to the zoo’s data, it has nearly 440 animals of 63 different species including eight tigers, leopard, and giant squirrel. The pandemic period since March 2020 has been was very peaceful for the animals as they were free to express their natural behaviour, said Suryavanshi Patil, adding that the animals were more active and stress-free. “On normal days, when the zoo is open for the public, animals become aggressive and irritated with the actions and noise of people around them, specifically the primates. This results in abnormal behaviour of animals. But abnormality has been negligible during the pandemic,” she said. The Katraj zoo is spread across 130 acres and is divided into three areas- an animal orphanage, a snake park and a zoo overlooking a lake spanning 42 acres. The zoo houses a total 440 animals and gets financial aid from the Central Zoo Authority. According to Dr Patil, consistent improvement has been seen in the health of the animals. Illness has reduced drastically. There is no change in diet during this time because it completely depends on the seasonal change. “As the animals are living in their naturistic environment, they do not show any major changes in their diet or behaviour in the absence of the people,” said Rajkumar Jadhav, Director of Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park. BOX: Now, purchase tickets via online payment Jadhav said, “We are developing a ticket reservation portal which will be an upgrade to the older one. The new system will be hassle-free where the payment of the ticket can be done through the UPI payment gateway. It will help us to keep a note of the count of visitors in a particular time slot. This will be helpful, to follow the government guidelines for restriction of 25% of the total capacity in an open area. Thus, we can restrict the visitor to 25% through this portal.” According to PMC’s head of IT department Rahul Jagtap, the work of the online portal is still in process. “We have got the tender bid from seven companies till now, development of the portal will start then. It will take approximately three to four weeks to complete the technical as well as legal work,” said Jagtap. The PMC is also in the process of making Rajiv Gandhi Zoo website, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/at-katraj-zoo-covid-lockdown-helps-relax-zoo-animals-make-them-feel-almost-at-home-101643454187428.html
29-01-2022||Pune||Startup Mantra: Getting your network to add to your net worth||Your network is your net worth: is the catchphrase in startup circles, however, very few can utilise their network strengths to drive business and revenues. This is because the value of network connections is invisible to us. Satish Patil, an entrepreneur, identified this gap and built an advanced platform, ‘Mitibase’ for syncing, mapping and understanding relationship data from customer relationship management (CRM) tools, contact books, social networks, communication streams, publicly available data and third-party sources. Mitibase enables individuals and companies to discover opportunities using a collective relationship network.In the beginning…Satish Patil holds a PhD from the University of Minnesota, and a BTech from the University of Mumbai. With two patents to his name, Patil realised the importance of data back in 2009-10 and came back to India to pursue his entrepreneurial dream. “Data analytics was very rudimentary that time. I had started a boutique consultancy for healthcare data analytics. I struggled for two years and got my first assignment from Flipkart for one of their customer- care related problems. In 2015, there came a boom for data science education. Many academic institutions and business schools approached me for designing courses and delivering lectures. My business picked up from there,” says Patil.“I formed another company ‘Crysagi Systems’ which catered to startups from India. By 2019, data analytics started getting commoditised. Building a data analytics vertical organically was not easy. I wanted to get into product and exit the services business. Crysagi was acquired by CoreView Systems and I exited in 2019,” he says. Competency vs relationshipsWhile at Crysagi, Patil advised global pharma, e-commerce giants, industrial organisations, healthcare companies, and fintech firms on data strategy and algorithmic capabilities to solve business problems. He had seen how technology evolves and needs to be built, ground up. Says Patil, “One thing I realised, which no one taught me in school, home, office or any other place of work, is the importance of relationship. Competency is important and required to be successful in business, but having good network and relationships can be one of the competitive advantages to your business. If one invests more time, money and energy in relationships, they can progress 10x more. We can hire competency but not relationship and reach. Relationships are an unfair advantage and whoever has it will progress faster.”“Another mistake which we often make is we look at every opportunity as a transaction rather than relationship. Successful people act on this but they don’t say it. I realised that as a person or organisation, we don’t value relationships because they are not visible. To some extent, we are aware about our immediate close network, but almost clueless about the extended network in real time. On the organisational level this is mostly non-existent. Several organisations have Customer Relationship Management (CRM) software, but it only captures customers, prospects and leads. It does not capture the network of their top management, employees, customers. So we have relationship capital which is unutilised because it is not visible. I said let’s make this visible to organisations in real-time,” said Patil.Relationship capitalAny person or organisation’s network is not static. It changes every day and hence, it’s an opportunity to encash. ‘Relationship Discovery’ is a major aspect that Mitibase solves through its platform.Says Patil, “Most people would say what’s new? They claim that they know relationship is important and may also do it manually, intermittently and sporadically. The challenge lies in bringing it on a platform and that too visually. Another problem with data available in the public domain (on Google, LinkedIn, company websites) is we can’t monitor it daily. Also, it is not interconnected and not known to us mutually. Mitibase bring the direct and extended network of individuals and organisations on a visual platform.”“I wanted to create a knowledge base of relationships worldwide. Obviously this knowledge would be stored in data format. ‘Miti’ is a Sanskrit word for knowledge and hence, instead of database we coined the name ‘Mitibase’ which means a ‘knowledge base of relations across globe’,” says Patil.Says Patil, “We are targeting two major segments. First is the investor community including venture capital funds, private equity funds and investment banks and second is the enterprise sales in midmarket (B2B, well-funded start-ups, IPO level companies). We look for sufficient value in our email extraction offering.”“Due to the Covid-19 outbreak, we focussed more on product development instead of sales in the last two years. During the pandemic, we had accelerated our product development. Now we need funds to scale up. Out of the total amount raised 70 per cent will be used for sales and marketing,” he added.FundingSays Patil, “So far, excluding founder’s salary, we have invested $0.5 million since May 2019. We are at a juncture where we are planning Series A round in next 90 days. We are raising $5 million and we are actively talking with institutional investors based in India and US. As an entrepreneur, I have bootstrapped myself for three years. I have built this technology and we also have paying customers. We want to raise funds as it will add to the validation and help us to scale up.”Relationship managementToday there is a common understanding that structuring and democratisation of data is the key. “All successful people design their relationships, but for entrepreneurs all new relationships are serendipity. Apart from discovery, how do I build my strategic relationships going forward is the question that every entrepreneur is facing,” says Satish Patil. “Every platform has its own challenges. There is no context for new connections. People use a Sales Navigator as a tool for database, but it is poor for relationship management because hierarchy in match-making of connections is not maintained. These valuable insights are missing,” he claims.“On the Mitibase platform, we have given filtering options in the connection hierarchy. We define these positions as decision makers. Our platform user has the ability to filter any connection hierarchy-wise. We also know the context between the two persons and the interaction between them – like the emails sent by them to each other or their investments in any company, etc. Eventually the whole vision is that our platform will become the bigger CRM – the Collective Relationship Management software,” he adds.- Strategic relationship building needs:- Relationship Discovery  - Relationship Intelligence - Relationship Workflow ManagementThe chief experience officer (CXO) dilemmaSays Patil, “If we keep meeting the same people, we don’t get any new information discovery and over a period everybody has the same information. The ‘serendipity’ is flattened and that’s where people begin searching for new people for new information. CEOs, top management and decision makers face this dilemma but can’t find a way out. We need information asymmetry and that’s why we see a valuable information from outside our network. We call it information discovery via a weak connect.”Relationship intelligencePatil said, “We have a team of eight at present including the product development and research team members. Our focus will be only on the enterprise sales across industry and private market investors segment. We will need about 3 years to capture this gigantic market of about $25 billion.”“Our go-to-market strategy is in place. We are starting US operations this year. We are also in talks with a couple of companies for CRM integration with our platform. Companies using CRM software can use our platform for getting automated relationship intelligence. Our platform will give a new definition to the CRM software – a Collective Relationship Management software,” Patil stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/startup-mantra-getting-your-network-to-add-to-your-net-worth-101643453527642.html
29-01-2022||Delhi||Fun, safety on delhiites’ weekend plan||New Delhi After a three week-long run, it’s curtains for the weekend curfew in the Capital, at least for now, as per the latest guidelines by Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). This has spelled cheer among city dwellers, who say they can finally spend a relaxed weekend outdoors. Here’s what’s on their to-do lists for this weekend sans curfew! Dining out ranks high, as eateries are also open again, with 50% occupancy. “Sabse pehle main koi fancy si jagah par jaakar khaaunga,” says Delhi-based Nishchay Verma. “It’s been so long... ab toh bahar ki daal bhi shahi paneer lagegi,” quips Verma. And then there’s Priyanshi Goyal, final-year student at Delhi University, who called up her friends to plan a meet-up as soon as the news of relaxation in curbs broke. “I’m meeting my friends at shopping malls in Saket. We’ll have a nice shopping sesh and luncheon, all very safely. Poore din ghoom kar ghar aayenge, but not without our usual gol gappe or ice cream stopover. We missed these things so much,” she says. Some who have exhausted their recommendation list for OTT are eager to head to cinema halls. Sapna Sharma Bhagwat, a Rohini-based homemaker, says, “I am tired of watching stuff on OTT. I just keep hopping from one platform to another, just to keep myself and my family entertained on weekends. Thankfully, cinema theatres have opened with 50% occupancy, so we have planned a movie outing!” Also on relieved Delhiites’ weekend to-do list is escaping from an overdose of family time. Suryanshu Bepari, a DU student, shares, “The entire week is spent in online classes and assignments. Weekends pe hi time hota tha to catch up with friends and spend time away from parents ke instructions. Now, I’ll be able to go out again. But, masking up and following other safety protocols are still crucial, to balance fun and safety.”Gaurav Verma, a professor at Lakshmibai College, DU, is also glad to get a breather after hectic weekdays. His weekend plans? Meeting his animal friends and heading to book stores. He shares, “The first thing I want to do, now that the weekend curfew has been lifted, is to feed the cows, rabbits, ducks nearby... I am worried they might forget me! And I’d love to go back to reading and browsing at book shops, which feels so much livelier an experience than ordering online to read at home.”Author tweets @siddhijainnFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fun-safety-on-delhiites-weekend-plan-101643449867872.html
29-01-2022||Bhopal||Tiger found dead; leopard dies during rescue in MP's Bandhavgarh reserve||A tiger was found dead, while a leopard died while being rescued in Madhya Pradesh's Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve, an official said on Saturday. The carcass of a tiger was found in the buffer area of Dhamokhar range on Friday and the leopard died in the core area of Panpatha range of Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve, the official said. The exact cause of death of the big cat will be ascertained once the post-mortem report arrives, the reserve's field director B S Annigeri said. The officials had on Thursday night received information that a leopard was trapped in a fence in Panpatha range, he said. At that time, the doctors were away in Nauradehi Sanctuary to escort an elephant translocated there, the official said. The leopard was healthy, but it died while being released into the forest after the rescue, he said, adding that the animal might have died due to damage to the internal organs. Following post-mortem, the carcasses of both animals were disposed of as per the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/tiger-found-dead-leopard-dies-during-rescue-in-mp-s-bandhavgarh-reserve-101643443844815.html
29-01-2022||Noida||Techie, Covid-positive, found dead in Greater Noida hostel||The body of a 24-year-old trainee engineer was found inside the bathroom of the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) hostel in Greater Noida, police said on Friday.According to officials, it appeared to be a case of suicide as there was no visible wound mark on the body, but the cause of death was yet to be ascertained.“The incident took place late Thursday night at the NTPC hostel under the Jarcha police station limits,” a police spokesperson said.“The deceased has been identified as a native of Odisha. He was trainee engineer and was found positive for COVID-19 during a medical test,” the spokesperson said.The relatives of the deceased have been informed and the body sent for post-mortem, police said, adding further legal proceedings were being carried out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/techie-covid-positive-found-dead-in-ntpc-s-greater-noida-hostel-101643441319835.html
29-01-2022||Gurugram||Farmhouses see jump in demand after new CLU Policy||The Haryana government has devised a new policy for change of land use (CLU) in the state's agriculture zones to prevent uncontrolled farmhouse construction and encourage eco-friendly housing units.A major real estate firm, Raheja Developers, has applied for the CLU to construct Haryana's first CLU approved farmhouse. With the announcement of the new policy, Haryana's urban landscape will change.Haryana's Town and Country Planning Department has adopted a policy that considers farmhouses to be self-sustaining entities. Owners of land beyond 500 metres of the urbanisable zone of towns and cities in the agriculture zone would be able to apply for a change of land use (CLU) to build farmhouses on one acre or 1-2 acres under the policy, which would be applicable in the area beyond 500 metres of the urbanisable zone of towns and cities in the agriculture zone.The necessity of adopting a healthy lifestyle is increasing like never before. To give people the option of eating organic food and living healthy, Raheja Developers has planned Riyasat Hills Farmlands. Over 70 approved farmlands would be available over 100 acres of Land and will be located in Sector 95B, one of Gurugram's highest capital appreciation zones.The best feature of 'Riyasat Hills Farmlands' is that it is well-connected to various regions of Gurugram and Delhi while remaining away from the city's congestion. The property is accessible via the New Delhi-Jaipur Super Expressway, which is only a few minutes' drive from Delhi and Gurugram's most prestigious residential regions. To the north, the Sultanpur Bird Sanctuary; to the west, the Kundli Manesar Palwal (KMP) Expressway; to the south, New Delhi and the Residential Sectors of the 1980s and 1990s - Gurugram; and to the east, the Dwarka Expressway. 'Riyasat Hills Farmlands' is now accessible via Pataudi Road, Prithviraj Chauhan Crossing, with access to the 60-meter Sector Road commencing from Dwarka Expressway at Sector 88A Gurugram expected soon.The primary housing unit and ancillary units (servant quarters, farm and animal outbuildings) would be allowed in the 1-2 acre and above 2 acre of land under the new policy, while only one dwelling unit would be allowed on farmhouses spread over a minimum of 1 acre of land. In the 1-2 acre category, a maximum ground covering of 8% will be allowed for the main unit. According to the new CLU policy, the company intends to offer Farmlands of 1-acre and larger, providing buyers with a limitless number of options. The acreage could be used for organic farming, dairy/poultry farming, plant nursery maintenance, apiculture, horticulture, and other activities.The installation of solar water heating systems, 100 percent wastewater treatment, rainwater collection, and on-site processing of all green/animal waste will all be closely regulated during the construction of the self-sustaining farmhouses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/farmhouses-see-jump-in-demand-after-new-clu-policy-101643441293458.html
29-01-2022||Mumbai||‘Their MP said liquor is medicine..’: Sanjay Raut slams BJP’s opposition of wine sale in Maharashtra||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut sharpened his attack on the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP's) opposition of the Maharashtra government allowing sale of wine in supermarkets and walk-in shops across the state.Speaking to reporters, Raut said on Saturday that the previous BJP dispensation in Maharashtra under the leadership of Devendra Fadnavis had planned on home delivering liquor. “Fadnavis govt planned to make a policy of giving home delivery of liquor (purhcased) online, what was that?” Raut asked.Also Read| Wine is not liquor, Sanjay Raut rebuts Fadnavis’ ‘Madya-rashtra’ remarkThe proposal of home delivering liquor online dates back to 2018 when former Maharashtra excise minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule said that his government was considering a policy for home delivery and online sale. However, then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had said there was no such plan.Fadnavis govt planned to make a policy of giving home delivery of liquor online, what was that? BJP MP Sadhvi Pragya said that liquor is medicine & drink it in small quantities: Sanjay Raut on govt's decision to allow sale of wine in supermarkets & walk-in stores in Maharashtra pic.twitter.com/NiQ1TbST8Q Taking potshots at BJP MP Sadhvi Pragya, Sanjay Raut also told reporters on Saturday said that the saffron party's leader “said that liquor is medicine and drink it in small quantities.”Also Read| BJP attacks govt over wine sale in supermarkets, Congress points to similar decision in MPOn January 20, Sadhvi Pragya, who is known for making controversial remarks, said that consuming alcohol in limited quantities acts as a medicine and it is poison if consumed extensively. "As per Ayurveda, liquor works as a medicine if consumed in a limited quantity but as poison, if consumed in unlimited quantities. Everyone must understand this," Pragya said.According to Maharashtra skill development minister Nawab Malik, the decision to allow the sale of wine was taken to give a boost to fruit-based wineries which provide additional income to farmers.“I do not know whether wine is considered liquor but it is made from farm produce. With its sale, farmers could earn more. Those who are opposing it are anti-farmer,” Sanjay Raut had said on Friday.The state government has said that supermarkets and shops measuring 1,000 square feet and above can sell wine by paying a licence fee, though norms in place for liquor sale have to be followed.However, the BJP pointed out that the government is promoting liquor in Maharashtra with Fadnavis saying "We will not allow Maharashtra to become a Madya-Rashtra ('liquor state')."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/their-mp-said-liquor-is-medicine-raut-slams-bjp-s-opposition-of-wine-sale-101643437490940.html
29-01-2022||Mumbai||Gandhidham-Puri Express train catches fire near Maharashtra's Nandurbar station||A train coach of the Gandhidham-Puri Express on Saturday caught fire near Nandubar station in Maharashtra. The incident happened at around 10.35am, the western railways informed. The fire was doused in about an hour.“At about 10.35hrs, Dy SS/Nandurbar informed Nandurbar Control that a fire was detected in the pantry car of 12993 Gandhidham-Puri Express while the train was entering Nandurbar station,” the railways ministry said in a statement. “Immediately, a fire brigade was called. Fire extinguishers from the station and train (were) being used to douse the fire. Pantry car was separated from the train. All passengers are safe and sound,” the ministry noted.The train comprises of total 22 coaches and the pantry car was the 13th coach.The western railways further informed that the medical team and other paramedical staff were rushed to the site for relief operations. However, there have been no injuries, the railways said.The fire has been extinguished and the overhead equipment supply for up and down lines on the route have been restored.It is not clear as to what caused the fire and an investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gandhidhampuri-express-train-catches-fire-near-maharashtra-s-nandurbar-station-101643438391458.html
29-01-2022||Delhi||Saviours in fog: Those who help citizens drive safely in winter||Poor visibility is a major concern in Delhi-NCR in winter. But to tackle it, teams of Police along with Road Safety Officers (RSOs) spring into action with various campaigns to prevent accidents. Spotted at various junctions in Delhi-NCR, these personnel can be seen pasting reflective tape on vehicles and barricades, to help drivers see better amid fog. “Our duty starts at 7am. It’s still foggy when we set out,” says Ajay Tomar, DCP (Traffic), New Delhi, and adds, “It’s a challenge in itself. We have to navigate VIP movement, man important events such as Republic Day, all amid the dense fog. Humari team light bar and reflective jackets ke saath hoti hai, taki unhe koi takkar na maar de. But visibility poor hone par accidents bhi hue hain.” During the foggy season, the RSOs usually identify areas with maximum NMT (Non-Motorised Transport) vehicles such as cycles, and deploy teams to guide them safely. Raj Kumar, an RSO with Gurugram Police, says, “We also cover tractors and commercial vehicles, so that these are visible during the fog, especially at night. When we find safety hazards on the roads like misaligned barriers, broken curb stones, etc., we cover such spots and use reflective tapes to make them visible to drivers.” RSO Ashish Pahuja, based in the Millennium City, says, “This year, under our special campaign called Reflective Gurugram, we combed the city and corrected hazard points to increase safety during foggy season. Fast Fog Action Support Team (F-FAST) was constituted to take actions to clear smaller obstructions along with helpers and basic tools, which they carried with them.”But these campaigns are not free of challenges, as Kumar shares, “People question our actions. Sometimes they get aggressive, which delays our work. They need to understand that we stop them for their safety.” Author Tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter
29-01-2022||Pune||Schools and colleges in Pune to reopen from February 1. Details here||Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said on Saturday that schools and colleges in the Pune district will reopen from February 1, and provided further details on the gradual resumption of educational institutions amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.For students of classes 1 to 8 in Pune, the school timings will be half that of the regular timings. This is for the time being, the minister clarified, adding that a further decision for standards I to VIII will be taken in the next meeting depending on the pandemic situation at the time.However, for classes 9 to 10, the schools will run as per the regular schedule, the minister said. Consent from parents will be required to attend the school.Moreover, colleges in the district will also function as per regular timings, he added.Consent from parents will be required to attend the school. The further decision for classes 1 to 8 will be taken in the next meeting: Maharashtra Deputy CM Ajit Pawar pic.twitter.com/CfhWGVdYWFPune on Friday recorded 7,166 Covid-19 cases, taking the district's tally to 13,88,687, while 12 deaths increased the toll to 19,429, an official said.He said 3,374 cases were reported in the Pune city, 2,261 in Pimpri Chinchwad, and 1,205 in rural and 98 cantonment limits.As of Friday, the district had 2,520 active cases in institutional isolation and 73,471 in home quarantine, the official informed.Last Saturday, Maharashtra deputy chief minister Pawar said that no decision had not yet been taken regarding the resumption of offline classes in the district since Covid-19 cases were on the rise back then.After attending a meeting to review the Covid-19 situation in the district, Pawar said swimming pools and grounds will be open to sportspersons and people who have taken both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine.Apart from this, tourist places such as Lonavala and Singhagad will be thrown open to a limited number of visitors in order to sustain small businesses operating at these locations, said Pawar, who is also the guardian minister of the district.The police have been directed to keep a watch on the number of people gathering at tourist places and in case of crowding, further restrictions will be imposed, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/schools-and-colleges-in-pune-to-reopen-from-february-1-details-here-101643433070417.html
29-01-2022||Delhi||Fitness challenges are the new #motivator?||Fitness has certainly become the top priority for many, whether in terms of a healthy diet or regular exercising. But how to keep oneself and others motivated amid the pandemic? A fitness challenge is the answer that some have been exploring! Weekly challenges keep physically activity up As a fitness coach of the running group RunXtreme, Tarun Walecha says the biggest challenge for him was to keep his group members engaged and motivated. “Given how people had become comfortable with online interactions lately, we started virtual challenges for our group. We created online groups for them to log their daily runs and we would pick up a weekly winner. We also gave them daily progressive tasks, like number of push ups, squats, or mix of such workouts to repeat day after day. These weekly challenges didn’t just keep them physically active but also kept them motivated to do more,” he says. Sustainable approach to get fitIn a bid to keep everyone motivated, some have designed simple and basic challenges around the diet and nutrition. “With small doable steps and achievable targets, our program is called Body Fat Optimisation and Shape Up,” says Siddharth Choudhary, from Gurgraon Road Runners, adding, “The best part is that these programs and challenges are independent of Covid-19 scenarios. All you need is a clean diet, quantified nutrition and sustainable approach. Our various challenges include saying no to white sugar, which is a one week challenge. Second is the challenge to drop 1kg body weight in one week and drop 2% body fat in one month.” Exciting prizes for top scorersIn another challenge, #LetsGetFitterTogether, the participants can do varied activities such as walk, run, cycle, swim, do strength training, yoga, zumba, aerobics, or even play a sport such as tennis or badminton. “They need to clock in their activities through an app. The idea is to be consistent with some form of physical activity, and not just to get into good shape as a New Year resolution. We want people to embrace a healthier life as a whole, alongside achieving personal fitness goals. And there are trophies, medals, and exciting prizes from our side for the top scoring participants,” says fitness enthusiast Sandeep Mall.“The long and challenging phase of pandemic has surely taught one how being fit creates resilience to ward off the inner and the outer battles of life in all parameters. We are constantly seeking motivation and inspiration to create a better life. This had lead me to start the 100Day Health Challenge, last year, which became a mass fitness drive with 580 people connecting virtually to get fitter together. And now, the new challenge is possibly the only one of its kind that will bring together 1,000 individuals with one goal — #LetsGetFitterTogether,” adds Mall. Author Tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter
29-01-2022||Delhi||Beating Retreat: Traffic curbs in place in Delhi, buses to be diverted too||The Delhi Police has imposed restrictions in some parts due to ‘Beating Retreat’ ceremony which will take place on Saturday. The ceremony officially marks the end of the Republic Day celebration, though this year the event was part of the ongoing ‘Azadi ka Amrut Mahostsav’ to celebrate 75 years of India’s Independence.Also Read | 1,000 drones to light up Delhi sky at ‘Beating Retreat’ ceremony todayElaborate traffic arrangements have been made in view of the ceremony. Arrangements have also been made for illumination of Rashtrapati Bhavan, North Block, South Block and Parliament House.As per the advisory from the traffic police, traffic will be closed between the following stretches from 2pm to 9:30pm today on following roads: Rafi Marg between roundabout Sunehri Masjid and roundabout Krishi Bhawan; Raisina Road from roundabout Krishi Bhawan towards Vijay Chowk; beyond roundabout Dara Shikoh Road, roundabout Krishna Menon Marg and roundabout Sunehri Masjid towards Vijay Chowk; and Rajpath between Vijay Chowk and 'C' Hexagon."General public/motorists are advised to take alternate routes i.e Ring Road, Ridge Road, Aurobindo Marg, Madarsa 'T' Point, Safdarjung Road Kamal Ataturk Marg, Rani Jhansi Road, Minto Road etc," the advisory further said.There will be minor change in Metro services on the Yellow Line too. According to Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), the Central Secretariat and Udyog Bhawan Metro stations will remain closed from 2pm to 6.30pm.However, interchange of passengers from Kashmere Gate to Raja Nahar Singh and vice versa will be allowed at the Central Secretariat metro station during this period.Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and other city buses will also be diverted from their normal routes from 2pm to 9:30pm today to facilitate the vehicles of invitees and spectators and to avoid traffic congestion on roads round the venue of the ceremony and India Gate.Buses bound for Central Secretariat and Connaught Place coming from Shanti Path- Vinay Marg- Sardar Patel Marg will take Panchsheel Marg- Simon Boliver Marg- Vande Matram Marg- roundabout Shankar Road- Sheikh Mujibur Rahman Road, according to the advisory.Buses coming from South Delhi on Tughlak Road and bound for Connaught Place/ Central Secretariat will be diverted from Aurobindo Chowk to Safdarjung Road- Kamal Ataturk Marg- Panchsheel Marg- Simon Boliver Marg and follow the route as mentioned at Serial No. 1.The advisory says that buses coming to Mandi House and Feroz Shah Road and proceeding to Connaught Place via Barakhmaba Road will terminate at Shivaji Stadium and return via Kasturba Gandhi Marg/ Barakhamba Road, the advisory further said.Parking will be available for those coming to see illumination at Vijay Chowk behind the water channels between Rafi Marg and 'C' Hexagon after 7pm.The advisory says that in case of any unidentified object or suspicious persons being seen, information must be conveyed to the nearest policeman on duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/beating-retreat-traffic-curbs-in-place-in-delhi-buses-to-be-diverted-too-101643429061915.html
29-01-2022||Kolkata||Covid positive man donates his body for medical research into the contagion||In perhaps the first such case in the country, a cancer patient in the city who turned Covid positive before his death donated his body for medical research into the contagion on Friday in which West Bengal reported 3805 fresh cases. An official said the 89-year-old Nirmal Das was a resident of the New Town area of the city. "Nirmalbabu's body will be donated to the forensic department of RG Kar Medical College on Saturday," he said. A health department bulletin said with the fresh cases the tally in the disease in the state rose to 19,86,667. The city accounted for the highest number of 481 new cases, followed by North 24 Parganas district which reported 438 fresh cases, it said. The state registered 34 fatalities which pushed the toll to 20,515, the bulletin said. There were nine Covid-19 deaths in North 24 Parganas district and eight in the city, it said. In the last 24 hours, 13,767 recoveries were reported taking the total number of people recovering from the disease to 19,20,423. The discharge rate improved to 96.67 per cent. The number of active cases improved by 9,996 to 45,729, according to the bulletin. In the last 24 hours, 61,883 samples were tested in Bengal taking the total number of samples tested here to 2,30,64,032, the bulletin said. On Friday at least 4,58,584 doses of coronavirus vaccine were administered in the state, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/covid-positive-man-donates-his-body-for-medical-research-into-the-contagion-101643422283904.html
29-01-2022||Bangalore||Confident of BJP's victory in BBMP election: Karnataka CM Bommai||Expressing confidence that the BJP would register a victory in the forthcoming civic body election in Bengaluru, chief minister Basavaraj Bommai has said, "the victory of BJP in BBMP election is as true as the sun rising in the east."Speaking at a special programme organised at the State BJP office, he said, "There is no doubt that people of Bengaluru will support the BJP. We should convey the work done by the government to the people. Ours is the government that walks the talk."He appealed to the party workers to take up the campaign with confidence."The state government has proved its responsiveness in every sector. Doubling the compensation for crop loss during the floods, increasing the pension under Sandhya Suraksha Yojana, pension for the physically challenged and widows has benefited 58 lakh persons," he said as he listed out the work done by his government."Families of those who lost their lives due to Covid have been paid an ex-gratia of ₹1.50 lakh, Construction of 5 lakh houses by state government and sanction of 6.50 lakh houses by the union government, Bommai listed out as he explained the achievements," he added.Terming his government as all-pervasive and all-inclusive, he said, "Apart from ₹6000 cr provided for the development of Bengaluru, ₹1,500 cr for remodelling of main stormwater drains, ₹2,300 cr for development of 12 corridors, development of 75 slums and 75 parks under the Amrith programme have been taken up, Bommai said.He stated that a strong foundation has been laid for development in the last 6 months of his administration.Determined to make Bengaluru an international city, he said that his government has the strength and the confidence to face tough challenges.Our government has resolved to complete the all-round development of Bengaluru and make it an international level city, he said and thanked Prime Minister Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, BJP National President JP Nadda, state president Nalin Kumar Kateel, 3 MPs of Bengaluru, all MLAs and ministers of Bengaluru for their cooperation.He also recalled the contribution of veteran leader BS Yediyurappa, other leaders of the party and the committed workers for the growth of BJP in Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/confident-of-bjp-s-victory-in-bbmp-election-karnataka-cm-bommai-101643422143693.html
29-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi Metro to get back to routine weekend schedule from today||The Metro trains in Delhi will run as per their routine weekend timetable from Saturday as the national capital has eased Covid-19 restrictions in view of an improvement in the number of infections, officials said. So far, the Metro services were regulated at a 15-minute gap frequency on the Yellow and Blue lines, and 20 minutes on all other lines to comply with the weekend curfew that was lifted on Thursday.The weekend curfew in Delhi had been imposed from January 8 onwards when the Omicron-dominated third wave started skyrocketing in the capital city.“In view of the latest guidelines issued by the Govt. for the containment of Covid-19 in NCT Delhi, Metro services on weekends (Sat/Sun) will again resume as per routine weekend time table on all Lines starting tomorrow i.e, 29th January 2022,” the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) tweeted.
29-01-2022||Delhi||‘Unfair’: Gym owners in Delhi to protest today near L-G’s office, demand reopening of fitness centres||Gym owners in Delhi will on Saturday protest near lieutenant governor Anil Baijal's office to demand the reopening of their establishments, which have been closed due to Covid-19 restrictions in the national capital.There are around 5,500 gyms and over 100,000 people earn their livelihoods from this industry.Speaking to news agency PTI, Chirag Sethi, vice president of the Delhi Gym Association, said on Friday that gym owners have suffered the most during the ongoing pandemic.“Cinema halls, multiplexes and banquet halls were shut along with gyms as a first step to curb the virus' spread in December. But yesterday, everything was open except for gyms and spas,” Sethi said.He added that in the next DDMA meeting, authorities should allow gyms to reopen.Pointing out that more than 100,000 people employed in various gyms across Delhi are being affected due to their closure, Sethi hit out at the government authorities by saying that health is never their priority."If the DDMA doesn't want people to be healthy, please let us know and we will also open liquor shops. This is really unfair to the fitness industry of Delhi," Sethi further said.Another gym owner told the news agency that fitness centres are shut despite following all Covid-19 norms, but there has been no action taken to prevent crowing at weekly markets.According to the latest order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Thursday, the weekend curfew has been scrapped, shops can remain open on all days of the week from 10am to 8pm and cinema halls, bars and restaurants can function at 50% of their seating capacity.However, the DDMA has still not allowed the reopening of gyms in Delhi.Meanwhile, the daily Covid-19 tally in Delhi continued a downward trend after 4,044 fresh infections were recorded on Friday, which took the caseload to 1,819,332. As many as 25 patients died and 8,042 recuperated in the 24-hour time span, according to Delhi government's health bulletin. With this, the total deaths and recoveries in Delhi stand at 25,769 and 1,764,411 respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gym-owners-in-delhi-to-protest-today-demand-reopening-of-fitness-centres-101643418330241.html
29-01-2022||Chandigarh||Army adopts 26 girls of Nari Niketan in Poonch||The Indian Army extended a helping hand to the destitute and women to make them self-reliant and a productive part of the society. “Indian Army in Krishna Ghati sector has reached out to Nari Niketan orphanage in Poonch’s Mendhar, which has 26 girls and four widows,” said defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand. “The army on Friday adopted all 26 girls and will cater for their present and future requirements for education, personality development, health and wellness,” said the spokesperson. The army will take care of the girls until they become financially independent. The Indian Army’s initiative is an inspiration for the nation and its people to provide and support the underprivileged and give them an opportunity to rise above stand out and prove their mettle to not only our nation but the world itself, he added. Meanwhile, in a similar gesture, the army inaugurated ‘Asha Bakery’ to provide employment to women in Akhnoor area of Jammu. “The Indian Army has instituted a venture Asha Bakery as part of its women empowerment initiative in Akhnoor. The venture is aimed to accord livelihood and self reliance to the women of Bhanwaran and other villages around Akhnoor. Asha Bakery is an enterprising initiative which would further strengthen the sterling bond between the Indian Army and the people of J&K, in the quest for hope and a prosperous future,” said the spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/army-adopts-26-girls-of-nari-niketan-in-poonch-101643419446359.html
29-01-2022||Chandigarh||Cyber police in Kashmir recover ₹30 lakh from online scamsters||Cyber police in Kashmir has recovered ₹30 lakh which were in the process of being converted into foreign currency by online scamsters.“Cyber Police Station Kashmir received a complaint from a senior citizen of Srinagar city, stating therein that an amount of ₹11 lakh has been fraudulently withdrawn from his bank account regarding which he has no knowledge. Accordingly, Cyber Police Kashmir started investigation promptly into the matter,” a police spokesperson said here on Friday.He said preliminary investigation revealed that the said ₹11 lakh was transferred into the bank account of complainant’s nephew.The complainant’s nephew disclosed that he came in touch with scammers over social media sites and they motivated him to invest in online trading to receive hefty returns and direct credit to his bank account.He also disclosed that apart from the said amount of ₹11 lakh, he has also withdrawn an amount of ₹19 lakh from his father’s bank account and invested the same in online trading/investment, resulting in huge financial loss of ₹30 lakh.“The cyber team coordinated with the bank authorities to ascertain the details of these transactions, where from it was revealed that the said hefty amount has been transferred through unified payment interface (UPI) and internet banking into different online payment gateways. The matter was further taken up with the gateway authorities to ascertain the transaction details,” the spokesperson said. The investigation team was successful in tracing all the transactions in different online payment gateways which were being used to exchange into foreign currency and whole amount of ₹30 lakh was blocked and further refunded to complainants’ bank accounts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cyber-police-in-kashmir-recover-30-lakh-from-online-scamsters-101643419385745.html
29-01-2022||Chandigarh||Finally, Jammu airport gets 8,000-ft long runway||After a wait of over a decade, the Jammu airport, one of the critical airports in the country, finally got 8,000ft-long runway operational on Friday with Indigo flight 6E-137 being the first to be traversing through the newly constructed stretch amid a water canon salute by the Indian Air Force (IAF). “The operationalisation of the extended portion of runway has been successfully done at the joint user airfield of the IAF and Airports Authority of India (AAI) at Jammu,” said Sanjeev Kumar Garg, Jammu airport director. The existing runway, which was 6,700ft long, was extended and the revised stretch of runway is now 8,000 ft, he added. The work was completed by Airports Authority of India in coordination with Indian Air Force and Military Engineering Service. On the occasion, Air Commodore GS Bhullar, AOC 23rd Wing IAF, Jammu airport director Garg and other officials from Airports Authority of India, Indian Air Force, Military Engineering Service, Airlines and Central Industrial Security Force were present. In addition to the runway, 2,800 metres of boundary wall and rigid pavement perimeter road was also constructed. “A turn pad designed for Airbus 321 was also constructed under this project,” said Garg. AOC, IAF, hailed the coordination of AAI, MES and IAF for successful completion of this project. Garg also thanked all the agencies involved in this project, especially the engineering team of AAI, and said that the construction of the new terminal building of Jammu airport at Belicharana, which will commence shortly, will be instrumental in the development of Jammu and Kashmir. As per a survey by the Director General of Civil Aviation, the Jammu airport was on the list of 11 “critical” airfields of the country. With the Tawi flowing on one side and a rivulet (nullah) and densely populated localities on the other side of Jammu airport, the flights were using 6,700-ft-long runway. An official said that in the second phase, the AAI plans to increase the strip by another 1,000 ft. “When we had 6,700ft-long runway, the flights were not operating to their full capacity load and the pilots had been facing difficulty during landings and take-offs,” he added. 
29-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid surge: 64-hour lockdown clamped in Jammu and Kashmir||As Covid-19 cases continue to show spike, a 64-hour lockdown began in Jammu and Kashmir on Friday. Police started imposing restrictions in the Srinagar and other townships of the Valley in the afternoon. At some places, policemen used force to clamp curbs. The restrictions will remain till Monday morning. This is the third weekend since J&K started observing Covid restrictions, especially after the third wave began in the UT earlier this month. As per experts, cases in J&K have already peaked and after some time, infections could start declining across the UT. For the past two days, the number of recovered patients is more than those testing positive. “We witness dozens of positive cases daily. The good thing is that severity of the disease as compared to first two waves is very less. Though this time too, we come across sick patients who needed hospital care and ICU support,” said Dr Javeed Ahmad, a senior doctor at the government medical college of Baramulla. On Friday, Jammu and Kashmir recorded 4,354 cases and five fresh deaths due to Covid, an official health bulletin said. As many as 5,850 patients recovered, the second time this month that the number of recoveries was more than new infections.On Tuesday, the union territory had breached all records since the pandemic began with 6,570 infections while 14 persons had lost their lives to the Covid-induced illness, highest daily fatalities since June. The month of January so far has contributed more than 83,000 cases and 119 deaths with the last 10 days mostly adding around 5,500 to 6,500 cases every day. Before this month’s surge, the highest coronavirus cases reported in the union territory were 5,443 and 50 deaths on May 7 when the second wave had peaked. The first wave had peaked in September 2020 reporting the highest surge of 1,698 cases and 10 deaths on September 12. The active cases in the union territory were 45,156, which were 1,501 less than Thursday’s 46,657 figure. On December 31, the union territory just had 1,337 active cases.Officials said 72,041 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.Of the total infections on Friday, Kashmir valley saw 3,932 cases and two deaths while 1,918 cases and a single death was reported in the Jammu division.In J&K, the surge was high in most of the districts in Kashmir with Srinagar witnessing the highest 914 cases. In the Jammu division, the Jammu district reported 763 cases. Srinagar is the district with the highest number of active cases at 13,829 followed by Jammu and Baramulla districts with 6,502 and 6,043 such cases, respectively.However, of the 5,038 beds dedicated for Covid patients, just over 10.83% are occupied in J&K. The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,74,282 while the recovery rate stood at 88.01%. Since the pandemic started, the total cases in J&K have crossed 4-lakh mark to reach 4,24,085 and the death toll is 4,647.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,195 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 896 deaths. LG reviews Covid situationLieutenant governor Manoj Sinha on Thursday reviewed the Covid situation in Jammu and Kashmir and stressed for the involvement of people in awareness campaigns to combat the pandemic.He impressed upon the officials to ensure proper implementation of Covid norms among the people.The Lt Governor was briefed about the Covid containment measures taken at the district level including functionality of war rooms, Covid helplines, IEC campaign regarding Covid appropriate behaviour, distribution of Covid kits, besides facilities for extending assistance to people in need, an official statement said.The LG also took stock of the vaccination drive for the 15-18 age group and the precaution dose for healthcare and frontline workers as well as for those over 60 years of age with co-morbidities.Deputy commissioners and other officials concerned were directed to widely publicise Covid helpline and other emergency contact numbers, the statement said.10 more Omicron cases detected in HPHimachal Pradesh reported 10 more cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus, taking the total number of such infections to 25, director, national health mission, Hemraj Bairwa said on Friday. He said a total of 127 whole genome sequencing (WGS) reports were received from the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) in Delhi. “Among these WGS samples, mutations have been found in 10 samples,” he said.The 10 cases include one each of international travellers from Kangra and Mandi districts. The remaining eight cases were sent from sentinel sites that belong to Kangra. These samples were taken from patients testing positive for Covid between December 15 and December 31. The patients have since recovered. “Till now, total 25 cases of Omicron have been found in the state. Initially, Omicron variant was reported only among international travellers, but now this variant has been reported from the community also,” he added. Bairwa appealed to the public to follow 3Ws — watch your distance (more than 2 metres), wash your hands and wear a mask — to prevent the infection. Himachal forest minister among 1,843 new Covid patientsHimachal Pradesh forest minister Rakesh Pathania is among 1,843 people testing positive for Covid as the state’s total case tally climbed to 2,67,577. The death toll mounted to 3,961 after nine patients died of the viral infection.“My Covid report has turned out to be positive. I am going into home isolation for seven days. Those who came in my contact recently must monitor their health and take the test if symptoms appear,” Pathania wrote on his Facebook Page.Earlier, Pathania’s staff had been tested positive for the virus on January 19. He had also attended a district-level Republic Day programme at Nahan in Sirmaur district. Health authorities are tracing his contacts.Meanwhile, Kangra recorded 371 cases on Friday. As many as 276 cases were reported from Solan, 259 from Mandi, 181 from Hamirpur, 176 from Shimla, 152 from Sirmaur, 130 from Una, 126 from Bilaspur, 69 from Chamba, 66 from Kullu, 35 from Kinnaur and two from Lahaul-Spiti.Four fatalities have been reported from Kangra, three from Mandi and one each from Bilaspur and Hamirpur.Active cases have come down to 9,752 after 2,417 people recuperated, taking the total recoveries to 2,53,840. Kangra is still the worst-hit district having recorded 59,528 cases since the outbreak followed by Mandi with 36,464 cases and Shimla 33,649.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-surge-64-hour-lockdown-clamped-in-jammu-and-kashmir-101643417345796.html
29-01-2022||Chandigarh||Two-day skiing competition concludes in Solang of Manali||A two-day state-level Himachal State and Snowboard Championship concluded at Solang near Manali on Friday. More than 200 players from across the state participated in the competition. The players who have achieved top positions will participate in the national competition to be held in Uttarakhand in February.Narrow escape for cop targeted by gunmanA police constable had a narrow escape after he was targeted by an unidentified gunman in Srinagar on Friday afternoon. Constable Muneer Ahmad, who was off duty, was outside his house at Batamaloo when an unidentified gunman attacked him. The policeman escaped unhurt. Locals at Batamaloo said that after firing on the policemen, the gunman escaped from the spot. HP farm varsity, NFL to join hands for researchChaudhary Sarwan Kumar Himachal Pradesh Agriculture University (HPAU) will enter into an agreement with National Fertilizers Limited (NFL) for research and extension activities benefitting farming community, V-C Prof HK Chaudhary said on Friday. He said that students will be attached with NFL for agro-industrial training and efforts will be made to seek assistance of NFL for marketing of red rice and other indigenous products grown in Himachal. HP art society hails reinstitution of Lalit Kala AwardSobha Singh Memorial Art Society has thanked Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur for reinstituting Sardar Sobha Singh Lalit Kala Samman. The award was instituted during birth centenary of Sobha Singh by the then CM Prem Kumar Dhumal-led government in 2001-2002. However, the award which carries cash prized of ₹51,000 was discontinued by the Art, Culture & Language Academy for unknown reasons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/twoday-skiing-competition-concludes-in-solang-of-manali-101643416685574.html
29-01-2022||Chandigarh||Jai Ram meets Nadda in Delhi to discuss HP’s political scenario||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Friday met Bharatiya Janata Party national president Jagat Prakash Nadda in Delhi to discuss the state’s political scenario. Besides the general state budget, the HP chief minister also discussed the long-due cabinet reshuffle with Nadda. Speculation of cabinet reshuffle had been rife after the party’s debacle in the byelections held to three assembly segments - Arki, Jubbal and Kotkhai and Fatehpur. The Congress won all three seats, leaving the ruling party red-faced. Jai Ram Thakur’s own prestige was at stake in Mandi Lok Sabha bypoll, wherein former chief minister Virbhadra Singh’s wife Pratibha Singh defeated BJP’s Kargil war veteran Brigadier Khushal Thakur. A wave of sympathy for the late former chief minister Virbhadra Singh was a key reason behind the BJP’s defeat in the October bypoll for the Mandi Lok Sabha constituency. Infighting and inflation had cost the BJP the four seats in Himachal Pradesh. The defeat was more worrying because Himachal Pradesh is the only BJP-ruled state where the party was not able to win a single seat. Apart from office-bearers of the party, two ministers each were in charge of three assembly seats and one parliamentary segment. Education minister Govind Thakur and tribal affairs minister Ram Lal Markanda were unable to secure lead in their respective assembly segments Manali and Lahaul and Spiti for the party candidate. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur himself had been dropping hints on the cabinet reshuffle. He is also said to have discussed their preparations for the prestigious Shimla municipal corporation which is presently held by the BJP. The elections for the municipal corporation are due this year in May. “I was in Delhi to follow up on several development projects. During my stay, I met as many as five Union ministers and national party chief Jagat Prakash Nadda,” said Jai Ram Thakur, who returned to state capital this afternoon. “There were pre-budget consultations,” he said. Jai Ram had met Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Union railways minister Ashwini Vaishnaw, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, and Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan at New Delhi last evening. The chief minister requested the education minister to start the work on both campuses of the central university in the state at the earliest. He also urged to release instalment under Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA) to the state soon. Jai Ram also apprised him of the progress of various other schemes in the education sector.The Union minister assured the chief minister that CPWD would prepare a master plan and work on both campuses of Central University at Jadrangal and Dehra would be started by the end of March.Principal resident commissioner Sushil Kumar Singla accompanied the Himachal chief minister.
29-01-2022||Kolkata||Bengal BJP forms 27 new district committees; dissent grows||KOLKATA: The West Bengal unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) formed 27 new organisational district committees between Wednesday and Friday amid dissent among leaders and workers in several areas of the state, including Kolkata.The BJP has 42 organisational units for Bengal’s 23 districts. The process of selecting new committee members, a periodic process that was to be completed by January 10, was kept on hold in view of dissent in several regions.Jay Prakash Majumdar and Ritesh Tiwari, who were dropped from the panel of state vice-presidents on December 22, were suspended on January 24 on charges of making statements against the party.After the action was taken, both leaders accused state general secretary (organization) Amitava Chakraborty of masterminding the ongoing rejig.The suspensions, however, did not stop some leaders from expressing their unhappiness over the selection of new district committee members. They alleged that old-timers who worked hard to build the organization are being replaced by new-comers.Dealing a blow to the party in Kolkata’s Burrabazar area, where the saffron camp has supporters among members of the non-Bengali community and businessmen, Sunita Jhawar, a five-time councilor who lost for the first time in the recent civic polls, resigned from post of vice-president of the north Kolkata unit on Thursday.Jhawar represented civic ward No 42 for 25 years. “She was transferred to the BJP’s south Kolkata unit during the reshuffle although she never worked there,” a state BJP leader said on condition of anonymity.“Sunita Jhawar a 5 time @BJP4India councillor is a classic example of neglecting original @BJP4Bengal workers. This is the picture of whole West Bengal. Courtesy Virtual Chakraborty and Twitter Malviya. Nobody is further required to eliminate #BJP if these two continue …..” Ritesh Tiwari tweeted after Jhawar stepped down.The tweet took a swipe at Amitava Chakraborty and Amit Malviya, head of the BJP’s national information technology cell and co-in-charge of the Bengal unit.The rumblings started soon after December 22 when the Bengal unit announced the names of 11 new vice-presidents, five general secretaries, 42 organizational district unit presidents, 12 state secretaries, the morcha (front) presidents and the heads of several cells. The rejig made not just some veterans, who were left out, unhappy but also left leaders from the Dalit Matua community, headed by union minister of state Shantanu Thakur, unhappy. Thakur has held three meetings with Matua leaders in his Lok Sabha constituency of Bongaon in North 24 Parganas district this week.Between Wednesday and Friday night, dissidence was reported from Purulia, Bankura, Birbhum, Nadia, Jhargram, Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts. Three BJP offices were locked up by disgruntled workers in Purulia, Jhargram and Birbhum. At Rampurhat town in Birbhum district, the local BJP youth front vice-president, Nitya Kali Mondal, joined the Trinamool Congress (TMC) with his followers on Thursday.Shahjahan Ali, president of the minority morcha (cell) in Alipurduar resigned on Wednesday. “The BJP uses the minority morcha to secure votes. The party has no sympathy for Muslims,” Ali said. In Jalpaiguri, Alok Chakraborty was dropped from the post of district president.“The state president has the last word in our party. Probably they found someone who is more efficient,” Chakraborty said.In Purulia district, the BJP controls all three Lok Sabha segments and six of the nine assembly constituencies. One of the MPs, Dr Subhas Sarkar, was made a union minister of state last year.Five BJP legislators from Purulia earlier wrote a mail to BJP national president J P Nadda, demanding removal of the new district unit president Vivek Ranga. The state leadership did not replace Ranga on Thursday, when the list of all committee members was released, thus sending a message that agitations cannot influence the reshuffle.BJP state president Sukanta Majumar maintains that changes are necessary to keep the organization clean and active. “A river erodes one of its banks and builds the other while moving forward. Change is an eternal process. Some people are unhappy at being left out. They will be given other roles in the party,” said Majumdar.The TMC has seized the opportunity to target its main opponent.“We predicted months ago that the Bengal BJP will collapse after the assembly polls. This is only the beginning,” TMC Rajya Sabha member Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-bjp-forms-27-new-district-committees-dissent-grows-101643409245338.html
29-01-2022||Delhi||A walk to talk about||A cool breeze is blowing through the trees. The leaves stir occasionally, like a woman turning in her sleep. Though quietness is not absolute — there are sounds, too — a sense of silence does linger around, imperceptibly, as if it were hiding behind a tree.Strolling aimlessly along this partially busy road is like detoxing yourself from your daily existence. The many layers that complicate one’s life are peeled away, leaving one raw and fresh. It is a wonder that no guidebook has recommended a walk down this short route. Tucked in the heart of south Delhi, it is merely exploited as a road to link Aurobindo Marg to the touristy Hauz Khas Village. But this brief stretch ought to be revered as a destination.The starting point is marked with the Green Park Free Church, whose prayer hall is intensely meditative. On the left is the Aurobindo Market, with its assortment of charming long-time shops, whose owners have a chatty bond with their customers, evocative of small-town bazaars. More points of interest wait ahead, such as the monumental Dadi Poti ke Makbare — two centuries-old domes, with a sloping ground of grass on which the area’s pre-Omicron office goers would lie down during their lunch break. Another monument, Barah Khamba, lies on the other side of the lane, littered with graves of unknown people. Further ahead, another prominent monument. Chhoti Gumti is truly chhoti. The area’s dog walkers often let their pets run over its lawn, while idle pigeons sit on the dome.The most cherishable characteristic about these landmarks is that they are not loud about their attraction. Contentedly ensconced in their solitary world of trees and stones, they seem to assure the guilty passerby that “it is okay if you feel too lazy to survey our antiquity right now. Come tomorrow, or the day after, we are not going away”. (In any case, most of them are temporarily closed to visitors due to the pandemic.)As you walk ahead, a shining white vision appears in the form of Jagannath Mandir. The entrance is adorned with a sacred wheel, which, according to a hoarding, was used in 2018 on the chariot of Lord Jagannath in Puri, Odisha. Across the road from the temple, Shambhu Nath’s evening-hour snack stall serves Odisha-style vada, accompanied with the traditional ghugni. Unfortunately, he is not coming these days due to coronavirus-related concerns, but is expected to reopen his stall on Monday.Further along, the views on both sides of the road become wilder, full of trees and bushes. And then suddenly, you are in Hauz Khas Village with its crowd and noise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/a-walk-to-talk-about-101643405785520.html
29-01-2022||Delhi||Centre told to clear its stand on marital rape||The Delhi high court on Friday asked the Union government to clarify whether it intends to withdraw its previous stand on criminalising marital rape, in view of its present stance that it was taking a “constructive approach” in the matter.Also Read | Marital rape case: Can’t fold hands and just sit back, says Delhi HCThe Centre had filed an affidavit in 2017 opposing a bunch of pleas seeking to criminalise marital rape and said marital rape cannot be made a criminal offence as it could become a phenomenon that may destabilise the institution of marriage and an easy tool for harassing husbands.However, this month, as the bench of justices Rajiv Shakdher and C Hari Shankar resumed hearing the matter, the Union government told the court that it was taking a “constructive approach” on the issue.On Friday, the court told additional solicitor general (ASG) Chetan Sharma to take instructions on this aspect and listed the matter for further hearing to January 31.The court’s direction came after advocate Karuna Nundy, representing petitioner NGOs RIT Foundation and All India Democratic Women’s Association, sought a clarification as to whether she shall argue on the written submissions and affidavits filed by the central government so far or was the government withdrawing these.To this, justice Shakdher said, “Mr Sharma, take instructions on that as well. What do you want?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/centre-told-to-clear-its-stand-on-marital-rape-101643405086871.html
29-01-2022||Delhi||Day temperature rises as Capital soaks up the sun||The maximum temperature rose by a degree or two in most parts of Delhi as the Capital witnessed a clear sky for the second consecutive day on Friday and the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted a gradual end to the cold wave and cold day conditions in the city from Saturday.The Safdarjung station, considered representative of Delhi’s weather, recorded a maximum temperature of 20.6 degrees Celsius (°C) on Friday – two degrees below the normal mark and a degree above the previous day’s temperature of 19.1°C. The minimum rose slightly to 6.4°C, three degrees below normal and 0.1°C higher than a day ago.IMD scientist RK Jenamani said that “cold day” conditions have nearly abated. “The maximum temperature is rising gradually. The sky is clear and due to strong winds, the fog has dissipated and visibility has improved after many days,” said Jenamani.IMD has predicted that the maximum temperature will continue its rise and touch 21°C and the minimum temperature will hover around 6°C on Saturday.“Cold wave and cold day conditions over northwest India, including Delhi, are very likely to abate gradually from Saturday,” said the IMD statement, adding that the maximum temperature is likely to rise by 3-5°C over most parts of Northwest India till February 2, before dropping once again.According to the IMD, scattered to fairly widespread light to moderate rainfall is likely over Delhi and its neighbouring states from February 2-4 on account of an active western disturbance likely to affect Northwest India. “Starting from the night of February 3, the western disturbance is likely to affect the region. We can expect cloudy weather and drizzle during the night or morning,” said Jenamani.Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality improved marginally on Friday but remained in the ‘poor’ category, with an overall Air Quality Index (AQI) of 215 as per Central Pollution Control Board’s daily 4 pm bulletin. The Capital’s AQI stood at 262 on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/day-temperature-rises-as-capital-soaks-up-the-sun-101643403954469.html
29-01-2022||Delhi||‘Jan 26 violence, NE riots national security matters’||The Centre and Delhi’s lieutenant governor (LG) have defended the decision to appoint special public prosecutors in cases related to last year’s violence during a tractor rally on Republic Day and the 2020 northeast Delhi riots, saying the incidents could not have been left to the city government because they were issues of national security.Also Read | Parallels between riots, 9/11 terror attacks: Police in court during Khalid’s bail hearingIn a joint affidavit filed before the Delhi high court on Thursday, the Centre and LG said that in both the incidents, protests arose due to two central government legislations. It also said the cases were “highly sensitive ” and related to “public order” which is excluded from the purview of the Delhi government.The response came on a plea by the Delhi government challenging the LG’s July 23, 2021 decision appointing lawyers chosen by Delhi Police as special prosecutors. The government contended that “appointment of SPPs” is routine and not an exceptional matter for which reference to the President can be made, and the LG had no sound reason for referring the matter to the President when the government had agreed to appoint independent prosecutors.Also Read | Probe pending in half of northeast Delhi riots cases: Police to HCOn Friday, the matter could not be heard as the judge was on leave.The affidavit said that the Union government has a “direct interest” in any matter concerning the two laws (CAA and the now repealed three farm laws), more particularly because these matters apart from “being highly sensitive, have attracted a lot of international attention”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jan-26-violence-ne-riots-national-security-matters-101643403228909.html
29-01-2022||Gurugram||One arrested for assaulting a man in Faridabad, two suspects still on the run||The Faridabad police on Friday arrested a man and booked two of his friends for allegedly beating up a man with iron rods outside a dhaba in Huda market around 9.30pm on Thursday.The suspects -- Sahil, Nikki and Arjun -- who were under the influence of alcohol, thrashed the victim “over personal enmity”, said police.Locals caught hold of Sahil when he was trying to escape after thrashing the victim, and handed him over to the police on Thursday. A video of the incident was shared widely on social media on Friday.The incident took place when Tosim alias Vaseem, a resident of Mawai village in Faridabad’s Kheripul, had gone out for dinner with his friends at the same place the suspects were, according to the police. An altercation broke out between the victim and another group known to him, who were also present there, said Narender Kadiyan, deputy commissioner of police (crime).“The suspects were inebriated, and started the fight intentionally. One of the suspects took an iron rod used in tandoor -- taking out chapatis -- and attacked the victim with it,” Kadiyan said, adding that both the groups were residents of the same village. According to the police, Tosim suffered several injuries and could be seen pleading in the video, but no one present at the eatery came to his rescue.Later, a PCR van on duty saw the incident happening and stopped there. Tosim was taken to a nearby private hospital where he is undergoing treatment, police said.A case has been registered against Sahil, Nikki, and Arjun under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 323 (assault), 506 ( criminal intimidation), and 307 (attempt to murder) at the Old Faridabad police station on Friday. Tosim’s mother Shabnam told the police that her son was critical, and was not in a condition to record his statement in the case. “The suspects have assaulted my son. He has not gained consciousness yet... I will ensure that the culprits are sent to jail at the earliest... I have a four-year-old granddaughter who is blind. My son is the only breadwinner of the family. He is engaged in farming to feed his family and he has no enmity with anyone. I don’t know the reason behind the attack,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/one-arrested-for-assaulting-a-man-in-faridabad-two-suspects-still-on-the-run-101643402705025.html
29-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: TTE found in inebriated state, misbehaves with station director when confronted||A travelling ticket examiner (TTE), deputed at the Ludhiana railway station, was caught in an inebriated condition by local station director Tarun Kumar, during a surprise check in the wee hours of Friday. A video of the incident, which Hindustan Times has accessed, purportedly shows the TTE, Mukesh Meena, misbehaving with Kumar after being confronted.A railway official who had witnessed the entire episode revealed that the station director had seen Meena accompanying railway staff to one of the two rolling huts located at the end of Platform Number 1. As TTEs are not authorised to sit in the rolling hut, from where the staff keep an eye on trains entering and exiting the station, the station master confronted him.But the TTE allegedly started misbehaving with the station director, following which the official got a loco inspector to check him with a breathalyser alcohol tester (BAC).On checking, it was confirmed that the TTE was under the influence of liquor. Following this, officials also asked the other staff deputed at the rolling hut to get tested but none of them were found to be inebriated. Meena, meanwhile, continued misbehaving with the station director and even reportedly said that “nothing can happen to him” when a senior official warned him of stern action. Later, however, Meena was seen apologising to the station director and leaving the place. Station director Tarun Kumar said appropriate action will be taken against the TTE.Another senior official revealed that the incident has been reported to the senior divisional commercial manager of Firozpur Division. “Firm action is expected soon against the TTE for his poor behaviour with such a senior official. The matter has been reported to the seniors in Firozpur Division,” added the official. 
29-01-2022||Gurugram||All schools in Haryana to resume from February 1; cinema halls to open partially||The Haryana government on Friday announced that students of classes 10, 11 and 12 in government and private schools can resume physical classes from February 1.An order issued by the Chief Secretary, Sanjeev Kaushal, stated that universities, colleges, polytechnics, ITIs, coaching institutions, libraries and training institutes -- both government and private -- can also resume, with effect from February 1.Institutions have been asked to advise students in the 15-18 age group to at least get the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine -- Covaxin -- before attending physical classes. Vaccination against Covid-19 for children in the 15-18 age category started across the country on January 3 this year.The state government also allowed cinemas, theatres, and multiplexes among other such facilities to open with 50% seating capacity, while following Covid-appropriate behaviour, including social distancing and regular sanitisation.Meanwhile, Gurugram recorded 1,545 fresh cases of Covid-19, three deaths, and 2,439 recoveries on Friday. According to the data released by the district health department, Gurugram has 8,391 active Covid cases, out of which 8,230 patients are in home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/all-schools-in-haryana-to-resume-from-february-1-cinema-halls-to-open-partially-101643402164745.html
29-01-2022||Chandigarh||Mohali court sentences youth to 20-year jail for raping seven-year-old girl||A 23-year-old man has been awarded 20-year rigorous imprisonment (RI) for raping a seven-year-old girl in November 2018.The court of additional district and sessions judge Ranjan Kumar also imposed a fine of ₹20,000 on the convict, Neetu, who was held guilty under Sections 376-A/B (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code, and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. According to the case files, the minor girl was home with her four-year-old brother, while their parents were away at work. On returning home, they found their daughter in pain and took her to a doctor, who after examining her confirmed sexual assault. On being coaxed by her parents, the child revealed that a man living on the first floor of their house sexually assaulted her, and had attacked her twice earlier as well. The accused was arrested and convicted on Friday after a three-year trial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-court-sentences-youth-to-20-year-jail-for-raping-seven-year-old-girl-101643402113464.html
29-01-2022||Chandigarh||Pay scale revision to add ₹240 crore burden on Panjab University’s coffers||Panjab University’s plan to implement revised pay scales will lead to an additional one-time liability of around ₹240 crore in its 2022-23 budget. PU is planning to propose the implementation of revised pay scales in its 2022-23 budget as per the UGC 7th Pay Commission for teachers and 6th Pay Commission for non-teaching staff. As per estimates, the hiked salaries will translate into additional cost of around ₹60 crore annually, but payment of arrears since 2016 will lead to a one-time burden of ₹240 crore.The matter was discussed on Thursday during a meeting of a sub-committee, constituted by PU’s budget estimate committee, to finalise recommendations regarding the varsity’s annual budget. All recommendations are subject to the approval of varsity’s Board of Finance (BoF), before a final call is taken by the syndicate and senate. The proposed budget estimates will also cause PU’s revenue expenditure to increase to around ₹1,000 crore in 2022-23, compared to the revised budget of ₹618 crore in financial year 2021-22. The revenue expenditure on salaries alone is likely to rise to around ₹478 crore. Teachers at PU are yet to get the benefit of revised salary scales as per the UGC Seventh Pay Commission as the Punjab government has still not implemented it. There are around 680 permanent faculty members at the varsity. The Sixth Pay Commission for non-teaching employees has also not come into force. In December, teachers from universities and colleges in Punjab and Chandigarh, including PU, had held an indefinite protest to press the Punjab government to implement the revised pay scales at the earliest. Additional demands not taken upThe sub-committee on Thursday declined to take up most of the additional budget demands by various departments. Only two requests – those of PU’s Bhai Ghanaiyaji Institute of Health Centre and APJ Abdul Kalam Computer Centre – were referred to the main budget estimates committee for further call.A member, who attended the meeting, said the additional demands were not in the purview of the sub-committee. Over a dozen new demands were listed in the agenda of the meeting.
29-01-2022||Chandigarh||K’shetra jail admn’s plea to shift gangster Monu Rana dismissed||A local curt on Friday dismissed an application by the Kurukshetra Jail administration to transfer gangster Shamsher Singh, alias Monu Rana, due to security threat from other gang members.The plea was moved before the court of judicial magistrate first class Vandana with the information that the number of inmates at the Kurukshetra Jail (687) was much higher than the sanctioned number (446) and 75 were out on interim bail due to Covid-19.“Due to this, the number of jail guards is lower compared to the number of prisoners. There are several gangsters from at least five groups in the jail, primarily 11 from Monu Rana’s rival Bhupi Rana gang. There is a possibility of an untoward incident here due to the presence of Monu Rana,” the application by the jail superintendent stated.The plea further added that in Karnal Jail, there are 1,856 inmates lodged against sanctioned 2,434, while in Yamunanagar, there are only 996 prisoners against permitted 1,200, so Monu should be sent to any of these establishments.“Moreover, during an inspection of the jail by retired Supreme Court judge Amitabh Rai, who is also chairman of the prisons reforms committee, moral instructions were given to transfer inmates with no pending case before Kurukshetra courts,” the jailer said.Notably, Monu, arrested in connection with the January 20 double murder in Ambala Cantonment, was sent to judicial custody in Kurukshetra Jail on January 25, because of rivalry threat in Ambala, Karnal and Yamunanagar jails.“Gangster Bhupinder, alias Bhupi Rana, is in Karnal Jail and Monu was previously attacked at the Jagadhri Court Complex in Yamunanagar in 2017 that left him permanently disabled due to a spinal injury,” Monu’s counsel Maan Singh Kakran had told an Ambala court earlier.Monu is accused of ordering the hit on rival gangster Mohit Rana, who was shot dead in Ambala Cantonment on January 20. Mohit’s aide Vishal, alias Bhola, was also killed in the shootout. Meanwhile, the two shooters from Rohtak, identified for executing the murders, are yet to be arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kshetra-jail-admn-s-plea-to-shift-gangster-monu-rana-dismissed-101643402110756.html
29-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid cases dip in Chandigarh tricity area, but seven die||Tricity’s daily Covid-19 cases saw further decline on Friday, but there was no respite from the contagion’s deadly blow as seven more people succumbed to the virus.Chandigarh recorded four deaths, highest in the third wave, while Panchkula lost three residents. Since the peak of eight fatalities on January 16, tricity’s daily death toll has remained over four.The fatalities in Chandigarh included three senior citizens. Among them, a 67-year-old, fully vaccinated woman from Sector 41, was suffering from hypertension.The other two, a 63-year-old man from Hallomajra and a 60-year-old woman from Khuda Alisher were not vaccinated. Both were diabetes and hypertension patients, while the man was also suffering from kidney and heart diseases.The fourth deceased, a 35-year-old man from Sector 44, was also not immunised and was suffering from acute respiratory distress.All three patients who died in Panchkula were male senior citizens, aged 92, 83 and 63.The eldest among them, a resident of Sector 10 and a diabetes patient, was not vaccinated.The octogenarian, who lived in Sector 4, was completely inoculated, but was suffering from chronic kidney disease and chronic liver disease.The third patient, from Sector 14, also had chronic kidney disease and diabetes. He was fully vaccinated.As many as 90 people have died due to Covid in the tricity in January so far, an almost 13 times spike from the seven deaths in December.Daily case tally drops below 1,500 markOn the bright side, tricity’s daily Covid tally dropped below 1,500 for the first time since January 8.As many as 1,451 cases were detected, most of them from Mohali (693). Chandigarh and Panchkula logged 399 and 359 cases, respectively.The positivity rate also recorded a significant dip in all three jurisdictions.Compared to 37% on Thursday, Mohali’s positivity rate came down to 21%, though still considerably high. In Panchkula too, the figure saw a decline from 30% to 18.25%. At 8.6%, it was lowest in Chandigarh, after 15.5% the day before.As more patients recovered in the past 24 hours, tricity’s active caseload dropped further to 12,506, lowest in over two weeks.Mohali still has 6,528 infected patients, Chandigarh 4,647 and Panchkula 1,331.Meanwhile, the UT administration ordered 12 new micro-containment zones in the city, sealing these areas and intensifying sanitation and monitoring activities.Govt hospitals to take call on reopening OPDs next weekAmid the decline in cases, PGIMER will take a call on reopening its walk-in OPD facilities next week, the officials said on Friday.The walk-in OPDs were suspended on January 10 and patients were being attended through tele-consultation since then. The UT administration had suspended the physical OPDs at GMSH, Sector 16, and GMCH, Sector 32, as well, the same day.“Though daily cases among the healthcare workers have declined in the past few days, many are still in isolation, so the staff is not adequate staff to re-open the OPDs. We will wait for another week so that the infected employees can recover and resume work,” said Dr Suman Singh, director health services, Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-cases-dip-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-but-seven-die-101643402109180.html
29-01-2022||Chandigarh||CHB auction finds only 3 takers for 145 properties||In its latest auction of residential and commercial properties, the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) could successfully sell only three of the 145 properties on offer.All three units sold were among the 13 freehold residential properties put on auction. Their sale fetched CHB ₹1.83 crore against a reserve price of ₹1.78 crore.An MIG flat in Sector 51, with a reserve price of ₹90 lakh, went for ₹95.07 lakh. A one-bedroom house in Sector 63, with a reserve price of ₹44.05 lakh, was sold for ₹44.65 lakh. A similar property in the same sector fetched ₹44.21 lakh against a reserve price of ₹44.05 lakh.CHB had also offered 24 leasehold residential properties and 108 leasehold commercial properties for sale, but found no bidder for them.The board had invited e-bids for the sale of its built-up residential units (freehold and leasehold) and built-up commercial units (leasehold). The last date for submission of e-bids was January 28 till 10am.On the latest auction results, CHB chief executive officer Yashpal Garg said, “Only three freehold properties were sold and there was no response for any of the leasehold units. During previous e-tenders also, freehold properties got better response. We will put all 142 unsold properties for sale again during February.” For the last 10 months, CHB has been holding the e-tender process every month and has sold properties worth ₹112 crore. The detail of successful highest bidders has been uploaded on www.chbonline.in. They are required to make the payment by February 4, 2022, to avoid forfeiture of earnest money deposit and blacklisting from future tendering processes of CHB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chbauction-finds-only-3-takers-for-145-properties-101643402106374.html
29-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh court frames charges against 11 in Sector-37 house grab case||Nearly a year after the torture of a Sector-37 resident to grab his house came to fore, a local court on Friday framed charges against the 11 accused, including a former journalist, suspended inspector, liquor contractor and property dealers. Trial will begin on February 1 against former journalist Sanjeev Mahajan; realtor Manish Gupta and his brother Saurab Gupta; suspended Chandigarh Police inspector Rajdeep Singh; Satpal Dagar, brother of a UT deputy superintendent of police; liquor baron Arvind Singla and businessman Khalendra Singh Kadyan.They are accused of illegally confining the victim, Rahul Mehta, 48, the only surviving heir of his family, in his house in April 2017 and forcibly transferring the general power of attorney (GPA) to their names, before abandoning him at a stud farm in Gujarat.Ashok Arora, Shekhar and Daljit Singh, who purportedly acted as witnesses in the subsequent sale of the house, and Gurpreet Singh, who impersonated Rahul as the property owner to execute the sale, apart from since deceased bouncer Surjit, are the other accused in the case. “The court, before framing charges, dismissed the accused’s plea to club the challans,” said public prosecutor Ashok Rohilla. The court has summoned three witnesses on February 1, when their evidence will be recorded in the case. Had kidnapped, tortured the house owner: SIT The special investigating team (SIT) of the Chandigarh Police had submitted seven separate challans against the accused for kidnapping and torturing Rahul to secure the GPA of his house and selling it to Manish’s brother Saurab for ₹2.9 crore in March 2019. Sanjeev and Manish were the first to be arrested in the case on March 2, 2021, followed by Satpal on March 4 and inspector Rajdeep on March 12. Arvind and Khalendra were booked as the property’s GPA was transferred to their names. After the GPA’s transfer, Rahul was abandoned at a stud farm in Gujarat in June 2017, before being shifted from one charitable home to another in Maharashtra, Delhi and Rajasthan, where he was finally traced. He is currently in police protection. Never sold the house to anyone: VictimIn his statement before the court, Rahul had said he was the sole owner of the house, which he never sold to anyone. But Sanjeev, Surjit and two others forcibly entered his house and occupied the upper floor in April 2017. They assaulted him and locked him up in a room, and kept torturing and threatening to kill him, he had alleged. After forcibly securing his signature on blank papers and cheques, Surjit left him at a stud farm in Bhuj, Gujarat. CFSL reports corroborate forgery The reports by the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL) confirmed that Rahul’s signature was forged in the property’s GPA. The police had sent the documents submitted in the Estate Office, the hand writing of the accused, and bank and property papers related with the case to CFSL to check their authenticity. All CFSL reports had corroborated falsification, while investigations pointed out that forgery was done 18 times. Court adds more sections of PC Act In the challans, police had invoked the Prevention of Corruption (PCA) Act against Sanjeev, Manish, Rajdeep and Satpal. While framing the charges, the court added Sections 8 and 12 of the PC Act, along with Sections 13 and 7 under which the challans were filed.Other charges included in the charge sheet are Sections 452, 331, 344, 365, 386, 419, 420, 465 467, 468, 471, 473, 464, 466, 474, 477, 166, 218, 201, 120-B and 328 of the Indian Penal Code. If convicted, the accused face imprisonment up to 10 years. Victim, his cousin among witnesses Police have listed 78 witnesses in the case. Among them are the victim, Rahul Mehta, and his cousin Rajiv, who is settled in the UK. There was a property dispute between Rahul and Rajiv, who had even moved the Punjab and Haryana high court. The accused had allegedly offered ₹25 lakh to Rajiv to withdraw the court case. Also among the witnesses is the victim’s tenant, who had first reported the matter to the police.
29-01-2022||Gurugram||₹150-crore forgery case: Gurugram court rejects bail plea by BSF man’s family||The district sessions court on Friday rejected the bail application of Mamta Yadav and Ritu Raj Yadav, who were arrested on January 13, for allegedly duping owners of five city-based construction firms of over ₹150 crore. Both are family members of Praveen Yadav, the prime suspect in the case, who was a deputy commandant of the Border Security Force (BSF) and was posted at the National Security Guard (NSG) on deputation. Police said both women were arrested from Manesar and are lodged in Bhondsi jail. Police said Praveen had opened a fake private company and made his wife Mamta and sister Ritu Raj directors. Ritu worked with a private bank in Sector 83 in Manesar and lived on the NSG campus with her husband, who is an assistant deputy commandant and is allegedly absconding. She allegedly helped her brother open the bank accounts on forged documents and transfer money by taking advantage of her bank job. The defence counsel said that both his clients are women and have breast-feeding children. “My clients cannot be implicated just because they are family members, especially when no allegations have been raised against them. By relying upon a few articles of the (World Health Organisation (WHO) and the number of inmates lodged in the district jail, we know that the hygiene condition of the prison is neither good for the accused persons nor it is congenial for both the infant children, especially in the prevailing situation of Covid-19.” On the other hand, the public prosecutor opposed the bail applications and said, “The present FIR is not an encyclopaedia for narrating the entire incident, rather it is just an information to set the investigation into motion. It is further brought to the notice of the court that the persons mentioned as accomplices have also been found to be involved in the fraudulent transactions. Therefore, they are not entitled for concessions of bail and the instant applications are required to be dismissed”. While dismissing the bail application, additional sessions judge (ASJ), Gurugram, Mona Singh in her order said, “At this stage, it is pertinent to mention here the statements of bank transactions in the name of accused persons, produced by the police, wherein even before the opening of the company, several financial transactions took place between co-accused Praveen and both the applicants-accused and huge amount has been credited in the accounts of both the applicants-accused”. “During the course of arguments, learned counsel for the applicants-accused has even been asked to show the source of the amount credited in the accounts of the present accused persons, especially when Mamta is not working and Ritu Raj was a branch manager”, the ASJ said. The order further stated that considering the seriousness and gravity of the alleged offences, the court was of the opinion that both the applicants-accused are not entitled to bail at this stage and dismissed the plea. Police said Praveen was the kingpin of the gang, who posed as an IPS officer posted with the NSG, Manesar, and claimed to provide construction contracts for various work inside the campus. The NSG is under the ministry of home affairs. Praveen allegedly provided the four owners of construction firms with letters of intent and copies of fake tender contracts and, according to the police, also made them deposit money in an account with a private bank, in the name of “Office of the GC (Garrison), Station HQ, NSG, Manesar”, on the pretext that it was earnest money for tender allocation. 
29-01-2022||City||Govt aid of ₹20k/acre to farmers in city who suffered crop damage||The Delhi cabinet on Friday approved ex gratia relief of ₹20,000 per acre to farmers who have suffered losses due to unseasonal rains in the Capital. The expenditure under the exercise will be about ₹53 crore for an approximate area of 29,000 acres.Due to incessant rains and waterlogging in fields owing to overflow of nearby natural drains during September-October 2021 in Delhi, farmers in Delhi’s rural belts reported severe damage to their crops.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had taken cognisance of the matter, and teams were sent to the ground to assess the damage to the crops. Kejriwal directed the authorities to understand the needs of the farmers and ensure that everyone gets the justice they deserve.The cabinet also approved the rates at which ex gratia relief to farmers was to be paid as per assessment of the loss. “If the loss is assessed to be 70% or less, compensation will be paid at the rate of 70%. If the assessed loss is more than 70%, compensation will be paid at the rate of 100%,” the government said in a statement.Government data shows that Delhi has around 29,000 acres of crop fields and around 21,000 farmers.Last year, the government commissioned a separate study to assess the grievances of farmers in the city and record concerns revolving around minimum support price, input costs, yield, crop loss, etc. The findings of the study, however, are yet to be published.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which is the main opposition in the Punjab assembly, and is contesting the upcoming assembly elections, has promised that if voted to power, the party would not only provide compensation to farmers who were affected by natural causes but also enhance it in proportion to the production cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-aid-of-rs-20k-acre-to-farmers-in-city-who-suffered-crop-damage-101643401410496.html
29-01-2022||Chandigarh||Opposing online classes, parents send kids to school in Punjab’s Sangrur despite Covid curbs||Parents with the help of members of farmer organisations on Friday sent their children to Government High School, Jhaloor, near Lehragaga of Sangrur district despite Covid-19 restrictions and appealed to teachers to take their physical classes. Also, the locals passed a resolution in a panchayat meeting and requested the authorities to consider reopening of the government primary and high schools. “We passed a resolution in the gram panchayat. The online classes are not appropriate way of teaching. When the entire state is witnessing election rallies, the government should open schools,” said Gurlal Singh, the Lehra block chief of the Bhartiya Kisan Union’s Sidhupur faction. Sukhdev Singh, in-charge Government High School Jhaloor, said, “Parents and locals raised slogans and sent students to the school. But we did not give them permission to sit in classes. We will follow the directions of the education department and open schools only after the government’s orders.”In Barnala, members of social organisations, farmer outfits and parents also staged a protest and submitted a memorandum to the deputy commissioner opposing online classes and demanded that schools be opened at the earliest.Barnala chief of BKU (Ugrahan) Chamkour Singh said, “We submitted a memorandum seeking reopening of schools in the district. The government is playing with the future of our children. Online classes are ruining the education system.” Barnala DC Kumar Sourabh Raj said he will send the memorandum to the state home department which will take a decision in this regard.
29-01-2022||Delhi||Metro back to regular service from today||A day after the government lifted several curbs including the weekend curfew in the Capital, the Delhi Metro announced that its services will resume on weekends from Saturday. Metro officials said 100% seating is allowed in the trains though passengers will not be allowed to stand in the compartments while travelling.Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communication, DMRC, said, “Metro services on weekends will be resumed as per routine weekend time table on all the Metro Lines starting January 29. However, minor change in services on Yellow Line (HUDA City Centre – Samaypur Badli) will be there owing to Beating Retreat Ceremony on Saturday.”Due to the Beating Retreat ceremony, Metro services at Central Secretariat and Udyog Bhawan Metro stations of Yellow Line will not be available from 2pm to 6.30pm. But the interchange facility at the Central secretariat station will be allowed and normal service at all station will be restored after 6.30pm.“...entry at stations will continue to remain regulated as per the ground situation to ensure compliance to Covid guidelines. We advise passengers to keep extra time for their commute and cooperate with the authorities,” said Dayal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/metro-back-to-regular-service-from-today-101643400376701.html
29-01-2022||Gurugram||Another quack arrested from Civil lines for illegally terminating pregnancies||Gurugram: Police on Thursday night arrested two more people from Gagandeep Complex in Civil Lines’ Baraf Khana for their alleged involvement in carrying out illegal termination of pregnancy by impersonating as doctor.Four such quacks have been arrested in the district in the past two days, police said on Friday.The suspects arrested on Thursday were identified as Ram Parkash Goel, 44, and Sachin (goes by first name), 27 -- residents of Civil Lines and XXX. Goel had studied for a diploma in pharmacy (D Pharma) and Sachin XXX. Sachin allegedly supplied medicines to Goel illegally, without any bill from Delhi.A health department team led by Gurugram deputy civil surgeon, Dr Pardeep Kumar, trapped both the quacks by sending a woman as a decoy on Thursday night, who told Goel she wished to get her pregnancy terminated. Goel then contacted Sachin over the phone for MTP kits comprising medicines to terminate pregnancy, and handed it over to the woman for ₹500. Police caught Goel and Sachin red-handed, and arrested him, said officials. Officials of the health department acted against Goel after getting a tip that he was allegedly impersonating as a doctor and terminating pregnancies illegally. An FIR was registered against both the suspects under Section 15(2) of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956; sections 3, 4 and 5 of the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971; sections 18A, 18B, 18C and 27 of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940; and sections 120B and 420 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), said the police.This was the third such raid in Gurugram in the past two days.On Wednesday night, police arrested Sandeep Kumar, 28, and Khalid Hussain, 29, two locations in Badshahpur for their alleged involvement in illegally terminating pregnancies by impersonating as doctors.A press statement issued by the Gurugram administration on Thursday said that “such joint raids would continue to fulfil the resolution set forth by the state health minister, Anil Vij, of increasing the sex ratio of Haryana from XXX to 950”. Police said Goel’s shop -- City Medicos -- located inside the complex was also sealed by Maan on Thursday as the suspect did not have a licence and for selling pregnancy termination drugs and was not a registered practitioner. A senior police officer privy to the cases said, “It is part of the investigation if women who illegally determined sex of their unborn child also approached them or not.” According to police, Goel and Sachin were granted bail on Thursday midnight as their illegal activities attracted imprisonment of less than seven years as per the Supreme Court guidelines. Kumar and Hussain were also granted bail on similar grounds. Gurugram police proactive enforcement (PRO), Subhash Boken, said, “Further investigation is underway.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/another-quack-arrested-from-civil-lines-for-illegally-terminating-pregnancies-101643400666730.html
29-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: In Mansa’s Sardulgarh, gen next of 2 political heavyweight families set for a close contest||The generation next of two political heavyweight families — Mofars and Bhunders — is set for a close electoral fight in Mansa district’s Sardulgarh assembly constituency this time. Bikram Singh Mofar (46), son of three-time MLA Ajit Inder Singh Mofar and is contesting his first assembly election as Congress candidate, is in the fray against incumbent Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLA Dilraj Singh Bhunder (53), an engineering graduate. Both filed their nomination papers on Friday. Dilraj’s father Balwinder Singh Bhunder, a Rajya Sabha memberhas won from Sardulgarh seat five times. Bikram, a graduate in humanities, was elected chairperson of the Mansa zila parishad in September 2018.The two political families are the main traditional contestants from the rural seat as they have been taking turns to win the seat since 1997. Balwinder handed over the political baton to his son in the 2012 elections but he lost. In 2017, Dilraj defeated Ajit Inder with a margin of 8,857 votes. In fact, the Congress leadership was in a quandary for preferring Bikram, a novice, over his father, it is learnt. He is married to the sister of the Congress MP from Ludhiana Ravneet Bittu and lobbied hard to get a ticket from his home turf. Even as Mansa is considered a hotbed of trade unions, the Left parties have no significant electoral presence in the Sardulgarh area.In the last elections, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) nominee was polled over 38,000 votes. This time also, the party has a high hope and fielded Gurpreet Singh Banwali (43), a former Youth Akali leader, from the seat.The Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) has for the first time fielded Jagjit Singh Milkha, a greenhorn. Since the bifurcation of Punjab in 1966, SAD won six times and Congress registered its victory thrice.Criminal antecedentsAccording to the nomination papers, Bikram and Banawali have criminal cases against them but have not been convicted in any.The Congress candidate was booked twice in 2015 by the Bathinda police for allegedly obstructing a public servant from discharging duty and loss to public property. Cases are pending as the police have not presented challans in the court.Banawali was booked by Mansa police in July last year for alleged violation of the Disaster Management Act. In this case too, the police did not present challan in court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-in-mansa-s-sardulgarh-gen-next-of-2-political-heavyweight-families-set-for-a-close-contest-101643400664949.html
29-01-2022||Chandigarh||Readers’ Take: Mental health, no child’s play||Let kids explore the great outdoors The pandemic has adversely affected the physical and mental health of children. At an age when they should be exploring the outdoors with their peers, they are confined to their houses. Parents’ must ensure that their children follow all coronavirus protocols such as wearing a mask, and sanitising their hands, and allow them to play outside. Going out and playing in the sun is crucial for the development of a child. Restricting children to their houses is sure to cause psychological and physical complications later in life.Col TBS Bedi (Retd), MohaliReopening schools, a risk worth taking The third wave of the pandemic, which has been propelled by the highly transmissible Omicron variant of the virus, has pushed reopening of schools to a later date. However, though the new strain spreads quickly, it is not believed to be as deadly as the Delta variant, especially among children, the authorities should rethink their decision. Cooped up indoors, glued to screens, and separated from their friends, children are experiencing problems such as anxiety. For the betterment of our children’s mental and physical health, reopening schools may be a risk worth taking, as has been done in Mumbai.SC Luthra, ChandigarhCultivate a new hobbySocial isolation, anxiety and uncertainty about the future is common among teenagers, and this was exacerbated during the pandemic. An optimistic approach to life is a must for adapting to the new normal. Teenagers want to be heard and acknowledged, they need their space to listen to music, and hang out with friends, even if virtually. With free time on their hands, they could pick up a new hobby such as writing. Abhishek Kumar, ChandigarhStick to a routine It can be challenging to identify the emotional needs of a child at the best of time, and building a healthy routine is crucial for managing children’s emotions and build resilience during these challenging times. Rewards and privileges can be used to reinforce good behaviour, while the ‘time-out technique’ can be used to punish undesirable behaviour. However, parents should steer clear of corporal punishment. Differences may develop between parents and wards due to lack of communication. Parents’ expectations should be conveyed clearly, especially to older children.Dr Damanjit Kaur, ChandigarhPlay board games as a familyScreen time should be regulated, as it is impossible to know the kind of content being consumed by kids these days. It is common knowledge that video games can be addictive,a and violent games often have an adverse effect on a child’s psyche. Parents should encourage their kids to explore a life outside their iPhones and iPads. The family can play board games or do gardening together. Board games and gardening can facilitate family time, without screens.Gurnoor Grewal, ChandigarhSpend quality time with each kidChildren rely on their parents for safety, both physical and emotional. Reassuring children that their parents are there with them, no matter what, can go a long way. Even with families stuck at home together, set aside individual time with each of your children. You can cook or read together, or play a game. Parents should choose the time, and the child should choose the activity. Just 10-20 minutes of parents’ undivided attention, even once every few days, will go a long way. Parents should remember to keep their phones on silent at this time. Vineet Gandhi, ChandigarhSpare a thought for the underprivileged The United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund (UNICEF) has flagged the insurmountable loss of education due to closure of schools. In developing countries, 70% of 10 year-olds are unable to read or understand simple text, up from 53% before the pandemic. The poor man’s child was disproportionately affected during the pandemic. Lakhs of children dropped out from schools because of meagre family incomes. Worryingly, they missed mid-day meals, which led to an uptick in malnutrition. It is imperative that government, educational institutions and the civil society to help children make up for the lost years. Usha Verma, ChandigarhOut with online, and in with offline Online classes lack effective feedback mechanisms to ensure proper learning, and only a few lucky people can access it. Many students are unable to access online education. The government still has a long way to go to bridge the digital divide between socioeconomic classes. Educated and mentally fit children are essential for the future of India. Thus, the government should seriously consider re-opening schools in a phased manner so as to prevent further damage to the mental health of children.Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhPrioritise mental health The best course of action in these uncertain times is be to empower the youth and help them become resilient individuals. Academic institutions must ensure mandatory training in psychological first aid and suicide gate keeping.The goal here is to build a peer supported caring culture. Institutions and governments need to make mental health an agenda at leadership level. It is our responsibility as a community to protect our youth, and to be there for them in their toughest times.Vijay Malia, ChandigarhReach out to kids Children’s relationship with their parents can be a determining factor in their mental health. If parents notice a change in their wards’ behaviour, they should try to spend more time with their kids and try to find out what is going on in their life, as asking point blank may not always do the trick. Look for signs of distress and read up about mental health. Dinner is a good time to bond with children. As children are always busy on their devices these days, it is good to have a ‘no-phone’ policy during dinner.Sumesh Kumar, MohaliSet an example for kids The pressure of keep kids sane during the pandemic, while juggling 20 other tasks, can be quite overwhelming for parents. However, the long-term effect of the pandemic on children will depend on parenting strategies during these strange times. Every parent must strive to be as positive as they can, and be a role model for their children. Spend as much time as possible with them, and give them time to interact with their friends through any medium, be it virtual games or video calls.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliAuthorities must step inLoss of lives, loss of businesses and employment, and closure of educational institutions has taken a toll on everyone. Children are simply victims of these unprecedented circumstances. Authorities must step in to ensure that their education does not suffer. Orphaned children should either be adopted by NGOs, or sent to orphanages. In rural areas, social welfare organisations should guide them. In some unfortunate cases, mid-day meal is sometimes the only meal, a child has. With the closure of schools, children are deprived of this nutrition. Government should provide parents with cash-transfers of the amount equivalent to the value of a mid-day meal.Kidar Nath Sharma, via emailDon’t fear the shrink  Emotional and behavioural changes in children are to be expected during a pandemic. Being supportive, caring and showing empathy towards children will prove to be helpful. If a child shows an ongoing pattern of emotional or behavioural distress—like nightmares, anxiety, increased aggression, or self-harm then, parents’ should not hesitate to seek professional help.Prabhjot Nagal, ZirakpurDo not add to kids’ fears The Covid pandemic has been devastating for the physical and psychological health of everyone. Fear of Covid, whether misplaced or valid, is spread by those in power. Kids are much better cared for in modern times. They enjoy good health, with ample food and an advanced gym culture. Hence, we should desist from spreading ‘undeserved’ Covid terror among children. They should not be psychologically distressed with unnecessary fears. MPS Chadha, MohaliCheck kids’ internet usage Children are the future of our country. For India to grow, we need healthy children with sound minds. The coronavirus pandemic has stopped everyday development of children in its tracks. They are using the internet without any check, which may have a negative impact on their growth. The government should allow schools and playing grounds to run at 50% of the capacity, so that the day-to-day grooming is not halted. Aarti Verma, Panchkula Addiction to screens, a real menace Using smartphones and laptops is the only option with children during the pandemic. Technology giants call their customers ‘users’, and are the only industry to do so, except pharmaceutical giants. Screens work like a slow poison for our children. Kids will play addictive video games all day, rather than playing outside. Avinash Goyal, Chandigarh Let the kids out Children are under stress due to the prolonged closure of schools, online classes and staying indoors the whole day. Lack of social interaction and physical activity is making children irritated and quarrelsome. Compare the Covid data, and one will find that the chances of school going children getting seriously sick due to Covid is negligible. Therefore schools should be allowed to resume.Subhash Chugh, via email No substitute for brick-and-mortar classroomTo ensure children’s wellbeing of children, it is prudent to let them go back to school, so they can lead a normal life. Though Covid poses little risk to children, most students have been away from schools for almost two years. There are grave concerns about the increasing body mass index, prolonged screen time, and psychological stress among children and adolescents. Schools have been open in several countries without Covid norms, and children have been safely attending in-person classes. Virtual classes can never supplant a brick-and-mortar classroom. Here, every time there is a slight surge in cases, authorities hasten to shut down schools. Varun Das, via emailHelp kids kick gaming addiction With children spending prolonged hours in front of the computer, be it for classes or online gaming, parents must regulate their screen time and encourage them to take part in physical activities. Parents must also sensitise their wards about gaming addiction, its symptoms, and ramifications. Professor Rajat Sandhir, Mohali Help children make sense of the world Now, more than ever, we need to pay special attention to the mental health and wellbeing of children. While restrictions have started to ease, the virus has caused cataclysmic changes to everyday life. Adolescents, in particular, have had to grapple with disruptions in their school schedule and their family’s financial situation, which has caused them to experience strong emotions such as anger, frustration, anxiety, and confusion. Parents must give them space to talk about their feelings, and have age-appropriate conversations with them, which will help them make them make sense of the world. Try to set a creative routine, including playing, reading stories, exercising, painting, drawing, or planting, and limit their exposure to television, computer, iPad, phones and social media platforms.Surbhi Rawat, via emailTeach kids to avoid self criticism To ensure that children do not fall victim to psychological problems, children should be taught to avoid self-criticism, make time for their hobbies and take up new projects. They should also be told to focus on their physical well-being by exercising, and have nutritious meals, which will improve their mental health. People with strong familial or social connections are generally healthier than those who lack a support network. Parents should play indoor games with their kids, and have honest conversations with them. Ishita Nara, via emailDo not vent out on kids Online teaching is no match for classroom teaching,and matters are worse for those without access to smartphones, or good internet connectivity. With children couped up at home with working parents, emotions run high and the children become the target of their emotional pileup. Parents need to play the role of peers and friends rather than channelising their own grievances through their children. Children have missed out not only on the concept learning but emotional and behavioural skills which they would otherwise absorb through group activities. It is time that we restarted schools in a phased manner with children attending classes on alternate days. Premila Verma, Chandigarh Meditation, social service is the key Parents can help children stay emotionally strong during the pandemic by helping them stay positive. Meditation and spiritual education will also go along way, as will reading biographies of the greats, and teaching them about the sacrifices of the sahibzadas. Youngsters should be motivated to do good deeds,and social service. Encourage them to participate in online debates, and take up hobbies. Navjot Singh Chhabra , Mohali Onus on admin The administration, which does not seem to have learnt lessons from experts’ advisories , needs to come out of its cosy confines and initiate preventive measures to ensure that children are protected against the onslaught of the new variant. It must also ensure that children do not fall victims to psychological, mental and physical illness for life. The dispensation should rise to the occasion and take on the alarming situation head-on so that no life is lost due to lack of medical care and combative infrastructure.Ramesh K Dhiman, ChandigarhLend a patient ear Parents should spend quality time with their wards, and lend a patient ear to all their concerns. They must be kept physically active so that they do not succumb to boredom and monotony. They should be taken out for a change of scenary from time to time, and they should be encouraged to take up yoga, meditation and physical exercise to keep them physically, mentally and emotionally fit.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliProvide a change of scenary We must take our children outside for an hour or two. Taking them to the park, playing games with them and walking to a nearby market with them will help. Good time management can also make the long days less boring for them. Shifali Sehra, Chandigarh Have a heart-to heart It is very important to talk to children. Parents must take out time during the day to communicate with their child. Frequent outings will also help keep their spirits buoyed.Kamal Sidhu, Chandigarh While advancement in technology has helped students continue their academic journey, it has also increased their dependency on technology for every other thing, which is indicative of a vacuum in their lives. It is imperative that elders counsel and comfort children, and also engage them in things that help identify their inner and outer strengths. While many children lost their parents and are struggling to resettle, there are children who have established strong bond with their devices and laptops. In both the cases, we need to make up for the void left in their minds and hearts. Compassion, love, and affection can help guardians reach out to their wards. Shikha Sondhi, via email Parents should brush up their tech skills To boost children’s morale, parents should get out of their comfort zone and work on their digital literacy. As the class room hours are fixed, children should be given smartphones, and laptops for a limited period of time. Parents should monitor their work tactfully, and spend time with children. Families should get together and play an indoor game, or watch television. The idea is to keep communication with their children alive and friendly. Sqn Ldr Manjit Singh Johar (Retd), Chandigarh Rope in counsellors We can save children from the ill effects of the coronavirus by sticking to the time-tested age-old adage, which says prevention is better than cure. We must set an example for our children by following all necessary precautions to ensure that the virus does not spread. A counsellor should be roped in to guide students, teachers, and parents in these turbulent times. NGOs can be engaged to counsel children about the psychological problems arising due to the pandemic.AK Sharma, Chandigarh Reader of the week Mind your kids’ habitsWith educational institutions switching to the online mode during the pandemic, parents had little option but to allow their children to spend extended hours on their phones and laptops. This is causing a lot of health and psychological issues among children. As such parents must spend time with their children, play with them, and keep a watch on their habits.Jasleen Kaur, ChandigarhExperts Provide a healthy support system We must create a healthy support system for children to nurture their psychological and holistic well-being. We need to engage children in mindful activitiesNavjot Kaur, director, social welfare, ChandigarhEncourage physical activityChildren’s screen time should be limited, and physical activities should be encouraged. Communication between children and parents is key.Dr Priti Arun, head, department of psychiatry, Govt Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32Counselling a must Students have been given the numbers of teachers and counsellors. We also keep a tab on complaints received and accordingly help children. Sumit Sharma, counsellor, Govt Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 22Empathy is keyParents must empathise with their children, be patient with them, and trust them. Parents’ support will go a long way in helping them.Gulshan Kaur, principal, Bhavan Vidyalaya, Sector 15, PanchkulaParents must remain watchfulParents must keep an eye on their wards’ activities, and guide them. Being involved in their lives is the only solution. Suman Sumi, parent, Sector 14, Chandigarh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/readers-take-mental-health-no-child-s-play-101643400545615.html
29-01-2022||Chandigarh||BJP will protect water rights of Punjab: Union jal shakti minister Shekhawat||Union jal shakti minister and BJP’s Punjab’s election incharge Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Friday said their party will protect water rights of Punjab.Addressing a press conference in Chandigarh, Shekhawat said their party-led government at the Centre will ensure that Punjab gets rights on its waters. “The people of Punjab will get justice. I myself am the jal shakti minister and we are looking into these issues. I can only tell you this much right now because of the poll code of conduct,” said Shekhawat.The Centre is also aware of depleting water table in Punjab and acknowledges it as a big problem, said Shekhawat, who was accompanied by Union ministers Hardip Singh Puri and Meenakshi Lekhi.On charges levelled against Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu by his sister, Shekhawat said he would not like to comment in someone’s personal life.“But I can only tell you that a person who couldn’t remain loyal to a party that gave him so much, to his family and to his mother doesn’t deserve a chance,” he added.Puri slammed the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and said the BJP leadership was happy over ending relationship with its alliance partner in Punjab.Jagmohan Singh Raju, who on Thursday took premature retirement as additional chief secretary in Tamil Nadu, also joined the BJP formally.He was announced party candidate from Amritsar East segment that is witnessing a high-profile contest between Navjot Sidhu and former Akali minister Bikram Majitha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-will-protect-water-rights-of-punjab-union-jal-shakti-minister-shekhawat-101643400124592.html
29-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram: 26-year-old man dies in accident, auto driver booked for rash driving||A 26-year-old man, who was undergoing treatment in Delhi after he met with an accident last week, succumbed to his injuries on Thursday. The auto in which he was travelling toppled on Golf Course Road on January 22. Three other co-passengers sustained minor injuries and were discharged from the hospital on Wednesday.  The deceased was identified as Arun Kumar, a native of Lakhisarai in Bihar, and lived with two friends in Sector 50. Police said the auto driver was booked for rash driving and he is currently undergoing treatment at the hospital. A case was registered against the accused under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Sector 65 police station.  According to police, Kumar was working at construction sites in Gurugram for the last 18 months.  The incident took place around 6.30pm on January 22, when the deceased and his friends were returning home from work.  Santosh Kumar Thakur, another labourer from Bihar, living in a rented room in Sector 65, said, “We went to work at a construction site in Sector 56. After our shift, we came to the rapid metro station and boarded an auto. It was raining and despite repeated requests, the driver kept speeding. When we reached Sector 62, he suddenly lost control and the vehicle toppled twice and then rammed into a divider”.  Thakur said there were six passengers in the auto. “I got up and tried to help my roommates, but Kumar was severely injured. I stopped another auto and with help of my other roommate, took him to a private hospital. Doctors there referred him to the Safdarjung hospital in New Delhi,” he said.  Police said no one complaint was lodged until Thursday as Kumar was battling for his life and his friends were busy taking care of the injured.  Assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Aman Yadav said that the auto was impounded last week. “We received a complaint on Thursday after the death of one of the passengers, and registered a case against the driver, who is still undergoing treatment. This is the third time that he has been booked for rash driving in the last six months,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-26-year-old-man-dies-in-accident-auto-driver-booked-for-rash-driving-101643400005180.html
29-01-2022||Chandigarh||Panchkula: 16-year-old boy dies after bike hits nilgai||A 16-year-old boy from Barwala died after his bike hit a nilgai in Panchkula on Friday.Police said Aman Kumar was riding towards his home in Sukhdarshanpur village from Mattanwala around noon, with his sister riding pillion, when the animal suddenly appeared in front of his motorcycle. “The victim lost control of his bike and fell on the ground. He was rushed to the civil hospital in Sector 6 where he was declared brought dead. His sister escaped unhurt. The body was handed over to the family after autopsy,” a cop said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-16-year-old-boy-dies-after-bike-hits-nilgai-101643399884762.html
29-01-2022||Chandigarh||AAP pitches Raghav Chadha to campaign for party nominee from Amritsar East||With Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu and Shiromani Akali Dakl (SAD) leader Bikram Singh Majithia in the fray in the high-stake Amritsar East constituency, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has asked its Punjab affairs co-in-charge Raghav Chadha to start the election campaign of its candidate Jeeven Jyot Kaur from the segment.Chadha on Friday addressed a press conference in support of Kaur and lambasted both Sidhu and Majithia, a former minister, saying that both were undeserving candidates. “No public service can be expected from Majithia as he is an accused in a drug case. Then there is Navjot Sidhu who has been representing Amritsar for the last 15 years as an MP and MLA but has done nothing for the people,” he said. Chadha appealed to the people not to fall prey to false promises of traditional parties and politicians. “Elect someone who will respond to your phone calls and be there with them for the next 5 years. All surveys are showing that AAP is forming government in Punjab. People should not waste their vote. Your one vote will lay the foundation for the future of your children,” said Chadha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-pitches-raghav-chadha-to-campaign-for-party-nominee-from-amritsar-east-101643399824720.html
29-01-2022||Delhi||4k cases: Daily cases down for 3rd straight day, positivity falls to 8.6%||Daily Covid-19 cases in the Capital continued to decline on Friday, with the city adding 4,044 infections, the fewest in 26 days, showed state data.The declining case graph was accompanied by a continued dip in the city’s test positivity rate. Of the 47,042 tests on Friday, 8.6% returned positive results, down from 9.56% a day ago.The city last added fewer cases on January 3, when it recorded 3,194 infections.Delhi added 4,291 Covid-19 cases on Thursday and 7,498 the day before that.The Capital added an average of 6,901 infections each day over the past seven days, the lowest this statistic has been since January 7, when it recorded an average of 8,370 cases.The government’s daily health bulletin on Friday also added 25 deaths to the city’s Covid-19 toll, which went up to 25,769.Most statistics surrounding the city’s pandemic graph – cases, the test positivity rate, hospital admissions – have dipped consistently over the past two weeks, in signs that Delhi has begun to leave behind its fifth wave of infections, which is being driven by the Omicron variant of the Sars-CoV-2 virus.While the surge has seen daily cases hit a record, 28,867 on January 13, it has largely been characterised by milder illnesses and far fewer hospitalisations and deaths.Even at the peak of infections, Covid-19 bed occupancy did not cross the 20% mark in Delhi at any time during the current wave.Occupancy also continued decline on Friday, falling below the 2,000 mark for the first time since January 10 this year. Of the 15,420 Covid-19 beds in Delhi, only 1,928 (12.50%) were occupied, down from 2,028 on Thursday and 2,137 on Wednesday.Similarly, in Covid care centres, 136 (2.94%) beds of the available 4,626 were occupied, and in Covid health centres, only 15 (7.58%) of the 198 beds were occupied.Keeping the low hospitalisations and falling daily tally in mind, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Thursday eased some pandemic restrictions in the city. This included lifting the weekend curfew, allowing markets and malls to open without following the odd-even policy, and allowing cinema halls and restaurants to reopen with 50% capacity. Guests at weddings were capped at 200 and government offices were allowed to function at 50% capacity. Educational institutions, however, will remain closed, and the night curfew will continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/4k-cases-daily-cases-down-for-3rd-straight-day-positivity-falls-to-86-101643399546871.html
29-01-2022||Chandigarh||Wildlife survey: Sukhna wildlife sanctuary’s habitat becomes richer||The Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary has become richer and more diverse than before, according to the wildlife survey carried out by the UT forest and wildlife department in May 2021.As per the survey report, which has been made available now, a jungle cat and a barking deer have been spotted in the city for the first time. “The animals’ presence was confirmed by the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun, which indicates a richer habitat of the protected area,” said Debendra Dalai, chief conservator of forests-cum-chief wildlife warden, Chandigarh.“The species are native to the region, but were not identified in the previous survey in 2010. Both species are likely to have migrated to the sanctuary from adjoining areas,” Dalai added. The Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary is spread over 2,600 hectares in Chandigarh. Sambar density similar to Rajaji Tiger ReserveThe report also found that the sambar is the most abundant ungulate species in the sanctuary, with population density similar to the Rajaji Tiger Reserve in Uttarakhand. The estimated population of sambars in the sanctuary stands between 290 and 763. Dalai said, “Outside the sanctuary also, there are an estimated 250 to 300 sambars in the city. Their high density is facilitated by the lack of carnivores.”Other species of animals spotted during the survey include leopard, golden jackal, Indian grey mongoose and chital. The surveys conducted for mega herbivores and some bird species confirmed the presence of 16 species, of which 13 are mammalian, including carnivores and herbivores. The major bird species of conservation importance included the Indian peafowl and the red junglefowl.A total of 67 species of birds were identified in this survey compared to 63 in 2010. In 2010, nine mammalian species were identified compared to 13 now.WII has recommended that a detailed study on habitat characterisation and vegetation community structure be undertaken to understand wildlife-habitat relationships in the sanctuary. Apart from the wild species, presence of feral cattle and free ranging stray dogs was also confirmed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildlife-survey-sukhna-wildlife-sanctuary-s-habitat-becomes-richer-101643399589810.html
29-01-2022||Chandigarh||SAD’s Bikram Majithia kicks off campaign in Amritsar East, inducts Sidhu loyalist councillor into SAD||With the stage for a high-profile contest between Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu and senior Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia set in the Amritsar East assembly segment, the latter on Friday kick-started his campaign in the constituency by inducting a ruling party councillor and supporter of the cricketer-turned politician into his party. Jaswinder Singh Pehalwan, councillor from ward number 22 of the city, was a known Sidhu loyalist. Majithia also got a shot in the arm as senior leader Upkar Singh Sandhu, who had joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on the sacrilege issue and unsuccessfully contested the Lok Sabha bypoll from Amritsar in 2017, rejoined the SAD in the his presence. On the other hand, Sidhu has not campaigned to the constituency so far and his wife Navjot Kaur Sidhu is canvassing for him.‘Rahul Gandhi doesn’t trust Sidhu’Majithia said former Congress national president Rahul Gandhi did not announce Sidhu as chief ministerial face of the party for the elections. “This shows the kind of reputation in the eyes of Rahul Gandhi who does not trust him,” he said. Majithia, who filed his nomination papers from Amritsar east and his home turf Majitha, said people will teach those a lesson who had indulged in vendetta politics. He accused Sidhu of cheating the people of Amritsar East and not doing anything for their welfare in 18 years.“Facilities like roads, sewerage and quality drinking water have not been sorted out till now. Sidhu has been representing this constituency one way or the other for 18 years. Now people will ask him about his report card. He cannot befool them with some imaginary Punjab Model,” he said.The Congress government went to the extent of conducting raids on my residences even as the high court had clearly stated that it would consider my appeal to give me time to seek relief,” he claimed. 
29-01-2022||Gurugram||HSVP forms committee to keep building plan breaches in check, say officials||The Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) on Thursday formed a committee to take action against commercial establishments, building norms violations and other illegal activities in the state, especially Gurugram, officials said on Friday.The move comes after a year-long drive by the town and country planning department in the city in private licensed colonies against similar violations. The HSVP committee will also look into the rates of purchasable floor area ratio (FAR) as the authority deems that “the rates are less in Gurugram and Faridabad”. Ajit Balaji Joshi, chief administrator of HSVP, on Thursday formed a four-member committee, which will seek reports from all the zonal administrators across the state on violations and action being taken against the violators every 15 days. According to the directions issued by Joshi, a large number of commercial activities are underway in HSVP sectors across the state, and majority of these violators have not taken permission for non-nuisance activities or made payments for the same. He also directed that action should be taken against illegal commercial activities in residential areas. Joshi also said that it has been observed in several instances that violations of the building plan have been carried out, and stilt areas in many buildings have been misused for commercial purposes illegally. “Major zoning violations have been observed in many buildings, which are deliberately not pointed out by some practicing architects in their building reports. Action should be taken against such architects, and appeals in such cases would be decided by the proposed committee,” reads the order issued by Joshi. The four-member committee comprises HSVP’s chief town planner, chief architect, chief engineer, and system officer.Joshi, in his directions, also urged the zonal officers to relook into the price of purchasable FAR as the current price is low, and they need to look into all aspects and determine a price which is in tune with the prevailing market rates in the HSVP sectors. A senior HSVP official said that action will be taken against commercial activities and illegal constructions in the stilt areas. “Sector-wise surveys will be conducted, and action will be taken against violators accordingly,” said the HSVP official in Gurugram, requesting anonymity. 
29-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 28-year-old ends life, blames uncle, aunt for pushing him to the edge||A 28-year-old man allegedly ended his life by consuming poison in Khanpur village of Dehlon. In a video message, purportedly recorded before he took the extreme step, the victim held his uncle and aunt responsible for driving him over the edge. He said that his uncle and aunt did not want him to get married, and were deliberately declining all prospective matches suggested by their relatives. The victim’s father, who is the complainant in the case, said that his elder brother does not have any children, so he asked the victim to live with them.The victim had been staying with them and helping them in farming and rearing cattle for the past four years. The complainant alleged that the behaviour of his brother and wife towards his son changed as soon as he started living with them. They used to constantly ill-treat them and were also delaying his marriage, which had pushed him into depression, the complainant added.On January 26, the victim left home and parked his bike on the road, rang up one of his friends and asked him to take his bike to his aunt’s house, and then consumed poison. Some passersby rushed him to the hospital, where he died on Thursday during treatment. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Subhash Chand, the investigating officer, said a case under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused. The uncle has been arrested, but the aunt is on the run.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-28-year-old-ends-life-blames-uncle-aunt-for-pushing-him-to-the-edge-101643399524583.html
29-01-2022||Punjab||Polls: Mayawati to visit Punjab on February 8||Ahead of the Punjab polls, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati will address a rally at Nawanshahr on February 8.BSP Punjab president Jasveer Garhi on Friday said the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) -BSP alliance will form the next government in Punjab with a clear majority. “Congress will be wiped out from the state, and the BSP-SAD alliance will free Punjab from the misrule of the Congress,” said Garhi. Asserting that Punjab had a special place in the heart of Mayawati and the party’s founder Kanshi Ram also belonged to Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/elections/punjab-assembly-election/polls-mayawati-to-visit-punjab-on-february-8-101643399284786.html
29-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 8 days on, friend booked for labourer’s murder||Eight days after the body of a labourer was recovered from a vacant plot on Rahon Road, Meharban police booked one of his friends on Friday. According to the police, the friend had strangled him to death over a monetary issue. The victim was identified as Muni Ram Lal, a factory worker, of Rahon road area. His brother, Babu Lal, who lives in Uttar Pradesh, said that Muni Ram worked as a tailor at a factory in Ludhiana. On January 20, he received information that his brother was found dead. As Babu Lal did not suspect any foul play, police had initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.But later, the autopsy report revealed that the victim had been strangled. Thereafter, the Meharban police contacted Babu Lal and asked him to come to the city. Inspector Jagdev Singh, Meharban station house officer, said police found out that Muni Ram had lent ₹50,000 to Ghanshyam. The latter had not returned the money, due to which Muni had been repeatedly asking him to pay up. The SHO said that it is suspected that Ghanshyam had murdered the victim over the monetary issue. A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-8-days-on-friend-booked-for-labourer-s-murder-101643399164630.html
29-01-2022||Delhi||Driving skills tests to resume in Delhi's RTOs||With the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) allowing government offices to open, the state transport department on Friday ordered the resumption from Saturday of driving skill test and learner’s licence tests, which were earlier suspended in view of the spike in Covid-19 cases.“The suspension of activities related to Driving License (DL) Skill Tests and Learning License (LL) Tests are hereby withdrawn with immediate effect. All Zonal Authorities (DTOs) shall take all necessary steps and actions to resume the activities of DL Skill Tests and LL Tests,” the order said.These services were suspended on January 6 to curb the spread of Covid-19 cases after a third wave of infections (fifth for Delhi) hit the country.“The Zonal Deputy Commissioners (Transport) and DTOs are further directed to ensure all Covid-19 protocols/appropriate behaviour like sanitisation/social distancing/wearing of masks etc as per DDMA guidelines while conducting the Driving Licence Skill Test. This issues with the approval of competent authority,” it added.Keeping the city’s low hospitalisations and falling daily Covid-19 tally in mind, the disaster management body on Thursday eased some pandemic restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/driving-skills-tests-to-resume-in-delhi-s-rtos-101643398821505.html
29-01-2022||Lucknow||Two employees of Lucknow-based firm found dead inside a car in Hardoi||Lucknow Bodies of the two employees of a Lucknow-based private company were found from a car parked outside a banquet hall in Lucknow’s adjoining district Hardoi on Friday morning, said police officials. They said that the bodies were sent for post-mortem examination and forensic team was called to examine the spot to ascertain the cause behind their deaths. Hardoi superintendent of police (SP) Rajesh Dwivedi said that both were identified as Lucknow resident Dharmraj Yadav, 38, and Kushinagar resident Ram Dulare, 35. “Dharmraj was a water quality manager and Ram Dulare was a driver, associated with the Lucknow-based private company, engaged in work related to Jal Shakti Mission,” the SP said. Sharing further details, another police official said that some local residents informed the police about the bodies at around 10am on Friday. “The bodies were found inside the car (with Lucknow registration number), parked outside Baba Marriage Lawn under Pihani police station in Hardoi,” he said. The official said that no injuries were found on the bodies of the two persons and primary examination suggested that the duo died due to suffocation while drinking liquor inside the closed car. He said that a half-filled liquor bottle and some snacks were found from the car. He said the police called up the forensic team and they collected samples of eatables as well as examined the situation to ascertain the exact reason behind the deaths. The officials concerned of Jal Nigam and the family members of the two deceased had been informed about the incident, he added. Earlier on January 19, two unidentified charred bodies were recovered from a burnt car parked in a mango orchard in Hardoi’s Shahbad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/two-employees-of-lucknow-based-firm-found-dead-inside-a-car-in-hardoi-101643399105383.html
29-01-2022||Gurugram||Largest electric vehicle charging station in country inaugurated in Gurugram||India’s largest 100-point electric vehicle (EV) charging station for four-wheelers was inaugurated in Gurugram on Friday. The station is bound to attract city residents to switch to electric vehicles in the near future. The charging station in Sector 52 has a mix of fast and slow chargers and will be able to charge 576 vehicles in a single day. The project was launched by the National Highway for Electric Vehicle (NHEV), a private entity which has expertise in carrying out pilot projects and is working with government agencies and the NITI Aayog. NHEV officials said that the charging station will be a prototype ahead of more such stations on the Delhi-Jaipur national highway and Yamuna Expressway. The charging station in Gurugram works on a revenue- sharing basis and has 96 operational charging ports for electric vehicles and can serve up to 576 electric vehicles every day.officials said that one charger takes up to six hours to charge a vehicle and can serve four vehicles in a day and 72 such chargers can charge 288 vehicles every day. “The fast DC chargers can charge a vehicle in less than two hours and can comfortably service 12 vehicles every day at this station. We have 24 such DC 5KW chargers to charge 288 vehicles in a day-night utilisation system,” said officials. Abhijeet Sinha, the project director of NHEV, said that it will set the standard as a prototype for all the upcoming charging stations. “We are working in a non-commercial manner with government agencies and the NITI Aayog and are also conducting large-scale pilot projects that can be replicated at a reasonable cost across the country,” he said. NHEV officials said that this will be the largest electric vehicle charging station in the country with 100 charging units. “Prior to this, the largest charging station was in Mumbai,” said Sinha.Sinha further said that as a pilot project, they will set up 10 electric-charging stations along the Jaipur-Delhi highway with four on each side of the highway and one each in both the cities. “Likewise, eight stations will be set up on the Yamuna Expressway and primarily all these investments will be made by private companies in accordance with the benchmarks set up by government agencies and policies,” he said, adding that the Gurugram station is operated by Alektrify Pvt Ltd.Last year, Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari had said that the ministry was in discussion with foreign companies to build India’s first electric highway between Delhi and Jaipur. E-highways are part of the Union government’s efforts to promote electric vehicles. Under the NHEV, another 100-point charging station will be inaugurated next month in Sector 86 in the city, Sinha said. “These stations will be able to create infrastructure to meet the demand from electric vehicles across the city,” he said. Sudhendu J Sinha, adviser (Infrastructure, Connectivity -- Transport and Electric Mobility), NITI Aayog, said, “The charging station inaugurated today fast forwards India’s entry into the electric vehicle era and opens doors for faster adoption of such cars. Not only will this station encourage more people to invest in electric vehicles, but also motivate people to invest in the charging infra business.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/largest-electric-vehicle-charging-station-in-country-inaugurated-in-gurugram-101643398984578.html
29-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Seven more succumb, Covid death count crosses 2,200-mark||Seven more persons succumbed to Covid-19 in Ludhiana on Friday, taking the district’s toll since the pandemic outbreak past the 2,200-mark.As many as 467 persons also tested positive for the virus on the day. The city had recorded 2,100 Covid deaths on September 16, 2021 and the next 100 deaths took place over a span of four months and a week. But what’s worrying is that the latest 89 deaths took place in merely 28 days.In the last one year, the district recorded 1,200 Covid deaths, out of which 600 were reported in the month of May, while 300 deaths were reported in April and June. At present, the district has 4,480 active cases, of which, 4,250 patients are in home isolation while 220 are undergoing treatment at private hospitals and 10 are admitted at government hospitals. The district also has 17 micro-containment zones.The active micro-containment zones include South City, Panchsheel Vihar Barewal, Industrial Area Millerganj, Professor Colony Barewal, Krishan Nagar, New Deep Nagar, Maksuda village, Kidwai Nagar, Bhaini Baring, village Bhanohar, Abdulapur Basti, Ramgarh Sibian village, Sector 39A, Mohi village, Rajeev Enclave, Dolon Kalan village and Jodhan village.Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to residents to get vaccinated at the earliest and follow all Covid precautions while going out in public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-seven-more-succumb-covid-death-count-crosses-2200mark-101643398864674.html
29-01-2022||Lucknow||UP a poor state but its people have more assets than those in most states||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh is a poor state but its people are richer than their counterparts in most other states, including the richest ones like Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka and Haryana, when it comes to possession of assets and bank accounts by them. The statement may sound contradictory, but this is what the Niti Aayog’s recent poverty figures show. The Central government’s premier think tank body recently released the baseline report of India’s first-ever national Multi-dimensional Poverty Index (MPI) measure based on the reference period of 2015-16 of the National Family Health Survey (NFHS). The national MPI measure has been constructed by utilising 12 key components which cover areas such as health, nutrition, education, sanitation, drinking water, housing, electricity and standard of living. The report showed UP to be the country’s third poorest/most deprived states after Bihar and Jharkhand. As much that 37.79% of UP’s population was found to be multi-dimensionally deprived or poor on 12 crucial parameters. However, a careful analysis of the same report also shows that in terms of possession of assets, only 12.4% of UP’s total population was found to be poor and its situation was far better than 18 other states that included not only neighbouring Rajasthan, MP, Uttarakhand, but also comparatively richer ones like Maharashtra, Gujarat, West Bengal and Telangana. UP was found to be on 19th position and above rich states like Maharashtra, Gujarat. “The household is deprived if it does not own more than one of these assets: Radio, TV, telephone, computer, animal cart, bicycle, motorbike, or refrigerator; and does not own a car or truck,” the report explains. “In the case of the indicator for assets, the criteria for the car or truck ownership acts as exclusion criteria. Therefore, even if a household does not have a radio, television, telephone, computer, animal cart, bicycle, motorbike, or refrigerator, but has either a car or a truck, then the household will be treated as non-deprived,” the report clarifies. Similarly, only 4.88% of UP’s population was found to be deprived when it came to possessing bank accounts. “A household is deprived if none of its members has a bank account or post office account,” the report points out. It was found that population, which was deprived or did not have a bank or post office account, was more in 20 other states that included Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Uttarakhand and MP. Experts agree that it is interesting to find UP to be the third poorest state on overall basis, but has lower percentage of population that is deprived in terms of possessing assets and bank accounts. They, however, don’t have any clear answers to the contradiction. “This is true that the Niti Aayog’s poverty figures show UP to be the third most deprived state, but at the same time they put the state on the 19th and 21st position in deprivation in terms of assets and bank accounts,” an economist Ajit Kumar Singh said. “There may be certain reasons that need to be studied and analyzed,” he added. 
29-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 3 booked for felling 26 Khair trees in Matterwara forest area||Three persons were booked after 26 Khair trees were found to be missing in Mattewara forest area. The accused have been identified as Deep Singh, Binder Singh and Sanju Singh – all residents of Masol village of Mohali.The action has been taken on the complaint filed by forest range officer Pritpal Singh. He said that on January 20 and 21, the accused had chopped 26 Khair trees and fled.Head constable Sanjiv Kumar, the investigating officer, said a case under Section 380 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-3-booked-for-felling-26-khair-trees-in-matterwara-forest-area-101643398684646.html
29-01-2022||Other||BJP announces candidates for 11 more seats in Prayagraj region||PRAYAGRAJ: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has announced candidates for 11 more seats in Prayagraj region comprising the three districts of Prayagraj, Pratapgarh and Kaushambi. The saffron party has declared names of six candidates from different seats of Prayagraj along with four assembly seats of Pratapgarh and one seat of Kaushambi district in its latest list. The party had already announced name of deputy chief minister Keshav Parasad Maurya as the candidate from Kaushambi district’s Sirathu seat. In all, there are 22 seats in these three districts including 12 of Prayagraj, seven of Pratapgrah and three of Kaushambi. The three districts of Prayagraj, Pratapgarh and Kaushambi will go to poll in the fifth phase on February 27. UP elections are scheduled to be held in seven phases from February 10 to March 7 for all the 403 seats of the UP legislative assembly. The counting of the votes and the results are to be declared on March 10. Of the names declared by BJP for six seats of Prayagraj, the party has dropped two of its sitting MLAs while of the remaining four, it has bet on its sitting MLAs. The party has fielded Sidharth Nath Singh, its sitting MLA, cabinet minister and spokesperson of the state government from Allahabad west and Nand Gopal Gupta “Nandi”, also a sitting MLA and cabinet minister from Allahabad South seats, albeit much as per expectations. Likewise, the party has fielded its MLAs Neelam Karwariya from Meja and Praveen Patel from Phulpur. Neelam Karwariya was elected as the lone woman MLA from the district in the 2017 elections. Party has however dropped MLA Rajmani Kol from Koraon and Vikramajit Maurya from Phaphamau seats. It has given tickets to Aarti Kol, a former Zila panchayat member, from Koraon (SC) seat and Guru Prasad Maurya from Phaphamau. Guru Prasad Maurya has previously been an MLA of BSP before the delimitation after getting elected from Soraon seat in 2007. In Pratapgarh, BJP has decided to field Nagesh Pratap Singh yet again from the Rampur Khas seat. In 2014, he had lost the polls on this very seat to Congress candidate Aradhana Misra (Mona) by a margin of 67,679 votes and once again in 2017 to her by a margin of 17,246 votes. From Babganj the party has entered Keshav Pasi as its candidate. In 2017 BJP’s Pawan Kumar had fought and lost to Independent candidate Vinod Kumar by a margin of 37,160 votes. From the seat of Kunda, which Raghuraj Pratap Singh aka “Raja Bhaiyya” has been winning consecutively in past six polls as an Independent candidate since 1993, the party has entered Sindhuraja Mishra as its candidate. In 2017 BJP’s Janki Sharan had lost the polls losing to Raghuraj Pratap Singh by a margin of over 1 lakh votes. From Patti assembly constituency, sitting MLA and former UP minister Rajendra Pratap Singh aka “Moti Singh” has been entered yet again in to the fray. Rajendra Pratap Singh has won this seat in 1996, 2002, 2007 and 2017. The party has also fielded its sitting MLA from Manjhanpur seat of Kaushambi district yet again. In 2017 Lal Bahadur had won the seat defeating Bahujan Samaj Party candidate Indrajeet Saroj (now in Samajwadi Party) by a margin of 4,160 votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-announces-candidates-for-11-more-seats-in-prayagraj-region-101643398566239.html
29-01-2022||Noida||Noida: Man arrested for killing father over property dispute||A 30-year-old man was arrested on Thursday night for allegedly killing his father over a property dispute in Dadri. Police said that the suspect shot his father dead on Wednesday afternoon, a few metres away from their house at Palla village in Dadri, and was at large since then. The suspect was identified as Lokesh Bhati and the deceased as 55-year-old Vipatram Bhati. Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that on Wednesday at 2pm, Vipatram, riding a scooter, was shot dead by an unidentified person. “A passerby informed police about the incident. A police team reached the spot and sent the victim to a private hospital where doctors declared him brought dead,” he said. Pandey said that Vipatram’s wife alleged that the victim had a property dispute with their son Lokesh. “Based on the complaint, a case was registered against Lokesh under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code. On Thursday night, we received information about his movement near the Roopwas roundabout in a Hyundai Santro car. A police team reached the spot and arrested the suspect. A countrymade pistol was also recovered from his possession,” he said, adding that relevant sections of Arms Act were also added to the FIR.During interrogation, the suspect revealed that he used to have frequent quarrels with his father over property issues. “He wanted to get the property under his name but his father refused to transfer the property. The suspect was angry over the issue and decided to kill his father,” Pandey said. .The suspect was produced in the court that sent him to judicial custody, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-man-arrested-for-killing-father-over-property-dispute-101643398564654.html
29-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab poll buzz: Haves vs have-not and more||Aam Aadmi Party’s candidate and youth leader Narinder Kaur Bharaj (27), who declared assets worth ₹24,409 in the nomination papers filed on Friday, is up against sitting Congress MLA and candidate Vijay Inder Singla and BJP nominee and businessman Arvind Khanna from Sangrur assembly segment. While Singla has declared ₹9.62 crore, Khanna owns assets worth ₹22.77 crore. Bharaj, who is a law graduate, reached the subdivisional magistrate’s office to file her papers on an Activa with her mother, who is the covering candidate, on the pillion seat. “It does not matter if one is rich or poor. I am serving the people and voters are fighting my battle,” she said.Delhi minister’s healthy advice to AAP cadreAddressing a gathering during the inauguration of the election office of Aam Aadmi Party’s Dakha candidate KNS Kang on Friday, Delhi health minister Satyendra Jain asked the cadre to invite the public to vote for the party like they invite them to the wedding of their children. “Do not argue with them, as it will result in wastage of time, and only urge them politely to vote for the AAP, so that we can wipe out corruption, drug menace and other issues being faced by the public, and work together for the betterment of the state,” he said.Centre doing politics in name of soldiers: PilotCongress leader and Rajasthan’s former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Friday accused the Narendra Modi government of doing politics in the name of soldiers. Addressing a press conference, Pilot said the central government has not fulfilled the promises made to soldiers. “There are about 1.25 lakh vacancies for soldiers in the country that have not been filled by the government,” he claimed. The Congress leader also condemned the Centre for imposing tax on the disability pension instead of increasing it. “Despite Congress MPs raising these issues in the Parliament several times, the central government has not taken any step,” he said. Waris makes appeal for ethical voting Punjabi Singer Manmohan Waris on Friday released a video appeal to people while endorsing the efforts of Punjab chief electoral officer and SBS Nagar district administration in promoting ethical voting in the upcoming state elections. Exhorting the people, especially youngsters, to exercise their right to vote carefully by rising above caste, creed or colour, Waris said that it’s our duty to take part wholeheartedly in polling and choose the right candidate for the betterment of Punjab. Deputy commissioner Vishesh Sarangal appealed to other celebrities to take such initiatives as well.Discount coupons to woo young votersTo encourage youngsters to vote, the Hoshiarpur district administration will be giving discount coupons of restaurants and gyms to those turning up first at their respective booths. Three best campus ambassadors, appointed in educational institutions to motivate the students to vote, will be rewarded with cash prizes, said district election officer Apneet Riyait.Cash haul from SUV, probe onPolice on Friday recovered unaccounted cash worth ₹30 lakh from a Toyota Innova in Talwara during special checking ahead of the Punjab polls. The two car occupants, who are residents of Mandi Gobindgarh, could not produce any relevant document, said senior superintendent of police Dhruman H Nimble. The income tax department and election commission have been alerted and an inquiry initiated to ascertain if the seized money was to be used in the elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-poll-buzz-haves-vs-have-not-and-more-101643398444886.html
29-01-2022||Noida||Two more deaths in Noida for third consecutive day||Gautam Budh Nagar on Friday reported two more deaths due to Covid-19 for the third consecutive day, taking this month’s death count to nine, according to the state health bulletin. However, at 3,907, the active caseload has gone below 4,000 for the first time since January 9 when the district had 4,613 active cases, the data shows. On Thursday, the district had 4,529 active cases.According to officials from the district health department, both fatalities reported on Friday were of senior citizens admitted at private hospitals due to comorbidities and pre-existing medical conditions. One of the patients was an 83-year-old male suffering from a heart condition, diabetes and asthma, while the second patient was a 71-year-old female who had gall bladder cancer, the officials said. “Both the patients were admitted for other diseases and Covid-19 was an accidental finding during their hospital stay. So far, all nine deaths in the district this month have been of patients who visited hospitals due to other health conditions and were later found to be Covid positive,” said Dr Manoj Kushwaha, district surveillance officer. On Friday, Gautam Budh Nagar reported 376 fresh cases while 1,021 patients recovered from the viral infection. The district had reported 534 cases on Thursday. The test positivity rate is also gradually reducing and was around 10% on Friday, a climbdown from Wednesday’s rate of 21%. At the peak of the third wave, the positivity rate had reached 48% in the district on January 16. Since the pandemic began in March 2020, 93,453 Covid-19 cases have been reported in Gautam Budh Nagar while 1,893,172 tests have been conducted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-more-deaths-in-noida-for-third-consecutive-day-101643398324731.html
29-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 3 arrested with 50 cartons of illicit liquor||In a drive launched in view of the state assembly elections, a team of the CIA Staff-1 of Ludhiana police commissionerate arrested three persons with 50 cartons of illicit liquor. The team also seized three cars in which the illicit liquor was being smuggled.The accused have been identified as Sukhdeep Singh alias Deepa, 24, of New Janta Nagar, Nikhil Bagga alias Hunny, 21, of Janta Nagar, and Paramjit Singh alias Taj, 24, of Maha Singh Nagar. Their accomplice, Jaspreet Singh alias Sahil of Guru Nanak Nagar, is yet to be arrested.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Buta Singh said they received a tip-off that the accused Jaspreet Singh, along with his three accomplices, was smuggling liquor from Chandigarh and going to drop it at Suman Nagar on Jaspal Bangar Road.Following the information, a police team conducted a raid at the spot and nabbed the three accused with the illicit liquor.During questioning, it was found that the accused Sukhdeep works as CNC operator in a factory in Phillaur while Nikhil Bagga is an accountant and Paramjit works as recovery agent for a finance company.A case under Sections 61/1/14 of the Excise Act was registered against the accused at Sahnewal police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-3-arrested-with-50-cartons-of-illicit-liquor-101643398264601.html
29-01-2022||Other||UPRTOU Convocation: ‘Education a powerful tool for economic, social empowerment’||PRAYAGRAJ: Vice-chancellor (V-C) of Gujarat Central University (GCU), Gandhinagar, Prof Rama Shankar Dubey, on Friday said education is a powerful tool for economic and social empowerment, and higher education is an essential factor to make India prosperous in different fields. Prof Dubey was speaking at the 16th convocation of Uttar Pradesh Rajarshi Tandon Open University (UPRTOU), which was held following Covid-19 norms on Friday. Addressing the passing out students, Prof Dubey said, “There is a need to preserve and incorporate the traditional knowledge as well as cultural values of India for the excellence in the present higher educational system.” Prof Dubey urged teachers and meritorious students to work together to create such an environment as well as a system in which everyone gets an opportunity to perform their duty with full honesty and integrity. “Students are the future and energy of our country. They give impetus to the development of the nation,” he said. The event was chaired by governor of the state and chancellor of UPRTOU, Anandiben Patel. She also inaugurated the digilocker, online. Presiding over the convocation ceremony, she blessed all meritorious students and wished them for bright future. The ceremony saw 21 gold medals being awarded to meritorious students who were from different schools of the university. Out of these, 10 gold medals were given to male students and 11 to female students. Degrees awarded to students were of December 2020 and June 2021 sessions. The vice-chancellor of UPRTOU, Prof Seema Singh, presented the welcome address and the progress report of the university. She said that the university was determined to spread education and upgrade the quality of its programmes. She further said that the university had developed students-friendly website and digilocker. In the 16th convocation, the Chancellor Medal was awarded to Monika Pandey from Lucknow Regional Study Centre of the university. Monika completed her MA (Yoga) in first class and obtained highest marks among all graduate and post graduate students of all schools of the university. In the post graduate category, Gold Medal was awarded to six toppers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uprtou-convocation-education-a-powerful-tool-for-economic-social-empowerment-101643398152120.html
29-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: After Rahul, Congress plans virtual rallies of Sonia, Priyanka||After party leader Rahul Gandhi’s mega show, the Punjab Congress is planning to hold similar virtual rallies of Congress president Sonia Gandhi and general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra soon, for the February 20 assembly elections in the state. The party on Friday said that Rahul’s virtual rally “Navi Soch Nava Punjab”, which he addressed from Jalandhar, was watched by nearly 10 lakh people across different platforms. “These many people connected within the first two hours on various platforms. There were 45,000 live views and more than 1.5 lakh people watched it at more than 500 locations across the state,” Samrat Dhingra, party’s state coordinator for social media, claimed. He said the virtual rally, which was also attended by chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, went live on various social media platforms and venues without any glitches. Besides 22 district headquarters, where the party had set up screens, the Congress candidates had made arrangements in their assembly constituencies for live viewing. At the rally, Rahul, in a shift from the party’s stand of going into the polls under “collective leadership”, said that it will go into the state polls with a chief ministerial face and the decision on it will be taken after consulting party workers. Both Channi and Sidhu were pushing the party leadership for declaring the chief ministerial face, pitching themselves for the position. The Thursday’s rally was the former Congress president’s first address in the state for the upcoming polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-after-rahul-congress-plans-virtual-rallies-of-sonia-priyanka-101643398149244.html
29-01-2022||Bangalore||Headmistress suspended for allowing students to offer namaz in school||The education department in Karnataka has suspended the headmistress of Balechangappa government higher primary school in Kolar district, around 65 km from Bengaluru, for allowing Muslim students to offer namaz inside the school premises. Education officials said the action was taken as there was no provision to offer any kind of religious prayers inside government schools. The action against headmistress Uma Devi comes after a group of rightwing activists barged into a school in Mulbagal town on January 21 and created ruckus over allowing Muslim students to offer namaz on the school premises. Protests began after a video of students offering prayers at the school began doing rounds on the social media on Sunday. The video was allegedly shot on a mobile phone on Friday. Alleging that the decision was to allow prayers inside the school was “biased and promoted religion” in the school, rightwing activists barged into the school on the same day. The protesters alleged that the prayers have been allowed in the school since December last year. A local resident and a member of a right-wing group, Ramakrishna, told the media that the headmistress has given permission for students to hold prayers in the school without consulting any officials. Following the incident deputy director of public instruction (DDPI) and local officials visited the school and submitted a detailed report to the deputy commissioner of the district. Based on the report, block education officer (BEO) D Girijeshwari Devi ordered suspension of the headmistress. Headmistress Uma Devi earlier told the media that she was not aware that a prayer meeting was happening in the school. She, however, later clarified that the facility to perform namaz in a room of the school was provided with intention of attracting more Muslim students to join the school. The BEO said the headmistress made a mistake by allowing the students to offer namaz inside the school. She said Muslim students were allowed to go outside the school to offer namaz but allowing the same inside the school was against the rules. “There is no permission to conduct prayers on the school campus and there is no provision to offer any kind of religious prayers in government schools,” said Girijeshwari Devi. The BEO said there were around 165 students from the Muslim community in the school and the total strength of the school was 375. “There is a mosque right next to the school, there is no issue in them going there for prayers,” she said. Karnataka education minister BC Nagesh said action will be taken against the school officials. “The incident in Kolar is too bad. No institution can allow such things. We have asked all concerned officers to visit the school at the earliest. Since the two days after the incident were weekends, a visit to the school was not possible. Now, they will visit the school and give a detailed report on what transpired there. We will take strict action based on the report,” said Nagesh. The action against the headmistress comes days as the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) pulled up for the state government for not allowing 8 students in Udupi’s Women’s Government Pre-University College from attending classes wearing hijab. The NHRC on Wednesday sought a report from the Karnataka government on the issue within a month. In the notice, the commission said Udupi incidents were a “grave violation” of the human rights of the students. 
29-01-2022||Jaipur||Rajasthan schools can reopen from February 1, shops can stay open till 10 pm||The Rajasthan government on Friday decided to reopen schools from February 1, allowed commercial and businesses to remain open till 10pm but imposed a night curfew from 11pm to 5am.Issuing the new guidelines, additional chief secretary, department of Home, Abhay Kumar said government and private schools from class 10 to 12 will reopen from February 1, and that of class 6 to 9 from February 10. Students will be allowed to attend the physical classes with the written consent of parents. Online classes will continue as it is.Rajasthan reported 8,125 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, and 21 deaths. The active cases tally in state is 80,488.All the shops, shopping malls, and other business and commercial trades will be permitted to be operational till 10 pm, which earlier was till 8 pm.The government has also formally introduced the daily night curfew from 11pm to 5am as compared to the voluntary curfew that was in place earlier.According to the guidelines, all institution heads, department heads, owners of business establishments need to put up a list list of people who have been vaccinated and not vaccinated.A maximum of 100 will be permitted in any gathering such as political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural or religious.
29-01-2022||Noida||Noida: Industrial units in Dadri seek better civic infra||The industrial sector in Dadri constituency is fervently hoping that their long-pending demands for public transport, better roads and regular sanitation in the region, among others, make it to the agenda of candidates in the fray. Dadri is home to over 4,000 industrial units located in Surajpur Industrial Area and Sectors 1,2 and 3 in Ecotech, which employ at least 40,000 workers. Dadri is one of three assembly constituencies in Gautam Budh Nagar that goes to polls on February 10. It is currently represented by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Tejpal Nagar, who is again contesting the elections. Other candidates in the fray include Raj Kumar Bhati from the Samajwadi Party (SP)-Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) alliance, Deepak Bhati Chotiwala from the Congress and Manveer Singh Bhati from the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP). According to Vishard Gautam, president of the Indian Industries’ Association (IIA) (Gautam Budh Nagar chapter), large-scale encroachment and poor condition of roads in the industrial areas often lead to traffic issues. “For the movement of heavy vehicles in industrial areas, there is a need for wide and smooth roads in and around the region. However, massive encroachment by vendors, shops and potholed roads often makes things difficult for trucks and other heavy vehicles. We have often raised this issue with the authorities but to no avail. We hope the public representative from the constituency can help us in the matter,” said Gautam, who runs a workshop in Surajpur Industrial Area. According to industrialists, workers often struggle due to the sheer lack of public transport and other connectivity issues in the entire area. “For workers who come from other districts, the commute from Dadri railway station to the industrial areas is an arduous task by itself as there is no public bus service plying on the route. Workers from the nearby villages also face a lot of hardship due to poor transport,” said Amit Sharma, who runs an industrial unit in Greater Noida. Lack of proper sanitation adds to the infrastructure woes in the entire area, say IIA representatives. “There is no proper system in place for sewage treatment in the industrial areas. Wastes and discharges from industries are often dumped on the main roads of the sectors or on some nearby empty plots. The authorities do not pay as much heed to industrial sectors as much they do for residential areas. It reflects poorly and international investors who visit these areas are an embarrassed lot to see garbage on the roads,” said Sarabjit Singh, a member of the IIA. Industrialists also want the setting up of skill development centres in the region. “The government should set up institutes such as ITI (Industrial Training Institute) or a polytechnic college in the area for the locals, so they can be trained and employed. This will generate jobs and also resolve workforce issues in our factories,” said Rakesh Bansal, another IIA member. When asked about the concerns, candidates say that development of industrial areas in Dadri constituency is high up on their agenda. “During my tenure, I have had several meetings with the representatives of the IIA and have also informed the authorities about their problems. The development of the industrial sector is extremely pivotal for the advancement of the nation and is on top of my agenda,” said BJP’s Nagar. SP candidate Bhati said, “I am aware of the problems faced by the industries in and around Dadri and have met their representatives. This sector is often neglected. However, I promise that if I am elected from the constituency, the welfare of industrial areas will be my topmost priority”. 
29-01-2022||Chandigarh||DAV College, Chandigarh, alumnus awarded in Australia||Deepak Raj Gupta, an alumnus of DAV College, Sector 10, has been awarded the Order of Australia Medal (OAM) in recognition of his service in a variety of areas, including multiculturalism, community work, education, minority advocacy, government service and environment conservation in Canberra. Raised in Chandigarh and a student of DAV College from 1983 to 87, Gupta is the first Indian-Australian politician to be included in the honours’ list on Australia Day. Gupta has addressed multi-cultural community issues for almost two decades and also served in the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly in 2019-2020.Purse stolen from car parked in Sector 10In the fourth such case this month, a purse was stolen from a parked car after smashing its window in Sector 10 on Wednesday. In his complaint, Karamjit Singh of Delhi reported that he had parked his car behind the coal depot in Sector 10 to visit a restaurant with his wife. On returning, they found one of the car windows broken and his wife’s purse missing. It contained her Apple AirPods, Aadhaar card, PAN card, debit card and some cash. A case under Section 379 (theft) of the IPC was registered. Three booked for assaulting doctor, snatching his carFive days after a doctor was assaulted and robbed of his car, ₹10,000 and mobile phone at his clinic in Zirakpur, police registered a case on Friday. The victim, Gurpal Sharma, who is admitted at GMCH, Sector 32, Chandigarh, had told the police that he was at his clinic in Bhabat village, Zirakpur, on January 23 when three men attacked him with sharp-edged weapons and fled with his car, money and phone after locking him up in the toilet. Police said after verifying the facts, they had lodged an FIR under Sections 342, 323, 379-B and 34 of the IPC at the Zirakpur police station.HC Bar body seeks full resumption of courtsThe Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association on Friday wrote to the HC administration for complete resumption of courts from February 1. On January 5, HC had switched to virtual hearings in the wake of spike in Covid cases. From January 10, the court had further curtailed operations and only 50% judges are holding courts since then. In view of relaxations announced by the UT administration and significant dip in Covid cases, full functioning of courts be restored, the letter stated. 350kg of banned plastic bags seized Continuing their drive against single-use plastic, a team of the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee, along with a team from the SDM (East) office, conducted a raid at the Sector 26 grain market on Friday. The entire stock of around 350kg was seized from two big suppliers of plastic carry bags. Action under the provisions of Environment (Protection) Act was initiated.24-yr-old held with countrymade weapon The operation cell of Chandigarh Police on Thursday arrested a resident of Sector 25 with a countrymade pistol and a live cartridge. The accused, identified as Deepak, 24, was nabbed near the Rally ground in Sector 25. A case under Arms Act was registered at the Sector 11 police station. Lawyer booked for cheating senior citizen A lawyer has been booked for duping a senior citizen on the pretext of settling an income tax filing dispute. The accused has been identified as Satish Balyan, an income tax lawyer in Sector 19, Chandigarh. The complainant, NS Verma, told the police that he retired district attorney from Kullu and is settled in Mohali. He said that in 2015, he had contacted Balyan to settle an income tax filing issue of his junior assistant. But, despite charging ₹14,860, the accused failed to settle the issue. A cheating case has been registered. Community centre named after Lala Lajpat RaiHaryana Vidhan Sabha speaker Gian Chand Gupta on Friday announced that the Community Centre in Sector 17, Panchkula, would be named after Lala Lajpat Rai. Gupta made the announcement at the centre while addressing a programme organised to commemorate the birth anniversary of Lala Lajpat Rai. Gupta had recently announced that community centres in Panchkula will be named after freedom fighters and martyrs to inspire the coming generations.Panchkula man held for forgery The Panchkula police have arrested a resident of Raipur Rani for allegedly forging fake documents for the release of a vehicle which was impounded last year in a mining case. The accused has been identified as Mohan Lal. A case of fraud has been registered at the Sector 5 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dav-college-chandigarh-alumnus-awarded-in-australia-101643397966056.html
29-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: SAD seeks transfer of intelligence officers||In a complaint filed before the Election Commission (EC), the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Friday demanded transfer of top intelligence wing officers of the Punjab Police, alleging that they were “wrongfully helping” the ruling Congress to boost its prospects in the upcoming state elections scheduled for February 20. Later, addressing a press conference in Chandigarh, Harcharan Singh Bains, who is the principal adviser to SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, alleged that the intelligence wing was being misused by the Congress government by placing it at the disposal of a private agency to illegally acquire inputs about prospective candidates of opposition parties and to threaten them to withdraw from the polls. In the complaint lodged by SAD’s senior vice-president Daljit Singh Cheema, an alleged pro forma on which details of the candidates were sought was also submitted. Demanding the transfer of all state intelligence officials, including the top two — additional director general of police (ADGP) Amardeep Singh Rai and inspector general (IG) Jatinder Singh Aulakh — for allegedly compromising the peace and security of the border state and indulging in malpractices, Bains demanded the EC’s intervention. “Every minute that passes without action mocks the democracy and the EC would lose its credibility,” he said. ADGP, intelligence, Amardeep Rai refused to comment on the allegation, stating that he would have to read the complaint first.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-sad-seeks-transfer-of-intelligence-officers-101643397964596.html
29-01-2022||Other||Telangana to form specialised cell to tackle narcotics menace||Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Friday announced establishment of an exclusive counter-intelligence cell with 1,000 well-trained personnel drawn from police and excise departments to deal with narcotics menace in the state. The chief minister, who held a high-level meeting with top police and excise department officials, asked director general of police M Mahender Reddy to take steps in this regard. He said the new state-of-the-art specialised unit will operate exclusively against the drug abuse, on the lines of Greyhounds, a specialised police force that exclusively deals with Maoist menace. KCR, as the CM is popularly addressed, said the new counter-intelligence cell will be equipped with latest technology and training. Special incentives like awards, rewards, accelerated promotions and other benefits will be provided to the officers who display exemplary services in drug control. “There is no dearth of funds in setting up the new outfit,” he said. The chief minister said the new counter-intelligence cell forces should use sophisticated weapons as well as latest technology to tackle the drug mafia. He suggested that a team of Telangana police officers be formed to study policies adopted by Scotland Yard police, Punjab police and others with best drug control methods to identify and apprehend drug offenders. He wanted authorities to eradicate the social evil from the state by encouraging citizen participation and also initiate stringent action against the culprits. Stating that narcotics have become a big menace to the state and the country, the chief minister said the issue should be tackled by adopting a multi-pronged approach. He asked police to take stringent action against those involved in drug abuse. They should track the sources of drugs, right from production, transport and supply chain. He said authorities should identify those who are addicted to drugs and take steps for their de-addiction with the help of their family. He directed police officers to seek community participation in drugs control and organise awareness programmes with village heads, teachers, lecturers and students in this regard. 
29-01-2022||Lucknow||SP facing protests, defections over ticket denial in Prayagraj region||PRAYAGRAJ: After being denied tickets by the Samajwadi Party, many party leaders, including former MLAs of Prayagraj region (comprising districts of Prayagraj, Pratapgarh and Kaushambi) have expressed their anger and one has now joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Prominent among those miffed include former MLA from Raniganj seat of Pratapgarh, Shivkant Ojha who has now joined the BJP. Likewise, from Handia assembly seat, Prashant Singh wanted the ticket, but the SP fielded Hakim Lal Bind. Similarly, social worker and an active worker Manju Pathak too is unhappy after being denied a ticket which has been given to a young former student leader from the city Sandeep Yadav. Desperate over not getting ticket, former MLA Satyaveer Munna too has expressed his pain on social media. After the formation of Raniganj assembly seat in 2012, former minister Shivakant Ojha was not given ticket. SP has fielded Vinod Dubey as party’s candidate. Agitated over the development, Ojha has re-joined the BJP after a gap of 14 years. Ojha was elected MLA for the first time in 1991 from Patti assembly seat. When Rajendra Pratap Singh (Moti Singh) joined BJP in 1996, Ojha was sent to the adjacent seat of Birapur and he won in 2002 also. He also served in the cabinet of former CMs Kalyan Singh, Rajnath Singh and Ram Prakash Gupta. In 2009, he contested the Lok Sabha elections on a BSP ticket but lost. When Raniganj was made a separate assembly of Pratapgrah, he contested as SP candidate and was elected in 2012. He was also part of Akhilesh Yadav’s cabinet. Recently, he had come on the target of SP after a fight in an internal party meeting in Raniganj. Similarly, Prashant Singh, a former MLA from Handia and son of former MLA from the same seat Mahesh Narayan Singh, has not been given ticket from Handia and he, people close to him say, has even made up his mind to contest the upcoming election from some other party or as an independent candidate. This time, SP has given the ticket to Hakim Lal Bind, who is the sitting MLA from BSP on the seat and recently joined the SP. Being denied ticket from Allahabad North seat, SP’s woman leader Manju Pathak too staged a sit-in in front of the district party office on Thursday, alleging discrimination in ticket distribution. After several hours, she and her supporters were persuaded by the district president of SP, Yogesh Chandra Yadav to end her agitation. At the same time, supporters of former MLA Ram Sevak Patel held a meeting in Nahawai and Aandhi to protest against ticket being given to Sandeep Patel from Meja. Considering the meeting a violation of the code of conduct, ADO Panchayat, Meja Vishwaprabhakar Mishra has filed a case against two named and 250 unknown people at Manda police station. Desperate over not getting ticket, former MLA Satyaveer Munna has expressed pain on social media. The SP leader and former MLA from Soraon has written on his FB page: “Sir, I should have been informed about my crime. Be it any movement of the party, programme, working in two Lok Sabha by-elections, elections of MLC etc, dharna, demonstration etc, me and my family have stood in the forefront …”. The former MLA has written that that for years, night and day, he has worked for the party but now after arrival of an outsider, he has been forced to face humiliation. This time, SP has given ticket to Geeta Pasi from Soraon. Commenting on the developments, district president of SP, Yogesh Yadav said, “When the tickets are given, some of our family members are bound to be unhappy but we, the Samajwadis, will always work together and ensure the win of SP in this assembly election”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sp-facing-protests-defections-over-ticket-denial-in-prayagraj-region-101643397724551.html
29-01-2022||Chandigarh||Yamunanagar: Sadhaura residents up in arms over poor facilities at CHC||The protest by residents against the unavailability of doctors at the Community Health Centre (CHC) on the premises of PWD Rest House in Yamunanagar's Sadhaura entered its third day on Friday. The centre is the only healthcare facility in the block and residents are forced to travel for 30 kilometres to Yamunanagar for access to even basic facilities.Sadhaura has a population of around 87,000 and the CHC has only a single doctor against seven sanctioned posts. Two locals, Rajan Arora and Amit Setia, started an indefinite hunger strike on Wednesday and are demanding more doctors and better sanitation at the health centre. Setia said that there is no private hospital nearby and the residents who can afford it have to travel to Yamunanagar for access to private or government hospitals. “Recently, the hospital authorities could not even provide basic medicine like Crocin or the rabies vaccine. Not only this, there is no proper facility for first aid, ECG, ultrasound etc,” he said. Another resident Sudhir Bhalla, said that at least 76 villages are dependent on the CHC, which is surrounded by wild growth and animals and the premises is waterlogged.The residents, led by Arora, had also held a protest in 2017 for a day and lifted it after a couple of doctors joined the centre. However, the residents claimed that they left within a week and the irregularities continue since then. As per the norms of the World Health Organisation (WHO), the doctor-population ratio should be 1:1,000. Civil Surgeon Dr Vijay Dahiya wasn’t available for comments. However, senior medical officer Dr Amrish Mangla, in-charge of the CHC, said that the hospital currently has 10 beds and the process to upgrade it is underway as per Ayushmann Bharat Scheme. “Out of nine posts at CHC and PHC Rasulpur, six are vacant. Dr Dahiya met the protestors on Thursday and assured them that two doctors, who were sent on deputation to the city, will be sent back. Both joined today and more will join soon,” Dr Mangla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/yamunanagar-sadhaura-residents-up-in-arms-over-poor-facilities-at-chc-101643397667807.html
29-01-2022||Noida||Poster, cut-out biz in Ghaziabad hit due to poll campaign curbs||With about 11 days left for the campaign to end for the first phase of the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, traders dealing in poll paraphernalia in Ghaziabad, who make a quick buck in the poll season, are a harried lot. Political parties and candidates are not placing orders for publicity materials as they used to during previous elections, they said, adding that campaigning is dull on account of restrictions put in place by the Election Commission of India (ECI) in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Ghaziabad district usually sees hectic campaigning during elections, but this time around, political rallies, road shows, banners and posters lined up on streets and groups of supporters on boisterous campaign trails are missing. Taking into account the situation that has arisen because of the pandemic, the ECI barred roadshows, padayatras, cycle/bike/vehicle rallies and poll processions till January 31. A lot of election campaign materials are used through these modes but there are restrictions this time since the poll schedule was announced by the ECI on January 8. In the wake of finalisation of candidates for phase 1 of the assembly elections, the ECI decided to allow physical meetings (from January 28 to February 8) of concerned political parties or contesting candidates in designated open spaces with a maximum of 500 persons. Traders and businessmen involved in arranging publicity materials during elections say that their business is dull and orders have dropped as much by 80-90 percent as compared to the previous assembly election in 2017. “The business is dull and there is absolutely no demand for cut-outs this time. During previous elections, there were about 30 orders for big cut-outs of the candidates. Our business has come down by 80-90 percent. There are about 250 flex-machines with different businessmen in the entire district and we have about 10 people who make cut-outs and other outdoor publicity materials for candidates,” said Nitin Vasudeva, a trader based in Navyug Market. “As of now, we don’t have orders from the major political parties, while orders from other candidates have also not arrived so far. As of now, candidates are focusing more on online and door-to-door campaigns,” Vasudeva added. Even those who are involved in printing pamphlets, stickers and other materials, which are generally used during door-to-door campaigning, said that there is hardly any business. “We prepare pamphlets, banners, posters, stickers and there is hardly any demand for them now. There are some orders in the pipeline, but business this time is about 40 percent less than the previous state election. Even though symbols have been allotted, candidates are shying away from placing bulk orders. They are expecting the ECI restrictions to go after January 31. So, in a sense, we are expecting orders only after January 31,” said Nakul Juneja, who runs a flex-printing business on the Delhi-Meerut Road. In Ghaziabad, there are 52 contesting candidates in the fray for the five assembly seats of Loni, Muradnagar, Sahibabad, Ghaziabad and Modinagar, which will go to polls on February 10 for the first phase of the election. “Traders are expecting business to pick up once the restrictions go away. Already, we have suffered during the pandemic due to lockdowns and curbs and were expecting to get much-needed business ahead of the election. But it has not been the case so far. Be it tent operators, caterers, transport providers, almost everyone is feeling the heat as there is no brisk business this time around due to these restrictions,” said Pradeep Gupta, convener of Vyapari Ekta Samiti, a traders’ union based in Indirapuram. The ECI though increased the expenditure limit for each candidate from Rs28 lakh to Rs40 lakh. “Door-to-door campaigning is the best form to reach out to voters and convert them to votes. During past decades, this form had gained momentum but with restrictions setting in, candidates are trying to reach out through online modes,” said KK Sharma, associate professor (history) from MM College, Modinagar. Restrictions have forced the political heavyweights to come out in the open for door-to-door campaigns or closed-door meetings. Leaders belonging to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have already hit the streets with door-to-door campaigns in several districts of western UP and other party leaders are likely to follow suit. The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) national president Mayawati will launch her poll campaign from Agra through a public meeting on February 2.
29-01-2022||Bangalore||K’taka may reopen schools from Monday: Edu min||Karnataka Primary and Secondary Education Minister BC Nagesh on Friday said that schools might be reopened in Bengaluru from Monday onwards. He, however, said that the final decision will be taken based on the recommendation of the experts. “Since Covid-19 cases in Bengaluru are coming down, I will seek an opinion in the Cabinet on reopening of schools,” Nagesh said. The department had stopped the physical classes for Class 1 to 9 from January 6 after a spike in the cases was reported in the state. While the high positivity rate was a cause of concern, the minister said that the recent reduction in cases and low hospitalisation has paved the way to reopen the schools. “The Covid-19 cases have been reported in single to four digits. However, the pattern of increase in numbers is a cause for concern,” BC Nagesh said. He also said that students would benefit from physical classes again, especially as the exams are nearing. He said the education department is well-equipped to manage schools once they reopen. Nagesh said, “With the pace of vaccination of children aged 15-17 and the city positivity rate suggesting the curve is flattening, we are confident of restarting offline classes.” The minister added that parents and teachers have been calling him to start schools since the usage of mobile phones was having a negative impact and that students were unable to participate in any kind of physical activity. “Barring residential schools, most others hadn’t shown any mass infection rate among children. We are telling parents that schools are safer than home, ” he added. Chief minister(CM) Basvaraj Bommai had said on Thursday that he has sought a report from the Covid technical advisory committee (TAC). Once he gets the report, he will convene a meeting to discuss the reopening of schools in Bengaluru and relaxing other curbs. “We discussed several issues during the Cabinet meeting. We’ll take a final decision after we get a report from the experts,” the CM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ktaka-may-reopen-schools-from-monday-edu-min-101643397606771.html
29-01-2022||Chandigarh||PEC to reopen for PhD, MTech students from February 1||Punjab Engineering College (PEC) has asked PhD and all MTech students to report for physical classes from February 1. The institute has asked BTech students of 6th and 8th semesters to report back to campus. Also, classes of BTech fourth semester students will start in physical mode from February 14. However, all the students have to be fully vaccinated while attending the offline classes and labs. The decision comes a day after the Chandigarh administration allowed universities and colleges to reopen from February. PEC director Baldev Setia said, “We have received several representations to allow students to attend classes and labs physically. We are also contemplating calling other batches very soon.” Meanwhile, Panjab University (PU) has not made an announcement regarding the further reopening of the campus for students. Currently, the semester exams are underway at PU and its affiliated colleges. In the last semester, PU had allowed final-year students of only some PG courses to attend physical classes. PEC to establish a central research facility PEC is also in process of establishing a central research facility on campus. It will be used by faculty, research scholars and students and is being set up as a part of the institute’s centenary celebration. PEC has assigned professor Sanjeev Kumar of the applied sciences department as the facility’s coordinator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pec-to-reopen-for-phd-mtech-students-from-february-1-101643397546759.html
29-01-2022||Other||NIA to move Supreme Court over Kerala twin blasts case acquittals||The National Investigation Agency is planning to move the Supreme Court against the verdict of the Kerala high court that acquitted all accused in the Kozhikode twin blasts case and passed serious observations against the premier probe agency, said a senior official of the agency.The agency has got the permission from the ministry concerned, the official said on the condition of anonymity. Twin blasts rocked the north Kerala city on March 3, 2006. The first accused in the case, Thadiyantavida Nazeer, a self-styled commander of terrorist outfit Lakshar- e-Taiba, was arrested from a village along the India-Bangladesh border in 2009. The NIA had charge-sheeted seven persons in 2010 and one of the accused was later killed in an encounter with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir. Two accused are still at large and two were acquitted by the trial court while Thadiyantavida Nazeer and S Shafaz were awarded double life-term in 2013. This was the first case taken up by the NIA in the state. Besides acquittal of both, a division bench of Justice K Vinod Chandran and Justice Ziyad Rahman also dismissed an appeal filed by the NIA challenging the acquittal of two other accused earlier, Abdul Halim and Abubacker Yousef. “There is no reliable evidence on the preparation or commission of the crime that incriminates the accused beyond a reasonable doubt,” the court observed in 101-page verdict. The court also asked what is the need of a laborious investigation if it is permissible in law to obtain evidences from an accused by compulsion. Allowing so will be an incentive for investigation agency “to sit comfortably in the shade, rubbing red pepper into the devil’s eyes rather than go about in the sun hunting up evidences,” the court observed while quoting from the book “The History of Criminal Law.” The court said the alleged conspiracy was not proven beyond reasonable doubt and the investigating agency failed to discover anything related to the crime. The approver in the case is not a reliable witness and his role in the crime is very suspect and cannot be believed. Investigators were groping in the dark for almost four years until the third accused confessed about his role in the Kozhikode case after being arrested in another blast case, the court observed. One of the accused in the case had turned an approver during the trial and the court found that the case was built up on his disclosure. “In the present case there is no lengthy statement, but the disclosure record confession linking the accused with the crime so unabashedly that none could escape innuendo. This is flagrant violation of Section 25 and 26 of the Evidences Act and tends to impress upon the court the need to convict, even without proof beyond reasonable doubt,” said the verdict. The court cited another lapse on the part of the NIA. The agency said that the first and third accused had allegedly carried out two experimental blasts on a beach in the city earlier but there were no discovery of material objects from the site. After planting two low-intensity bombs the accused later informed the district collector and media houses about them. Two people including a policeman were injured when one of the bombs went off while searching for them. Initially the case was investigated by the state police but later handed over to the NIA. The NIA said blasts were carried out by the accused to protest denial of bail to the accused in second Marad communal riot case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/niato-move-supreme-court-over-kerala-twin-blasts-case-acquittals-101643397365176.html
29-01-2022||Bangalore||Omicron dominates third wave,found in 67% cases: K’taka health minister||Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar on Friday said that Omicron was the dominant variant in the third wave of Covid-19. According to the data released by the minister, 67.5% of cases in the third wave found during genome sequencing were of Omicron variant and 26% of Delta variants. In comparison, 90%of the cases in the second wave belonged to the Delta wave, the minister added. The data released by the minister showed that out of 7,512 cases sent for genome sequencing till January 22 (since the beginning of the pandemic) 4,431 cases were of Delta variant, while Omicron accounted for 1,115 cases. A further break-up of the data stated that till December 2021, 5,659 samples were sent for sequencing, out of which 4,027 were found to be Delta variant. During this time, 66 cases of Omicron variant were reported. However, from December 1 to January 22, 1,853 samples were sent for sequencing, out of which 1,049 were found to be Omicron variant and 404 were of Delta variant. Earlier on Friday, the minister had announced that the Delta variant of the coronavirus and its sub-lineages make up 75% of the Covid-19 cases reported in the state. This is followed by the Omicron variant. However, after the error in analysis (since Omicron was reported only in December) was pointed out, the minister issued a clarification with the new breakup. Meanwhile, Karnataka chief minister (CM) Basavaraj Bommai said that the government will review the coronavirus situation in the state soon, and after going through the expert committee report, hold a meeting within three to four days to take a decision regarding the curbs.“We (ministers) have discussed several issues, including Covid situation, how to manage it in the coming days, representations given by various organisations (for relaxations) and the functioning of schools and colleges among others. We have referred it to the experts’ committee,” he said. Last week, the Karnataka government had decided to lift the weekend curfew, while deciding to continue the night curfew between 10 pm to 5 am every day, and all other Covid curbs, including 50% capacity rules in public places. The Karnataka health department has also directed the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and other district administrations to follow purposive testing for Covid-19 for early detection of symptomatic cases. The testing strategy is in line with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)’s new guidelines. The health department, in the directive, has said that only symptomatic (cough, fever, sore throat, loss of taste and/or smell, breathlessness and/or other respiratory symptoms) individuals, at-risk contacts of laboratory-confirmed cases, and international travellers should be tested. The at-risk contacts of laboratory-confirmed cases should be tested based on their age and co-morbidities. “In a hospital setting, testing may be undertaken as per discretion of the treating doctor, with the following considerations. No emergency procedure (including surgeries and deliveries) should be delayed for lack of a test. Patients should not be referred to other facilities for lack of a testing facility. All arrangements should be made to collect and transfer samples to testing facilities, mapped to the health facility,” the circular read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/omicron-dominates-third-wave-found-in-67-cases-k-taka-health-minister-101643397304739.html
29-01-2022||Lucknow||Candidates for fourth phase UP poll: Mayawati plays social engineering card||Lucknow: Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati applied the social engineering formula in the selection of candidates for the fourth phase election in 60 assembly constituencies in nine districts of central Uttar Pradesh. The BSP chief announced party candidates for 53 assembly seats on Friday, giving tickets to 14 candidates of Dalit communities, 11 of other backward castes (OBCs), 13 of upper castes and 15 Muslim candidates. The candidates on the remaining seven seats will be announced later. The polling on the 60 seats that have a large chunk of upper caste, Dalit and backward community voters, will be held on February 23. Earlier, riding on the social engineering formula, the BSP formed government in the 2007 assembly elections. In the 2017 assembly elections, out of the 60 seats the BSP bagged merely one - Purwa in Unnao district, while it was runner-up on 16 seats. The lone winner from Purwa assembly seat Anil Singh has defected to the BJP. The BSP also announced candidates for nine assembly seats located in Lucknow district. It has fielded four Muslim candidates: Salauddin Siddiqui from Bakshi- Ka Talab, Mohammad Jalish Khan from Sarojni Nagar, Kayam Raza Khan from Lucknow West and Mohammad Sarwar Mallick from Lucknow North. The Dalit candidates on the two reserved seats include Jagdish Rawat from Malihabad and Devendra Kumar Saroj from Mohanlalganj. The BSP has given ticket to three upper caste candidates- Ashish Kumar Sinha from Lucknow East, Ashish Chandra Sriavastava from Lucknow Central and Anil Pandey from Lucknow Cantt seat. Former minister Nakul Dubey who was runner-up in Bakshi Ka Talab will not contest the assembly election. Dubey has been entrusted with the task to mobilize the upper caste- Brahmin community in various districts. On majority of the assembly seats, Mayawati has fielded new candidates, some of them contesting assembly election for the first time. She has also fielded candidates who had earlier contested election on the BSP ticket, including former minister Aneesh Khan alias Phool Babu from Bisalpur in Pilibhit district, Meesam Ammar Rizvi from Mahmoodabad in Sitapur district, Abdul Mannan from Sandila in Hardoi district and Gayacharan Dinkar from Naraini in Banda district. Later, in a tweet Mayawati alleged that there was a deal between the ruling BJP and the SP. The way religion and caste politics were dominating the UP-assembly elections, as evident from media news, it seemed that all this was happening only under an internal agreement between the SP and the BJP. The BJP and SP leaders were trying to polarize the election between Hindus and Muslims. They were also trying to give caste colour to the election and the people should remain alert, she said. 
29-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s aging sewerage and stormwater drainage system set for an upgrade||The Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) has started the process to upgrade and replace the city’s 50-year-old sewerage system for the first time since the UT came into being.As a first step, the civic body will appoint a consultant to analyse the existing structure, including the sewage treatment plant capacities, and suggest options to improve it. The report will be completed in eight months. MC has already invited firms to provide consultancy services for the project. “Improving the system will either require total replacement of the sewers or modifications. Technologies are now available that can improve the existing sewer channels. The consultant’s report will indicate what options can be employed at which places in the city,” said a senior MC official. The consultant will assess how the entire underground sewerage system can be upgraded by adopting latest technology, without hindering the existing functional system.“A detailed project report (DPR) will be prepared by the consultant, which will have parameters like procurement plan, costs estimates and time-frames for the entire work,” said the official.Before a plan is finalised, a survey of the entire system will be undertaken, including topo-survey for necessary condition assessment of the existing sewerage infrastructure, sewerage networks, pumping stations and other associated work.The upgrade will be done keeping in mind the future needs of the city. “To meet the needs of future, the entire city’s sewerage network including pipes and manholes will be mapped. Areas which are still to have sewers will also be mapped. A key part of the consultative process will be prioritisation of the sewers in terms of their existing condition and necessity for rehabilitation or replacement,” said the official.Why an upgrade?The official, said “The city’s sewerage system is quite old and requires a major overhaul. At several places, relaying of new sewer lines is much needed.”Frequent breakdowns of the sewer lines are often reported across the city as it struggles to handle flow much higher than its design capacity. Similarly, the old stormwater drainage system gets flooded every monsoon because of its low capacity.Chandigarh has both brick and pipe sewers laid in four phases as the city expanded. One of the particular concerns is the brick-and-mortar sewer which became operational shortly after the foundation of the city.“There are several places where these have majorly thinned out due to continuous erosion. Chemical reactions because of toxic gases in the sewers have caused the damage. There are fears they might even collapse,” said the official. Even the carrying capacity of the sewers is low as the population increases in the city.“The existing stormwater drainage system is inadequate to manage the discharge during heavy rainfall. The system was designed in phases, for 15mm rainfall per hour in Phase 1 (northern sectors), 20mm in Phase 2 (central sectors), and 25mm in Phase 3 (southern sectors),” said another MC official.Significantly, the civic body has already initiated the process to upgrade the five sewage treatment plants (STPs) in the city. However, low and poor capacity of the main trunk sewers will handicap any improvement in the STP.
29-01-2022||Bangalore||‘Building new K’taka’: Bommai completes 6 months in office||Karnataka chief minister (CM) Basavaraj Bommai on Friday completed six months in the office. The sailing has not been smooth for the minister to say the least. During his regime, the state has been riddled with one crisis after another in addition to the challenges that Bommai inherited from his predecessor. “We are on a solitary mission to ensure dignified life for even the last person in the society. We have already pledged to provide a fair share for all in the development. We will work unitedly to fulfil this promise to the people of Karnataka,” Bommai said at a simple function at the Vidhana Soudha to celebrate his six months in office.He said that the government had taken up several pro-people measures in line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision. “Our government is working with a motto of ‘building a new India by building a new Karnataka.’ I have received full cooperation from my ministerial colleagues, legislators, party functionaries and workers in this endeavour. Even the media persons have extended full cooperation for the development of the state during the difficult time of Covid-19 and floods,” Bommai said.During the occasion, an 82-page booklet was also released. The booklet lists several programmes which Bommai has claimed credit for. Incidentally, it was also the 62nd birthday of the chief minister.The CM adopted 11 cows from the Rashtrothana Gau Shala(cow shelter) on his birthday which his office called as the “way for cow protection”.Seeking public support in future as well, he said his government is ‘Sarvavyapi, Sarvasparshi’ (ubiquitous and touching every life).“Please support me based on my works. We will work for you in a manner that your trust on us is not broken. We will work to honour your faith in us. We will make Karnataka a completely developed State,” Bommai said.Though Bommai’s name was among several others for the top job, Yediyurappa had backed the former to replace him on July 28, aggravating senior leaders of the state who were in the race.He also will be presenting his first budget in March. “(The) state budget will be presented in the coming days. It would also be an election year budget. Focus would be on stabilising the state economy, at the same time I intend to formulate new programmes for comprehensive development of the state and welfare of all the communities. We have all the dimensions and I have resolved to lend direction and pace to achieve the target,” Bommai said.“He is an accidental chief minister and will continue (in his post),” professor Chambi Puranik, a Bengaluru-based political analyst said. While Bommai continues to battle adversities on all fronts, including from his own party, his own track record has not been impressive so far with a series of corruption allegations and his growing radical legislations.It is widely believed that the Anti-Conversion Bill, which has been passed in the Lower House of state legislature in the winter session, was Bommai’s idea.“He does not have any real strength (politically) and has to depend on Yediyurappa and a small group of loyalists. He also has an obligation to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). He brought the Bill to appease the Hindutva lobby,” Puranik alleged.Having lost the Hanagal seat in the October bypoll in his home district of Haveri and a poor outing in the MLC polls in December, Bommai has his job cut out, which includes assuaging rising tempers over the Cabinet expansion.There has also been an increase in crimes in the state.“When sentiments are hurt, it is natural that there are actions and reactions.People should keep these sentiments in mind and act accordingly,” Bommai had said on October 13 last year. The statement had sparking off huge protests.On January 25, at least 34 academician, writers, historians and intellectuals had shot off a letter to the CM over the ‘rising intolerance’. In reply to the letter, the CM had promised to protect the rights of the minorities in the state.With Agency Inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/building-new-k-taka-bommai-completes-6-months-in-office-101643397184560.html
29-01-2022||Other||Telangana Congress chief seeks probe on marriage of Ias officer’s daughter||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president and parliament member A Revanth Reddy on Friday demanded a judicial probe into the reports that a senior IAS officer had allegedly made a major contracting firm pay for the expenses of his daughter’s marriage last month.Reddy was referring to an investigative report carried by a news website, The News Minute, saying that the expenses for the five-star wedding ceremony of Telangana special chief secretary (Irrigation) Rajat Kumar’s daughter, held between December 17 and 21 in Hyderabad, were borne by Megha Engineering and Infrastructure Limited (MEIL), allegedly through its shell companies.“The allegations are of highly serious nature and cannot be dismissed without a probe as the MEIL is constructing massive power substations and transmission lines worth several hundred crores for the prestigious Kaleshwaram project of ₹1.15 Lakh crore and Rajat Kumar is heading the department,” Reddy said in a letter to chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao.He reminded that the chief minister himself was holding the irrigation portfolio and hence, owed an explanation to the allegations. “It is shocking that even 48 hours after the publication of the report, there was no denial or clarification from the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO),” he said.Quoting the news report, the PCC chief said two top executives of the MEIL were closely involved in booking venues at three hotels of Taj Group in Hyderabad and undertaking other liaison woks for the wedding of Rajat Kumar’s daughter. They used their company email IDs and also a dummy email ID for the correspondence with the hotel management, he pointed out.“I request you to kindly order a judicial probe into the allegations to ascertain the nexus between Rajat Kumar and MEIL. It must be clarified whether Rajat Kumar took favours by making the MEIL or its shell companies or other companies pay his private bills. What favours did he return to those companies by making them pay bills of over ₹50 Lakh?” he asked.Revanth said even if the allegations are false, the chief minister must ask Rajat Kumar to reveal the sources of money which was paid for the exorbitant bills. “If the allegations are true, a case of corruption should be booked against Rajat Kumar and other officials involved in the wedding planning,” he demanded.HT tried to contact TRS spokesman Palla Rajeshwar Reddy to get his comment. He did not respond to calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/telangana-congress-chief-seeks-probe-on-marriage-of-ias-officer-s-daughter-101643397065893.html
29-01-2022||Chandigarh||Protest over production of banned plastic bags: NGO members spar with PPCB officials, industrialists in Ludhiana||Continuing their weekly protest against the failure of Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) in imposing a ban on manufacturing of plastic carry bags, Jalandhar-based non-governmental organisation Action Group Against Plastic Pollution (AGAPP) staged a protest outside the PPCB office at Focal Point on Friday. Following the protest, the PPCB officials arranged a meeting between the plastic industry representatives and NGO members on Friday to discuss steps which can be taken to stop illegal manufacturing of the bags.Industrialists objected to the slogans given by NGO to ban plastic at the meeting, reasoning that the government has only banned plastic carry bags and manufacturing of packaging material is allowed.NGO members, meanwhile, entered into heated arguments with both PPCB officials and industry representatives.Later, members of other NGOs including Naroa Punjab Manch and Punjabi Bhasha Passar Bhaichara also joined the protest.AGAPP president Navneet Bhullar accused PPCB of adopting a lackadaisical approach in imposing a ban on plastic carry bags despite a ban by the state in April 2016, saying “Now the PPCB is claiming it has tightened the noose around manufacturers, but the civic body has failed to stop the trade and use of the banned plastic carry bags. There is lack of coordination between both the departments and both are now running away from their respective responsibility.”“We have also written to Chief Minister’s office in the past, but nothing concrete has been done at ground level. We will continue to stage weekly protests outside the offices of PPCB and MC until the ban is imposed in the industrial hub of the state, as not only the environment but the human lives are also being impacted badly due to use of plastic. The government should also spread awareness among the public to use compostable bags,” he added. Industrialists bat for bags with width above 75 micronsPlastic Manufacturers and Traders Association’s Punjab president Gurdeep Singh Batra suggested the state allow manufacturing of bags with width above 75 microns—which are also allowed by the union government—saying that it will help the industry which is going through a rough patch. Batra claimed that most of the banned plastic carry bags are being brought into the city from other states like Gujrat, before adding that authorities should work on putting a stop to that instead of harassing members the local plastic industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/protest-over-production-of-banned-plastic-bags-ngo-members-spar-with-ppcb-officials-industrialists-in-ludhiana-101643396827544.html
29-01-2022||Chandigarh||Hoshiarpur: 71 staffers on poll duty face FIR for skipping rehearsal||Around six dozen government employees on election duty in Hoshiarpur district face FIRs for skipping the first rehearsal held recently for the Punjab assembly elections scheduled for February 20.District election officer Apneet Riyait on Friday said that FIRs will be lodged against 71 such employees who were absent and failed to respond to show-cause notices issued subsequently. “Their department heads have been written to register FIRs against them. Similar strict action will be taken in future too, against the officers and employees who do not take the election duty seriously,” she said. Riyait said those seeking exemption on the grounds of Covid-19 infection should submit positive reports issued only by government health centres or laboratories. She said if the report is found to be fake, the licence of the lab concerned will be cancelled, and an FIR will be lodged against the hospital or the lab concerned as well as against the erring employee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hoshiarpur-71-staffers-on-poll-duty-face-fir-for-skipping-rehearsal-101643396826205.html
29-01-2022||Other||Hospitalisation low in Kerala as Omicron less severe: Data||In the midst of an Omicron wave in Kerala, Covid-19 cases tripled in last three weeks but hospital records show that fast infections reduced severity considerably even as the state reported another spike with 54,337 cases on Friday. A comparison with second and third wave shows ICU and ventilator use dropped by 80 per cent this time. Experts say though Omicron variant spreads fast, its severity is reduced. They attribute low prevalence of severity to improved immunity through vaccination, immunity through infection and booster doses to people with co-morbidity. “Omicron is less severe because it doesn’t enter lungs and cause pneumonia. And it spreads at a time when people built a strong immunity,” said public health expert Dr N M Arun, adding that though the new variant is hyper-mutant and hyper transmissible, it seems less severe. Data from the health department shows among 333,447 active cases on Friday, 11, 221 who form around four per cent are admitted in various hospitals. “We feel Omicron wave started on Jan 1 in the state. First week infection rate was 45 per cent, second week 148 per cent and third week it rose to 215 per cent. Now infection rate is coming down slowly,“ said health minister Veena George adding that next three weeks are crucial for the state. She said effective intervention helped contain death rate to an extent. Meanwhile, the state reported 54,337 new cases on Friday with a test positivity rate of 47.05 per cent after 1,15,898 samples were tested, according to the health ministry data. Ernakulam topped the chart with 10,571 cases followed by Thiruvananthapuram district 6735 and Thrissur with 6092 cases. With 13 deaths and unaccounted backlog deaths of 81, total fatalities rose to 52,786.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hospitalisation-low-in-kerala-as-omicron-less-severedata-101643396824608.html
29-01-2022||Lucknow||Closure of all educational institutions in UP extended till Feb 6||LUCKNOW The state government on Friday again extended the closure of all educational institutions, including schools, degree colleges, universities and technical institutions, in Uttar Pradesh for physical classes till February 6 due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation. The online classes, however, will continue. Last week on January 22, the state government had ordered the closure of educational institutions till January 30. On Friday, the government decided to extend the closure by another week till February 6 to put an end to all speculation and rumours on social media over the reopening of educational institutions in the state. The order regarding closure of educational institutions was issued by additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi on Friday. Though Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh came down below 8000 on Friday, a government official said it was necessary to extend the closure of schools and colleges by another week in the larger interest of the students. In the last 24 hours, a fake government order went viral on social media announcing all schools and colleges would remain closed till February 15. Awasthi, however, issued a contradiction, saying the viral order was fake. The order for closure of schools has come at a time when a few private school associations are demanding that the government allow reopening of schools so they may resume physical classes. Their argument was that if malls and markets were open and children were going there freely, why were school unsafe for them? The associations were demanding that physical classes should resume for students of classes 9 to 12 as a large number of kids between 15 to 18 years got jabbed since January 10. The government, however, refused to take note of their demand. The decision to keep educational institutions closed was welcomed by students and parents in general. They said it was absolutely necessary to discontinue physical classes as the safety of students was important.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/closure-of-all-educational-institutions-in-up-extended-till-feb-6-101643396466406.html
29-01-2022||Chandigarh||HC grants parole to former Punjab CM Beant Singh’s assassin Rajoana||The Punjab and Haryana high court has granted parole to former Punjab chief minister Beant Singh’s assassination convict Balwant Singh Rajoana. The parole was granted by the bench of justice Ajay Tewari and justice Pankaj Jain after a report from the Ludhiana police confirmed that Rajoana’s father, Jaswant Singh, has died on January 22 and the bhog ceremony is to be held on January 31.“In these circumstances, the petition stands disposed of with a direction to the authorities to allow the petitioner to attend the bhog ceremony of his father with adequate police escort on 31.1.2022 from 1:00 pm to 2:00 pm,” the bench ordered.The court was hearing plea from Rajoana filed after authorities rejected his request for the same. Rajoana is lodged in the Burail jail in Chandigarh. Rajoana faces death term for assassinating the then Punjab chief minister in a bomb blast outside the Punjab secretariat on August 31, 1995. A Punjab Police employee, Dilawar Singh, had acted as a human bomb in the incident. The incident led to the death of 17 people, and 15 received serious injuries. Jagtar Singh Hawara, Paramjit Singh Bheora and Rajoana are among those convicted in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-grants-parole-to-former-punjab-cm-beant-singh-s-assassin-rajoana-101643396464697.html
29-01-2022||Other||Varanasi: Modi govt ignoring interests of Army men: Cong leader Supriya Shrinate||VARANASI Congress national spokesperson Supriya Shrinate on Friday alleged that interests of the army men are being ignored and the facilities, which they were getting, are now being curtailed by the Central government. Srineta also released a booklet regarding this in the presence of Congress leader Vijendra Singh. Addressing a press conference here, Srineta claimed that the Congress government had increased the pension of ex-servicemen thrice between 2004 and 2012, giving them an additional financial benefit of ₹7,000 crore. “The Congress government had issued an order on 17 February, 2014 and approved the ‘One Rank, One Pension’ (OROP) with effect from 1 April, 2014. In this, it was decided that all the soldiers retiring from the same rank after serving for the same time should be given the same pension, even if their retirement date is different, and the benefit of pension increase in future will also be given to the old pensioners,” she said. Srineta said that rejecting the OROP order of the Congress government, the BJP government released new order on 7 November, 2015 and completely snatched the OROP from 30-40 percent of the retired soldiers of the army. The order said that military personnel, who took voluntary retirement after 1/07/14 in these three services, would not get OROP benefits. Several Congress leaders, including Vijendra Singh, Ajay Rai and Shailendra Singh, were present in the press conference. Meanwhile, Kashi region BJP leader Somnath Vishwakarma said that BJP Government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi protected all the interests of Army men and claimed that all allegations by Congress were false.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/varanasi-modi-govt-ignoring-interests-of-army-men-cong-leader-supriya-shrinate-101643396226233.html
29-01-2022||Noida||Ghaziabad: Binoculars, scissors among symbols of independent candidates||The district election office has allotted symbols such as binoculars, sand hourglass, scissors, computer, cricket bat, battery-torch, cup and saucer, pressure cooker and camera, among others, to the independent candidates and those of the unrecognised parties, officials said on Friday. According to the officials, there are about 12 such candidates, of total 52 candidates, who are fighting for the five constituencies -- Ghaziabad, Sahibabad, Modinagar, Loni, and Muradnagar -- in the Ghaziabad district which goes to polls on February 10 under the first phase of the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections. “All the contesting candidates in Ghaziabad have been allotted symbols. They were given a choice to select. Now, they can use their respective symbols to get their publicity material printed,” said Vivek Srivastava, additional district election officer.With the allotment of symbols, the candidates say that they will now move ahead with the full-fledged election campaign while observing the guidelines directed by the Election Commission of India. “I have been allotted scissors as a symbol. For me, it symbolises that I will trim all the bad things during this election and will work for the people of my constituency. I am taking things in a positive manner and will soon start with my election campaign. I am taking up issue of regularisation of 300-odd illegal colonies. Besides, I will also raise the issue of lack of government schools and colleges,” said Amit Sharma who is contesting as an independent from Ghaziabad constituency. Sudhir Kumar, another independent from Ghaziabad seat, said, “My symbol is binoculars, and to me it indicates farsightedness. I will be able to see far off in future and provide facilities to voters of my constituency. As the symbol has been allotted, I have given my first set of pamphlets to be printed and will try to reach every house.” The candidates of the national, state and registered political parties will use symbols of their respective parties. Among the prominent parties, the Bharatiya Janata Party (lotus), Congress (hand), Bahujan Samaj Party (elephant), Samajwadi Party (cycle), Rashtriya Lok Dal (handpump) and the Aam Aadmi Party (broom) have their regular symbols allotted to their candidates. The district has an eligible voters’ base of 2,899,484, according to the latest electoral roll.Overall, 11 districts of western UP having 58 assembly seats will go to polls in the first phase of the elections. As many as 623 candidates will fight for these seats, according to the official data. In the view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Election Commission of India has already directed that there will be no road shows and cycle/bike/vehicle rally till January 31. The ECI also decided to allow physical meetings (from January 28 to February 8) of political parties or contesting candidates in designated open spaces with a maximum of 500 persons or 50% of the capacity of the ground or the prescribed limit set by respective state disaster management authority.
29-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab: Daily Covid count slides to 3,096; 25 more succumb||The single-day Covid-19 infection count declined for the third consecutive day in Punjab, as a total of 3,096 people tested positive on Friday, against 4,189 cases on Thursday. The fatality count also dropped from 45 to 25 on Friday. The state also witnessed a dip in the daily positivity rate, as it dropped to 7.68%, with 3,096 out of the 40,303 samples turning out to be positive.SAS Nagar continued to be the worst-affected district which 693 cases, followed by 467 in Ludhiana, 234 in Jalandhar, 209 in Amritsar, 154 in Bathinda, 140 in Hoshiarpur and 138 in Patiala.The maximum seven deaths were registered in Ludhiana, whereas four people succumbed in Jalandhar. Two deaths each were registered in Amritsar, Ferozepur, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Pathankot and Sangrur while one each was reported from Ropar and Mansa.With 6,880 persons recovering from the virus, the number of cured persons has reached 6,84,944. A total of 7,35,139 persons have been found positive in the state so far, of whom 17,159 have died. There are 33,036 active cases. Meanwhile, 3,28,374 doses of the vaccine were administered on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-daily-covid-count-slides-to-3-096-25-more-succumb-101643395985798.html
29-01-2022||Delhi||Gangster Neeraj Bawana’s close aide shot dead in north Delhi’s Alipur||New Delhi: A 38-year-old alleged gangster, a relative of ganglord Neeraj Bawana, was shot dead by three men in outer north Delhi’s Alipur late on Thursday night, police said. The incident was captured on a CCTV, and clips of the footage were widely shared on the social media on Friday.Police said that the victim, Pramod Kumar, was a resident of Hiranki village in northwest Delhi. According to officers associated with the investigation, Kumar was married in Bawana’s family, and became a close associate of the top gangster. They said cases under sections of attempt to murder and Arms Act were registered against Kumar.Police said that three back-to-back PCR calls were received at the Alipur police station on Thursday around 10.44pm about a shootout. “As soon as we received this call, the local police rushed to the spot. Some people at the crime scene told them that some people on a bike fired at Kumar several times, and that he has been taken to the Max Hospital in Haiderpur. Doctors at the hospital told the police that Kumar was declared dead on arrival,” said Brijendra Yadav, Deputy Commissioner of Police (outer north).The DCP said nine empty cartridges were found at the crime scene.A second investigator said of late, Pramod usually stayed home in Alipur and did not move out often. On Thursday, he was walking near his house with one of his friend,when three people on a bike stopped near them, and as shown in the CCTV footage, opened fired at Kumar from a close range, the officer said. His friend, meanwhile, ran away, he added.The footage shows that Kumar attempted to run, but came under a hail of fire. Police said more than a dozen shots were fired at Kumar, of which only one bullet missed the target.The masked assailants then got away on the bike.Police said that they have formed several teams, and are looking for the suspects.When asked if Kumar’s murder was the result of a gang war, a police officer who asked not to be named said, “There is no specific reason why he was targeted at this particular time. He may have been on the target list for as long as he is associated with Neeraj Bawana.”Bawana is among Delhi’s top gangsters, and is currently lodged in Tihar Jail. He runs a wide network of extortion and contract killings. He leads a gang of over 100 members, many of whom are lodged in different jails in Delhi.Police said Kumar was arrested by the Special Cell for his involvement in the escape of another dreaded criminal, Bhura, from police custody in a local court at UP’s Baghpat.Bhura and his aides escaped after snatching two AK-47 rifles and a self loading rifle from the police team.In 2019, Kumar was also booked for firing outside the house of his rival Pravesh in northwest Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gangster-neeraj-bawana-s-close-aide-in-north-delhi-s-alipur-101643395865052.html
29-01-2022||Lucknow||Lucknow reports two deaths, 1,304 fresh Covid-19 cases||LUCKNOW: The state capital on Friday reported 1,304 fresh Covid-19 cases, 187 less than January 27 (1491 cases), and two deaths, taking the total number of Covid fatalities to 2,663 since the pandemic began. “One of the deceased patients was admitted to Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) and the other at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences. The patient, who died at SGPGI, was a 72-year-old man suffering from diabetes and hypertension. He was a resident of Lucknow. The second one was a 62-year-old woman, a resident of Mahoba and had been treated for heart problem earlier,” said Yogesh Raghuvanshi, district health education officer, Lucknow. “There are 12,277 active cases in Lucknow, which is the maximum in all 75 districts of the state. Gautam Buddha Nagar has 3,910 active cases,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general of association of international doctors. Among the new cases reported in Lucknow, Chinhat had 149 fresh Covid cases, Aliganj 198, Alambagh 156, Indira Nagar 121, Sarojininagar 93, NK Road 44 and Tudiyaganj 37. Among the total cases, over 600 were male and over 500 female patients. In all, 97 new cases had travel history and 338 were contacts of people who were tested positive, recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-reports-two-deaths-1-304-fresh-covid-19-cases-101643395743972.html
29-01-2022||Delhi||In fifth wave, Delhi Covid helpline got more calls for e-passes than hospital beds||The state government’s Covid-19 helpline number (1031) has seen a steady dip in the quantum of calls for tele-consultations in the past fortnight, showed official data, as daily infections continue to dip in the national capital. Moreover, enquiries on the helpline for e-passes (required for some groups to travel during the night and erstwhile weekend curfew) far outnumbered the number of calls asking about available hospital beds, which is concurrent with the lower rate of hospitalisations during the Omicron-fuelled surge.Also Read | 4k cases: Daily cases down for 3rd straight day, positivity falls to 8.6%The helpline received over 2,000 calls on January 12, a day before infections peaked during the ongoing surge (the city reported 28,867 fresh infections on January 13). The number of calls has, however, largely declined since then, according to a report presented in the Delhi Disaster Management Authority’s (DDMA) meeting on Thursday. HT has seen a copy of the report. The helpline received 1,981 calls on January 13, 1,784 on January 14, 1,585 on January 15 and then 1,334 the day after that.While the number of calls picked up on January 17 (touching 1,638), they have continued to dip thereafter, falling to 983 by January 25, the last date accounted for in the report.Most calls received every day were for tele-consultations, while a comparably large number made inquiries for e-passes, showed the report.For instance, of the 2,041 calls received on January 12, just over 500 sought tele-consultation services, while 450 had questions about e-passes. In comparison, just 201 made calls asking for hospital beds.The number of calls for tele-consultations picked up the next day, with 520 inquiries. But the number of calls for beds also fell to 185 that day, and was outnumbered by e-pass enquiries, at 385.Of the 983 calls received on January 25, 187 were for tele-consultations, 139 for e-passes, and just 49 asked for hospital beds.The data seems to corroborate what has been a characteristic of most infections caused during the city’s ongoing Covid-19 surge, which has been led by the Omicron variant of the coronavirus – most cases are mild, do not require hospitalisation, and can be treated at home, through tele-consultations with health care practitioners.The Delhi government’s 1031 Covid was launched in March 2020 as the pandemic set foot in the national capital, and was used more widely after the nationwide lockdown made it necessary for some groups of workers to arrange curfew passes and e-passes to step out during the curbs.A Delhi government official said the tele-consultations with doctors on the helpline started in May 2021, as the Capital reeled under the impact of the fourth wave of Covid-19, which left health care facilities in the city packed to the rafters.“The doctors [66 of whom are currently in service] work in shifts and are available 24 hours a day. The volume of calls is higher during the day and dips between 12am and 6am,” said an official who asked not to be identified.“Anybody who is not feeling well and calls the helpline is guided about the tests they need to get done, and is also prescribed basic medicines and best practices. If someone tests positive and does not know what they should do next, the doctors guide them through the helpline,” said an official.However, the official clarified that patients under home isolation are treated under a separate protocol and by a separate agency.“If a patient under home isolation suddenly feels unwell and reaches out to the helpline, their condition is assessed by the doctors and they are accordingly advised. It helps in immediate intervention and supports those in need,” said the official.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital, said tele-consultations have increased many fold during the pandemic.“This is useful for physicians and patients because Covid is an infectious disease that can transmit during physical interactions. In future too, tele-consultations should be increased for such diseases including mental illnesses, where stigma and privacy is of utmost importance,” he said.
29-01-2022||Delhi||Probe pending in half of northeast Delhi riots cases: Police to HC||New Delhi: Almost two years after the northeast Delhi riots rocked the city in February 2020, around 50% of the cases related to the incident are still pending investigation, according to the latest status report filed by the city police in the Delhi high court.The report, filed on January 27 before a bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh, showed that around 384 cases out of 758 are pending investigation at Delhi Police’s 11 police stations and its Crime Branch, and that charge sheets have been filed in 367 of the cases.In terms of absolute numbers, the highest of pending cases are in Bhajanpura (91), where a total of 132 cases of violence were registered; followed by Khajuri Khas, where 86 out of 147 cases are still pending investigation. Then come Karawal Nagar and Gokulpuri, which have 52 and 49 pending cases respectively. The least number of cases are pending in Sonia Vihar (two), where only five cases were registered.Though the city police registered a total of 758 cases, four FIRs were quashed by the Delhi high court. In three of cases, the police have filed a cancellation report; one case is pending before the Juvenile Justice Board (JJB), and one turned out not to be related to riots. Police added that the accused in five of the total 758 cases have been discharged.The main conspiracy case is being investigated by the Special Cell of the city police. The sleuths involved in that investigation have so far filed two charge sheets naming more than 15 accused, booking them for instigating and planning the riots.The police’s status report comes on a bunch of pleas seeking action against politicians and social activists, among others, for allegedly giving provocative speeches against the anti-Citizenship Amendment Bill (CAA) protests, leading to the violence in northeast Delhi which claimed 53 lives and left over 700 injured.Also Read | Parallels between riots, 9/11 terror attacks: Police in court during Khalid’s bail hearingThe matter could not be heard on Friday because the judge was on leave. The case was also transferred to a bench of justices Siddharth Mridul and Talwant Singh on Friday, after almost two years of its filing.During the previous hearing, on November 25 last year, the court asked Delhi Police to file an updated status report on the status of trial in the cases.In response, the police gave a break-up of the number of cases registered in each police station. It said that, out of 758 cases registered, 695 cases are being investigated by different police stations under the northeast District police.“Sixty-two cases which pertain to major incidents like murder etc. were transferred to the Crime Branch, where three dedicated Special Investigating Teams investigated these cases under continuous monitoring of superior officers. One case pertaining to the larger conspiracy behind the engineering of the communal riots in Delhi is being investigated by the Special Cell,” the report said.Police further submitted that the FIRs arising out of, or registered in connection with, the riots which took place in the north-east district in February-March 2020, have been or are being investigated promptly, diligently, and in accordance with the law. It also said that the investigations are credible, fair, honest, impartial, and complete in all aspects.Delhi Police earlier submitted before the high court that the speeches of some political leaders were being examined, and necessary action will be taken if it is found that their speech had any connection with the violence.
29-01-2022||Chandigarh||Northern Railways GM carries out surprise inspection at the Ludhiana railway station||Northern Railways general manager (GM) Ashutosh Gangal on Friday evening held an inspection at the railway station, monitoring the tracks and evaluating station premises. As many as fifty railway officials were part of the inspection.The GM had scheduled inspections at Kurukshetra, Ambala and Sirhind railway stations respectively, but the team extended their visit to include Ludhiana and the same was conveyed to the officials an hour in advance.An official, on the condition of anonymity, said sources from other railway stations had alerted the officials of a possible inspection, following which a cleanliness drive was initiated.The team completed the inspection at 6.45 pm. However, electricians could be seen repairing several defunct lights at platform number 4 during the inspection.Senior officials from the Railway Protection Force and Government Railway Police were present during the inspection, as were the station director Tarun Kumar and Ludhiana Railway chief commercial inspector Ajay Pal Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/northern-railways-gm-carries-out-surprise-inspection-at-the-ludhiana-railway-station-101643395084620.html
29-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi to make pollution certificate mandatory for vehicles at fuel pumps||New Delhi: The Delhi government will soon make pollution-under-control certificates (PUCC) mandatory to refuel at vends in the city, state environment minister Gopal Rai said on Friday, in a bid to tackle the city’s crippling air pollution levels, much of which is caused by vehicles.Senior officials said the government is looking to set up automated systems, such as RFID (used in FASTags), to check PUCs to avoid long queues at pumps and minimise the scope for fake documents.To be sure, it is not clear if an automated system, if implemented in the Capital, will apply to vehicles from outside the state where vehicle owners are only required to carry a printed copy of the PUCC.Rai said a draft policy has been prepared and will soon be put up on the state government’s website for comments from residents and other stakeholders.“This is a very ambitious policy... North India, including Delhi, faces grave air pollution, particularly in winter. With this policy in place, vehicles will be mandated to have their PUC certificate with them at the fuelling station. Thus, pollution levels of every single vehicle in the state will be kept in check from time to time. The policy will effectively help us ensure that polluting vehicles do not ply in Delhi and residents can enjoy cleaner air,” he said.According to the draft policy, people will have to carry a PUC certificate to get their vehicles fuelled at pumps. Officials said that those who refuse to renew their PUCC through a pollution test or who attempt to flee the spot will be fined of ₹10,000.Air pollution levels in Delhi touch hazardous levels every winter, and while they are driven initially by fumes from stubble fires in neighbouring states, vehicles are among the key sources of pollution at a local level.An analysis released by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) in November last year found that vehicles were the biggest contributor to local sources of particulate pollution in Delhi, with their real-time share touching more than 50% during the early phase of winter, between October 24 and November 8, 2021.Officials said the state transport department is working out a plan to set up emission testing centres at all fuel stations in Delhi so that commuters with invalid PUCCs can get a new certificate for their vehicle at the same spot.On October 15, HT reported on the government’s crackdown polluting vehicles by deploying teams at petrol pumps to conduct random checks on vehicles coming to fill fuel. By November 10, the transport department expanded the drive to all the 400-odd petrol pumps in Delhi and even asked all district magistrates (DMs) to deploy teams at the stations to check vehicles for PUCCs.Government records seen by HT showed that there are nearly one million vehicles, registered with the state transport department, without a valid PUCC in Delhi.During the crackdown at petrol pumps last year, the state transport department issued at least 850,000 challans against vehicles without a valid PUCC in October alone. The offence can attract a fine of ₹10,000, six months’ imprisonment or both. “Text messages are being sent to over 350,000 more vehicle owners, reminding them to get their vehicles tested for pollution,” said a senior transport official.Reena Gupta, advisor to the environment minister, said the government is also working on setting up technology based methods for effective implementation of this policy so as to ensure that vehicle owners as well as petrol pump owners don’t face any inconvenience. “While drafting the policy, it is being kept in mind to keep technology based interventions so as to ensure there are no long queues because of checking of PUC certificates. While the exact mechanisms are being worked out, these methods can also include technologies like RFID,” she said.PUCC is a mandatory document certifying that the vehicle’s tailpipe emission falls within permissible limits. Delhi has around 966 PUCC centres spread over 10 zones.Random checks are also done by Pollution Level Test Inspectors to ensure that PUC centres are issuing accurate certificates.
29-01-2022||Chandigarh||Burglars take away ₹60,000 from hosiery factory in Ludhiana, caught on CCTV||A gang of burglars targeted a hosiery factory near a permanent police check post in New Shivaji Nagar during the wee hours on Friday morning, taking away ₹60,000. Factory owner Sunil Kumar Malhotra said he was informed about the break-in by residents of the neighbourhood, who noticed the gate of the factory unlocked at around 7.45am on Friday. He rushed to the factory only to discover that it had been ransacked and later reported ₹60,000 and important documents stolen. The footage of the incident, which involved four burglars, has been captured in the CCTV installed in the area. The footage suggested that the incident took place between 4.25am and 5.12am.Sub inspector Akash Dutt, station head officer at the Division number 3 station, said police have initiated investigation and an FIR has been registered against the unidentified accused.Burglars target electronic shop, take away 26 mobile phones Burglars struck at an electronic shop in Main Market of New Janta Nagar and decamped with 26 mobile phones on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday.The shop owner, Pardeep Kumar, said he came to know about the incident when he reached the shop on Friday morning and saw it completely ransacked. On checking, he found that burglars had taken away at least 26 mobile phones, worth around ₹35,000, from the shop. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Jarnail Singh, the investigating officer, said a case under Sections 457 (house-trespass) and 380 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against unidentified persons. Police are scanning closed-circuit television cameras to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/burglars-take-away-60-000-from-hosiery-factory-in-ludhiana-caught-on-cctv-101643394788056.html
29-01-2022||Delhi||Woman gang-raped in east Delhi: Suspect family’s role in 2019 cop murder under lens||The Delhi Police on Friday arrested two more suspects -- a 37-year-old woman and her 40-year-old male relative-- in connection with the abduction, gang-rape and public humiliation of a 21-year-old woman in east Delhi. With this, the total number those arrested and apprehended in the case is now 11, including two minor boys, the police said.Also Read | Capital crime: Woman raped, paraded by neighbours in east DelhiAccording to police, the 21-year-old woman was abducted allegedly by a family from her neighbourhood, who then allegedly gang-raped in front of the women of the family, chopped her hair off, blackened her face, put a garland of footwear around her neck and paraded her through the lanes of Kasturba Nagar on Wednesday. Several onlookers shot videos of the incident which were later widely circulated on social media, sparking outrage and widespread condemnation. .“Of the nine arrested suspects, eight are women who were caught between Wednesday evening and Friday. Two minor boys, aged 15 and 17 years, were apprehended on Thursday. In all, 11 people are named in the FIR. Our ongoing investigation may lead to more arrests in the case,” said deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram.Police said the woman is still undergoing counselling at a safe house to overcome the trauma and shock that she had faced. She is responding well to the sessions, they said.Also Read | East Delhi gang-rape victim was living in fear since stalker died by suicide: FamilyOn Friday, Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee (DPCC) president Anil Chaudhary and vice-president Abhishek Dutt along with the party’s Delhi women wing chief, Amrita Dhawan, and supporters visited the woman’s family members and assured them of justice and all possible help.“The rape of the woman in Kasturba Nagar is a shameful incident. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweets that the matter is related to the central government and police. Making a statement like that is very shameful. Why is Kejriwal, who frequently sits on protests, not staging a protest seeking justice for the family?” Chaudhary Tweeted in Hindi, after meeting the woman’s family.Police personnel have been deployed outside the home of the victim, but her family is fearful of a backlash from the accused family.“These police personnel will leave us after some days and we know what the accused persons are capable of. They may attack us once they are out on bail. We also fear being roughed up by their associates. The police will not be around every time to protect us. We will either have to leave this place or be prepared to face the consequences,” the victim’s sister younger said, adding that her relatives are too frightened to even support them.The woman’s father, an auto-rickshaw driver, is bedridden for the past five years following an accident. Since then, the family has been surviving on the income they got by renting out the three-wheeler and also the earnings of the woman’s husband, a sanitation worker at a hotel in east Delhi.“We got ₹300 a day by renting out the auto. But that income also stopped around two months ago after the vehicle’s battery died and we didn’t have the ₹2.500 needed to buy a new one. In December, I got a saleswoman job at a local ready-made shop. But 15 days later, my employer fired me as the accused family members were threatening to set his shop on fire,” the sister said.More cases against suspects likelyInvestigators have learnt that some of the arrested accused are associated with a local criminal, Vijay Bhuri, who is accused of killing a Delhi Police sub-inspector from the same neighbourhood in May 2019. Bhuri was arrested in that case and is presently in jail, officers said.Quoting statements from the woman’s family and residents of the area, police said members of the accused family are into bootlegging and it was they who had instigated Bhuri to allegedly kill sub-inspector Raj Kumar. The family allegedly told Bhuri that Kumar had complained about him and his bootlegging activities to senior officers. Bhuri was also made to believe that Kumar had video evidence against him.“Bhuri was the main bootlegger in our area. He provided protection to other locals who are into the illegal activity and collected protection money from them. The accused family members were close to him and they instigated him against the sub-inspector, who lived with his family in Kasturba Nagar. After the officer’s murder, these family members used to boast that it was they who had got the policeman killed. But none from the family was arrested or questioned in that case,” said a woman from the neighbourhood, requesting anonymity.On being asked about the fresh allegations, DCP Sathiyasundaram said, “We will look into these allegations.”
29-01-2022||Other||Clubhouse blocked accused but they attacked women using different IDs: police||The investigation in the Clubhouse case has revealed that some women in the chatroom had opposed the objectionable and vulgar conversations and reported it. After this, the audio chat application blocked the users (the accused). But the accused created IDs with different names and targeted the same women, sources in the Mumbai police said.The police last week arrested three youths - Akash Suyal, 19, Jaishnav Kakkar, 20, and Yash Parashar, 22 - from Haryana.Their interrogation and other technical investigation have revealed that they were targeting Muslim women and women expressing feminist views. The complainant, a city based I-T professional, who has been taking parts in audio conversations related to feminism and socialism, on the Clubhouse, had discovered that a few people had opened chatrooms in her and her friend’s name and were expressing views in vulgar and abusive manners in October and November 2021.“She, her friend, and other women complained about it to Clubhouse officials. The service provider then blocked the IDs of the accused. However, the accused created other user IDs with different names and created chatrooms in the names of the complainant and her friend. The accused commented about Muslim women to create rifts between the two communities,” a police officer said. The cyber police want to further interrogate the accused but two of the three have tested Covid-19 positive. On Friday, all three accused were remanded in judicial custody by a court. The two infected accused, Suyal and Kakkar, were sent to a quarantine centre, while Parashar was sent to jail. Meanwhile, the Mumbai police have summoned the executives of Clubhouse India. Initially, there were two chatrooms. Later, the police learnt about three more chatrooms where abusive conversations took place and subsequently their recorded clips were shared on social media platforms. Some suspects have shared highly explicit audio clips on theses chatrooms. “We have summoned Clubhouse India representatives asking them to join the investigation and furnish details of members and moderators of the five chatrooms. They were supposed to join the probe by January 27 after the first summons was issued. As they did not turn up, we have sent another summons,” a Mumbai cyber police officer said. Once Clubhouse furnishes details, the police would be able to establish who else had commented on women. The moderators of these chatrooms would also face action if it is established that they had not taken action against the member who expressed explicit comment against women, a cyber police source said. The police have identified five more members of some Clubhouse chatrooms. Statement of these people would be recorded via videoconferencing as they stay in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. One of the five is a 17-year-old from Bihar who used Ids ‘Alcoholic.Singh’ and ‘Sellos’ while creating the chatroom. The Mumbai cyber police will also check the involvement of Rahul Kapoor, who was questioned by the Delhi police special cell in the second FIR registered in the case. Kapoor had used fake name Bismillah-Ul Bilal Khan on the application. Two videos of the Clubhouse chatrooms were published by a Twitter user, ‘Jaimine’, and an Instagram account, ‘lotus watch’, on January 16 and 19, respectively. The moderator was using an ID, Kira XD, which was also used by Suyal. An FIR was filed by the Mumbai police on January 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/clubhouse-blocked-accused-but-they-attacked-women-using-different-ids-police-101643394785523.html
29-01-2022||Bangalore||BS Yediyurappa’s granddaughter found dead in Bengaluru apartment||BENGALURU: Former Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s granddaughter, Dr Soundarya VY, allegedly died by suicide in her Bengaluru apartment on Friday morning, police said.According to police, the 30-year-old was found in her bedroom around 10.30am by her husband, Neeraj, when he rushed back from work on being informed by their house help that Soundarya wasn’t opening the door.So far, no suicide note has been found nor are there any complaints from the victim’s family, a senior police official said on the condition of anonymity. “A case of unnatural death has been registered,” the official added.Soundarya, who worked at a private hospital in the city with her husband, got married in 2018. The couple have a six-month-old boy.Soon after the incident came to light, condolences poured in from leaders across party lines. Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai, along with other functionaries of the Bharatiya Janata Party, rushed to Yediyurappa’s house.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda and Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, among others, also called up Yediyurappa to offer their condolences.“The demise of Dr Soundarya is a great loss to @BSYBJP’s family. My prayers with all his family members. My deepest condolences to them,” Siddaramaiah, the leader of the opposition in Karnataka assembly tweeted.“The demise of @BSYBJP’s granddaughter, Dr. Soundarya is unfortunate. My condolences to his bereaved family in this tragic hour,” said DK Shivakumar, the Congress’s state unit president. Soundarya was laid to rest at Neeraj’s farmhouse in the city.(Suicide is no solution to anything. If you need support or know someone who does, please reach to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: 0484-2540530, 0471-2533900)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bs-yediyurappa-s-granddaughter-found-dead-in-bengaluru-apartment-101643365324155.html
29-01-2022||World||Visit of Pakistani pilgrims to India delayed due to Covid-19 restrictions||A prominent Hindu lawmaker from Pakistan's ruling party has announced a delay in the visit of a delegation to India under his faith tourism initiative since New Delhi needs time to make arrangements for visitors due to Covid-19 restrictions, hours after India said it has a "positive approach" on the matter and is willing to engage with Islamabad on it.India on Friday said there is an interest on both the Indian and Pakistani sides to expand the agreed list of shrines and mode of travel under the 1974 protocol for visits to religious places, asserting that it has a positive approach on the matter and is willing to engage with Islamabad on it."Let me underline that India has a positive approach on this matter and is willing to engage the Pakistani side. You are also aware that currently restrictions are in place on movement and gatherings in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. As the situation normalises, we expect that this time can be utilised to hold discussions under the bilateral Protocol," Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said."It is our hope to facilitate early exchange of visits to all shrines of interest to pilgrims," Arindam Bagchi said in New Delhi.Dr. Ramesh Kumar Vankwani, the Patron-in-chief of Pakistan Hindu Council and lawmaker of Prime Minister Imran Khan's Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf party, later on Friday issued a statement saying the trip was delayed.“The visit has been delayed as India needs time to make arrangements due to Covid-19 situation but it has not been cancelled,” he said, urging people to get registered for the trip, amidst a chill in bilateral ties between India and Pakistan over the Kashmir issue and cross-border terrorism.Vankwani had on Monday announced to lead a delegation of Pakistani pilgrims to India on January 29. But it turned out that the announcement was made by him without approval by India.Vankwani in a video message on Wednesday said that a group of 170 pilgrims, who were ready to go to India by a special flight of Pakistan International Airline (PIA), were waiting for approval by New Delhi.He also, through a letter, asked India to urgently issue visas to his delegation of pilgrims.Reacting to Vankwani's initiative, Pakistan's Foreign Office spokesperson Asim Iftikhar Ahmad told the media that the reported trip to India was an initiative by Pakistan Hindu Council to promote faith tourism.He said that at the start of the new year there was a large group of pilgrims from India that visited the Teri Mandir and other religious shrines in Pakistan.“We understand there is a desire on part of the Pakistan Hindu Council to continue with this initiative. We are supportive of the idea and we understand the Indian side has a positive view as well. This obviously needs to be done with agreement and mutual understanding,” he said.Nearly 200 Hindu pilgrims from India visited the 100-year-old renovated Maharaja Paramhans Ji mandir in Teri village, Karak district of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa on January 1 amidst tight security, one year after the temple was demolished by a mob belonging to a radical Islamist party.Earlier, Vankwani had said that his idea of faith tourism enjoys the support of the governments of both Pakistan and India and the religious tourism had already begun on January 1 when a delegation came from India.He had planned to take the pilgrims on January 29 for a three-day trip on a chartered PIA flight to visit Ajmer Sharif, Jaipur, Agra, New Delhi and Haridwar and then fly back on February 1.He said that a delegation of 170 devotees from India would travel to Pakistan on February 20, followed by another delegation from India on March 1.He also said that the faith tourism initiative has the potential to deepen bilateral relations and in days to come, it will expand from religious tourism to trade and travel and finally work as a big bridge to improve ties between the two countries.The bilateral relations between India and Pakistan have been affected badly over the Kashmir issue and India's decision to withdraw the special powers of Jammu and Kashmir and the bifurcation of the state into two Union Territories in August 2019. Pakistan's support to cross-border terror attacks in India also led to a chill in bilateral ties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/visit-of-pakistani-pilgrims-to-india-delayed-due-to-covid-19-restrictions-101643446787967.html
29-01-2022||World||Covid-19: India hails Canada’s move to ease travel restrictions||India has appreciated the decision by the Canadian government to remove the India-specific Covid-19 testing restrictions that were in place since September last year.India’s high commissioner to Ottawa Ajay Bisaria said, “This is a welcome step towards restoring normal mobility and also ending a regime that discriminated against travellers from India.”Canada updated its travel advisory for India on Thursday by removing the requirements for travellers to get a negative RT-PCR results for a test taken within 18 hours of departure of a flight, from a single laboratory operated by the company Genestrings at Delhi airport. That was applicable to direct flights being operated between the two countries.Canada also required that passengers from India taking a connecting flight take the test in the third country which was the port of departure for a Canadian destination.Both these requirements have been dropped. These amended measures went into force on Friday as Transport Canada announced they were dropping the “modified pre-departure test requirements” for travellers from India on direct or indirect flights. A release from the department said, “All travellers entering Canada are now subject to the same pre-entry test requirements, regardless of their departure country.”India’s high commission had been working with Canadian authorities for normalisation of air travel for the past few months, particularly after Ottawa imposed a ban on all direct flights in April in the wake of the Delta-driven pandemic surge in India. That prohibition was lifted in September but replaced with the onerous testing regime, which only applied to one other country, Morocco.Canada continues to “require that all travellers, unless specifically exempted, have a valid negative pre-departure Covid-19 molecular test result taken no more than 72 hours before a scheduled flight to Canada”.Passengers need to provide proof of being fully vaccinated and, on arrival in Canada, some may be subject to a random Covid-19 test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-india-hails-canada-s-move-to-ease-travel-restrictions-101643439486666.html
29-01-2022||World||Pregnant New Zealand reporter 'forced' to ask Taliban for refuge, slams MIQ system||A pregnant New Zealand reporter has said that she was forced to ask for refuge in Afghanistan after being denied an MIQ (Managed Isolation and Quarantine) spot. The MIQ is an important step implemented by the New Zealand government to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).It is meant for people who are coming back to New Zealand from abroad, to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in the country.The journalist Charlotte Bellis was reporting on Afghanistan for Al Jazeera. Bellis wrote an open letter in New Zealand Herald in which the reporter said that she discovered she was pregnant in September while in Qatar, where Al Jazeera’s headquarters are. She quit her job in November seeking to return to her home country to give birth to her child. But that's where the problems began, the former reporter said.A post shared by Charlotte Bellis (@charlottebellis)Bellis said that she had to go to her partner’s country Belgium as it is illegal to be unmarried and pregnant in Qatar. She said she kept trying to get to New Zealand but couldn’t succeed in getting an MIQ spot through New Zealand’s lottery system.Bellis said she could not overstay in Belgium since she was not a resident and had nowhere else to go but Afghanistan. So, she organised a meeting with senior Taliban contacts and told them about her situation. The Taliban told her she and her partner will be safe in Afghanistan."No we're happy for you, you can come and you won't have a problem. Just tell people you're married and if it escalates, call us. Don't worry. Everything will be fine," the Taliban told her through a translator, Bellis said in her article.She had gained fame after asking the Taliban, when they seized power in Afghanistan in August last year, what they will do to protect women's rights.The journalist said despite her numerous attempts, and the doctors telling her that it is unsafe to give birth in Afghanistan, her application for an MIQ sport was rejected on January 24. Among the reasons given were that the couple's travel dates were more than 14 days away and she did not provide evidence she had scheduled medical treatment in New Zealand."I thought about sending them a story I did in October at a maternity hospital in Kabul where they had no power so were delivering by cell phones at night. They couldn't do caesarean deliveries and the only medicine they had were tabs of paracetamol wrapped in crinkled newspaper," Bellis said in her open letter, describing her ordeal and the situation in Afghanistan.She further said that New Zealand’s Covid-19 minister Chris Hipkins got involved, after which her application’s status in MIQ website changed to “under review” from “rejected”.Bellis then questioned the entire process and claimed they were getting a preferential treatment “because of who we are and the resources we have”."The decision of who should get an emergency MIQ spot is not made on a level playing field, lacks ethical reasoning and pits our most vulnerable against each other," she said in the article.The New Zealand Herald also published a statement from Hipkins, where he said that a senior National Party MP contacted him after which he asked officials to check Bellis' case. "The rejection of her application appeared at first sight to warrant further explanation," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pregnant-kiwi-reporter-forced-to-ask-taliban-for-refuge-slams-miq-system-101643436504172.html
29-01-2022||World||China media ridicules US F-35 accident with PLA naval aviation still to take-off||The Chinese Communist Party (CCP) information warfare machine went into overdrive after US Stealth Fighter F-35C had a landing mishap on January 24 during flight operations on Supercarrier Carl Vinson while patrolling South China Sea. The USS Carl Vinson along with USS Abraham Lincoln and two landing ships are involved in freedom of navigation operations with the motive of deterring Chinese PLA from attacking Taiwan by taking advantage of US-Russia crisis over Ukraine.Several analysts with so-called think tanks were quoted in the propaganda media as saying that the F-35C accident exposed the exhaustion of the US military, which has been flaunting its prowess against China at the cost of the physical and mental health of its troops and high technical risks. While the pilot of the crashed F-35C was recovered safely, the US Navy is involved in salvaging operation of the stealth fighter lest the Chinese reach there first and copy the latest war fighting technology.While the Chinese media may pass caustic comments on US aircraft carrier operations, fact is that fighter accidents onboard aircraft carriers are part and parcel of flight operations. The cold facts are that US Navy has been operating aircraft carriers for 100 years with some 70-odd carriers serving the nation and another three under construction. Maritime aviation is the most complex part of war fighting with the fighter pilot having only 500 feet of flight deck to land and take off from the aircraft carrier. Apart from handling the aircraft, the pilot must factor in the pitch and roll of the megaship apart from blustery winds, rain, and darkness. The US Navy has not only operated these floating islands for ages but has used them successfully to wage war and project power all over the world.The Chinese military and propaganda media have often passed judgements on Indian military prowess without realising that India has been operating aircraft carriers since 1961 and has an amazing record of maritime aviation including 1971 blockading of Karachi harbour. Many an armchair analysts have argued that carrier-based aviation is prohibitively expensive and outdated due to existence of long distance ballistic missiles. They recommend that shore-based fighters could do the same job as the carrier with mid-air refueling option giving the much-needed operational range. However, the Indian Navy found that the shore-based fighter pilots of the Indian Air Force found themselves disoriented on high seas without land in sight and used as a reference point. The Indian Navy’s sole aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya is currently under maintenance with the new aircraft carrier INS Vikrant expected to be launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on 75th year of Indian Independence.While India has already decommissioned two of its aircraft carriers, the PLA Navy carrier operation is still to be born. Its first refitted aircraft carrier Liaoning was declared combat ready only in 2016 with first fighter landing only in 2012. Not much is known about its second aircraft carrier Shandong’s fighter operational capability. The construction of third Chinese aircraft carrier Type 003 only began in February 2017 at Jiangnan Shipyard in Shanghai. While the Chinese have successfully copied the Russian Su-33 carrier-based aircraft to stand its own J-15 line, the naval aviation cannot be copied, and the only option is training the fighter pilots on high seas and pitch-black darkness. Fact is that Chinese naval aviation has at least a decade to go before it starts to acquire long sea legs.Even though China has deployed long range ballistic missiles on its eastern seaboard to deter US carriers, the flat-top vessels have remarkable survival capabilities with the strike group defended by nuclear powered submarines with intercontinental range ballistic missiles and destroyers armed with long range cruise missiles. Since the carrier is constantly on the move, it is not only difficult to target the vessel and at the same time exposing the fixed missile sites to a lethal counter. The world may be threatened by an aggressive PLA and ever growing war making arsenal of China, but one must remember that the Communist China has only fought a border skirmish with India in 1962 and was taken to task by miniscule Vietnam in 1979. Projecting power on turbulent seas far way from home is a different ball game.
29-01-2022||World||Dozens of Palestinian protestors injured in West Bank clash||Dozens of Palestinian protestors were injured on Friday during clashes with Israeli soldiers near three West Bank cities, Palestinian medics and eyewitnesses said.The eyewitnesses told Xinhua that fierce clashes broke out between Palestinian demonstrators and Israeli soldiers in villages south and east of the northern West Bank city of Nablus.Ahmad Jibril, emergency director in the Palestinian Red Crescent Society, told reporters that Israeli soldiers shot and wounded 13 demonstrators with rubber-coated metal bullets during the clashes.Clashes also broke out in the southern West Bank city of Hebron and the northern West Bank city of Qalqilya, said medics and eyewitnesses, adding that Israeli soldiers fired teargas and rubber bullets to disperse the demonstrators.There has been no immediate comment of the Israeli army on the clashes that broke out during protests and demonstrations against the Israeli confiscation of Palestinian lands and expansion of Israeli settlements in the West Bank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dozens-of-palestinian-protestors-injured-in-west-bank-clash-101643433905732.html
29-01-2022||World||Ukraine crisis: UK's Johnson to dial up Putin, visit Eastern Europe next week||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson will step up diplomatic efforts over the Ukraine crisis with a visit to the region next week and a call with Russian President Vladimir Putin in a bid to avoid bloodshed.Russia has massed troops on Ukraine's border, and Putin has said that the United States and NATO have not addressed Moscow's main security demands, though he was ready to keep talking.The United States says Russia now has the capability to act against Ukraine, and Johnson has warned of a catastrophe from which no-one would win if Russia were to invade.Britain has said it will sanction Russia if it makes any incursion into Ukraine, and has urged European allies to prepare similar steps. His government is expected to announce a toughening of its sanctions regime on Monday."The Prime Minister is determined to accelerate diplomatic efforts and ramp up deterrence to avoid bloodshed in Europe," a spokesperson from Johnson's Downing Street office said in a statement."He will reiterate the need for Russia to step back and engage diplomatically when he speaks to President Putin this week."Johnson's office did not give details of when or where the trip would happen.Britain has supplied defensive weapons and training personnel to Ukraine, though ministers have said that the deployment of combat troops is unlikely.Johnson is considering options including fresh deployments and the bolstering of NATO defences, and on Monday Britain will join U.N. Security Council discussions to try and resolve the standoff through diplomatic means.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ukraine-crisis-uk-s-johnson-to-dial-up-putin-visit-eastern-europe-next-week-101643433599274.html
29-01-2022||World||Businessman who lost nearly £4 million sues club for not 'stopping him': Report||A Malaysian businessman is suing a casino in London’s Mayfair area for not stopping him when he was on a losing streak. The gambler lost £3.9 million in a 72-hour card game at private members’ club Aspinalls.Malaysian tycoon Han Joeh Lim said that the club breached its responsibilities under the 2005 Gambling Act, the Daily Mail reported.The 62-year-old has a wealth of £40 million and business interests in property, steel and computer chip manufacturing. He also own properties in London.Lim joined the club in 2014, reported Daily Mail and was allowed to cash cheques worth £600,000.He claimed that after losing the sanctioned amount, the club increased his credit to £1.9 million and provided an additional £2 million in credit, which was also lost by the businessman.The incident happened in 2015, when Lim played card game baccarat.The club had initially filed a case against the Malaysian businessman for not paying the amount which he had lost. Aspinalls won the case in 2019, with the judge also imposing a penalty of £100,000 on Lim for breaching four court orders.Now, the tycoon is claiming £3.9 million using a provision in the 2005 act, which he states that “vulnerable people should be protected from being harmed or exploited by gambling”.“Aspinalls took advantage of the claimant's distressed attempts to claw back the losses by allowing further funds and more time to gamble,” he said in the petition.Aspinalls has refused to comment on the matter as it is pending before the court, but its counsels told Daily Mail that the company is seeking that the claim be “struck out”.The club was started by John Aspinall, a zoo owner who moved to gambling in the 1960s. The Aspinall private club was started in 1962.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/businessman-who-lost-nearly-4-million-sues-club-for-not-stopping-him-101643427454732.html
29-01-2022||World||Blogger claims Pakistan behind attempted contract killing||An exiled political blogger on Friday accused Pakistan of being behind a plot to kill him after a would-be hitman was convicted in a British court.Supermarket worker Muhammed Gohir Khan, 31, was found guilty of plotting to kill Ahmad Waqass Goraya after being recruited by middlemen apparently based in Pakistan.The judge in Kingston-upon-Thames, southwest London, adjourned the case for sentencing on March 11, with Khan facing up to life in prison.Khan, from east London, was charged in June last year with conspiring with unknown other people to murder Goraya in the Netherlands.He was arrested after returning to the UK by train.Goraya, an outspoken blogger and liberal activist who has lived outside Pakistan for more than a decade, did not attend the hearings.He said after the verdict that he was "happy that there is at least a new precedent: 'if you come after someone in exile, you will be prosecuted'."He said he was disappointed, however, that the trial did not identify those who commissioned the crime."I hope the real people who sent these guys will be prosecuted one day as well," he told AFP.Pointing to the amount of money involved and the plotters' knowledge of his secret location, he said: "I am sure it is the Pakistani state."Reporters Without Borders (RSF) said the verdict "could serve as a landmark judgement" and was a "rare step towards establishing criminal accountability for transnational crimes against journalists".Rebecca Vincent, RSF's UK bureau director, said: "We call on the relevant authorities to continue their investigations, to identify the middleman and anyone else involved in this horrific plot and ensure full criminal justice is carried out."- 'Enthusiastic' -Prosecutor Alison Morgan said Goraya, who lives with his wife and two children in the Netherlands, appeared to have been targeted for speaking out against the Pakistani government and military in satirical social media posts.Khan was hired by "others who appeared to be based in Pakistan", she told the jury.In 2018, the court was told Goraya had received information from the FBI that he was on a "kill list" and believed some of the threats he received were being led and orchestrated by ISI, Pakistan's intelligence agency.The jury heard that Khan was contacted by a Pakistan-based middleman known as Mudz, who promised a £100,000 ($137,000, 120,000 euros) fee for the "job", of which he would take a £20,000 cut.He also promised riches in "Jannah" or paradise.Khan received several thousand pounds for expenses from a Pakistani bank account, promising: "Bro, I'll make it happen."At the time he had debts amounting to more than £200,000, the court was told.British police liaised with the Dutch authorities to build up a dossier of his encrypted communications with middlemen on WhatsApp and Signal and security camera footage of his movements.After travelling to the Netherlands on Eurostar Khan spent days watching Goraya's home in Rotterdam and bought a professional chef's knife.He returned to Britain after realising the blogger was away.Khan pleaded not guilty at his trial and acknowledged sending the messages and travelling to Rotterdam.But he claimed he was only seeking money and never intended to commit the killing."He was enthusiastic about carrying out the killing to earn the money and to carry out further attacks in the future," Morgan said.Goraya has previously reported violent attacks and threats made against him.In 2017 he said he was held in captivity for weeks in Pakistan along with four other activists and tortured.The Pakistani military denied any involvement.Goraya told AFP on Friday that he and his family had to move immediately after being informed of a threat to his life."You have to change everything, start your life again. You are totally surrounded by strangers, for security," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/blogger-claims-pakistan-behind-attempted-contract-killing-101643426101270.html
29-01-2022||World||China plans 'megaconstellation' of 13,000 satellites, claims report||China is embarking on a mission that has renewed concerns about spying. It plans to send upto 13,000 satellites in space - a ‘megaconstellation’ - that will encircle the Earth in the lower orbit, a report in the Daily Mail said.The company that has got the responsibility of this work has said that the main goal of the mission is to establish supremacy in lower Earth orbit, the report further said.Strengthening of 5G network is the aim: ChinaChina's State Administration of Science, Technology and Industry for National Defense (SASTIND) has called for orderly development of small satellites, according to the Daily Mail report.It said that the group of satellites will be able to provide surveillance over much of the Earth and strengthen internet facilities.Though the details about what the network will cover and how it will work are vague, the aim is to fill gaps in terrestrial communication, especially in rural areas, to strengthen its 5G network services, the report further said.Similar to SpaceX StarlinkAccording to China’s plan, the 12,992 satellites will orbit in low earth orbit like the satellites of SpaceX-Starlink company - in a ‘megaconstellation’. Their range will be between 498.89 kilometres to 1144.24 kilometres above the surface of the Earth.Some firms have been given the contract to begin the development work in Chongqing, the Daily Mail report claimed.A ‘megaconstellation’ is a network of thousands of satellites which cover the length and breadth of the Earth to deliver internet services. The SpaceX Starlink is currently the most developed, with nearly 2,000 satellites in operation.The satellite internet constellation is a top priority for the Chinese government.What are the concerns?The plan is not a new one. China first applied to the International Telecommunication Union for spectrum allocation for two low Earth orbit satellite constellations back in 2020. But now, after the reports that China has already given the contract, the western governments are concerned.The United States and its allies believe that this is a plan by the Communist government in China to spy on them.The relations between the two sides are frayed, thanks to China’s saber-rattling on the issue of Taiwan and its alleged cover-up of the emergence of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Not the first timeChina has been monitoring every movement on Earth from space. For this, it has already launched two Earth observation satellites called Gaofen. China claims that these satellites monitor marine disasters, the maritime environment and water conservation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-plans-megaconstellation-of-13-000-satellites-claims-report-101643421318766.html
29-01-2022||World||Russian invasion of Ukraine would be 'horrific': Pentagon||The Pentagon said Friday that the destruction and human cost of a full-scale incursion by Russian forces into Ukraine would be "horrific," but that there was still time for diplomacy to avoid a war."If that was unleashed on Ukraine, it would be significant, very significant, and it would result in a significant amount of casualties," Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Mark Milley said."And you can imagine what that might look like in dense urban areas, along roads and so on and so forth. It would be horrific, it will be terrible."Speaking alongside Milley, Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin said conflict in Ukraine could still be avoided, despite Russian President Vladimir Putin amassing more than 100,000 troops along their shared border."Conflict is not inevitable. There is still time and space for diplomacy," said Austin."Mr. Putin can do the right thing as well," he added. "There is no reason that this situation has to devolve into conflict. He can choose to de-escalate. He can order his troops away," he said.The remarks of the US military's two top officials, who had been quiet in recent days over the rise in tensions in Eastern Europe, came as there was no sign of a breakthrough in diplomatic efforts to avoid open conflict.They said Russia continues to add to its forces pointed at Ukraine, with a range of offensive units and capabilities including armor, air power, naval power, missiles, and cyber and political operations.While the Pentagon officials said they do not believe Putin has made a decision to go to war, they said his options have expanded, from provocations that could lead to an attack in the restive southeast Donbass region, to an attempt to overrun the entire country, attacking urban centers like the capital Kyiv."If war were to break out on a scale and scope that is possible, the civilian population will suffer immensely," Milley said.Russia itself will suffer, he added."If Russia chooses to invade Ukraine it will not be cost-free, in terms of casualties or other significant effects."Austin and Milley stressed that Washington has no intention of sending US troops to Ukraine to defend it, but will continue to support the Ukraine military with arms and other materials.However, they stressed, the United States was prepared to send troops to reinforce and protect NATO allies in eastern Europe that faced a potential threat from a Russian attack on Ukraine, which is not part of the Atlantic alliance."An attack on one NATO ally is an attack against all," Milley warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russian-invasion-of-ukraine-would-be-horrific-pentagon-101643416398576.html
29-01-2022||World||Russia loses a million people in historic population fall||Russia's population declined by more than one million people in 2021, the statistics agency Rosstat reported Friday, a historic drop not seen since the collapse of the Soviet Union.Ongoing demographic woes have been exacerbated by the pandemic with Rosstat figures showing more than 660,000 had died with coronavirus since health officials recorded the first case in the country.The new figures continue a downward trend from the previous year when Russia's population fell by more than half a million.The Covid-related fatalities figures published monthly by Rosstat are far higher than death figures released by a separate government website, which is dedicated to tracking the pandemic in the country.Those government website figures only take into account fatalities where the virus was established as the primary cause of death after an autopsy and shows just 329,443 total fatalities.The discrepancy has fed into criticism that the Russian government has been downplaying the severity of the pandemic in one of the worst-hit countries by cases in the world.Russia has struggled to curb the pandemic due to a slow vaccination drive coupled with limited restrictive measures and rampant non-compliance with mask-wearing in public places.The pandemic death toll exacerbates the demographic crisis, linked to low birth rates and a short life expectancy, that Russia has faced for the past 30 years.Birth rates have been falling because the generation now becoming parents were born in the 1990s, when the birth rate plunged due to economic uncertainties after the collapse of the Soviet Union.The number of births per woman stands at around 1.5, well short of the minimum of 2.1 necessary to renew the population.Economic concernsRussia's shrinking population has been at the top of President Vladimir Putin's domestic agenda since he came to power over two decades ago.In addresses to the nation, Putin frequently encourages Russians to have more children and live a healthier lifestyle to improve life expectancy.The government has introduced a number of financial incentives for parents with more than one child, such as cash bonuses and favourable mortgage rates.During his annual press conference last December, Putin stressed that 146 million people are not enough for the country from a "geopolitical standpoint" and leave labour shortages.He added that it is important to show that it is a "joy to have children" and that there is "no greater happiness in life and in the world"."The demographic crisis is definitely a failure of the state's policies," said Sergei Zakharov, a demography expert at the Higher School of Economics based in Moscow.He told AFP that measures to increase the birth rate encourage families to have children earlier but do not change how many children they want in total.He said the government's influence on birth rates is "limited" and shifting births to an earlier period will result in a "demographic gap" in the future.For Stepan Goncharov of the independent Levada Centre pollster, the low birth rate is connected to widespread "uncertainty about the future".Living standards in Russia have continuously deteriorated since 2014, with the economy strained by repeated Western sanctions, dependence on the oil and gas sector and widespread corruption."People haven't stopped buying and their income and savings have reduced," Goncharov said.According to last year's survey by recruitment website SuperJob, 43 percent of Russians do not have any savings."People are not setting money aside and are not planning the future of the family," Goncharov added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-loses-a-million-people-in-historic-population-fall-101643414828502.html
29-01-2022||India||Nadal chases history at Aussie Open today||MumbaiFor the second straight Grand Slam, one of the three greatest tennis players of the modern era (and perhaps of all time) will take a shot at redefining the boundaries of success, at rearranging the pecking order, and at rescripting the GOAT (greatest of all time) debate.Thirteen years after the first and the last time he won a title at Melbourne Park, Spain’s Rafael Nadal takes on Daniil Medvedev in the final on Sunday with an eye on a second Australian Open and a record-breaking 21st Grand Slam trophy. The number 21 has been the overriding figure in all tennis talk since Novak Djokovic put himself level with Nadal and Roger Federer by winning his 20th Major at Wimbledon last year. To be sure, women’s tennis has had its own number, and for a bit longer -- 24. While the World No. 1 Djokovic missed the chance to be the first to 21, by losing at the 2021 US Open, the Spaniard now has a chance to get there with one more victory at the 2022 Australian Open. Across the net is the same man who stopped Djokovic from creating history in New York, Russian Medvedev, who is gunning for a bit of history to become the only player in the professional era to win a second Grand Slam immediately after the first.But the similarity between Djokovic’s charge in New York, and Nadal’s at Melbourne, stops there. Djokovic went to the US Open last year after winning Wimbledon, the Australian Open, and the French Open titles. Buzz around the impending record and a so-called Calendar Slam reached a crescendo in the months leading up to the US Open. The Serb too was happy to add to the chatter. Eventually, Medvedev dashed the hopes and the hype. In contrast, Nadal started the year without having played a competitive match since August 2021. Making a comeback after recovering from a troublesome foot injury and a Covid-19 infection in December, the 35-year-old didn’t expect a whole lot from himself going into the season-opening Slam. No. 21 in Australia? Quite a long shot, the pundits would have said before the tournament began. Nadal himself downplayed the number; not that anyone was paying too much attention to him before the Slam; Djokovic’s off-court antics and drama hogged the headlines. As he went from one round to another, raising his level of play and digging deep, all that Nadal spoke about was how happy he was just to be playing tennis. Looking ahead to one of his most significant matches, Nadal reiterated that sentiment—feeling “alive” once again in his tennis career meant more than any probable Grand Slam record. “Being very honest, for me it’s much more important to have the chance to play tennis than win the 21, no?” Nadal said after his semi-final win against Italian Matteo Berrettini.Whether or not the GOAT contenders like to talk about it, Medvedev, who is rapidly acquiring a reputation as a talker, sure loves standing in their way. “I’m happy to have the chance to try to stop one more time somebody from making history,” he said.Sunday’s clash will be the 25-year-old World No 2’s fourth Grand Slam final appearance; his previous three have come against either Djokovic or Nadal. While he was blown away by Djokovic in the Australian Open title clash last year, Medvedev returned the favour at the US Open. The last time the Russian played Nadal at this stage was his first taste of it, losing a tight five-setter at the 2019 US Open final. Back then, Nadal was seeded No.2. And the Russian was seeded No.5. This time, Nadal is seeded No.6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nadal-chases-history-at-aussie-open-today-101643480948104.html
29-01-2022||India||Karnataka eases Covid curbs, Bengaluru schools to reopen||The Karnataka government on Saturday decided to lift the night curfew and start regular classes in schools and colleges, after considering low hospitalisation among Covid-19 patients in the state.Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday said the new guidelines will come into effect from Monday. The decision was announced after the CM held a meeting with senior ministers and experts. “It is observed that there has been a steady decline in new Covid-19 cases in the state. Further, 97% of the active cases are in home isolation and only 3% are requiring hospitalisation. The Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) has recommended opening up of more activities on assessing the current situation,” read an order from the government. The government also decided to reopen physical classes in schools and colleges in the state capital from Monday. Schools in Bengaluru Urban district can start physical classes for classes 1 to 9 from Monday, said Karnataka education minister BC Nagesh. “From Monday, all classes will open in compliance with Covid-appropriate behaviour. If any positive case is found, only that particular class will be closed, not the entire school. All students in that class will be tested for Covid-19,” Nagesh told reporters. “Depending on the total number of positive cases, the deputy commissioner (of the district concerned) will decide how long the class should remain shut.”According to the revised guidelines, government offices will be allowed to function at full capacity. The government allowed hotels, pubs, bars, restaurants, and clubs to remain open completely and allow 100% occupancy. They are currently operating at 50% capacity.However, only 50% of the occupancy will be allowed in the cinema halls, multiplexes, auditoriums, swimming pools, gyms, sports complexes and stadia.The Metro rail and other public transport will be allowed to accept passengers as per the sitting capacity. “Marriage functions are permitted with 200 members indoors and 300 outdoors while religious places can open to 50% capacity. However, no permission has been given for social, religious and political rallies, dharnas, conventions and protests,” the order said. It was also decided in the meeting to reserve 25% of beds in private hospitals for Covid-19 patients and instructions were issued to ensure proper treatment for non-Covid patients, the guidelines said. On January 21, the Karnataka government had lifted the weekend curfew, but retained other restrictions like the night curfew and 50% occupancy in commercial establishments. With the latest announcement, most restrictions imposed to combat Covid-19 in the state have been withdrawn. Though experts predicted that the state would report 70,000 to 150,000 Covid-19 cases per day during the peak of the third wave, the current trend shows a possible decline in the number of cases in the state. The data released by the Karnataka State Covid War Room said that out of the 30 districts in the state, 24 have a case positivity rate higher than 10%. The state’s average positivity rate is 20.63% and more than half of the districts have reported a positivity rate greater than the state average as of last week, the data suggests. Even though the number of cases has been higher than the first two waves, hospitalisations have remained low. Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar on Friday said that Omicron was the dominant variant in the third Covid-19 wave. He also released data backing his claim. “A total of 67.5% of cases in the third wave were of the Omicron variant while 26% were of the Delta variant. In comparison, 90.7% of the cases in the second wave were of the Delta variant,” the minister added. Out of 7,512 cases sent for genome sequencing till January 22 (since the beginning of the pandemic), 4,431 were of Delta variant, while Omicron accounted for 1,115 cases. A further break-up of the data showed that till December 2021, 5,659 samples were sent for sequencing, of which 4,027 tested positive for the Delta variant. During this time, 66 cases of Omicron variant were reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-eases-covid-curbs-bengaluru-schools-to-reopen-101643479569111.html
29-01-2022||India||Odisha village decides to boycott panchayat polls over monkey menace||Ahead of next month’s three-tier panchayat polls in Odisha, voters in a village of coastal Bhadrak district have a strange demand from all candidates - drive away the monkeys on prowl or else the villagers would boycott the polls.In Gopagadadharpur village under Talapada gram panchayat of Bhadrak district, villagers have decided to boycott the panchayat polls next month after a dozen people were injured, half of them seriously in simian attacks in the last 2 months. Many of the unsuspecting victims were going through their daily chores when they were attacked leading to major injuries and subsequent hospitalisation. Villagers said the monkeys in a group of 30 have ganged up to attack the villagers.Chintamani Das, Zilla parishad member, who is contesting for the post of member of Tihidi panchayat samiti said, people want a firm word on respite from the monkeys or else they will not vote. “Though the monkeys earlier used to devour vegetables or fruits, over the last 2 months they have become too violent. A middle-aged woman was walking to her home when a monkey grabbed her and pressed its teeth into her shoulders. She was in hospital for several weeks,” said Das.Former member of Tihidi panchayat samiti, Harischandra Mishra said it is impossible to walk on the road without a monkey chasing villagers. “We are lucky that schools are closed and hence children are safe. Otherwise, there is every danger of kids being attacked. We want a commitment from any candidate that the monkey menace will end and then we will vote in the panchayat polls,” said Mishra.In Talapada village, the birthplace of Laxmikanta Mohapatra, who wrote Odisha’s state anthem ‘Bande Utkal Janani’, his grandson and daughter-in-law too have been at the receiving end of monkey attacks. “If we forget to close the doors the monkeys take away vegetables from our kitchen,” said Banikalyan Mohapatra, the poet’s grandson.Bhadrak Divisional Forest Officer Adhir Behera said his department has put up cages in the gram panchayat to capture the monkeys, but admitted that it’s a daunting task. “There have been several efforts in the past in other districts to drive away the monkeys, but they have not been very successful. We have to keep trying,” said Behera.In Odisha’s Deogarh district, villagers of Jharagogua, Gandam, Parposhi, Dimirikuda and Jharmunda gram panchayat in Tileibani block have decided to boycott polls over the absence of mobile network. The villagers said they have used a vehicle to canvas in the areas with a poster, ‘No Network, No Vote’. The five GPs comprising 27 villages have over 13,516 people and absence of mobile connectivity has deprived them from availing online education and healthcare services.In Bijipur village of Kendrapara district, people have decided to boycott the polls over closure of village schools protesting the school merger policy of the state government. The primary school at Bijipur village was closed two years ago under the merger policy of the state government and merged with the school at nearby Sana Adhanga village. The villagers said they have been protesting the decision since last two years and submitted a grievance to the office of the CM, but no action has been taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-village-decides-to-boycott-panchayat-polls-over-monkey-menace-101643479450171.html
29-01-2022||India||HT This Day: January 31, 1949 -- World pays homage to Gandhiji||India observed January 30 - the first anniversary of the death of Mahatma Gandhi-at crowded but solemn functions with the people’s thoughts turned to prayer and to the teachings of the Father of the Nation. The focal point was Rajghat, in Delhi, where the Governor-General and the Prime Minister with hundreds of thousands of others went on pilgrimage to pay homage at the sacred ‘samadhi.’ After prayers and recitation of the Bhagwadgita in the morning, there was a programme of congregational spinning. In the afternoon, almost exactly at the time when Gandhiji fell while going to his daily prayer meeting, over 200,000 people joined in a special prayer service conducted by Acharya Vinoba Bhave. Later, the whole gathering repeated “The Message” after the Congress President, Dr Pattabhi Sitaramayya. “The Message” gratefully recalled the leadership of Bapu and said: “It was the particular teaching of Gandhiji that service should be directed more specially towards promoting amity and goodwill between all the people of India, abolishing class distinctions and those based on birth or caste or religion, and working for a classless democratic society in a peaceful manner. Above all the lesson Gandhiji taught was the adherence at all costs and in all circumstances to the moral values which give meaning to life.” The most touching moment during the day came when a passage from a recorded speech of Gandhiji was relayed by A.I.R. at the prayer meeting. Several people broke down and there was a hush as long as the familiar voice spoke of non-violence. The ceremonies in the capital were rounded up with a function at night at Government House. A bust of Mahatma Gandhi bedecked in flowers which had been presented to His Excellency Mr Rajagopalachari, Governor-General, in Calcutta by a Bengali artist, was placed in the centre of a shamiana pitched in the gardens while the families of all Government House staff sat around it. Bhajans and kirtans were sung and then the Governor-General addressed the gathering.In addition to the Government House staff, some of the Ministers and Secretaries to the Government as well as the Egyptian and Afghan Ambassadors were present on the occasion which was a unique “family gathering.” Long before daybreak, people in their thousands began to converge on Rajghat. Men and women of all communities organized in prabhat pheris parties of children carrying flowers and National Flags and groups of villagers from the surrounding countryside thronged all approaches to the Rajghat grounds. Over a million went on pilgrimage today. All morning there were long queues of devotees waiting their turn to pay their homage. Scores of thousands went round the flower-bedecked samadhi. The flowers on the sacred platform were arranged to form Hey Ram. the last words spoken by Gandhiji. Flower offerings made by people were piled around the platform. Among those who placed wreaths and flowers were Ministers and a number of members of the diplomatic corps. In a temple-like atmosphere, with incense vessels at the four corners of the samadhi, special prayers -began at 6 a.m. when a group of women also started non-stop spinning to last 36 hours. Recitation of the whole text of the Gita followed.Later congregational spinning continued from 11-30 a.m. to 1 p.m. The Prime Minister was among the 503 men, women and children who took part in it. The Rajghat area was a mass of humanity when the prayer meeting began at 5 p.m. On a high platform sat the Governor-General, the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, members of the Cabinet and others. Members of Gandhiji’s family and a number of close associates and Ashramites were also there. The service began with Ramdhun the singing of which was led by Kanu and his wife, Abha Gandh and Tara Gandhi. Kanu then recited a verse from the Gita, and was followed by Miss Amtus Salam, who recited a verse front the Quran. More verses from the Gita were recited and a Mira bhajan was sung by Shrimati Indulekha Bose before Acharya Vinoba Bhave addressed the gathering. Since the service was being relayed by A.LR. Acharya Vinoba read a written address.The service concluded with Jana-Gana-Mana. Many local organizations arranged their own programmes of meetings and prayers. At various educational institutions the portrait of Gandhiji was unveiled and students and staff pledged to follow the teachings of Gandhiji in the spheres of social Work and educational reconstruction. Mr Kala Venkata Rao, General Secretary, A.I.C.C. addressing a meeting on “The Life and Teachings of Gandhiji” at the College of Commerce, urged students to divert all intellectual pursuits for the social benefit of the whole country. Mr Rao said that the greatness of Gandhiji lay not in merely arousing the conscience of the people for demanding rights but in action. Through action he wanted realization of his dream of Ram Rajya. The country had won freedom but it was not of the type Gandhiji wanted. It was for the coming generation to create that atmosphere in which the dream of Ram Rajya would be realized.He said the loss of Gandhiji could be compensated if the nation on the occasion of his first death anniversary dedicated itself to fulfil his mission. Ideals Of Service Speaking at the Delhi School of Social Work, Mr Venkata Rao urged the students to follow the ideals of social service preached by Gandhiji. He said a certain amount of control over society was needed to enable it to elevate itself to the high ideals of service. At Yoga Ashram, a special programme of physical exercises was arranged. Speaking on the occasion, Mr R. R. Diwakar, Minister of State for Broadcasting and Information, referred to Gandhiji as the greatest yogi who controlled his body, mind and emotions and utilized them for the service of God in man. Yoga is of great importance and it has reached perfection in India as a means of controlling physical and vital powers in man. Gandhiji was a practical yogi and his life was a blend of both -meditation and action. Message Of Love Presiding over a meeting organized by the Karnataka Sangha, Mr Diwakar spoke on the significance of the Mahatma’s message. It was a strange irony of fate that leaders of mankind such as Socrates and Jesus Christ had also met death at the hands of their fellowmen. Mahatma Gandhi, he added, was no more with us, ‘but his message of love and the unity of human spirit would live for ever and inspire mankind to build a better social order. Students of the Lady Irwin College held a congregational prayer in the morning which was followed by a procession to Rajghat. Most of the students observed fast. A purse of Rs. 2,000 was presented to Mr Radha Raman, President of Delhi Provincial Congress Committee, at a meeting at Ajmeri Gate by the Delhi Coal Merchants’ Association for the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Fund. The association pledged to remove black-marketing and corruption within their ranks.Appeal To Traders Mr Radha Raman exhorted all traders to remove malpractices and live up to the high ideals which Gandhiji wanted them to follow. The S. N. Das Gupta College held a meeting under the presidentship of Mr Bhimsen Sachar who performed lie flag-hoisting ceremony. Addressing students, he advised them to follow the doctrine of love and brotherhood which was the guiding factor of the philosophy of Gandhiji. Workers of the Hindustan Times observed silence for a minute at 5-17 p.m. At a meeting they pledged to follow Gandhiji’s teachings. The Balkan-ki-Bari organized a children’s procession which terminated at Rajghat. The Delhi Provincial Students’ Congress organized a torch-light procession which started from Red Fort. Parading the main localities, the procession terminated at Rajghat. Prayers and meetings in their respective localities were also organized >y the Delhi Provincial Mehtar Mazdoor Federation, the Delhi Women’s League, the Timarpur Youths’ Association, the Delhi Karnataka Sangha, Andhra Club, Delhi Tamil Sangham, the Pusa Students’ Union and the Delhi and Punjab Youth Congress. A mass parade of Delhi Rovers and ‘atrol Leaders was held at the H.Q. ad prayers were held. D.P.C.C. PROGRAMME FOR FORTNIGHT The Delhi Provincial Congress Committee has chalked out the following programme for the fortnight January 31-February 11:A study circle will be organized at Beadon Club at 6 p.m. daily. Gandhiji’s mission will be explained by Acharya Vinoba Bhave on January 31, constructive programme and Congress economic policy by Mr Shankerrao Deo on February 1, the economics of Khadi by Mr Cishendas Jaju on February 2, communal unity by Gopi Nath Aman on February 3, untouchability by Mr Byogi Hari and Thakkar Bapa on February 4, labour organization - by Kr Khandubhai on February 5, basic education by Maulana Shafiq-ultehman on February 6, Kisan organization by Mr Kala Venkata Rao on February 7, political parties in Indiab y Mr K. Santhanam on February 8, Congress economic programme by Prof. Kumarappa and Mr Shankerrao Deo on February 9, Congress organiation by Dr Pattabhi Sitaramayya n February 10 and our duty towards Bapu by Mr Jairamdas Daulatram on February 1L||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-january-31-1949-world-pays-homage-to-gandhiji-101643476688652.html
29-01-2022||India||Treat for sky gazers: Celestial events that will be visible in 2022||A series of celestial events, including meteor showers, eclipses and planets coming together among others, are expected to light up the sky in 2022. Here is a list of events that you can expect to see in the coming months. Eclipses: This year’s first partial solar eclipse on April 30 will, however, not be visible from India. It would be visible mostly from South America and best visible from Argentina, said Debiprosad Duari, former director (research and academic) of MP Birla Planetarium in Kolkata. The first total lunar eclipse of the year on May 16 would also not be visible from India as the eclipse would end before the moon rises. On June 14 around 5:22 pm, however, a super moon would be visible from India. Around that time the full moon would be at perigee (closest to the earth). Such a phase of the full moon would again be visible on July 14 just after midnight. A partial solar eclipse would be visible from India on October 25. The maximum obscuration of 55% - 60% may be seen from Jammu and Kashmir. “People in northwest India would witness up to 35% obscuration and those in central India may see up to 22% obscuration. In south India the obscuration would be just around 13%,” Duari added. On November 8, a lunar eclipse would be visible. While it would be a full lunar eclipse for people living in north-eastern part of India, West Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand and eastern parts of Odisha and Uttar Pradesh, the rest of India will see only the partial phases. Meteor showers: On April 22 and 23 one may watch out for the Lyrids Meteor Shower, produced by Comet C/1861 G1 Thatcher. During its peak there would be at least 20 meteors per hour. On May 6 and 7 one may watch out for the Eta Aquarids Meteor Shower, produced by dust particles left by Comet Halley. There could be at least 30 meteors per hour in the northern hemisphere.“A meteor shower occurs when the earth passes through debris shed by a comet or asteroid,” said Duari. Made of tiny space debris from the comet Swift-Tuttle, the Perseids meteor shower is expected around August 12 and 13. It could produce around 60 meteors per hour. On October 21 and 22 one may watch the Orionids meteor shower produced by Comet Halley. It is expected to produce around 20 meteors per hour. The Leonids meteor shower, produced by the Comet Temple Tuttle, would hit around November 17 and 18, while Geminids meteor shower, produced by debris of Asteroid 3200 Phaethon, will light up the sky with around 120 meteors per hour on December 13 and 14. Planets: Mercury, the innermost planet of our solar system, remains most invisible as it never strays away from the sun. But on February 16, the planet would be at the greatest elongation. This means it would swing to one side of the sun allowing us to see it just before sunrise. On August 14, the planet Saturn with its rings would be in opposition around 10:30 pm. “Opposition of a planet happens when earth comes between that planet and the sun. During that time the planet is generally closest to our earth and brightest for that year. It is the best time to observe that outer planet,” said Duari. Likewise, on September 27 the planet Jupiter would be at opposition around 1 am and would be visible throughout the night. On December 25 Mars would be at its opposition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/treat-for-sky-gazers-celestial-events-that-will-be-visible-in-2022-101643475848465.html
29-01-2022||India||Harsimrat asks who picked Rahul Gandhi's pocket; Congress denies any such incident||Shiromani Akali Dal leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Saturday posted a tweet that implied that Rahul Gandhi was pickpocketed during his recent visit to Amritsar's Golden Temple. Claiming that only Charanjit Singh Channi, Navjot Sidhu and Sukjhinder Singh Randhawa were accompanying Rahul Gandhi, the former Union minister questioned whether this was an attempt to 'bring bad name' to the shrine.The Congress denied any such incident. हरसिमरत जी,जब ऐसा कुछ हुआ ही नहीं तो ऐसी झूठी खबरें फैलाना पवित्र गुरु घर की बेअदबी है। चुनावी गतिरोध चलेगा पर आपको जुम्मेवारी व परिपक्वता दिखानी चाहिये।हाँ, मोदी सरकार की कैबिनेट में बैठ काले क़ानूनों पर मोहर लगवाना मेहनती किसानों की जेब काटने जैसा ज़रूर है। https://t.co/QTgvPwtNolCongress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said nothing like this happened and spreading such false news is a disgrace to the shrine. Political conflict will go on, but one needs to be more responsible while levelling such charges, Surjewala wrote."Yes, being in the cabinet of the Modi government and stamping the farm laws is definitely like pickpocketing hardworking farmers," Surjewala added. Harsimrat Kaur Badal had resigned from PM Modi's cabinet in protest against the farm laws which have now been repealed.On Thursday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi paid a visit to Golden Temple and had lunch in the langar. "As always, it felt good to bow my head at the Darbar Sahib. I felt a sense of belonging." Rahul Gandhi tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harsimrat-asks-who-picked-rahul-gandhi-s-pocket-cong-denies-any-such-incident-101643474737513.html
29-01-2022||India||Bihar’s second rail tunnel, 903-feet long becomes operational||Bihar has got its second rail tunnel – nearly 903-feet long. The first one built in 1861-1865 period between Jamalpur-Bhagalpur-Sahebganj loop lines was in Munger district and the second one is also located in Munger, but built 157 years later adjacent to the earlier one.The work on the new tunnel cutting through Bariakol hill near Jamalpur railway station started on October 22, 2019 and was completed in 2022. This rail tunnel will present the glorious story of Munger. A side wall has been made at both its entrance and exit. The historical, religious heritage of the district has been presented through paintings on these walls. After an inspection by the Commissioner of Railway Safety (CRS) AM Choudhary and Malda divisional railway manager (DRM) Yatendra Kumar, a trial run was conducted through the tunnel.Officials said, a special train with nine bogies passed through the tunnel at a speed of 125 km per hour, the highest ever achieved on the route. In the first trial, a speed of 121 km per hour was achieved. After the successful trial run, train services have been started through the new tunnel, said Malda DRM on Saturday. He told HT that a six-feet pathway will also be built on both sides inside the tunnel for peddlers.Railway officials said that the tunnel would be of immense help in maintaining schedule of trains, as there will be no problem of level crossings any more. Earlier, a train coming on the Up-line meant that another train coming from the other side had to be stopped at Jamalpur or Ratanapur, as only one train could pass at a time. Now, the Rajdhani Express can also run through the route due to its ability to handle a high speed of 125 km per hour. Before coming from Bariarpur towards Jamalpur, a huge canvas has been made on the left side of the entrance of the new tunnel. More than a dozen historical pictures were displayed on it. In the picture, dozens of historical monuments such as Haveli Kharagpur Lake, Sri Krishna Setu, Munger Gang Bridge, Kash Harni Ghat, Bhima Dam, Munger Fort, Chandikasthan, have been depicted. After exiting the tunnel, many historical monuments including Munger’s Karna Chauraha, Yoga Ashram are shown through the picture.The 903-feet tunnel took two years to complete, costing ₹45-crore. The work had started in 2019 and the tunnel was dug by December 2020 December. Officials said that this is a hi-tech tunnel under Malda division falling under the Eastern Railway. Deputy chief engineer of Malda rail division Ranjit Kumar told HT that the second tunnel in Bihar is made with Australian technology. Passengers will not experience darkness inside this tunnel. Lights have been installed inside the tunnel. Due to this, the passengers will not even know when they are entering the tunnel and when they are exiting it.Bhagwan Prasad Yadav, 88, a former loco pilot of Jamalpur said that the old tunnel has become rather risky and the new one will facilitate faster movement of trains both on up and down tracks. The new rail tunnel has a length of 341 metres, width of 7 metres and height 6.10 metres
29-01-2022||India||CBI changes entire team probing death of Dhanbad Judge||Two weeks after the Jharkhand high court reprimanded the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for not conducting the investigation properly into the death of Dhanbad Judge Uttam Anand, the central agency has changed the entire probe team in the case.A Superintendent of Police (SP) rank officer - Vikas Kumar from Delhi has already reached Dhanbad to replace the current investigating officer ASP (Additional SP) Vijay Shukla and has already sought permission from the court to once again interrogate the two arrested accused - Rahul Verma and Lakhan Verma. A 20-member SIT team has been investigating the case since August last year. People familiar with the development confirmed to HT that the members of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the Dhanbad Judge’s mysterious mowing down on the morning of July 28 last year, when he was out jogging, have been changed “to probe the larger conspiracy”. One of the officials cited above said CBI Joint Director Sharad Aggarwal will continue to supervise the investigation in the case, but all other officers from existing team have been replaced. It has been learnt that the new team led by SP Kumar from Delhi-based Special Crimes Unit-2 already visited the Randhir Verma Square on January 26 to recreate the crime scene. The new team has also sought permission from the court to interrogate the accused for three days inside the prison. Judge Uttam Anand was mowed down by an auto-rickshaw on July 28, an incident which sparked off security concerns in the entire judiciary. The vehicle, which was stolen from Dhanbad, was recovered from neighbouring Giridih district that night. Two persons — auto driver Lakhan Verma, 22, and his accomplice Rahul Verma, 21 — were arrested two days later.The Supreme Court and the Jharkhand high court took suo motu cognisance of the hit-and-run incident in which Anand, 49, was killed after CCTV footage showed a three-wheeler swerving on an empty road to knock him down as he was jogging outside the Magistrate Colony near Randhir Verma Square in Dhanbad. The apex court also later expressed distress over rising incidents of verbal and physical attacks on judges throughout the country. The central agency filed a charge sheet against the two in October last year for murder and destruction of evidence but the Jharkhand high court is unhappy with the CBI probe. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan Prasad had on January 14 pulled up the CBI for not properly conducting the probe in the matter while saying that a larger conspiracy needs to be unearthed. The bench observed that the murder has not happened because of any mobile phone theft or any other trivial matter, while asking the CBI to produce the narco tests reports of the accused men. Earlier, in October last year, the high court rapped the central agency for filing a stereotype chargesheet in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-changes-entire-team-probing-death-of-dhanbad-judge-101643472548460.html
29-01-2022||India||30-years of India-Israel friendship: PM Modi says 'time to set new goals' to take forward ties||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday praised the decades-old relationship between India and Israel as he asserted that the cooperation between the two countries has played a key role in the growth stories of the two nations. He issued a special video message, marking 30 years of the establishment of diplomatic relations between India and Israel."The history of the relationship between our countries is very old. There has been a strong relationship between the people of India and Israel for centuries," the Prime Minister said.PM Modi this period has been very important for both countries and there cannot be a better time to set new goals for taking forward India-Israel relations. "Today, when the world is witnessing important changes, the importance of India-Israel relations has increased even more. I am fully confident that the India-Israel friendship will achieve new milestones in mutual cooperation in the coming decades," PM Modi addedThough India had recognised Israel on September 17, 1950, full-fledged diplomatic relations between the countries were established on January 29, 1992. Since then, the bilateral relations between both countries have developed into a multifaceted strategic partnership.Earlier this week, Israel's envoy to India Naor Gilon also emphasised that the 30th anniversary of India-Israel diplomatic ties is a good opportunity to look ahead and shape the next 30 years of relations.Emphasising that "friendship and trust" are not only positive traits but also "real assets", the foreign ministers of India and Israel in a joint op-ed for an Israeli daily on Friday said the two countries have worked together to "deepen their roots" for the last three decades, delving together to find solutions to common challenges, including in the security sector.Meanwhile, the Teen Murti Haifa Chowk in the national capital lit up in Indian and Israeli colours on Saturday to celebrate 30 years of friendship between India and Israel.Earlier known as Teen Murti chowk, it was renamed as Teen Murti Haifa Chowk on January 2018 during the former Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu visit to India.The three bronze statues at Teen Murti represent the Hyderabad, Jodhpur and Mysore Lancers, who were part of the 15 Imperial Service Cavalry Brigade, which carried out the victorious assault on the fortified Israeli city of Haifa on September 23, 1918, during World War I.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/30years-of-india-israel-friendship-pm-modi-says-time-to-set-new-goals-to-take-forward-ties-101643471480594.html
29-01-2022||India||India sends 3 tonnes of medicines as fourth tranche of aid to Afghanistan||India on Saturday supplied three tonnes of life-saving medicines to Afghanistan, the fourth tranche of aid since last month to help the Afghan people cope with a growing humanitarian crisis that has been compounded by a harsh winter. The medicines were handed over to the Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health in Kabul, the external affairs ministry said. “In the coming weeks, we would be supplying more batches of humanitarian assistance consisting of medicines and food grains for the people of Afghanistan,” the ministry said in a statement. India had earlier supplied 3.6 tonnes of medicines and 500,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccines to Afghanistan. An offer to provide 50,000 tonnes of wheat via land routes passing through Pakistan has been held up since October last year as Islamabad is yet to finalise the modalities for shipping the grains. India has also pledged to send another 500,000 doses of vaccines in the coming weeks. “India stands committed to continue our special relationship with the people of Afghanistan and provide humanitarian assistance. In this endeavour, we had already supplied three shipments of medical assistance, consisting of 500,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccine and essential life-saving medicines to Afghanistan,” the statement said. All these supplies were handed over to the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health. External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a media briefing on Friday that the Indian government is committed to provide humanitarian aid, including food grains, Covid-19 vaccines and life-saving medicines, to the Afghan people. “The process to procure the wheat and to arrange its transportation is currently underway. Naturally, this takes some time,” he said, referring to the offer to supply 50,000 tonnes of wheat. The Taliban, whose regime in Kabul has not been recognised by New Delhi, have so far welcomed the aid provided by India. The group’s Twitter accounts and spokesmen have expressed gratitude for the assistance. The UN has sought close to $8 billion dollars for humanitarian activities in Afghanistan during 2022, including $4.4 billion in additional humanitarian assistance. The UN has said about 23 million Afghan people are in a state of humanitarian emergency, and UNICEF estimates more than one million children are at risk of dying from malnutrition and hunger-related disease. 
29-01-2022||India||J&K: Terrorists shoot policeman dead in Anantnag district; probe underway||A police constable lost his life after being shot by terrorists in Bijbehara area of Anantnag district in Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday. According to reports by multiple news agencies, the deceased policeman was identified as head constable Ali Muhammad.He was immediately rushed to a local hospital, where he succumbed to the injuries.A case has been registered by police under relevant sections of law. "Investigation is in progress and officers continue to work to establish the full circumstances of this terror crime," the police said.Meanwhile, the area has been cordoned by security officials, while a search operation to nab assailants is underway in Hassan Pora locality.Further information regarding the incident is awaited.On December 29, three terrorists were killed in the overnight operation in Nowgam Dooru area of Anantnag, and three others were gunned down in Mirhama village of Kulgam.All the terrorists, two of whom were foreign nationals, were associated with the Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) terror group, the police had informed. Three of them were involved in the December 13 attack on a police bus in Zewan, in which three policemen were killed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-terrorists-shoot-policeman-dead-in-anantnag-district-probe-underway-101643466343111.html
29-01-2022||India||'We got really lucky with Omicron because...': Virologist Gagandeep Kang||Virologist Gagandeep Kang on Saturday said though Omicron has the potential to get transmitted at a rate never seen before, it did not lead to severity like Delta did because of a phenomenon called epistasis where the background of mutations influences how genes actually work. Talking in a webinar 'Omicron: Enigma or End?', Dr Kang said, "When Omicron was first sequenced, there was a lot of concerns over Omicron because of the number of mutations and also because we did not understand how a virus with so many mutations could have evaded surveillance around the globe. There are multiple theories about how Omicron came."‘Risk persists despite plateauing Covid-19 cases in India’: WHOOmicron, the variant first detected in South Africa in November 2021, drove a fresh surge of the pandemic across the world. Omicron was a cause of worry because it seemed to have all the most dangerous mutations seen in previous variants. "We got really lucky with Omicron because of a phenomenon known as epistasis where the background of mutations influences how genes actually work. We wound up with the virus while it was capable of immune evasion of a level we have never seen before. But it did not result in the severity that we saw before. That's not to say nobody got sick but the proportion was less," Dr Kang said."When people talk about protection from contracting Covid, they must understand that it is nearly impossible for a mucosal pathogen. We have seen this flu, influenza. We are relearning those same things with SARS-CoV-2," Dr Kang said.IIT professor Maninder Agarwal, who has been tracking the movement of the waves, said the peak of the third wave in India is already behind us. Now the wave will go down. Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, West Bengal have already peaked. Some southern states have not yet peaked. “The projection was very difficult as there was a sudden increase in the number of cases in the first week. We did not have adequate data required for projection,” Prof Agarwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-got-really-lucky-with-omicron-because-virologist-gagandeep-kang-101643462709759.html
29-01-2022||India||VK Singh calls NYT ‘supari media’ after report on Pegasus spy tool row||Union minister Gen V K Singh on Saturday called The New York Times "Supari Media" over its report which claimed that the Indian government bought the Pegasus spy tool in 2017 as part of a deal with Israel.The Israeli spyware Pegasus and a missile system were the "centrepieces" of a roughly USD 2 billion deal of sophisticated weapons and intelligence gear between India and Israel in 2017, according to the report in The New York Times.A massive controversy erupted last year when the NSO Group hit the headlines with the alleged use of its Pegasus software by some governments to spy on journalists, human rights defenders, politicians and others in a number of countries, including India, triggered concerns over issues relating to privacy.Reacting to NYT's report, Singh, Minister of State for Road Transport and Highways and Civil Aviation, said on Twitter: "Can you trust NYT?? They are known "Supari Media"."Singh is also a former Indian Army chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vk-singh-calls-nyt-supari-media-after-report-on-pegasus-spy-tool-row-101643458002550.html
29-01-2022||India||Law needs to be framed against wrongful religious conversions, says Kejriwal||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said that a law should be made against religious conversions but added that nobody should be wrongfully harassed by the misuse of such laws. Kejriwal was addressing a session with traders and industrialists in Jalandhar on Saturday where he was questioned by a trader and asked to clear his stand on the religious conversions taking place in the country.Responding to the query, Kejriwal said that that everybody has a right to worship as per their choice but conversions done by scaring or through any offering is totally wrong. A law should definitely be made against religious conversions but nobody should be wrongly harassed after the passage of the law.On the issue of the release of Sikh prisoner Prof Davinderpal Bhullar, Kejriwal said that it was a very sensitive matter and condemned Shiromani Akali Dal for doing dirty politics on the issue. Further he added that there is a sentence review board comprising of officials, judicial officers and others, in the Delhi government. “When the matter was brought to the knowledge of the Lieutenant Governor, he asked the home secretary of Delhi to call a meeting of the sentence review board immediately and whatever decision the panel takes will be filed and immediately put before the LG for further action,” the AAP chief said. 
29-01-2022||India||Kejriwal declares 10 guarantees for Punjab’s urban areas, no new taxes if voted to power||After announcing several guarantees for various sectors in the state, Aam Aadmi Party national convenor and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday announced 10 new guarantees, including no new tax and no hikes in the existing taxes, for cities in poll-bound Punjab. Kejriwal accompanied by AAP state president and party’s chief ministerial face, Bhagwant Mann addressed a press conference in Jalandhar on Saturday. Earlier, Kejriwal had also addressed a session with traders and industrialists.Arvind Kejriwal said that after the party had announced several guarantees for various sectors then people from the urban areas approached them and questioned the party’s guarantees for them. Kejriwal announced that there was a serious issue of cleanliness across cities including Ludhiana, Bathinda, Amritsar and Jalandhar. If AAP was voted to power, it would provide best cleanliness facilities including proper sewage, drainage, solid management, in the cities so that they look beautiful. He further added that AAP had started door-step services related to various government offices in Delhi where people did not need to make various rounds to government offices, and they could make a call on a helpline number. A Delhi government official would visit their home to collect documents and the service would be delivered in a week or 10 days. Similarly, the party would replicate the system in Punjab also. He further said Mohalla clinics and civil hospitals would be revamped; there would be improvement in government schools so that the middle class should not bear the hefty fees of private schools, 24 hours power supply and 24 hours drinking water facility would also be provided. To woo traders and businessmen, Kejriwal announced that the AAP government will not impose any tax or not enhance any existing taxes in the coming five years. “We will cover the entire state with CCTV network for women’s safety and to control crime as Delhi has more CCTV cameras than New York, London and other big cities of the world,” added Kejriwal. In the last guarantees, he said that the roads in the existing markets in the cities of Punjab were in shambles and had no facility of public toilets or proper parking, so the AAP would create proper infrastructure including parking, public toilets and other facilities for the markets. 
29-01-2022||India||Watch: IIT-Delhi's drone show illuminates Delhi sky at Beating Retreat ceremony||The Beating the Retreat ceremony marking to end of the Republic Day celebrations has begun at Vijay Chowk in the presence of PM Narendra Modi, President Ram Nath Kovind, defence minister Rajnath Singh.The main attraction of today's ceremony is the 10-minute drone show of 1,000 drones, commemorating the 75 years of Independence. The drone show has been organised by startup 'Botlab Dynamics' and supported by the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi and the Department of Science and Technology, the ministry said.Beating Retreat 2022: How drones lit up sky, military music enthralled I Watch key highlightsIn the drone and laser show, the glorious history of India's freedom was remembered as the drones formed different formations pertaining to India's history. All these drones are made in India.  The 10-minute show has been conceptualised, designed, produced and choreographed under the Centre's 'Make in India' initiative.Watch Beating Retreat Live “It's a matter of pride that for the first time 1,000 drones will light up the sky during the beating retreat ceremony. India will become the 4th country in the world after UK, Russia and China to have achieved this feat,” Union Minister Jitendra Singh said. “I am also happy to share that the entire funding was done by the science and technology ministry. IIT alumni have worked on it (drones) for 6 months,” the minister said. The entry band was Massed Band playing the 'Veer Sainik' tune. This was followed by Pipes and Drums Band, CAPF Band, Air Force Band, Naval Band, Army Military Band and Massed Bands. The principal conductor of the ceremony is Commander Vijay Charles D'Cruz. The hymn 'Abide With Me' has been dropped from the event creating a row as the hymn, said to be Mahatma Gandhi’s favourite, has been a decades-old tune featuring at the Beating Retreat ceremony. Beating the Retreat is a military tradition that marks the disengagement of troops from the battle at sunset.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-live-beating-retreat-ceremony-to-mark-end-of-r-day-celebrations-begins-101643456471448.html
29-01-2022||India||Shouldn’t blindly follow foreign countries on marital rape: Centre to Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: The union government has told the Delhi high court that just because other countries, mostly western, have criminalised marital rape does not necessarily mean India should follow them blindly. Opposing a bunch of pleas seeking to criminalise marital rape in the country, the Centre in its written submissions has told the high court that “India has its own unique problems due to various factors like literacy, lack of financial empowerment of the majority of females, mindset of the society, vast diversity, poverty, etc. and these should be considered carefully before criminalising marital rape”. Reiterating its earlier stand of 2017, the union government has said that there is a vast diversity in the cultures of Indian states and it is necessary to implead the state governments in the matter to know their opinion to avoid any complications at a later stage. It said that even in its 172nd report titled Review of Rape Laws, the Law Commission has examined the matter and did not recommend the criminalisation of marital rape. The government also said that the high court does not have the power to legislate in the issue, adding that the courts cannot usurp the power of the legislature. “Removal of exception 2 of Section 375 IPC which consciously would be akin to legislating a separate offence which can be done only by the legislature as per the doctrine separation of power prescribed in the Constitution of India,” the written submissions read. Repeating its 2017 apprehension of gross misuse of the offence of marital rape, the Centre said that the same cannot be “ruled out”. It said that adequate procedural safeguards will also have to be ensured to be put in place. “Furthermore, deletion of exception of Section 375 would make marital rape cognizable, non- bailable and non-compoundable offence. This would stop the chances of settlement between husband and wife which is possible under section 498A Indian Penal Code (domestic violence),” the union government said. Referring to the Supreme Court, the Centre said that the apex court has spoken about the misuse of 498A IPC and removing of the exception in the rape law can also open floodgates of false cases being made with ulterior motives. “Reasonable restrictions shall be imposed on the Fundamental Rights guaranteed under the Constitution,” it said. It said that the aspect of marital rape is sufficiently covered under “sexual abuse” under the definition of domestic violence. The offence as well as adequate remedies has been provided under the Act. Furthermore, any act of unnatural sex between man and his wife are also squarely covered under Section 377 IPC. The written submissions were filed on January 12 in response to a bunch of PILs filed in 2015 by NGO RIT Foundation, All India Democratic Women’s Association and two individuals who have sought to strike down the exception in the Indian rape laws on the grounds that it discriminated against married women who were sexually assaulted by their husbands. Exception of section 375 IPC decriminalises marital rape and mandates that sexual intercourse by a man with his own wife, the wife not being under fifteen years of age, is not rape. Opposing the pleas further, Centre has said that in case exception 2 of Section 375 is removed, all such cases will be dealt with as per the jurisprudence applicable to the present offences committed under Section 375. “The testimony of the prosecutrix is sufficient to convict the accused under Section 376 IPC. There is no reason to insist on corroboration except from the medical evidence. The testimony of a woman who is victim of sexual violence must ordinarily be corroborated in material particulars except the rarest rare. There is rarely direct evidence of a person other than the prosecutrix is available,” the submissions read. It said that it will be difficult to determine as to when the consent was withdrawn by the married woman. “Most of the circumstantial and corroborative evidence will become futile in case of marital rape,” it added. In its August 2017 affidavit, the Centre said that the Supreme Court and various high courts have already observed the rising misuse of Section 498A (harassment caused to a married woman by her husband and in-laws) of Indian Penal Code (IPC). It further said that marital rape has not been defined in a statue or law and while the offence of rape is defined under section 375 IPC, defining marital rape will call for a broad-based consensus of the society. However, in mid-January, the Union government informed the high court that marital rape cannot be made into a criminal offence until the Centre’s consultation with all stakeholders is complete, paving the way for comprehensive amendments in criminal law instead of “piecemeal” changes. Submitting a fresh affidavit in response to a clutch of petitions to criminalise marital rape, the Centre maintained that it is examining the issue of broad changes in criminal law of the country and that the petitioner could also give their suggestions to the competent authorities. Underlining that amendment of criminal law is “a continuous process”, it added that suggestions have been invited from chief ministers of all the state governments and from Union territories, the Chief Justice of India, chief justices of all high courts, judicial academies, national law universities, Bar Council of India, Bar Council of all high courts and members of both Houses of Parliament. The affidavit, filed through the Union ministry of home affairs, however, does not mention the date when views were solicited. Later, on January 17, the Solicitor General, Tushar Mehta said that consultations are ongoing and the State would require time to respond on the issue. The time to respond was extended on January 24 (Monday), after the SG said that a half-hearted reply would affect the citizens of the country, adding that the dignity of a woman is at stake. He said criminalisation of marital rape involves “family issues” and cannot be looked at from a “microscopic angle”. He added that the matter can wait as nothing imminent is going to happen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shouldnt-blindly-follow-foreign-countries-on-marital-rape-centre-to-delhi-hc-101643455567504.html
29-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: PF rules change for Air India employees and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PF rules change for Air India employees as it becomes private. Details hereAround 7,453 employees of Air India will receive an extra 2% employer's contributions in the provident fund accounts at 12% of their wages as the Employees' Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has onboarded Air India for the social security coverage. Read more‘Risk persists despite plateauing Covid-19 cases in India’: WHODespite the plateauing number of daily Covid-19 infections in India, the country is still not out of risk, World Health Organization’s regional director for South-East Asia Poonam Khetrapal Singh said. Read moreSBI suspends controversial circular on recruitment regarding pregnant womenThe State Bank of India (SBI) on Saturday temporarily withdrew the controversial circular calling pregnant women ‘unfit’ for recruitment after media reports highlighted criticisms against the notice's “discriminatory” nature. Read moreAsh Barty beats Danielle Collins to claim maiden Australian Open title, ends Australia's 44-year waitWorld number one Ashleigh Barty eased past America's Danielle Collins on Saturday with a straight-set victory to lift her maiden Australian Open title and third Grand Slam trophy at the Rod Laver Arena. Read morePriyamani says Bollywood portrayed South Indians as ‘people who didn’t speak Hindi the normal way’: ‘Aiyo kya bolta ji?’Priyamani, who featured in the web series The Family Man, has opened up about how South Indians 'used to' be portrayed in Hindi films. In an interview, she said that in Bollywood movies, people from Kerala or Chennai were shown just as those who spoke Hindi with an accent. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pf-rules-change-for-air-india-employees-as-it-becomes-private-and-all-the-latest-news-101643454241773.html
29-01-2022||India||‘Risk persists despite plateauing Covid-19 cases in India’: WHO||Despite the plateauing number of daily Covid-19 infections in India, the country is still not out of risk, World Health Organization’s regional director for South-East Asia Poonam Khetrapal Singh said on Saturday. The official also said that the country must now focus on reducing the spread of the virus, implement “situation-specific” public health measures and increase the vaccination against the pandemic.When asked about the Covid-19 cases in the country, Singh said that the risk of the infection still remained high and no country was “out of the woods” yet, irrespective of their current transmission scenario, news agency PTI reported.“Hence, even though some cities or states may be beginning to see plateauing of cases, the risk persists. We need to continue to remain vigilant. Our focus must be on reducing transmission. Implementing situation-specific public health and social measures and increasing vaccine coverage - that's the way forward for all countries in the ongoing pandemic," she told PTI regarding the situation in India.Also read | Covid-19 third wave peak over in Maharashtra: State health ministerThe remarks from the WHO official came after the Union health ministry on Thursday said that Covid cases have been stabilising in some regions within the country, however, cautioned that the trends needs to be observed.“Early indication of a plateau in cases are being reported in certain geographies. The trend needs to be observed and required precautions need to be continued,” joint secretary Lav Agarwal said during a press briefing.On Saturday, 235,532 more people tested positive for the disease, a slight decline from the 251,209 new cases reported on the previous day.Briefing on the Omicron variant which is attributed with the third Covid wave in the country, Singh said that the variant appeared less severe but also cautioned against increasing hospitalisations."There appears to be a lower risk of severe disease and death following Omicron infection as compared to other variants. However, due to the very high numbers of cases, many countries have seen a significant increase in the incidence of hospitalisation, putting pressure on healthcare systems," she said.Further, she also said that vaccination remained an effective method that helped in reducing the risk of severe illness after infection by the variant."There is growing evidence on vaccine effectiveness for Omicron, but we still have a lot to learn. So far, we think that vaccines are less effective against Omicron infection and symptomatic disease compared to Delta. Having a booster shot seems to increase protection," she said.She also stressed on the importance of non pharmaceutical interventions such as following distancing, avoiding crowds, wearing facemasks and regular hand sanitisation in checking the spread of the variant.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/risk-persists-despite-plateauing-covid-19-cases-in-india-who-101643453023428.html
29-01-2022||India||Goa: Michael Lobo remains among richest candidates, CM Sawant’s assets rise 300%||PANAJI: Former BJP minister Michael Lobo, who was the richest MLA of the outgoing Goa legislative assembly remains among the richest MLAs with assets worth upwards of ₹84.387 crore with his total assets having nearly doubled from the ₹49.47 crore he was worth back in 2017, information gleaned from the affidavit submitted before the Election Commission has revealed. Lobo, who has joined the Congress from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), who has been representing the Calangute constituency, arguably the epicentre of Goa’s beach-centred tourism industry, owns a string of tourism properties including starred hotels, entertainment venues and clubs. A bulk of his assets are immoveable assets that are worth ₹59.24 crore having risen from ₹33.11 crore in 2017 while his moveable assets rose from ₹16.36 crore to ₹25.147 crore. His wife Delilah Lobo, who is the Congress candidate from the neighbouring Siolim constituency, has declared assets to the tune of ₹7.16 crore. Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant’s assets have grown three-fold from ₹2.37 crore to ₹7.15 crore with his moveable assets rising the most from ₹75.43 lakh to ₹3.47 crore across the last five years. His moveable assets have grown from ₹1.62 crore to ₹3.68 crore. The BJP’s Atanasio “Babush” Monserrate and his wife Jennifer Monserrate, both of whom are contesting the elections from Panaji and Taleigao respectively, have declared that they jointly own assets to the tune of ₹48.48 crore, each claiming joint ownership of the assets under their possession which represents a rise of more than ₹18 crore from the ₹30.03 crore they jointly owned back in 2017. Monserrate contested on a ticket of the United Goans Party in 2017, losing to the BJP’s Siddharth Kuncaliencar, while his wife contested on a Congress ticket winning from the Taleigao constituency. Monserrate was elected from the Panaji constituency in 2019 in the by-election to fill the vacancy after Manohar Parrikar passed away. Other high net worth individuals contesting the upcoming assembly elections include Goa health minister Vishwajit Rane, who is worth ₹16.36 crore, his wife Deviya Rane who is worth ₹6.76 crore; Goa Trinamool Congress (TMC) president Kiran Kandolkar who is worth ₹6.69 crore and his wife Kavita Kandolkar, who is also contesting on the ticket of the All-India Trinamool Congress, has declared assets to the rune of ₹5.13 crore. Interestingly, Kiran has declared ownership of a Yamaha RX 135 motorcycle which he has said is worth ₹862, which is a steep fall from the ₹3,325 he said it was worth back in 2017. Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat on the other hand has only seen his assets grow marginally from ₹9.71 crore to ₹10.08 crore. Manohar Parrikar’s son Utpal, who is contesting the elections for the first time, has declared assets to the tune of ₹8.84 crore while AAP chief ministerial candidate Amit Palekar, who is also contesting the elections for the first time, has declared assets to the tune of ₹11.42 crore including the ownership of a Maserati Coupé luxury car registered in Jharkhand, which, he has said, he is in the process of selling. Goa Forward supremo Vijai Sardesai has declared individual assets worth ₹4.06 crore not including that owned by his wife who is worth ₹31.09 crore including moveable assets worth ₹6.74 crore and immoveable assets worth ₹24.35 crore. “A combination of muscle power and money power has become a perfect recipe for winning assembly elections. It would be not out of place to mention that Goa had only 6 candidates (out of 249) in 2017 who had more than ₹10 crores each as declared wealth and also had on them serious criminal cases. All six were elected to the assembly by the voters,” Bhasker Assoldekar, the Goa State Coordinator for the Association of Democratic Reforms, said. In 2007, Goa had only 55% MLAs who were crorepatis, which rose to 93% in 2012 and touched 100% at the time of the 2017 assembly elections. A total of 587 candidates including dummies, have filed their nominations for the upcoming Goa assembly elections. The nominations will be scrutinised on January 29 while the last day for withdrawal is January 31. Goa goes to the polls on February 14 in a single phase along with Uttarakhand that will also be voting on the same day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-michael-lobo-remains-among-richest-candidates-cm-sawant-s-assets-rise-300-101643453107769.html
29-01-2022||India||In Maharashtra’s Kalyan, water woes of 15 villages to end soon||The water woes of nearly 15 villages in Kalyan taluka will soon be resolved as the Maharashtra government has given the nod for a dedicated water supply project estimated at ₹24 crore for these villages. The water supply project, which involves a dedicated water supply network will ease water troubles of villages like Raita, Goveli, Bapsai, Mamnoli, Ghotsai, Aapti and others. The proposal for the water supply scheme for these villages was prepared by the Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran (MJP). The proposal was then sent to the state government for approval, last week the state government approved and sanctioned the funds for the project. The proposal of the water supply scheme for these villages has been prepared considering the requirements for the upcoming 32 years. In the project every house will get a pipeline connection, while water tax will be imposed on the villagers. “Most of us are dependent on wells for water as there is no pipeline connection. Sometimes the well water is also not adequate for the daily chores. The water supply connection will help us a lot,” said Rukmini Bai, 65, a resident of Raita village. “The water woes in these villages will be eased once the project is imposed. Since the proposal has been sanctioned along with the funds the work for the same will begin soon. The tender will be published in a month. We will lift the water for these villages from Ulhas River,” said an officer of Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran, who did not wish to be named. 
29-01-2022||India||Covid-19 third wave peak over in Maharashtra: State health minister||The peak of the Covid-19 third wave is over in Maharashtra, state health minister Rajesh Tope said on Saturday as daily cases of infection are stabilising. "Yes, I can say that peak of the third wave has over now," said Tope, adding, Covid-19 cases are reducing in areas like Mumbai, Thane, Raigad, Palghar where the situation was the worst during the recent wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.However, some parts of the state cases are still showing an upward surge, Tope said. "In Nashik, Nagpur, Pune, Aurangabad, the number is still rising but there is no reason to worry even in these places," the minister said."Infected people are getting cured in 5 to 7 days with simple treatment and medicines," he added.Maharashtra was the worst-hit state during the third wave of Covid-19 with cases rising exponentially every day. However, with the situation now stabilising, daily Covid positive numbers are going down, the minister said. "We were at 47,000 per day once, which has now gone down to around 25,000 per day. Simultaneously 92 to 96 per cent beds are vacant and less than one per cent patients are on oxygen, ICU or ventilators," he said.The state currently has 2,70,444 active Covid-19 cases. The cumulative recoveries stood at 72,42,649. While the cumulative deaths stood at 1,42,461.On Friday, the state reported 24,948 new coronavirus cases including 110 Omicron infections and 103 pandemic-related deaths. On Thursday, the state had recorded 25,425 cases besides 42 fatalities.The overall caseload in the state now stands at 76,55,554, while the death toll is at 1,42,461.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-third-wave-peak-over-in-maharashtra-state-health-minister-101643452437017.html
29-01-2022||India||SBI temporarily suspends controversial circular on recruitment regarding pregnant women||The State Bank of India (SBI) on Saturday temporarily withdrew the controversial circular calling pregnant women ‘unfit’ for recruitment after media reports highlighted criticisms against the notice's “discriminatory” nature. In an official release, the public sector bank clarified that “in view of public sentiments”, it is keeping its revised instructions regarding recruitment of pregnant women candidates “in abeyance”.Also Read | ‘Discriminatory, illegal’: SBI rebuked for calling pregnant women ‘unfit’ in new rules“SBI has recently reviewed the various fitness standards for recruitment in the bank, including norms for pregnant women candidates,” read the release issued on Saturday. “The revised guidelines were intended to provide clarity on various health parameters where instructions were not clear or were very old. In some sections of the media, the revision in norms in this regard has been interpreted as discriminatory against women.”SBI, the country's largest lender, said that it has “always been proactive towards the care and empowerment of its women employees”, who now constitute around 25 per cent of the total workforce.Press release relating to news items about required fitness standards for recruitment in Bank. Revised instructions about recruitment of Pregnant Women candidates stands withdrawn.@DFS_India pic.twitter.com/QXqn3XSzKF“During the Covid-19 period, as per government instructions, pregnant women employees were exempted from attending office and allowed to work from home,” it said.The press release added, “However, in view of the public sentiments, SBI has decided to keep the revised instructions regarding recruitment of pregnant women candidates in abeyance and continue with the existing instructions in the matter.”Earlier, a barrage of criticisms had been pilloried against the public sector bank after it tweaked its recruitment rules wherein it said that women candidates with more than three months of pregnancy will be considered “temporarily unfit” to join. The internet exploded with outrage on what it called “discriminatory” rules on part of the SBI, as netizens – ranging from politicians to corporate professionals – and human rights bodies took to their respective social media handles to request the country's largest lender to revoke its revised guidelines.The bank had said in its rules that woman candidates with more than three months of pregnancy will be considered “temporarily unfit” but can join service within four months after delivery.The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) had also issued a notice to the SBI earlier today, seeking withdrawal of the guideline. Swati Maliwal, the commission's chief, said that the rules are both “discriminatory” and “illegal” as they are contrary to the maternity benefits provided under ‘The Code of Social Security, 2020’.The move had also elicited criticism from other quarters, including from the All India State Bank Of India Employees' Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sbi-suspends-controversial-circular-on-recruitment-regarding-pregnant-women-101643450438812.html
29-01-2022||India||Karnataka lifts night curfew, Bengaluru schools to reopen from January 31||The Karnataka government on Saturday lifted the night curfew which will come into effect from January 31. The government has also done away with the 50% occupancy rules in hotels, bars and pubs. Cinema halls, however, will have to maintain the 50% occupancy guideline. Schools in Bengaluru will also start physical classes from January 31. Karnataka minister BC Nagesh said the departments concerned will come up with SOPs to be followed once the reopening starts. Swimming pools, gyms, sports complexes will also have to operate with 50% capacity. Government offices can work with 100% attendance of the staff. Temples will also allow prayers with 50% capacity. Protest, sit-ins, religious congregations, political gatherings will not be allowed.Karnataka has remained one of the worst-hit states in all the first, second and third waves of the Covid-19 pandemic. In the ongoing third wave too, Bengaluru's single-day Covid tally rose as high as 30,000. On Friday, Karnataka recorded 31,198 fresh cases with Bengaluru contributing 15,199 cases.As the third wave of the pandemic has now shifted to the southern states, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday conducted a high-level meeting with the health ministers of Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Telangana.Given the situation, the government has decided to go for more reopening, a week after it became the first state to ease the curbs as it withdrew the weekend curfew. Experts are of the opinion that schools should resume physical classes as students are bearing the brunt of online classes going on for almost two years now, intermittently. Reports said the government is planning to issue an advisory for reopening schools for students between the age of 15 and 18, as their vaccination against Covid has been going on. Maharashtra has already reopened schools and other states are also mulling to reopen schools in the first week of February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-lifts-night-curfew-no-50-occupancy-rule-in-hotels-bars-101643446484856.html
29-01-2022||India||Ahead of Manipur polls, Congress leader resigns, likely to join a national party||IMPHAL: The opposition Congress party’s announcement of a pre-poll alliance with five political parties and their subsequent decision to support a common candidate in Khurai constituency in the upcoming Manipur assembly elections evoked sharp reaction from an aspiring candidate in the constituency. Veteran Congress leader Khuraijam Ratankumar Singh, who had been campaigning for Khurai seat under Imphal East district, resigned from the party on Thursday after being denied party ticket and announced his plan to join a national party to fight in the upcoming elections. After Ratankumar’s resignation from Manipur Pradesh Congress Committee, the Khurai Block Congress Committee (BCC) has been dissolved. Informing this, a key functionary of the Khurai BCC, who also later resigned from the party, told media that they had been working hard when the congress was not in a good position since the last few years. “But, in spite of all efforts, they failed to acknowledge it,” he said. On Thursday, MPCC president N Loken Singh in the presence of the representatives of political parties, announced a pre-poll alliance with CPI, CPI(M), Revolutionary Socialist Party, Janata Dal (S) and Forward Block. He also informed that the Congress will support their common candidate (CPI candidate) in Khurai seat while the party will have a friendly contest in Kakching seat. Earlier, another intending Congress candidate and a former congress legislator from Hiyanglam seat also strongly reacted to the grand old party’s decision when his name was excluded from the party’s first 40 candidates list. On January 22, the Congress announced names of 40 candidates for the assembly elections in Manipur. Out of them, 12 are sitting MLAs, 9 are ex-MLAs while the rest 19 are new faces. Similarly, the National People’s Party, a coalition party of the BJP-led government, also announced names of 20 candidates recently. But the ruling BJP and its ruling ally Naga People’s Front are yet to announce their list till date. Manipur will go to polls in two phases on February 27 and March 3. In the first phase, elections will be held for 38 constituencies and the remaining 22 constituencies will vote in the second phase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-manipur-polls-congress-leader-resigns-likely-to-join-a-national-party-101643445547031.html
29-01-2022||India||Covid-19 patient killed as fire breaks out in hospital in Bengal||KOLKATA: A 60-year-old woman, who was undergoing treatment for Covid-19 in a state-run hospital at Burdwan in West Bengal, was killed on Saturday morning after a fire broke out in the hospital’s Covid-19 ward, said hospital authorities. The victim was identified as Sandhya Rani Mondol, a resident of the same district. The hospital authorities have formed a five-member committee to probe into the incident. A senior doctor said that the fire may have been triggered by a mosquito coil as only one bed was gutted. Three other patients who were undergoing treatment for Covid-19 in the general ward were rescued. They didn’t suffer any injuries. “It was around 5 am that the fire broke out in the ward. There were four patients in the general ward. Even though we managed to rescue three patients, one succumbed. Only one bed was affected in the fire,” said Dr Tapas Ghosh, medical superintendent and vice principal of Burdwan Medical College and Hospital. A relative of a Covid-19 patient first spotted the flames and raised an alarm. While the hospital staff rescued the three patients and started to fight the flames, the fire brigade was also informed. The fire was pit out even before the fire brigade could reach the spot. On Friday, 3,805 fresh Covid-19 cases were detected in West Bengal, taking the total number of active cases to 45,729. At least 34 patients died on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-patient-killed-as-fire-breaks-out-in-hospital-in-bengal-101643443566894.html
29-01-2022||India||‘Discriminatory, illegal’: SBI rebuked for calling pregnant women ‘unfit’ in new rules||After the State Bank of India (SBI) tweaked its recruitment rules wherein it said that women candidates with more than three months of pregnancy will be considered “temporarily unfit” to join, a barrage of criticisms has been pilloried against the public sector bank. The internet exploded with outrage on what it called “discriminatory” rules on part of the SBI, as netizens – ranging from politicians to corporate professionals – and human rights bodies took to their respective social media handles to request the country's largest lender to revoke its revised guidelines.Also Read | SBI tweaks recruitment rules for pregnant women candidatesReferring to the new rules as “discriminatory in nature”, Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi urged Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and the chairman of the bank to immediately revoke the guidelines.She posted from her official handle on Twitter, “SBI in its revised guidelines says candidates who are 3 months pregnant will be considered temporarily unfit&will be allowed to join 4 months after delivery of child. This is discriminatory in nature. I urge Hon @nsitharaman ji & CMD @TheOfficialSBI to revoke this immediately.”SBI in its revised guidelines says candidates who are 3 months pregnant will be considered temporarily unfit&will be allowed to join 4 months after delivery of child. This is discriminatory in nature. I urge Hon @nsitharaman ji & CMD @TheOfficialSBI to revoke this immediately. pic.twitter.com/AUmOaHbWzvSu Venkatesan, Communist Party of India (Marxist) (CPI-M) MP from Madurai, also criticised the SBI guidelines and said “this is in clear violation of gender equality enshrined in our Constitution.”The SBI says that women who are 3 months pregnant are temporarily unfit to join their workforce. This is in clear violation of gender equality enshrined in our Constitution. Withdraw the order immediately.@nsitharaman @TheOfficialSBI #Women #Gender #Equality pic.twitter.com/KTuUqHmB8XNotably, the SBI has said in its new rules that woman candidates with more than three months of pregnancy, who the bank considers “temporarily unfit”, can join service within four months after delivery.“However, if pregnancy is of more than 3 months, she will be considered temporarily unfit and she may be allowed to join within 4 months after delivery of child,” as per the medical fitness and ophthalmological standards for new recruits and promotees dated December 31, 2021.The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on Saturday also issued a notice to the SBI seeking withdrawal of the guideline that prevents women, who are over three months pregnant, from joining service.DCW chief Swati Maliwal said that this is both “discriminatory” and “illegal” as it is contrary to the maternity benefits provided under ‘The Code of Social Security, 2020’.The notice states that the commission has taken suo motu cognizance on media reports of SBI framing “new guidelines” for “new recruitments and promotions”.“It discriminates on the basis of sex which is against the fundamental rights provided under the Constitution of India,” the commission said.The DCW has asked the bank to provide a copy of the said rules/guidelines issued by it and a copy of similar rules/guidelines operational before issuing the new rules.It also asked the bank to provide information on the steps taken by the bank to ensure that the said guidelines are non-discriminatory to women and to amend/withdraw the said rules/guidelines and a detailed process through which these guidelines were formed along with the names and designations of the approval authority.The commission has also sought a detailed action taken report in the matter and the aforementioned information latest by February 2.The move has also elicited criticism from other quarters, including from the All India State Bank Of India Employees' Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/discriminatory-illegal-sbi-rebuked-for-calling-pregnant-women-unfit-in-new-rules-101643440399783.html
29-01-2022||India||Afternoon brief: Schools and colleges in Pune to reopen from February 1 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Schools and colleges in Pune to reopen from February 1. Details hereMaharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said on Saturday that schools and colleges in the Pune district will reopen from February 1, and provided further details on the gradual resumption of educational institutions amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Read more  Anil Deshmukh cites Sachin Vaze’s U-turn in fresh bail pleaFormer Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh has in his fresh bail plea cited the statements given by dismissed Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze before Justice KU Chandiwal enquiry commission, taking a complete U-Turn and denying that he collected money for the Nationalist Congress Party leader or handed any cash to his office staff. Read more Cold wave conditions over northwest, central India to abate: IMDSeveral states of northwest and central India, including Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh have been reeling under severe cold wave conditions in the last few days. Read more 'He must be having some regrets, but time heals wounds': Ex-BCCI selector on rumoured rift between Kohli, RohitRohit Sharma is currently seen as the front-runner to lead India in the Test format after Virat Kohli's sudden exit from the position. The 34-year-old Rohit, who has already taken over the mantle of white-ball captaincy from Kohli, will be leading the Indian camp in the upcoming home series against West Indies.Read more Sushant Singh Rajput's absconding neighbour arrested by Narcotics Control Bureau in drugs caseThe Narcotics Control Bureau has arrested Sahil Shah, an alleged drug peddler who the agency claims is linked to the Sushant Singh Rajput death-drugs case.Read more Mahesh Manjrekar on obscenity complaint against new Marathi film: 'Today everyone objects to something in every film'Reacting to a complaint that his new Marathi film Nay Varan Bhat Loncha Kon Nay Koncha portrays women in an objectionable manner, Mahesh Manjrekar has said he cannot cater to every objection. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afternoon-brief-schools-and-colleges-in-pune-to-reopen-from-february-1-and-all-the-latest-news-101643438692329.html
29-01-2022||India||Anil Deshmukh cites Sachin Vaze’s U-turn in fresh bail plea||MUMBAI: Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh has in his fresh bail plea cited the statements given by dismissed Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze before Justice KU Chandiwal enquiry commission, taking a complete U-Turn and denying that he collected money for the Nationalist Congress Party leader or handed any cash to his office staff. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) registered the money-laundering case against Deshmukh on May 11, 2021, on the basis of an April 21 First Information Report (FIR) of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), based on allegations of corruption levelled by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. In a letter written to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on March 20, Singh alleged that Deshmukh instructed certain Mumbai police officers to collect an amount of ₹100 crore every month from Mumbai’s restaurants and bars. ED claimed that on Deshmukh’s instructions Vaze, between December 2020 and February 2021, collected ₹4.7 crore from the owners of orchestra bars in Mumbai to avoid police interference. In his statement to ED, Vaze reportedly revealed that he handed over the “extorted money” in two instalments to Deshmukh’s aide Kundan Shinde. Subsequently, the agency said, Deshmukh’s son Hrishikesh got an amount of ₹4.18 crore routed through Delhi-based agents as donations to a Deshmukh-led charitable trust, Shri Sai Shikshan Sanstha, Nagpur. However, while testifying before the Chandiwal Commission, set up by Maharashtra government to enquire into Singh’s allegations, Vaze took a U-Turn and denied the claims, purportedly made by him in his statements to ED. In this backdrop, Deshmukh has claimed that Vaze’s statements were “unreliable and had no creditworthiness whatsoever.” “The statements made by Vaze are wholly ‘unreliable’ and have no creditworthiness,” said Deshmukh’s plea. “The credibility of Vaze is a matter of serious concern as he has changed his statement before the Chandiwal Commission and has said that he never met Deshmukh nor have handed him any money till date. Vaze has several cases registered against him. ACP Sanjay Patil, whose message the agency has been relying on to claim that Deshmukh was demanding money from bar owners, has told the commission that he was forced by Singh to revert to his message. That ‘Number 1” for whom money was collected from bar owners by Vaze was not him but Singh, it has become clear in various statements.” Deshmukh has also claimed that Param Bir Singh, who made allegations against him, is “the mastermind of the Antilia explosives scare case whose name has also been taken by a cyber-expert working for Mumbai police for creating a fake threat note, has himself officially submitted a pursis before the Commission stating that all allegations were based on HEARSAY.” He too has submitted before the commission that all his allegations against Deshmukh were based on hearsay. Special PMLA judge Rahul Rokade has asked the ED to file a reply to the bail plea of Deshmukh filed through advocate Inderpal Singh and posted the matter for hearing on February 4. “I am a victim of gross persecution and harassment being meted out at the hands of certain unscrupulous vested interests for blatantly mala fide considerations. The instant case reflects shocking abuse of power and authority by the concerned officials who have virtually unleashed a reign of terror by subverting the process of law,” Deshmukh has said in his fresh bail plea. The NCP leader, who was arrested on November 1, 2021, has claimed that he is a popular leader and has devoted his life to public service. He has become the MLA for the fifth time from Katol assembly constituency and has toiled hard in life, his plea stated, adding that starting from the grassroots level, he has been fortunate to have held a responsible office of a minister, and in the course of his political career and rise, he has indeed become an eyesore for several vested interests for mala fide and extraneous considerations. He has also claimed to be suffering from several health ailments. Praying for bail in his petition Deshmukh has said the trial in his case is not likely to start immediately as the agency is further investigating the case. The CBI is yet to file a charge-sheet in the predicate offence. He cannot be considered at flight risk as he himself presented before the agency. He is ready to co-operate and follow all conditions put by the court and as all the evidence is on paper there is nothing he can tamper with if given bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anil-deshmukh-cites-sachin-vaze-s-u-turn-in-fresh-bail-plea-101643437927881.html
29-01-2022||India||Cold wave conditions over northwest, central India to abate: IMD||Several states of northwest and central India, including Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh have been reeling under severe cold wave conditions in the last few days. However, the condition will start improving gradually from today, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).The northwest, east and northeast India will witness a wet spell from February 2 to 4, the IMD further said in its forecast.National capital Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 6.4 degrees Celsius on Friday, three notches below normal. The maximum temperature is likely to settle around 19 degrees Celsius. According to the weather department, a bright and sunny day is expected on Saturday.The cold is showing its impact in as far as Odisha. The minimum temperature in the state will be 3-5 degrees Celsius below normal in many places in the next three days as northwesterly dry and cold winds are entering the state, the Bhubaneswar Meteorological Centre said in a bulletin.Cold wave conditions in isolated pockets are very likely over Madhya Pradesh and during the next two days, and over Vidarbha and Chhattisgarh during the next 24 hours and gradually abate thereafter.Meanwhile, Jammu and Kashmir saw intensely cold days as Srinagar recorded a temperature of 1.8 degrees Celsius, Pahalgam was at minus 2.8 and Gulmarg minus 9.2 degrees. The weather is expected to remain dry till January 31.Cold weather conditions is also prevailing in Rajasthan, where Karauli recorded a lowest minimum temperature of 0.3 degrees Celsius on Thursday night. The minimum temperature in the capital city Jaipur on Friday night was 7.2 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cold-wave-conditions-over-northwest-central-india-to-abate-imd-101643431744322.html
29-01-2022||India||Asom Sattra Mahasabha threatens to go to court over Assam-Meghalaya border deal||GUWAHATI: Asom Sattra Mahasabha (ASM), the umbrella organisation for Vaishnavite monasteries in Assam (called ‘satras’) has alleged two ‘satras’ and over 20 ‘naamghars’ (prayer houses) located in Assam will go to Meghalaya as part of the recent deal between the two states to sort out border disputes. Last week, chief ministers of Assam and Meghalaya met union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi and apprised him of the recommendations of regional committees of the two states which suggested division of 6 of the 12 disputed border areas between them with the help of a give-and-take formula of swapping land. The chief ministers also urged the Centre to take necessary actions so that the recommendations get implemented. As per the recommendations, of the total 36.79 sq km disputed land in six areas-Gizang, Tarabari, Boklapara, Khanapara-Pilingkata and Ratacherra--Assam will get 18.51 sq km while Meghalaya will get 18.28 sq km. The recommendations, which sought to end the five-decade old border row between the two neighbours, were approved earlier by the cabinets of both the states. “We have learnt that due to this deal, two ‘satras’ and over 20 ‘naamghars’, which are very much part of Assam will be handed over to Meghalaya. This is totally unacceptable to us and we won’t allow it,” said Kusum Kumar Mahanta, general secretary of ASM. He added that the two ‘satras’, which could go to Meghalaya are Baberi Gosai Satra in Mohmorang and the other one is Netwajapa Satra in Longsai. Both the ‘satras’ and the ‘naamghars’ fall in Boklapara (one of the 6 disputed areas), which is part of West Guwahati legislative constituency. As per the details available of the deal between the two states, of the total 1.57 sq km disputed area in Boklapara, 1.01 sq km will be part of Assam while the rest 0.56 sq km go to Meghalaya. “It seems ASM has got it facts wrong. As part of the recent agreement, only one ‘naamghar’ would go to Meghalaya. This was discussed with residents of the area by the regional committee and over 70% of them said they wanted to be part of the neighbouring state,” West Guwahati MLA Ramendra Narayan Kalita, who represents the ruling Ason Gana Parishad (AGP), said. “Most residents of these areas have agricultural land in Meghalaya and when it was said that those plots can’t be merged with Assam, they decided to side with Meghalaya. We will have talks with ASM and apprise them about the factual position,” he added. Denying the assertions by Kalita, Bijoy Rabha, ‘satradhikar’ (head) of Netwajapa Satra, which was established nearly two centuries ago, said that the regional committee didn’t visit the area to take views of local residents. The ‘satra’ falls in Longsai village and has around 100 families, almost all of whom belong to the tribal Rabha community. “We are residents of Assam. We have been voting in Assam and sending our children to schools here. How can the government decide to hand our lands to Meghalaya, a Christian majority state with which we don’t share language and culture? We want to remain in Assam,” said Rabha. Informing that ASM won’t allow Assam’s land that covers ‘satras’ and ‘naamghars’ to be handed over to Meghalaya, Mahanta said the organization will soon approach Gauhati High Court seeking revocation of the deal and will also write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and union home minister Amit Shah. 
29-01-2022||India||Covid-19: India records 2,35,532 new cases in last 24 hours, deaths soar by 871||India continued a downward trajectory on the Covid-19 graph with 2,35,532 new cases of the coronavirus disease being recorded in the last 24 hours, while the deaths soared by 871, the Union health ministry bulletin showed on Saturday morning. The cumulative caseload surged to 40,858,241.The positivity rate for daily infections in the country dropped from 15.8 per cent to 13.39 per cent today.India's active caseload currently stands at 20,04,333, with cases dropping by 1,01,278 in the span of a day. Active cases now account for 4.91 per cent of the total infections.As many as 3,35,939 people recovered from the viral disease in the last 24 hours, taking the total recoveries to over 38 million. The recovery rate surged to 98.89 per cent.A total of 1.6 billion vaccine doses have been administered so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive, the ministry data showed. This includes 56,72,766 doses in the last 24 hours, comprising 6,74,623 booster shots for the eligible population and 5,84,492 first doses in the 15-18 age group.India's crossed the one-crore mark in Covid-19 cases on December 19, 2020. It surpassed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 last year, subsequently crossing three crore on June 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-india-records-2-35-532-new-cases-in-last-24-hours-deaths-soar-by-871-101643427334440.html
29-01-2022||India||1,000 drones to light up Delhi sky at ‘Beating Retreat’ ceremony today||A thousand drones will dazzle the sky above national capital Delhi for the first time ever, as part of a drone show which will be the highlight of the ‘Beating Retreat’ ceremony today, the Union defence ministry informed.The event, scheduled at Vijay Chowk in New Delhi on Saturday will be graced by President and Supreme Commander of the armed forces, Ram Nath Kovind. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union defence minister Rajnath Singh will also be among the many dignitaries who will witness the show.According to the defence ministry, the 10-minute drone show will commemorate the 75 years of Independence, that is being celebrated this year as 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav'. It has been conceptualised, designed, produced and choreographed under the Centre's 'Make in India' initiative.The drone show has been organised by startup 'Botlab Dynamics' and supported by the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Delhi and the Department of Science and Technology, the ministry stated.In the duration of 10 minutes, around 1,000 drones fabricated through indigenous technology will fly up with synchronised background music played during the drone show."Martial musical tunes with Indian fervour will be the flavour of the ceremony this year. A total of 26 performances will enthral the spectators with foot-tapping music played by the bands of Indian Army, Navy, Air Force and Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF)," the ministry said.The first band to perform at the event will be Massed Band, playing the 'Veer Sainik' tune, followed by Pipes and Drums Band, CAPF Band, Air Force Band, Naval Band, Army Military Band and Massed Bands. The principal conductor of the ceremony will be Commander Vijay Charles D'Cruz, the ministry stated.The event will come to a close with the ever-popular tune of 'Sare Jahan Se Acha'.'Beating Retreat' is a centuries-old military tradition that dates back to the days when troops disengaged from the battle at sunset. As soon as the buglers sounded the retreat, the troops ceased fighting, sheathed their arms and withdrew from the battlefield.This custom of standing still during the sounding of retreat has been retained to this day. Drumbeats sounded on the occasion recall the days when troops were called on to their quarters in the evening. Colours and standards are cased and flags lowered at retreats.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1000-drones-to-light-up-delhi-sky-at-beating-retreat-ceremony-today-101643421400254.html
29-01-2022||India||Morning brief from HT: Delhi Metro to resume as per routine weekend timetable from today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi Metro to get back to routine weekend schedule from todayThe Metro trains in Delhi will run as per their routine weekend timetable from Saturday as the national capital has eased Covid-19 restrictions in view of an improvement in the number of infections, officials said. Read moreCovid-19: Gujarat extends night curfew in 27 cities till Feb 4The Gujarat government has extended the ongoing night curfew - imposed to check the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases - in the state's 27 cities till February 4. Read moreConfident of BJP's victory in BBMP election: Karnataka CM BommaiExpressing confidence that the BJP would register a victory in the forthcoming civic body election in Bengaluru, chief minister Basavaraj Bommai has said, "the victory of BJP in BBMP election is as true as the sun rising in the east." Read moreChina plans 'megaconstellation' of 13,000 satellites, claims reportChina is embarking on a mission that has renewed concerns about spying. It plans to send upto 13,000 satellites in space - a ‘megaconstellation’ - that will encircle the Earth in the lower orbit, a report in the Daily Mail said. Read moreAnupam Mittal denies Sony funding Shark Tank contestants: ‘Amitabh Bachchan took half their money, Kapil took the rest’Shaadi.com founder and CEO Anupam Mittal, who is seen as one of the ‘sharks’ on Shark Tank India, denied speculation that they invest Sony Entertainment Television’s money in the businesses of the contestants instead of their own. Read more'Knew we were on way after losing those 2 series': Shastri recalls how IND beat AUS to become 'best travelling team'Former India head coach Ravi Shastri recalled being laughed at after his famous “best travelling team” remark back in 2018 following the England series loss, but feels that Team India did live up to it by turning the corner in Australia back in 2018/19 series. Read moreShehnaaz Gill shines bright in sequin pink saree, Internet calls her a 'Bombshell': See viral pics hereActor Shehnaaz Gill is taking over social media one stunning traditional look at a time. The star, who rose to fame during Bigg Boss 13 and has a massive fan following, has been sharing breathtaking pictures of herself dressed in traditional attires fit for the modern Indian woman. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/morning-brief-delhi-metro-to-resume-as-per-routine-weekend-timetable-from-today-101643425649968.html
29-01-2022||India||Mandaviya to hold review meeting today with 5 states over Covid-19 situation||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya will virtually review the Covid-19 situation, public health preparedness as well as response measures being taken in the context of the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 in Bihar, Odisha, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh today at 3 pm.Earlier on Friday, Mandaviya conducted a high-level meeting with Southern states and UT's Health Minister's and stressed upon e-Sanjeevani, teleconsultation, Monitoring home isolation and increasing RTPCR in States which are reporting lower percentage testing.The State Health Ministers who joined the high-level review meeting included Dr K Sudhakar (Karnataka), Dr Veena George (Kerala), Ma Subramaniam (Tamil Nadu) and Thanneeru Harish Rao (Telangana).He also requested the states to accelerate the pace of vaccination of the 15-17 years age group and those whose second dose is due.Earlier, he conducted a high-level meeting with nine Northern States and UTs and advised them to send Covid testing and vaccination data timely.The Union Health Minister also said that testing should be ramped up in the States where it has gone down.He also advised states and UTs to ensure that those in home isolation are efficiently monitored in line with the National Guidelines.He said, "This will ensure that the vulnerable categories of active cases in home isolation get the required medical help in a timely manner."Mandaviya said that with our past experience, 'Test-Track-Treat-Vaccinate & Adherence to Covid Appropriate Behaviour' along with monitoring of cases remains crucial for Covid management.The Union Health Minister also urged the States and UTs to adopt the hub and spoke model for teleconsultation.Mandaviya also urged the nine States and UTs to review and expedite the implementation of activities under the India Covid-19 Emergency Response and Health System Preparedness Package: Phase-II (ECRP-II package) for strengthening the health infrastructure, an amount of ₹23,123 Crores which was approved by Union Cabinet in view of the second wave of the pandemic."Health Ministers and the State authorities to plug the existing gaps by efficiently utilizing the amount sanctioned for various infra projects. With strengthened health infrastructure, we can meet any health emergency and public health crisis with better preparedness," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mandaviya-to-hold-review-meeting-today-with-5-states-over-covid-19-situation-101643420945824.html
29-01-2022||India||Covid-19: Gujarat extends night curfew in 27 cities till Feb 4||The Gujarat government has extended the ongoing night curfew - imposed to check the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases - in the state's 27 cities till February 4. The timings of the curfew are from 10pm to 6am.The decision was taken by chief minister Bhupendra Patel during the core committee meeting in the capital city of Gandhinagar, according to an official statement issued on Friday.The statement added that even though daily infections were declining in Gujarat, 12,131 people were detected as Covid-19 positive in the last 24 hours.Last week, the Gujarat government had extended the night curfew in 19 cities apart from eight metros where it was imposed earlier. These metros cities are - Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Rajkot, Jamnagar, Junagadh, Bhavnagar and Gandhinagar.It was scheduled to end on Friday (January 29), so the decision was taken to extend it, an official told news agency PTI on Friday.During the curfew, shopping complexes, salons, beauty parlours, marketing yards etc are allowed to operate till 10pm. Home delivery from hotels and restaurants is allowed 24X7.Bus transport services have been exempted from night curfew, and they can operate with 75% seating capacity.A maximum of 150 people are allowed to attend political, social and religious gatherings at a venue in an open space. In enclosed spaces, the number should not exceed 50% of the area.The Gujarat government has also allowed establishments such as water parks, gyms, swimming pools, auditoriums, cinema halls and libraries to operate at 50% of their capacity.Gujarat has so far recorded more than 1.13 million cases due to Covid-19 which include 10,375 deaths, 1,014,501 recoveries and 107,915 active cases. Over 97.3 million vaccine doses have been administered to eligible beneficiaries in the state since the beginning of the vaccination drive in January last year.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-gujarat-extends-night-curfew-in-27-cities-till-feb-4-101643415499518.html
29-01-2022||India||First round of India-UK trade talks concludes||The first round of negotiations for an India-UK free trade agreement (FTA), formally launched on January 13, concluded after two weeks on Friday covering 26 areas such as trade in goods and services, investment, intellectual property, barriers to trade, small and medium enterprises, geographical indicators and digital.“Both sides acknowledge the importance of ensuring this first round – held virtually over 2 weeks - could proceed despite the challenges presented by the Covid pandemic,” commerce ministry said in a statement.The second round of negotiations is due to take place on March 7-18 March.“Both teams maintain a shared ambition to conclude negotiations by the end of 2022,” it said, adding that the two parties are making efforts to secure a comprehensive agreement even as chief negotiators would continue to consider the benefits of an interim agreement.India and the UK target doubling bilateral trade in goods and services to about $100 billion by 2030.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-round-of-india-uk-trade-talks-concludes-101643410347509.html
29-01-2022||India||‘State should decide IAS officer’s deputation, not Centre’: Jagan Mohan Reddy||HYDERABAD: Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday spoke out against the central government’s proposal to amend the All India Service (IAS) rules that seeks to empower the Centre to post IAS, IPS and IFoS officers on central deputation without the consent of the state government concerned.The proposed changes have already been opposed by 11 of the 17 states that have so far responded, with most arguing that these would kill the federal compact. The 11 states which have communicated their reservations to the proposal are Rajasthan, Telangana, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Bihar and Karnataka (which is expected to revisit its stand).In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the evening, the chief minister welcomed the idea of taking the IAS officers to the Centre on deputation but stressed that the state government should have the option of deciding which officer should be sent on central deputation.“The state government is in a better position to assess who all can be spared for Government of India on deputation, keeping their professional as well as personal requirements in mind,” Jagan Mohan Reddy said.He said that a strong and sufficiently manned team of the AIS officers at the helm of affairs in the central government is essential to ensure smooth and seamless functioning of the government.“I strongly believe that states would benefit immensely from such well-functioning departments in the Government of India. Further, more IAS officers from the state cadre in different levels at central government will help the state in pursuing the issues pertaining to the state with Government of India,” he said.However, the chief minister opposed the proposed amendments to the AIS rules which state that the concurrence of the state government or the officer may not be necessary and the officers chosen by the central government for deputation may have to be relieved by the state government within the stipulated period irrespective of the willingness of the state government.He said IAS officers form the most important part of the state administration, handling various responsibilities. The state government generally gives no-objection certificates to officers requesting for central deputation, which gives some flexibility to the government to carefully plan such deputations without adversely affecting the state interests.“The proposed amendment may take away such an important flexibility from the state government. The sudden deputation of the officers would derail some critical projects taken up by the state and also their personal lives considering their families, children and their education,” he said.
29-01-2022||India||Bhaiyyu Maharaj suicide: 3 caretakers including Palak Pauranik get 6 years jail||BHOPAL: Three sewadars including his aide Palak Pauranik on Friday were sentenced to six years in jail for abetment to suicide and extortion that led to the death of self-styled spiritual guru Bhaiyyu Maharaj in Indore in 2018, the public prosecutor said.Indore’s additional sessions judge Dharmendra Soni convicted the three to six years imprisonment for abetting suicide and two years for extortion, said Gajraj Singh Solanki, the additional public prosecutor.According to the prosecution, Palak Pauranik, 25, was pressuring Bhaiyyu Maharaj aka Udaysingh Deshmukh, 50, to marry her and threatened to file rape charges against him if he didn’t complyDuring the investigation, police found that after Bhaiyyu Maharaj’s second marriage in 2017 - his first wife had died two years earlier - Palak was blackmailing Bhaiyyu Maharaj to marry her too. Palak had shot some explicit videos with Bhaiyyu Maharaj and threatened to implicate him in a rape case. And the two sewadars or caretakers, Vinayak Dudhade, 42, and Sharad Deshmukh, 34, were helping her extort moneyIn the case, forensic officer Tilak Raj of Bhopal presented 109 pages of chat records from Palak Purnik’s phone as the primary evidence to support the prosecution charge of abetment to suicide and extortion. As many as 32 eyewitnesses including Bhaiyyu Maharaj’s wife Ayushi and daughter Kuhu were examined by the prosecution during the trial.In one of the last messages that she sent, Palak told Bhaiyyu Maharaj to either marry her by June 16, 2018 or face rape charges. Bhaiyyu Maharaj shot himself with a licensed firearm on June 12, 2018, four days before the deadline was to end, said the prosecutor, Gajraj Singh Solanki. In a note, he said he was stressed out and fed up.According to the police, Palak Pauranik’s insistence on marrying Bhaiyyu Maharaj was linked to his wealth.Born Udaysingh Deshmukh in a farming family, Bhaiyyu Maharaj, as his followers called him, worked as a model for a textile company before styling himself into a spiritual leader, who led a flashy lifestyle, often seen sporting a Rolex watch and driving a Mercedes.Bhaiyyuji was popular in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, and beyond, and had hosted high-profile visitors including former president Pratibha Patil, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh chief Mohan Bhagwat, singing legend Lata Mangeshkar, Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, former Maharashtra chief minister Vilasrao Deshmukh, Shiv Sena leader Uddhav Thackeray and Maharashtra Navnirman Sena leader Raj ThackerayIn 2011, the then Congress government even asked him to mediate on their behalf with social worker Anna Hazare – who was fasting at Delhi’s Ramlila Grounds to demand the Lokpal Bill. Later, in September, Narendra Modi (who was then the Gujarat chief minister) invited him to his three-day Sadbhavana fast in Ahmedabad.
29-01-2022||India||Parallels between riots, 9/11 terror attacks: Police in court during Khalid’s bail hearing||Opposing the bail petition moved by former JNU student Umar Khalid, an accused in the case of overall conspiracy behind 2020 northeast Delhi riots, the Delhi Police on Friday told a trial court that the accused tried to embarrass the government before the international media, and drew parallels between the planning for the 9/11 World Trade Centre attacks and the riots.“Just before 9/11 happened when all people were involved, they reached a particular place and took training. A month prior to that, they moved to their respective positions. That is what is relevant in this case also,” special public prosecutor Amit Prasad argued before additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat on Friday.He said Khalid’s lawyer Trideep Pais mentioned about the movie, The Trial of the Chicago 7, during his arguments. “However, what was more relevant to be referred to was probably the incident of 9/11 which is very well reflected here,” Prasad said. The Trial of the Chicago 7 was based on the countercultural protests in Chicago at the 1968 Democratic National Convention.The prosecutor said that the person who was behind the 9/11 attack never visited the US and the conspiracy meeting took place in Malaysia, claiming that Khalid and others met at another place and discussed the protests. “There is a foundation to show that violence is likely to happen,” Prasad argued.He said that Khalid and Sharjeel Imam were “two sides of the same coin”.“Issue was not CAA, NRC. Issue was you had to somehow embarrass the government and take steps, which would reflect in international media,” Prasad alleged.Earlier, in his arguments on behalf of Khalid, Trideep Pais told the court that the statement of the witnesses showed that he was falsely implicated and a case can’t be made against him on half truths.Pais said that police has written fanciful stories in the charge sheet and asked whether his client could be charged under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) for calling road blockades in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parallels-between-riots-9-11-terror-attacks-police-in-court-during-khalid-s-bail-hearing-101643402368540.html
29-01-2022||India||BJP assets account for 69% of all national parties combined: ADR report||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has declared 69% or ₹4,847.78 crore of the total ₹6,988.57 crore of assets declared by seven national political parties for 2019-20, according to a report released by the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR).The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) is a distant second with assets of ₹698.33 crore, followed by the Congress with ₹588.16 crore, the report added.The report, released on Friday, also highlights the significant increase in assets of the seven parties, from ₹3,260.81 crore in 2016-17 to ₹3,456.65 crore in 2017-18, ₹5,349.25 crore in 2018-19, and ₹6,988.57 crore in 2019-20.The seven parties are: BJP, BSP, Congress, CPM, AITC, CPI and NCP.The BJP declared ₹2,904.18 crore of assets in 2018-19, and while it saw a 67% increase in its assets to ₹4,847.78 crore in 2019-20, the Congress saw its assets in the same period fall from ₹928.84 crore to ₹588.16 crore, and the BSP from ₹738 crore to 698.33 crore.The assets declared by Political Parties fall under six major heads: fixed assets, loans & advances, FDR/ deposits, TDS, investments and other assets.According to the report, in 2019-20, 44regional parties declared total assets of ₹2,129.38 crore, with the top 10 regional parties accounting for 95.27% of this.“In FY 2019-20, among the Regional Parties, the highest assets were declared by the Samajwadi Party, worth ₹563.47 crore followed by Telangana Rashtra Samiti, worth ₹301.47 crore ,and All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam worth ₹267.61 crore,” the report added.In 2018-19, the highest assets among regional parties were declared by SP ( ₹572.21 crore), Biju Janata Dal ( ₹232.27 crore), and the AIADMK ( ₹206.75 crore).ADR ‘s analysis further captures the asset categories declared by the parties. “During FY 2019-20, the National & Regional Parties declared maximum assets under FDR/Fixed Deposits which amounted to ₹5,970.59 crore (65.48% of total assets) followed by ₹1,363.87 crore (14.96%) under Fixed Assets and ₹946.57 crore (10.38%) under Other Assets,” the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-assets-account-for-69-of-all-national-parties-combined-adr-report-101643398086147.html
29-01-2022||India||In first statement on Ukraine, India calls for peaceful resolution through diplomatic efforts||NEW DELHI: India on Friday called for a peaceful resolution of the situation in Ukraine through sustained diplomatic efforts against the backdrop of concerns over a possible Russian invasion of the eastern European country. The remarks by external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi were the first official statement from the Indian side on the developments in Ukraine, which has become the main flashpoint in Moscow’s relations with the West. Russia has amassed some 100,000 troops on the border with Ukraine, prompting US President Joe Biden to warn there is a “distinct possibility” of an invasion next month. Though Russia has denied it is planning an attack, NATO forces are on standby to respond in case of such an eventuality. “We call for a peaceful resolution of the situation through sustained diplomatic efforts for long term peace and stability in the region and beyond,” Bagchi said in response to a question on the crisis in Ukraine during a weekly virtual media briefing. “We have been closely following the developments relating to Ukraine, including ongoing high-level discussions between Russia and the US. Our embassy in Kyiv is also monitoring local developments,” he said. The Indian embassy in Kyiv has asked all Indian nationals in Ukraine, including students, to register themselves with the mission by January 31 so that there can be effective coordination and swift dissemination of information. The mission also asked Indian nationals to follow the embassy’s website and Twitter and Facebook accounts for updates. According to the embassy’s website, there are about 18,000 Indian students studying medicine and engineering in Ukrainian universities and a small Indian business community in Kyiv. India had so far refrained from commenting on the situation in Ukraine in view of its close strategic relations with both Russia and the US. Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla was briefed by US deputy secretary of state Wendy Sherman last week on Washington’s response to the crisis and “Russia’s concerning military build-up on Ukraine’s borders”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-first-statement-on-ukraine-india-calls-for-peaceful-resolution-through-diplomatic-efforts-101643397424604.html
29-01-2022||India||Descendant of royal family killed over property, say Odisha police||Killing of the granddaughter-in-law of the erstwhile ruler of Kanika royal estate by her 57-year-old son was over a property dispute of the family, the police said on Friday, a day after the crime.On Wednesday morning, Paresh Kumari Devi, the 75-year-old granddaughter-in-law of the erstwhile King of Kanika, Rajendra Narayan Bhanjadeo, was allegedly killed by her 57-year-old son Subhendra Narayan Bhanjadeo at their home in Srivihar Colony in Bidanasi area of Cuttack town.Paresh Kumari, who lived in the house with Subhendra and daughter Jayanti Samantray was battered to death by her son with the broken leg of a wooden chair and then a sharp object, the police said. Jayanti, who reportedly ran away seeing her brother attack her mother, later called up the police, who arrested him while he was trying to flee.Cuttack deputy commissioner of police Prateek Singh said Subhendra had a long-running feud with his mother as she controlled all the monetary and property transactions of their family. “He was allegedly not allowed to be part of any financial transaction due to which he nursed a grudge. He also had three bad marriages and used to blame his mother for all problems in life. He used to be under mental stress due to financial and personal issues,” said Singh, adding that the mother-son duo used to have regular quarrels over property matters,Samantray, the sister of the accused, said her brother had tried to strangulate her mother earlier, too, following which she advised staying with her on a floor above.Samantray said Singhdeo’s first wife had died while his second wife is living in New Delhi after divorce. He was currently in the process of separating from his third wife Bijaya Singhdeo. Bijaya said her husband was temperamentally very violent and used to beat her up at the slightest pretext.The Kanika feudatory estate was started around 1280 by Bhujabal Bhanj, brother of the then ruling chief of the princely estate of Mayurbhanj, spanned over several districts of Odisha, including the Bhitarkanika marine sanctuary in present-day Kendrapara district. Successive rulers of Kanika later extended the domain of the estate to Bhubaneswar and Cuttack, where they had thousands of acres, including the area where the Biju Patnaik International Airport exists in the Odisha capital city. After Independence, the estate merged with the Indian union, and the government annexed much of the landed properties.Rajendra Narayan Bhanjdeo, the last Kanika ruler, played a major role in formation of modern-day Odisha in the 1930s.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/descendant-of-royal-family-killed-over-property-say-odisha-police-101643395264561.html
29-01-2022||India||Congress to approach like-minded parties to corner govt in Budget Session||The Congress will coordinate with all like-minded parties in the upcoming Budget Session to raise questions on the government’s disinvestment process, including the sale of Air India, seek answers on the alleged Chinese incursions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and demand a compensation package for Covid-19 victims.The party’s parliamentary strategy group, which met on Friday, also decided to highlight “people’s issues”, including price rise, jobs and the economic situation, in the budget debates.“The party has decided to work with like-minded parties to raise issues like farmers distress, Chinese incursions, demand for relief package to Covid-19 victims, selling of Air India, and other key issues that affect the people at large,” said a party functionary, requesting anonymity.The party’s willingness to question the disinvestment process of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government found a new impetus just a day after the Centre and the Tata group completed the transfer of the ailing national carrier.A senior leader present in the meeting said, “We want to question the modus operandi of the government. How it waived off a large part of the debt and finally got just ₹2,700 crore from the buyers of Air India.”Another leader, requesting anonymity, said during the meeting, it was also discussed how so many contentious issues remain unresolved after the transfer of Air India has been completed. While the Congress is not opposed to disinvestment of perennially ailing PSUs, they have objections in the way it is being conducted now, the leader added.In the meeting, Congress’s president Sonia Gandhi sought opinion from all participants on picking issues. She also said that leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge, will coordinate with other like-minded parties.A senior leader later added that the Congress will frame common strategies with its allies and other Opposition parties as it did in the Winter session but a direct coordination with the Trinamool Congress (TMC) is not guaranteed.“TMC maintains it is not an electoral ally of the Congress. We also don’t take it for granted that the TMC would fully coordinate with us in floor management. They might have their own issues too, while our focus would be different,” said the second functionary.The second leader also added that in the meeting, Gandhi spoke about the emphasis on people’s issues and how to raise such issues in the session which would have a short first half.“We decided that the price rise, job loss and the economic situation would be taken up during the debate on the union budget in the first half of the upcoming session. our entire focus would be on people’s issues,” the leader added.The budget session will start with the speech of the President on January 31, followed by presentation of Union Budget on February 1. The debates on the President’s speech and the general Budget will conclude before the two Houses go to recess and return for the second half of the session in March.The Congress Parliamentary Strategy Group meeting, chaired by Gandhi, was attended by Kharge, party’s Lok Sabha floor leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and senior leaders lie AK Antony, KC Venugopal, Anand Sharma, Gaurav Gogoi, K Suresh, Manickam Tagore and Manish Tewari.The Congress wants to reiterate the farmers’ issues and demand a law on minimum support price (MSP) as they didn’t find any opportunity in the previous session. In the monsoon session, the bill to repeal the three contentious farm laws were passed without any debate in both Houses, denying the Opposition an opportunity to flag their concerns on farm issues and demand a law for MSP.
29-01-2022||India||Bihar bandh: Activists protest, disrupt traffic||Protesters blocked roads, disrupted train services and carried out processions in Patna and other parts of Bihar on Friday during a bandh called by students’ bodies against the alleged anomalies in the format of exams conducted by the Railway Recruitment Board. More than 500 RJD and Left party leaders and activists were arrested and later released in evening.A passenger train was set on fire and another was pelted with stones in Bihar on Republic Day as students took to streets against the Railway Recruitment Board’s Non-Technical Popular Categories (RRB-NTPC) exam 2021. Students have been opposing a decision by the railways to hold the exam in two stages, claiming that the second stage is unfair to those who have cleared the first stage, results for which were released on January 15.
29-01-2022||India||Why fears of ‘deadly’ NeoCoV may be greatly exaggerated||Multiple reports went viral over Thursday and Friday claiming Chinese researchers had found a coronavirus called NeoCoV that was on the verge of causing a new high-fatality pandemic, turning what was hypotheses typical of scientific lab studies into sensationalist doomsday predictions.The reports began snowballing following an initial story by Russian news agency Sputnik, which reported on a pre-print study, or yet to be peer-reviewed paper. It spoke of two coronaviruses, NeoCoV and PDF-2180-CoV that researchers from China said were like the Middle Eastern Respiratory Syndrome (Mers) coronavirus. Their lab studies showed that if NeoCoV picks up a certain mutation, it could use the same pathway to infect humans as the Sars-CoV-2 virus. The focus of the study is based on a simple premise: If NeoCoV picks up a particular mutation, can it become a larger threat? It is important to understand the nature of such studies. Virologists the world over explore multiple theories and test them using certain assumptions, engineered pathogens and modified cells made to represent a certain attribute or the other. While these can identify insights for where to look for threats, it important to remember these are hypotheticals. And the fact that this paper is yet to be peer reviewed makes it even more tentative since the assumptions, methods and conclusions can only be tested for robustness by other scientists.There are other factors to consider as well. NeoCoV is not a new coronavirus, and it – along with Mers – belongs to a distinctly different genera (a type of subclassification) of coronaviruses known as merbecovirus. This is separate from sarbecoviruses, the type that Sars-CoV-2 and Sars-CoV are, and embecovirus, the type to which the other common cold coronaviruses HKU1 and OC43 belong. Recombination among these is not impossible, but they have been rarely been observed.But one of the most key factors to remember is that the Chinese scientists themselves find that the NeoCoV does not infect human ACE2 at present, which means it cannot infect humans yet. What they stress on instead are the “latent potential” of such viruses in the future and the important of surveillance and research on these viruses. The nuance in the study and its main contention were missed out in news report headlines, some of which went to the extent of proclaiming “1 in 3 may die” in what can only be considered the combination of click-bait and ignorance.For many, it may have been the headline alone to conclude a new pandemic was on the horizon. A seminal study by Columbia University researchers showed in 2016 that 59% of the people who shared a story on social media never read it. Multiple studies have since corroborated this.
29-01-2022||India||Covid-19: Cases start to plateau in third national wave||The trajectory of India’s third wave of Covid-19 infections appears to have started receding, with new cases at the national level contracting over the past week – the first time a trend reversal has been witnessed since the start of the Omicron surge in late December.Experts say that if these trends hold it would be a crucial development as the onslaught of the third wave has been marked by a significantly smaller proportion of hospitalisations and deaths compared to the country’s first and second waves – a pattern consistent with global waves caused by the Omicron variant of Sars-Cov-2. A total of 233,779 new cases were reported on Friday, the lowest in 17 days, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard. In fact, barring a minor uptick on Tuesday, daily infections have almost dropped every single day since January 20, when there were nearly 350,000 daily infections – the highest single-day tally so far in the third wave.The seven-day average of daily infections (a number that represents a region’s case curve) in India soared to 312,180 cases a day for the week ended Tuesday – the highest so far in this wave. This number has now dropped to 279,100 for the week ended Friday – a fall of around 10%. While this drop may be minor, it marks the first time that the seven-day average of cases has started contracting since the third wave started in the final week of December 2021.And while daily fluctuations in daily case tallies is not uncommon, particularly on weekends and holidays such as Republic Day, other statistical elements like test positivity rate – the proportion of samples tested returning positive for Covid-19 – appear to support the argument for a plateau. National daily positivity rate, which was 20.9% on January 23, has remained below that mark in the days that followed – on Wednesday, this number was 18%, and it fell further to 15.8% on Thursday.At the state level, the trend in contraction of daily cases becomes all the more apparent. Of India’s 36 states and Union territories, for the week ended Thursday, cases in the third wave appear to have hit a plateau, and have receded in varying degrees in 29 regions, data analysed by HT shows. A total of 16 states and UTs have witnessed their numbers drop by more than 20% from recent peaks.The biggest fall (with respect to the third wave peak) has been visible in West Bengal. The seven-day average of new cases in the state touched 17,523 for the week ended January 15, but has already dropped 72% to 6,135 for the week ended Thursday.In Delhi, where the infection curve touched a peak of 23,529 cases a day for the week ended January 15, cases have dropped 67% to touch 7,857 average infections a day for the week ended Thursday – the second highest recession in the country.These were followed by Jharkhand and Bihar, where cases have dropped 62% and 61% from third wave peaks, data shows.To be sure, even if the third wave appears to be waning in most regions, it is by no means true for all states. The surge appears to still rising through most of south India and the North-East, data shows. The case trajectory is currently at the highest point in the third wave (and still rising) in at least seven regions, data analysed by HT shows. These are Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Mizoram, Nagaland, Tamil Nadu and Ladakh. Meanwhile, numbers in Telangana, Meghalaya, Manipur, Jammu and Kashmir, and Karnataka have only shown very minor recessions (under 3%).The plateau in numbers appears to be consistent with the preliminary projections by scientists who created Sutra – a mathematical model developed at IIT Kanpur and IIT Hyderabad to predict a peak in Covid-19 cases – which predicted a national peak around the final week of January.“According to number from our tracker (Sutra), we predicted a peak of around January 23, and we’re currently seeing a peak on January 25, so we do think the worst of this wave is over... especially in regions like Mumbai and Delhi,” said M Vidyasagar, SERB national chair, IIT- Hyderabad and member of the Sutra consortium. “An important point that we have to be mindful of is that when we started off our projections, we had to analyse the numbers from South Africa. We had to be more pessimistic with our estimates because our job was to help the government prepare for what may have been the worst that could happen. So there were some scenarios where we feared cases could be much higher, but so far we have either avoided those, or that a large proportion of mild or asymptomatic cases ended up going unreported.”He said in either case, it is better to track changes in statistics such as hospitalisation or ICU admission, because they represent the true on-the-ground situation, and as such should be used by policy makers as the statistic that should decide curbs.“We think there’s a possibility of raw case numbers being underreported in many regions because of the milder disease being apparent in this wave. Which is why I think that the real message to convey is that the overwhelming majority of cases are very mild, therefore, policy markers have to rethink their triggers from number of cases to hospitalisations or ICU admissions -- which truly represent the severity of the pandemic,” said Vidyasagar.He added that in both Mumbai and Delhi, almost 80% of hospital beds remained vacant even at the peak of the curve, and while many curbs applied in those regions made sense during previous waves when hospitalisations were soaring, they did not this time.India’s second wave, in particular, was marked by a soaring rate of hospitalisations which led to a record surge in daily deaths through the country.Another factor that appears to have played a role in keeping hospitalisation and deaths low in the country has been vaccinations, experts added. As per the latest data released by the Union health ministry, nearly 95% of all adults in the country have received at least one shot of the Covid-19 vaccine, with nearly 75% of India’s adult population has been fully vaccinated.
29-01-2022||Today's||Remembering Nobel Laureate Khorana||Har Gobind Khorana was an Indian American who shared the Nobel Prize for Medicine and was awarded the National Medal of Science in the United States (US). His 100th birth anniversary passed earlier this month without any major commemorative events, either in the US or in India.
29-01-2022||Today's||Union Budget 2022: A wishlist for the FM||It seems somehow apt that the Union Budget for 2022-23, the penultimate one of the second Narendra Modi government, is being presented in the immediate wake of two very significant events.
29-01-2022||Today's||Why the BJP must not appropriate Netaji||Now that Subhas Chandra Bose’s statue, holographic for now, stands under a canopy originally intended for a King Emperor — an ironic twist of fate, if ever there was one — let’s reflect on some of the things Netaji said and did. There’s a lesson here for the men who rule us, although I doubt they’ll heed it. But it could be revealing for everyone else.
29-01-2022||Today's||Modi’s speech marked the end of Nehru era||Last Sunday, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi took another step towards changing the country from a liberal democracy to a nationalist democracy, taking pride in its limited pre-Independence military successes.There is a statue of Mahatma Gandhi, which successive governments intended to erect under the canopy at India Gate. The canopy was originally occupied by the British king. He was removed in the sixties but disputatious Indian politicians prevented Gandhi taking his place since then. On Sunday, the PM, flanked on his right by home minister Amit Shah and on his left by housing minister HS Puri, switched on a hologram statue of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, standing where Gandhi never stood, under that canopy. This will be replaced by a granite statue of Bose.Bose founded the Indian National Army (INA), which fought alongside the Japanese in World War II. The PM quoted him as having told the British,”I will not take Independence as alms. I will achieve it.” Gandhi, urging India to adopt the way of peace to gain Independence, said: “If India can possibly gain her freedom by war, her state will be no better and will be probably much worse than that of France or England.”I am not trying to suggest that the statue of Bose is intended to provoke violence. Both the PM and his right-hand man made the immediate intention behind the statue clear. Modi said, “The freedom struggle involved the penance of lakhs of people but there was an attempt to limit their history. But today after decades of Independence the country is correcting those mistakes with boldness.” Shah said, “There has been an attempt to push into oblivion many such personalities [as Bose] who struggled for India’s freedom. But today, with the decision to install the Netaji statue here , the nation is feeling satisfied and enthusiastic.”The PM installed Bose under the once royal canopy, looking along Rajpath, to symbolise an independent India without mentioning the Nehru family, whose members’ names still adorn so many streets, institutions, and buildings. Even now, 75 years after Independence, the family continues to dominate the Congress, which, although sorely wounded, is still the only potential alternative national party to the Bharatiya Janata Party. The PM did, however, praise others who fought for India’s Independence, including, of course, Bose. They were leaders whose views on nationalism would differ from Modi’s.One leader Modi mentioned was Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar, who was chairman of the committee which wrote the Constitution. In his collection of writings on Indian nationalism, historian S Irfan Habib, said for Ambedkar, “Nationalism was a means to an end, and not an end itself.” Of course, the Congress’s Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel was mentioned by Modi but he was an opponent of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) because its leaders supported using violence to bring about their Hindu Rajya. And then there was Birsa Munda, the tribal guerrilla leader, who challenged the British inspired by a tribal religion, not Hinduism.The leaders Modi chose to mention included a Dalit and a tribal, groups he wants to win over in the forthcoming elections. There was not a woman among them. Even Irfan Habib was only able to find one among the 20 writers he chose. The RSS leaders were not included, but they didn’t figure in the Independence movement. The most immediate reason for the PM selecting this heterogeneous collection of men as bulwarks of nationalism is to demonstrate the end of the Nehru era. He must have realised that these leaders also demonstrated the diversity of Indian nationalism. That diversity includes many who want to see the battle between the secular and the Hindu end.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/modis-speech-marked-the-end-of-nehru-era-101643456647855.html
