30-01-2022||Chandigarh||2 of 3 missing children from Ludhiana traced to Bihar||A police team has been dispatched to Bihar to rescue two children, who went missing from Sarinh village under mysterious circumstances; one teenager is still missing. Shabana,14, Aashiq,10, of Sarinh village and Neeraj,15, of Kathia Parsoni village of Bihar had gone missing on January 26. The families are neighbours.Sub-inspector Jaswinder Singh, the investigating officer, said the family contacted police on Sunday after they failed to trace them. The family suspected that someone had kept the children at a secret place. Following the statement of Shabana’s father Mohammad Jamahir, the police lodged an FIR under Section 346 (wrongful confinement in secret) of Indian Penal Code against the unidentified accused.Jaswinder said on Sunday, the police traced Shabana and Aashiq, while Neeraj is still missing. “How did the children reach Bihar and who took them there ? The things will be cleared after talking to them. The police team would return to Ludhiana on Monday after rescuing the children,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-of-3-missing-children-from-ludhiana-traced-to-bihar-101643567123779.html
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana reports 404 fresh Covid cases, three deaths||The district on Sunday reported three Covid-related deaths and a total of 404 fresh cases, with the latter being a marginal increase from Saturday’s numbers.The deceased include an 81-year-old man of Aggar Nagar, who was undergoing treatment at DMC Hospital, a 77-year-old man of Tajpur village and a 78-year-old man of Focal Point, who were both undergoing treatment at Fortis Hospital.The fresh cases pushed the number of active cases to 3,496 in the district. Of these, 3,292 persons are in home isolation, while 196 patients are undergoing treatment at private facilities and eighth at government hospitals.The district’s total Covid-related death toll also increased to 2,213.The district health department’s latest reports said 25 patients, including 12 residents of Ludhiana and 13 from other districts, were on ventilators. Department officials added 19 areas across the district have been declared as micro-containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-reports-404-fresh-covid-cases-three-deaths-101643567065062.html
30-01-2022||Lucknow||BJP women teams, panna pramukhs reaching out to voters in Ayodhya||Lucknow: After announcing candidates on all five assembly segments in Ayodhya, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is trying to reach out to voters with the help of women workers and panna pramukhs, along with others. The BJP has constituted 35 teams of women workers of the party for door-to-door campaigning in the five assembly segments. Each team will have five members to fulfill Covid-19 guidelines of the Election Commission of India (ECI). A separate team of 700 panna pramukhs has also been activated in the temple town to contact every voter personally or on phone. Out of 35 teams of women workers, maximum 10 are active in Ayodhya (Sadar) assembly segment which is considered a VIP constituency. Ram Janmabhoomi is a part of this assembly segment. The remaining 25 teams are campaigning in the rest of the four assembly seats. “From Ayodhya (Sadar) to rural pockets of the district, these teams are reaching out to voters with the list of development projects executed by the Centre and the state governments in Ayodhya,” said Ashoka Dwivedi, former district president of the BJP Mahila Morcha, Ayodhya. The ongoing construction of Ram temple tops the list of promises fulfilled by the BJP in Ayodhya with which these workers are trying to convince voters to vote for the BJP. “All assembly seats are important for us. But extra attention is being given to Ayodhya assembly seat due to its VIP status,” said Bindu Singh, district vice president, Mahila Morcha, BJP, Ayodhya. “Traders and locals in this constituency are upset with the BJP due to the proposed road widening project that will displace a large number of shops and commercial establishments,” said another BJP Mahila Morcha leader. “The Samajwadi Party is trying to cash in on this resentment. We all are aware of this situation. In the 2012 assembly polls, the Samajwadi Party had won this seat (Ayodhya assembly). So special emphasis is being given to this constituency,” she added. As many as 700 panna pramukhs of the BJP are also active in temple town. A panna pramukh is in charge of a page of voters’ list. He is the first point of contact for most voters in the BJP’s election management machinery. Importance of a panna pramukh in BJP can be gauged by the fact that the party has appointed CM Yogi Adityanath as panna pramukh for booth number 246 of Gorakhpur Urban assembly seat from where he is contesting assembly poll. Ayodhya Sadar, Rudauli, Gosaiganj, Bikapur and Milkipur are the five seats in Ayodhya district. Polling in Ayodhya will be held on March 3 which is the sixth and penultimate phase of polling in Uttar Pradesh assembly polls. In the 2012 assembly polls, the Samajwadi Party had won four out of five assembly seats in the district. 
30-01-2022||Lucknow||Boost to BJP as SP’s Dalit leader joins Apna Dal (S)||LUCKNOW: In a boost to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Sirathu assembly segment of Kaushambi from where deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya is contesting, two-time lawmaker from the seat Vachaspati joined the Apna Dal (S) on Sunday. Apna Dal (S) is a BJP ally and Vachaspati is a Dalit, a community which dominates Sirathu assembly segment. More important, Vachaspati was with the Samajwadi Party and BJP leaders feel that his joining the Apna Dal (S) is a blow to the main opposition party. Vachaspati was first elected lawmaker from the seat on a BSP ticket in 2007 and subsequently won the assembly by-poll in 2014 on a Samajwadi Party ticket. The by-poll took place after Keshav Prasad Maurya quit the seat on getting elected to the Lok Sabha from Phulpur. “Vachaspati owns several educational institutions in Prayagraj and his wife Madhupati has twice been a zila panchayat president from Kaushambi,” Apna Dal (S) spokesman Rajesh Patel said. Sirathu is Keshav Prasad Maurya’s birth place from where he won his first assembly election in 2012. Apna Dal (S) also announced Jai Kumar Singh Patel ‘Jacky’ as its candidate from Bindki assembly segment of Fatehpur. Bindki was with the BJP in the 2017 UP polls. Jai, a minister of state in the Yogi Adityanath government, is currently a lawmaker from Jahanabad assembly segment that is also in Fatehpur. The Apna Dal and BJP have been discussing each seat and have been fielding candidates strategically. This is the fourth list of Apna Dal (S) which has been announcing candidates in phases and has so far named six candidates, five of them on seats that were held by the BJP in the 2017 UP polls. It had earlier declared former lawmaker Rashmi Arya as its candidate from Mauranipur assembly segment in Bundelkhand, Haider Ali Khan for the Swar Tanda seat in Rampur against SP veteran Azam Khan’s son Abdullah Azam, Dr Saroj Kureel for Ghatampur in Kanpur Nagar district, Ram Niwas Verma for Nanpara in Bahraich district and Dr Surbhi in Farrukhabad district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/boost-to-bjp-as-sp-s-dalit-leader-joins-apna-dal-s-101643566765106.html
30-01-2022||Lucknow||Yogi to file nomination for Gorakhpur urban seat on February 4||Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath will file his nomination for the assembly election in Gorakhpur urban assembly constituency on February 4. The Election Commission of India (ECI) will issue notification for the sixth phase poll in 57 assembly constituencies in 10 districts of east UP, including Gorakhpur, on February 4. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) plans to give momentum to its election campaign in east UP with the filing of the nomination papers by the chief minister. BJP leader Dharmendra Singh said Yogi would arrive in Gorakhpur on a four-day visit on February 2. He would address the leaders and office-bearers of the city unit of the BJP, including assembly segment in charge, division in charge, shakti kendra in charge, city unit convenor and booth in charges in a meeting organized in Saraswati Vidya Mandir in Arya Nagar. On February 3, the chief minister would address a doctors’ meet in Balrampur Hall of Digvijay Nath PG College. Later, he will address a teachers’ meet in Nepal Club. In the evening he will address a lawyers’ meet in Saraswati Vidya Mandir. After filing nomination on February 4, Yogi Adityanath will address BJP workers on the ground of Maharana Pratap Inter College. Later he will address Chitransh Jagruk Matdata meeting in Gorakhpur Club and Prabuddha Warg meeting in the evening, according to Dharmendra Singh. On February 5, Yogi will launch his election campaign in the assembly segment with door-to-door contact. He will also address a meeting of the Sikh community in a Gurudwara in Mohaddipur locality of the city. The BJP has galvanized its cadre for the election campaign in Gorakhpur region with the filing of the nomination papers by the chief minister. The party leaders and office-bearers held virtual meeting with the workers to discuss the campaign strategy, Singh said. The Samajwadi Party, Bahujan Samaj Party and Congress are yet to announce candidates on Gorakhpur urban seat. The Aam Aadmi Party has announced to field Vijay Srivastava from the prestigious seat. Bhim Army chief Chandra Shekhar Azad has also announced to contest the assembly election against chief minister Yogi Adityanath from Gorakhpur urban seat. 
30-01-2022||Mumbai||Experts insist on finding right fit, taking safe mask breaks to asthma patients||Mumbai: For 65-year-old Khar resident Madhuri Kanga, who is asthmatic for nearly seven years, wearing N95 mask in the deadly second wave of Covid-19 was a necessity to protect herself from the virus. However, the switch wasn’t easy. She found it discomforting and difficult to breathe during the initial few days. The mask often triggered headaches. “For people with asthma, there is a kind of insecurity associated with breathing. Using a mask triggers that insecurity,” shared Kanga, adding, “In the pandemic I was able to gradually condition myself to use an N95 and settled for the design that fits me well.”Masks help in trapping tiny respiratory droplets expelled into the air while breathing, talking, coughing and sneezing. Masks not only protect a person from coming in contact with such droplets, but they also prevent letting the droplets expelled by people out in the air. As the Covid-19 infection spread through these droplets, masks became a mainstay. But for patients with asthma, like Kanga, adapting to the use of masks has not been an easy journey. “Patients who have not been taking proper medications and who don’t have their asthma in control, face the most difficulties adapting to masks,” said chest physician Dr Prashant Chhajed from Santacruz based Lung Care and Sleep Centre, who has been treating Kanga for the past few years. “Patients like Kanga, who have been on proper and regular medication adapt well,” he said. According to Chhajed, the use of masks has benefited patients with upper airway allergies triggered by smog, dust particles and other pollutants, but those with advanced lung diseases have had to grapple with discomfort. Researchers at the University of Illinois Chicago conducted an online survey of 501 adults with asthma and found that 84% experienced discomfort, and 75% reported trouble breathing or shortness of breath at least a little of the time while wearing a mask. The researchers also found an association between poor asthma control and breathing issues after wearing a mask. “This finding is likely due to the fact that those with uncontrolled asthma are more likely to experience shortness of breath and trouble breathing even without a mask,” Dr Sharmilee Nyenhuis, a co-author of the study was quoted in a media release. The study was published in the January issue of The Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology: In Practice. While a well fitted N95, or double masking is considered the most effective way of preventing Covid-19, some doctors allowed their asthma patients to use a simple cloth mask or a surgical mask to improve the wearability. “It becomes a question of having some protection, instead of nothing at all,” said physician Dr Jalil Parker from Lilavati Hospital, who has had many of his asthma patients reaching out with frantic complaints about uneasiness due to masks. “Many of them had worsened allergic manifestations. At times, the fibres in the masks also cause irritation in the nasal mucosa (the tissue lining the nasal cavity) triggering sneezes,” he said, adding that some of his patients had to use the bronchodilators more frequently than before. “I strictly asked my patients to avoid crowds or stepping out in case they could not adapt to wearing a mask. But cloth masks and surgical masks have been most convenient for them,” said Parkar. The University of Illinois Chicago study team highlighted the need of taking mask breaks, as they found more symptoms associated with a longer duration of wearing masks. “Mask breaks allow one with an opportunity to take large, deep breaths and do some breathing techniques,” Nyenhuis said. The team also recommended that employers should consider making accommodations for those with asthma to take safe mask breaks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/experts-insist-on-finding-right-fit-taking-safe-mask-breaks-to-asthma-patients-101643565624403.html
30-01-2022||Pune||Pune district reports 7,366 new Covid-19 cases and 5 deaths on Sunday||PUNE On Sunday, Pune district reported 7,366 new Covid-19 cases and five deaths. This takes the progressive count to 1.40 million of which 1.31 million have recovered, the death toll stands at 20,324 and 69,511 is the active case count. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 1,491 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 415,172. The death toll went up to 7,072 as three more deaths were reported. Pune city reported 3,897 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 655,019. The death toll went up to 9,349 as one more death was reported.PCMC reported 1,978 new Covid-19 cases and the progressive count went up to 336,074. The death toll went up to 3,553 as one more death was reported in the district on Sunday. As of Sunday, as per the Cowin dashboard, Pune district, saw a total of 16.60 million doses administered, of which 9.38 million are first doses, 7.09 million are second doses and 134,175 are precautionary doses. A total of 207 sites saw vaccination of which 107 are government centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-7-366-new-covid-19-cases-and-5-deaths-on-sunday-101643565443666.html
30-01-2022||Pune||Dispute arises between trust members of Dabholkar’s Andhashradha Nirmoolan Samiti||PUNE The announcement of the appointment of Saroj Patil, sister of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) Sharad Pawar and wife of the late former minister Nyandeo D Patil, as the head of the Maharashtra Andhashradha Nirmoolan Samiti (MANS), has led to a public display of the deepening cracks between the old guard and the new leadership of the trust. The late ND Patil was a founding member and chairperson of the Samiti up until his death on January 17. Avinash Patil, who worked closely with primary founder Narendra Dabholkar, has been an office bearer and a vocal critic of the working style of Dabholkar’s children - Mukta Dabholkar and Hamid Dabholkar. Dabholkar was shot dead by two two bike-borne assailants on August 20, 2013, near Omkareshwar bridge while he was on a morning walk.“Even after multiple discussions with the Hamid– Mukta led group, the democratic and working style of MANS that was established through the 30 years’ worth of the organisation’s work, was not acceptable to them. This faction started by them took over the mouthpiece of the organisation that has been operational for almost 30 years… for the financial dealings of Mans, a trust was formed in 1993 and registered in Satara. Prataprao Pawar is the founding chairman of the trust. After the death of Narendra Dabholkar the position of founding executive president was given to his wife Sheila Dabholkar. The account of the trust of the organisation has Rs7crore that was gathered over the past 25 years by the continuous work of members and workers of the organisation. The family dominated faction has taken over the trust with its accounts,” reads a part of the statement issued by Patil.Members of the Andhashraddha Nirmulan Samiti, who have remained tight-lipped about the comments made by Patil over the past year, have also issued a statement refuting all the claims made by him.“Avinash Patil, Who was asked to leave the organisation last year, has started his own organisation called Vivek Jagar, and he has been repeatedly told to not use the organisation’s name, as we do not have any operational or financial relation with him anymore. We further state that Hamid and Mukta Dabholkar are not trustees of the MANS’ trust. The two along with all the other trustees have never drawn money from the trust accounts. On the contrary they have found donations for the trust on multiple occasions. In fact, the MANS’ trust functions in a space that was given to the trust by the Dabholkar family for free and the newspaper is also published from there,” reads a statement from Deepak Girme, secretary, MANS trust.“These blatantly false allegations have been made out of personal malice. We are not trustees of the MANS trust. We have never taken money in form of salary or even travel expense from the trust. We are common workers of the MANS initiative and will remain so. When the time is right we will make a detailed statement of our side,” read a statement by Mukta and Hamid Dabholkar.The development comes at a time when Narendra Dabholkar’s murder trial has begun in the court of special judge SR Navander. The defence lawyers of the five accused in the case have long been raising the issue of financial misgivings with the trust. However, Hamid Dabholkar, who was examined as a prosecution witness during the trial, has refuted all the claims made by the defence in the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/dispute-arises-between-trust-members-of-dabholkar-s-andhashradha-nirmoolan-samiti-101643565143549.html
30-01-2022||Patna||VIP to contest 24 seats of Council on its own; Sahani says “ Will continue in NDA”||PATNA: Animal and fisheries resources department minister and Vikassheel Insaan Party chief Mukesh Sahani on Sunday announced that his party will contest all 24 seats in the upcoming Council polls and accused senior constituents of the NDA, JD(U), and BJP of ignoring his outfit in seat distribution for the upper house election.“ The NDA’s character has changed. It is not the same coalition it used to be when all allies were given weightage. All constituents of NDA should have got a share in seat adjustment for the upcoming polls,” Sahani told the media. Speaking to ANI, Sahani said, “The government in Bihar stands because of Manjhi-Sahani. JDU-BJP thinks they’re powerful and have taken the right decision. This is like Hitlershahi.”The VIP chief, however, stated categorically that he would continue to stay in the NDA government as the people of Bihar have given the ruling coalition to run the government.On Saturday, the ruling JD(U) and BJP agreed on seat-sharing formula in which BJP would contest 12 seats, JD(U) 11 while one seat has been allotted to Rashtriya Lok Janshakti Party (RLJP) led by Pasupati Kumar Paras.In the last one week, the VIP chief has been vocal against the BJP by accusing the saffron party of not following the ‘coalition dharma’ after failing to get some seats in alliance with the national party in Uttar Pradesh polls.Sahani, who is contesting the UP polls alone in a sizable number of seats, had even dropped hints of switching sides by stating he would not mind working with the leader of the opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav in the future if they reach an understanding on common issues.The state BJP leaders including environment and forest minister Neeraj Kumar Singh had hit back at Sahani stating that the exit of VIP from the ruling coalition would not affect the stability of the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/vip-to-contest-24-seats-of-council-on-its-own-sahani-says-will-continue-in-nda-101643565023656.html
30-01-2022||Patna||BSEB intermediate examination to begin on Feb 1 with Covid safety norms||PATNA: The Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) is all set to commence intermediate examination from February 1 to 14 amid Covid-19 safety protocols, BSEB officials said.As per BSEB, altogether 13,45,939 candidates—including 6,48,518 girls and 6,97,421 boys have registered for the exams. In Patna, altogether 78,856 students will take the exam across 84 centres.BSEB officials claimed that preparation at all exam centres has been completed.“More than 50,000 invigilators have been engaged for manning exam halls this year. Seating arrangements will be done maintaining physical distance among examinees. Exam halls will be sanitised daily”, said an official of BSEB.In an effort to ease the difficulty of students due to Covid-19 triggered academic disturbance, the board has doubled the questions giving students an alternative option for each question.“Of the 100 marks exam, 50 objective-type questions carrying one mark will be asked while the rest 50 marks will comprise subjective questions. In both sections, students will have alternative question options. The change in question pattern has been done in view of students’ welfare”, said an official.The board will provide OMR sheets and answer sheets carrying a pre-printed photograph of the student along with other details including name, roll number, roll code, subject code, and date of the examination for eliminating imposters.Elaborating on the arrangements for conducting a free and fair examination, Anand Kishor, chairman of BSEB, said, “CCTV cameras have been installed at all examination centres. For every 25 candidates, one invigilator will be appointed and one videographer for every 500 examinees will be deployed for strict surveillance. Two-step frisking of students, first at the entrance gate of the exam centre and second at the exam hall, will be done to ensure no unfair element is being carried by the examinees.”The board has also issued direction to invoke CrPC Section 144 within radius of 200-meter of every examination centre prohibiting entrance of any person other than concerned officials.“In case of printing error or mismatch of the photograph, the examinee can provide any of the six ID proofs including Aadhaar card, PAN card, voter ID, passport, driving license, and photo attached bank passbook. The candidate will have to submit an attested photocopy of ID proof and show the original to the concerned official at the examination centre”, said Kishor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bseb-intermediate-examination-to-begin-on-feb-1-with-covid-safety-norms-101643564843719.html
30-01-2022||Lucknow||No appointment in excess of 69,000 teachers in UP: HC||The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court has directed the state government to not make any appointment of assistant primary teachers except for 69,000 posts that were advertised in December 2018. On January 5 this year, the state government had released an additional list of 6,800 selected candidates for the assistant primary teachers’ post. This list was in addition to 69,000 posts filled by the government. The government took the decision after certain reserved category candidates secured more marks than the cut-off marks for general category candidates. One Bharti Patel and five others had challenged this list in the high court. A single judge bench of Justice Rajan Roy in its recent order observed: “Now, it is for the State to decide what it has to do in the matter as it has created this situation, but one thing is clear that persons cannot be appointed beyond 69000 vacancies.” The court further observed that once all the advertised 69,000 posts of assistant primary teachers were filled, a new list of more candidates cannot be issued without conducing fresh selection for excess seats or removing same number of selected candidates who had fewer marks than these 6,800 candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/no-appointment-in-excess-of-69-000-teachers-in-up-hc-101643564783547.html
30-01-2022||Other||Blow for Bihar Cong as Tejashwi hints at going solo in Council polls||PATNA: Ahead of the Bihar Legislative Council polls, likely to be held between February and March this year, the state Congress suffered a major blow on Sunday after Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav refused to forge an alliance with the Grand Old Party.Talking to media persons in New Delhi, Tejashwi said that the RJD has decided to contest the upcoming council polls on its own. “Our party’s alliance with the Congress is only in New Delhi,” said Yadav.Tejashwi’s statement comes at a time when key leaders of Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) including its president Madan Mohan Jha, campaign panel chief Akhilesh Prasad Singh, and Congress legislature party (CLP) leader Ajit Sharma are camping in New Delhi for the last three days to meet RJD chief Lalu Prasad on the issue.“We have not received any formal rejection from the RJD over seat-sharing. We don’t go by media reports,” said Jha, adding that Congress has also decided to go ahead with its plan to contest all 24 Council seats in the absence of an invitation from the RJD on seat-sharing. “We have submitted the panel of contestants to party in-charge Bhakta Charan Das. The final decision will be taken by the party high command,” Jha added.Reacting on Tejashwi’s statement, AICC media panelist Prem Chandra Mishra said that Tejashwi must clarify which party RJD is aligned within Bihar, if not the Congress. “By stating that the RJD is with the Congress at the Centre, Yadav is acknowledging the party’s strength. It would have been better to attack the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) rather than criticizing the Congress,” said Mishra.BPCC’s chief spokesman Rajesh Rathore said that the party has prepared a panel of 22-23 strong candidates to contest from 12-13 seats, out of the 24. “We are ready to field capable leaders from seven-eight seats in case there is no seat-sharing deal with the RJD and left parties,” said Rathore.Meanwhile, the RJD has finalized its nominees for 23 seats to contest the Council elections, leaving the Bhagalpur seat for the CPI. “All the candidates have been asked to start campaigning in their respective local bodies constituencies,” said RJD spokesman Mrityunjay Tiwari.
30-01-2022||Lucknow||UP logs 26 Covid deaths in a day after seven months||Uttar Pradesh reported 26 new deaths of Covid patients in a day after a gap of over seven months while 8,100 more people tested positive for Sars-CoV-2 infection in the state on Sunday. With the new Covid deaths, the death toll reached 23,189 in the state. On June 27, 2021, the state had reported 45 Covid deaths while on June 28 last year, 25 Covid patients had died in a day. After that, fatalities among Covid patients across UP kept reducing.“In all, 2,02,467 samples were tested and 8,100 of them came positive for Covid in the past 24 hours. In the same duration, 12,080 patients recovered and the number of active Covid cases under treatment in the state now is 55,574,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health, UP, in a press statement.According to the state health department data, Lucknow reported 3 Covid deaths, Kanpur, Ghazipur, Sonbhadra, Kannauj and Varanasi reported two deaths each while Gautam Buddh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Prayagraj, Agra, Shahjahanpur, Shamli, Azamgarh, Jalaun, Gonda, Sultanpur, Ballia, Hapur and Kaushambi districts reported one death each.In Lucknow, of the total 1,385 new Covid cases, over 900 were male. “Lucknow’s total Covid caseload has reached 28,7,709, including 2,665 deaths and 10,779 active cases,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors.Among those who died included a 53-year-old man who was a patient of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and was under treatment at Era’s Medical College and the other patient was a 62-year-old man admitted to Chandan Hospital for a chronic kidney disease. A 66-year-old woman who was admitted to the PGI following a brain stroke and kidney problem died during treatment.In Lucknow, Aliganj reported 236 new Covid cases, Alambagh 193, Indira Nagar 144, Sarojininagar 115 and NK Road 119. Among the total new cases, 393 were contacts of people who had tested positive for Covid recently while 36 were those patients who had tested positive before a surgical procedure.
30-01-2022||Mumbai||ME/MTech courses lose sheen, seat vacancy at 60-65% for last three years||Mumbai: A trend reversal seems to be in process in technical postgraduate degrees. Once sought-after courses for engineering graduates, the seat vacancy in Masters of Engineering (ME/MTech) has remained between 60 and 65 percent in the last three years. Figures released by the state common entrance test (CET) cell reveal that nearly 70 percent of seats in these courses had no takers in the 2021-22 academic year, meaning 7 out of 10 seats remained vacant across the state.Experts have attributed this decline to multiple reasons, including lack of jobs for ME/MTech graduates and absence of curriculum updation.“ME/MTech graduates have realised that their skillset remains almost similar in comparison to undergraduate engineering courses even after completing a 2-year PG course. Students now prefer to get work experience and then apply to a B-school for a Masters in Business Administration (MBA) program with the hope of upgrading their curriculum vitae, thus attracting better job offers,” said the director of a city-based engineering institute.Hiring trend across sectors has also played a big part in decline for the demand of MTech courses, said experts. “Most companies prefer a BTech graduate over an MTech graduate because their skills are not very different and BTech graduates agree to work for less salary,” said SS Mantha, former chairman of the All India Council of Technical Education (AICTE).Besides, more and more companies are seeking graduates with knowledge beyond just engineering, so many opt for BTech with a Master’s in business or financial management with the hope for better employment opportunities, Mantha added.Over the last few years, several engineering institutes in Maharashtra have shut down some divisions or the ME/MTech course altogether due to falling demand. This year, while the intake for BE/BTech stood at 1.39 lakh, the total intake for ME/MTech was a mere 13,095, less than 10 percent of the total seats in the undergraduate course.“Masters in Engineering has been a course picked by those who wish to take up teaching. However, engineering institutes stagnated and therefore hiring of new teachers has also reduced over the years. Many institutions, including ours, dropped the course altogether due to falling numbers,” said Gopakumaran Thampi, principal of Thadomal Shahani Engineering College, Bandra.Placements across undergraduate engineering institutes in the country ended on a high note this academic year with a higher number of students securing placements with better packages in comparison to the last two years. However, the trend does not reflect on ME/MTech placements.As per figures shared on the AICTE website, placements for ME/MTech stood at 24.27 percent of the total enrollment in the 2020-21 academic year.Talent acquisition experts say that over the years, employers have stopped mentioning ME/MTech as an eligibility criteria in job descriptions.“It is very rare for employers to seek students with MTech qualifications because many have realised that curriculum for BTech and MTech is not very different, so they would rather hire postgrads from management and finance fields,” said Ratna Pathak, a talent acquisition specialist.Experts also feel it is time to update the engineering curriculum keeping specialisations in mind. “The authorities have introduced newer concepts like Artificial Intelligence and Data Science in undergraduate engineering courses but the basic concepts of several forms of engineering seem to be missing from the curriculum. Instead of simply adding new subjects, we need to focus on the overall development of the existing syllabus for UG and PG engineering courses which will ultimately attract more students,” added former AICTE chairman Mantha.
30-01-2022||Pune||Demand to hold offline exams for final year students at Pune varsity||PUNE: Even as the semester examination of the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) is about to begin from the month of February, a meeting of the SPPU management council is scheduled to take place on Monday, January 31, where the main demand is to conduct offline examinations at least for final year students. It has been noticed that students have become rather comfortable about online exams and for the sake of their future career, it has become necessary to conduct offline exams at least for final year students. Rajesh Pande, SPPU management council member, said, “Despite the Covid cases rising in the state, the board examination of Class 10 and 12 students is going to be held offline this year. So considering this decision of the state government and for the benefit of the students, our demand is that at least the examinations of final year students should be taken offline and we are going to raise that demand in the meeting.”Another member Sanjay Chakane said, “Many students are getting rather comfortable as there are online examinations to be held this semester but it is not right for the future career of the students. While getting admission for further courses and even for job opportunities, it is going to be difficult for final year students. So, our demand is that the exams be held offline for them.”For the last one month, the SPPU senior officials and deans have been discussing about conducting the examination. The decision was expected to be taken in January and now colleges from all three districts – Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar are about to start from February 1.One of the senior SPPU officials on condition of anonymity said, “The SPPU first semester exams are going to be held in the month of February and discussions on how to conduct them are underway. For final year students, it will be offline exams and for the rest of the students, it will be both online and offline.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/demand-to-hold-offline-exams-for-final-year-students-at-pune-varsity-101643564305006.html
30-01-2022||Mumbai||Health experts predict third wave will be over by March||Mumbai Even though the daily caseload is still high in Maharashtra, state health minister Rajesh Tope said that the ongoing third wave is likely to end by March. The remarks are based on the predictions made by health experts, he said.Tope also said that the new variant named NeoCov is said to be deadly and as contagious as the Omicron variant. “It may take the death rate up to 30%, it is said. The World Health Organization (WHO) said that they are still studying it,” Tope added.Maharashtra reported 22,444 fresh infections, taking the count to 7,705,969 cases on Sunday, a drop of 5,527 cases from January 29. The active cases now stand at 2,27,711, a drop of 16,633 cases from January 29, when active cases were 2,44,344.The state also reported five cases of Omicron variant, all of them are from Pune. The total number of Omicron cases reached 3,130. So far, 1,674 cases have been discharged following a negative RT-PCR test, stated a release issued by the state health department.It also saw 50 casualties, taking the toll to 1,42,572. “The third wave will end by mid-March even though daily cases are high at present, according to the health experts,” the state health minister said.“As per the primary information, the new variant NeoCov is said to be dangerous and deadly. It spreads as fast as Omicron and the fatality rate will go up to 30%. WHO said they still have to study more about it. But the state health machinery is capable enough to deal with the situation. However, there is no need to worry as there is no case of NewCov found anywhere in the country,” he said further.Meanwhile, Mumbai clocked 1,160 cases and its tally reached a total of 10,44,712 cases to date. It also recorded 10 fatalities taking the toll to 16,612.In the last 24 hours, the state tested 1,68,968 samples and had a positivity rate of 13.28%. However, the overall positivity rate of the state stood at 10.33%, the statement said.The state also vaccinated 21,109 beneficiaries on Sunday and has administered a total of 1,47,926,560 doses to date, according to the data available on the Co-Win portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/health-experts-predict-third-wave-will-be-over-by-march-101643564303634.html
30-01-2022||Lucknow||UP polls: 24 women on Congress fourth of 61 candidates||The Congress on Sunday released its fourth list of 61 candidates for the 2022 UP assembly polls. The list includes 24 women and a candidate from Harchandpur assembly seat of Rae Bareli where its sitting MLA Rakesh Singh has switched loyalties to the BJP.The party has now declared Surendra Vikram Singh as its candidate from Harchandpur. It has declared Sudha Dwivedi from Sareni, another assembly seat of Rae Bareli, while Mohd Fateh Bahadur has been fielded from Gauriganj assembly seat of Amethi.It has changed its two candidates fielding Kuldeep Kumar Singh from Hathras (SC) replacing Saroj Devi and declaring the name of Vandana Bhargava from Biswa assembly seat in place of Abhinav Bhargava.The Congress has fielded Rita Maurya from Ayodhya assembly seat. Others on the list include Vineeta Devi from Kannauj (SC), Kuldeep Pandey from Kasganj, Chandni from Sri Nagar (SC), Shakuntala Devi from Kaimganj (SC), Archana Rathore from Bhojpur and Karishma Thakur from Govind Nagar seat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-polls-24-women-on-congress-fourth-of-61-candidates-101643564003752.html
30-01-2022||Pune||929 chain pulling cases in Pune railway division in 2021||PUNE Cracking a whip on those indulging in unnecessary alarm chain pulling (ACP) in the Pune railway division, the railway has registered a total 929 cases in 2021 with 803 being arrested. Surprisingly, the number of chain pulling incidents has increased while trains are standing at platforms and not while they are running. The Pune railway division has collected nearly Rs141,000 in fines from these offenders.Pune railway spokesperson Manoj Jhawar said, “It has become a tendency for passengers to simply pull the chain for silly reasons such as luggage left outside, family members having stepped out of the train to get snacks or water, ticket left at home or elsewhere or wanting to catch the train despite being late. Especially during peak season when the railway is trying to maintain the punctuality of trains and chain pulling takes place, it becomes difficult for railway operations. Passengers should understand and pull the chain only in case of a real emergency.”“When the chain is pulled whilst the train is standing at the station, our RPF staff has to find out from which bogey it has been pulled and then search for the person who has done it. A lot of time is wasted and ultimately, it impacts the other trains arriving at the station,” Jhawar said. If a person is found guilty of pulling the chain without any valid reason, he or she will be fined Rs1,000 or jailed for a year or both under the Indian Railways Act.A senior RPF official said on condition of anonymity, “We have appointed our two constables especially for checking chain pulling incidents at the station. Passengers should also understand and use the chain only if necessary. Many times when we catch people for chain pulling, they give false reasons and we have to then investigate them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/929-chain-pulling-cases-in-pune-railway-division-in-2021-101643563944280.html
30-01-2022||Pune||Auto rickshaw plunges into canal, no casualties||PUNE An auto rickshaw plunged into the canal in Janta Vasahat area of the city on Sunday evening, said fire brigade officials. According to the fire brigade officials, the incident took place around 7.56 pm when the control room received a call that an auto driver fell into the canal and there were others inside the vehicle.Station fire officer Pradip Khedekar said that the control room received a call in the evening. “When we reached the spot, we found that it was pitch dark and we had to use halogen light to focus on the auto which was fifteen feet deep into the water. However, there is no confirmation about any person getting drowned or washed away in the incident.”Khedekar explained that auto was pushed into the canal by miscreants taking advantage of darkness in the area. The fire brigade has ruled out any casualty in the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/auto-rickshaw-plunges-into-canal-no-casualties-101643563703625.html
30-01-2022||Mumbai||Congress leader Nana Patole’s statement on Gandhi sparks fresh row||Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) president Nana Patole has sparked a row after he referred to Mahatma Gandhi’s assassination as a ‘vadh’ instead of ‘hatya.’ The term ‘vadh’ refers to the slaying of evil while ‘hatya’ is assassination or murder. The party was quick to term the incident as a slip of term.Speaking at Congress event to mark Mahatma’s death anniversary on Sunday, Patole said, “Today, the first terrorist in the country came forth in the form of Mahatma Gandhi’s assassin Nathuram Godse when he killed Gandhi (Aajchya divshi Mahatma Gandhincha vadh Nathuram Godse hyanni kela).” Hindu right-wingers usually refer to Gandhi’s killing as a vadh, thus justifying his killing.Atul Londhe, spokesperson, MPCC, said that this was a slip of the tongue and added that Patole had referred to Godse as India’s first terrorist for assassinating Mahatma Gandhi.Meanwhile, Leader of Opposition in the state legislative council Praveen Darekar sought Patole’s apology saying that he has often lost control over his words while speaking. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former minister Chandrashekhar Bavankule also said Patole was maligning the image of Congress.Patole’s statements have often landed him in the eye of controversy. From claiming that he was under police surveillance, ruffling allies Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Shiv Sena by stating that the Congress would fight elections on its own, and complaining of irregularities in the allocation of a coal washing tender, which was seen as an attack on party colleague and energy minister Nitin Raut, Patole’s utterances have left the Congress red-faced.Earlier this month, Patole, who was in Bhandara district, claimed that he could beat and abuse Modi. When the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) took umbrage, Patole claimed he was referring to a local goon who was the namesake of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/congress-leader-nana-patole-s-statement-on-gandhi-sparks-fresh-row-101643561603747.html
30-01-2022||Pune||Fatal quirk of Covid curve in Pune: High vax rate, high new case nos, high death count||PUNE Districts that have been reporting a major chunk of the new Covid-19 cases in the state for the past two weeks,despite having a high vaccination rate, are also reporting a higher number of Covid-19 related deaths. Although there is a declining trend of new Covid-19 cases in most districts over the past week, between January 23 and 30, districts that have reported the most deaths are Mumbai (80), Pune city (25), Nashik (15), Solapur (12) and Satara (47). The state reported a total of 451 deaths in the said period. In the week between January 21 and 27, districts with highest positivity rate were Aurangabad with 36.2%, Gadchiroli with 44.8%, Nagpur with 45%, Nashik 38.7%, Pune at 40% and Washim at 38.7% all of which is much higher than the weekly state positivity rate, which stood at 22.2%. According to the state health department the vaccination rate for districts reporting Covid-related deaths and new cases are Mumbai, which has a fully vaccinated sate of 87.60%, Pune, which is at 79.21%, Bhandara at 80.08%, Sindhudurg at 76.40%, and Nagpur at 63.17%. However, the vaccinations rate for Nashik is 51.54% and Thane is at 65.93%. Districts with the least fully vaccinated percentage, namely are Nandurbar (41.98%), Beed (44.06%), Nanded (46.25%), Akola (43.56%) are not reporting as many deaths or new cases, as the metros or cities neighbouring the metros. The state average stands at 61.86% for fully vaccinated beneficiares. Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer said, “with a large number of breakthrough infections and re-infections being reported, it does not guarantee that cities which did report a large number of new cases in the first two waves would be safer this wave. However, in the second wave we did see districts in Konkan region with a slower rise and a slower fall compared to metro cities. The curve has its own geographical leaning specific to the region. We are only trying to boost vaccination in the most remote parts because as of now we know for sure that vaccination helps reduce severity and thereby deaths.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fatal-quirk-of-covid-curve-in-pune-high-vax-rate-high-new-case-nos-high-death-count-101643561483589.html
30-01-2022||Pune||New Covid cases mainly reported from wards in Pune with economically well-to-do residents||PUNE New Covid-19 cases in the city are now being mainly reported from wards where the demograph is economically well-to-do residents. Wards reporting a higher number of fresh Covid-19 cases are Aundh-Baner, Kothrud-Bavdhan and those with pockets of middle-class residents like Hadapsar-Mundhwa and Ahmednagar road-Wadgaonsheri. Congested wards like Bhavani peth, Kasba-Vishrambaug wada and those with slum areas, like Ramtekdi-Wanowrie, are now reporting a comparatively lower number of new Covid-19 cases. In the week between January 6 and January 12, Hadapsar-Mundhwa ward reported the highest number of new Covid-19 cases, 4,939 cases, followed by Aundh-Baner ward with 4,708 new cases. In the following week, between January 20 and January 26, Aundh-Baner reported 5,952 new cases followed by Hadapsar-Mundhwa which reported 5,812 new cases. In the week between January 6 and January 12, Bhavani peth reported the least number of new cases, 725, followed by Wanowrie-Ramtekdi ward with 1,361 new cases. In the following week, between January 20 and January 26, Bhavani peth reported 540 new cases, followed by Kasba-Vishrambaugwada which reported 1,396 new cases. During both the weeks, Bhavani peth, Wanowrie-Ramtekdi and Kasba-Vishrambaugwada reported the least number of new cases. These wards are congested commercial areas with slum pockets. Dr Ashish Bharti, chief health officer at Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) said, “The spread of infection is no longer restricted to only congested pockets. The curve of the virus is rotating from ward to ward. While the infection first started from the most congested wards, specifically Bhavani peth, in the second wave we saw more housing societies being affected. We are taking all necessary measures like implementation of home quarantine among those infected.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/new-covid-cases-mainly-reported-from-wards-in-pune-with-economically-well-to-do-residents-101643560643414.html
30-01-2022||Pune||SSC, HSC exams: Govt to take postponement decision in Feb; principals oppose move||PUNE A day after the Maharashtra State board sent a proposal to the government to postpone the Class 10 and Class 12 board exams to April, education minister Varsha Gaikwad said that the decision on whether to defer the offline examinations will be taken after February 15. “We shall be discussing the issue of offline examinations for Class 10 and Class 12. Covid cases will be monitored closely till February 15 and a decision will be taken subsequently after that regarding offline board examination,” said Gaikwad The proposal was sent to the government after an online meeting with education officials and minister of state for education, Bacchu Kadu. Officials from the education department said Kadu emphasised postponing the examination on the grounds of syllabus not being completed on time in many schools. Sharad Gosavi, chairman of Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) said that last week, an online meeting was conducted regarding the offline examination. “The meeting was conducted with minister of state for education, Bacchu Kadu, after which we have sent a proposal to the education minister about postponing the examination due to the increase in Covid cases. The education minister will take a call in the next few days,” said Gosavi. “We understand that students are in the exam mindset and we do not want any confusion pertaining to the examination. And so the decision will be taken in the next few days,” said Gosavi. As per the timetable declared in December, the HSC exam is scheduled from March 4 to March 30 and for SSC, the examination dates are between March 15 and April 4. The Principal’s Association of Maharashtra State Secondary and Higher secondary school has also urged the board to conduct the exam as scheduled saying many schools have already finished their syllabus. An official letter issued by the association noted that the schools in rural parts of Maharashtra started from July 15 last year and schools in many urban parts started from October last year. “Schools have conducted online and offline classes and made an effort to finish the syllabus of Class 10 and Class 12 at the earliest. There are many schools who have conducted revision tests for students. We urge you to clear the confusion surrounding the offline board exam and conduct the exam as scheduled,” said JK Patil, president, Maharashtra state principals’ association. Last year, due to the second Covid wave, the offline examination was postponed several times. And was later cancelled as other boards cancelled their offline examinations. A senior board official on the condition of anonymity maintained that the exam should be conducted as scheduled. “Students are taking vaccinations. And by the exam schedule, both their doses will be over. Fully vaccinated students will be safe to attend the paper offline. Moreover, conducting online examinations for all students across Maharashtra is not a feasible plan as infrastructure is limited for online mode,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ssc-hsc-exams-govt-to-take-postponement-decision-in-feb-principals-oppose-move-101643560163418.html
30-01-2022||Mumbai||MVA here for next 25 years, Sena-BJP reunion not possible: Sanjay Raut||Chief Minister and Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray’s frontal attack on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) indicates that the party has shut its doors on any possible reconciliation with the former ally, said senior Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut.“His speech gave one message that the grand alliance between Congress, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Shiv Sena is the political future of Maharashtra,” Raut said referring to Thackeray’s address to the party cadre on the birth anniversary of party supremo Bal Thackeray.“The speculations about under-the-table dealings and discussions with the BJP have been scotched. In his speech on 23 January, Uddhav Thackeray made a strong attack on the BJP. Thackeray had never exposed the BJP’s pretentiousness and fake Hindutva to this extent,” Raut wrote in his weekly column in the party mouthpiece Saamna.He also pointed to Thackeray’s statement that the alliance with the BJP since 1989 had hindered the Shiv Sena’s growth.“Uddhav Thackeray’s speech and Devendra Fadnavis’ reply to it has cleared the air of confusion that was prevailing in Maharashtra’s politics. The doubts about Thackeray and some leaders being secretly in touch with the BJP, and the present government being a temporary arrangement, have been cleared. Now, coming together is not possible, and Fadnavis’ reply in stern language, shows that the window (of rapprochement) is not open,” said Raut.“The politics of Maharashtra has changed completely. The picture suggests that this change (the MVA government) will stay for the next 25 years,” he claimed.Raut further said that while Hindutva could not be the monopoly of any political party, it was only Sena supremo Bal Thackeray who had espoused an aggressive form of the ideology.Reacting to the column, BJP MLA Atul Bhatkhalkar attacked Raut for claiming the longevity of the MVA and pointed to how the Shiv Sena’s performance in the recent local body elections was sub-par. “They were eager to ally with us for the past two years, but the BJP spurned these overtures. The day Shiv Sena compromised on Hindutva, BJP had decided that it would not ally with them again. Raut has realised this after two years,” he claimed.Shiv Sena was traditionally the senior and dominant partner in the saffron alliance with the BJP. However, BJP parted ways with Sena on the eve of the 2014 assembly elections and emerged as the single-largest party. Though the Shiv Sena joined the Devendra Fadnavis-led BJP government later, it was forced to play a second fiddle to the BJP.The two parties contested the 2019 assembly elections together. However, they parted ways following a dispute over sharing of the chief minister’s post. Sena later joined hands with traditional rivals NCP and Congress to form a government under Thackeray.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mva-here-for-next-25-years-sena-bjp-reunion-not-possible-sanjay-raut-101643559988856.html
30-01-2022||Pune||Ex-Pune police chief submits affidavit to Bhima Koregaon commission; hearings from Jan 31||PUNE Senior IPS officer and former police commissioner Rashmi Shukla has claimed in her affidavit submitted before the Bhima Koregaon inquiry commission that the city police handled the situation “tactfully” during the 2018 Bhima Koregaon clashes, preventing a major untoward incident in the city. Shukla, who was Pune police commissioner when the riots broke out, submitted a detailed affidavit on January 25 before the two-member commission headed by Justice (retd) J N Patel, which is conducting a probe into the violence. Hindustan Times has seen the copy of the affidavit. In her affidavit, she said the city police had anticipated that a large number of visitors would arrive from all over the state on that day, and had taken adequate precautions and preventive measures. “....due to said effective deployment of man power/police force, there was negligible incidence of stone pelting within my jurisdiction or violence in the limits of Pune city,” the affidavit stated. “There was neither any loss of human life nor any major outbreak of violence in the city. Also there was no untoward incident in Pune (district) after the evening of January 3, 2018,” Shukla added. Earlier, the commission’s lawyer Ashish Satpute had filed an application seeking that Shukla -- now deputed to the CRPF -- be directed to file an affidavit. Meanwhile, hearings of the Bhima Koregaon inquiry commission will resume at its Pune office on Monday, with Shukla and former additional superintendent of Pune rural police Tejashwi Satpute, among five people scheduled to record their statements before the commission, officials said. The scheduled hearings were suspended in the second week of January owing to a rise in Covid-19 infections. Others on the current list of witnesses to be examined include Sambhaji Shivale, Balasaheb Jamadar, and ACP Ramesh Galande. The commission that was formed on February 19, 2018, by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government led by the then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, has been granted nine extensions since. The current extension was granted in December 2021 and will last till June 30, 2022. During the riots that ensued in January 2018 during the 200th anniversary of the battle of Bhima Koregaon, one person died while scores were injured including some police officials. The commission was formed and tasked with finding out who was responsible for the violence while also suggesting policy changes to avoid such incidents in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bhima-koregaon-commission-to-resume-hearings-from-jan-31-in-pune-101643559983504.html
30-01-2022||Pune||Two teens arrested for using foul, threatening language in social media videos||PUNE The Pimpri-Chinchwad police on Sunday evening arrested two 18-year-old girls for making videos using expletives and threatening language and posting them on multiple social media pages.The arrested girls have been identified as Sakshi Hemant Shrishrimal, a resident of Pawarnagar in Thergaon, and Sakshi Rakesh Kashyap, a resident of Patrakar chawl in Chinchwad. The police are on the lookout for one other man who is repeatedly seen in videos with Shrishrimal.“After technical investigation the two girls were arrested and their devices were seized. Upon questioning them about the videos, they confessed to have committed the crime without knowing the gravity of it. They have expressed regret and apologised for making the videos,“ read a statement from Anand Bhoite, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 2, Pimpri Chinchwad police.The accounts of the girl are named Thergaon Queen and over 50 versions of the username with Shrishrimal’s photos and videos exist on one well-known platform. The girl is seen with multiple people, including a minor boy, using expletives and threatening unidentified people. In one of the videos, the girl is seen threatening to perform 302 (section for murder under Indian penal code) on someone, said officials.According to police, the videos were received through messages on mobile phone by police sub-inspector Sangita Goday. She lodged a complaint in the matter and a case was registered.A case under Sections 292, 294, 506, and 34 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at Wakad police station against the three. Assistant police inspector Sambhaji Jadhav is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-teens-arrested-for-using-foul-threatening-language-in-social-media-videos-101643559684261.html
30-01-2022||Pune||MVA ministers claim wine not liquor, though booze rules apply to wine as well||PUNE With the Maharashtra government giving the nod for sale of wine in wine in supermarkets and walk-in stores across Maharashtra at a flat annual licensing fee of ₹ 5,000, wine connoisseurs and wine lovers will still require license to buy or drink wine. This is contradictory to the stand by several ministers in MVA including Ajit Pawar who vehemently argued that to consider wine as liquor will be mistake. “Let me make it clear that wine is not a liuor. The opposition may say whatever they want to,” Pawar had said while replying to the allegations of BJP which accused the government saying MVA wants to turn Maharashtra into “liquor state”. According to an official in the State excise, the rules for Indian made foreign liquor, wine and beer consumption are the same, and will require a license to stock and to serve. “Though there are different categories as to how much a person can buy or keep in his possession,” the official said.. According to Ajay Deshmukh, secretary Pune district Wine Merchant’s Association, “Those who wish to buy wines or any liquor off the counter require a drinking permit or license which are available on the Excise website.” According to Excise department, “There are around 1,685 wine shops in the state. The wine industry has a turnover of around ₹1,000 crore in India, of which 65% in Maharashtra. Most wineries are located in Nashik, which produces around 80% of India’s wine, and is referred to as the wine and grape capital of India, followed by Sangli, Pune, Solapur, Buldhana and Ahmednagar. As per the figures shared by state excise department, wine consumption in the state during the financial year for 2020-21 was just around 70 lakh litres. The beer consumption on the other hand stood at 30 crore litres, country liquor 32 crore litres and Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) at 20 crore litres. The wineries hope that with government allowing sale of wine at departmental stores, its consumption will increase||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mva-ministers-claim-wine-not-liquor-though-booze-apply-to-wine-as-well-101643559564890.html
30-01-2022||Mumbai||Vasai autorickshaw driver reunites runaway Delhi minor girl with family||Mumbai: A 14-year-old minor girl from New Delhi, who ran away from home after a heated argument with parents over studies, was reunited with her family by an autorickshaw driver from Vasai.Raju Kajru Karwade, 35, who works as a rickshaw driver, was waiting for passengers at Vasai Road railhead when the girl approached him to help her find a job and rented accommodation. “I immediately sensed something was wrong. I engaged her in conversation and asked her to show me Aadhaar card in order to get her the help. I was shocked to learn that she was 14 years old. I took her to the Manikpur police station with me and narrated the entire story to the cops,” shared Raju.After an argument with parents, the girl ran away from home, boarded Mumbai Express and reached Vasai in the wee hours on Saturday.Senior PI Bhausaheb Aher of Manikpur police station revealed that there was a kidnapping case registered with the Saket police station in Sector 7, Pushp Vihar, Delhi, where the girl lived. “We called the Saket police station and they informed her father, Rajwant Singh who works with the Indian Army. After finding out the whereabouts of his daughter, he started crying on the phone. The girl was reunited with her family. The minor could have fallen into the wrong hands had the autorickshaw driver didn’t show swift action,” shared PI Bhausaheb Aher. Manikpur police station felicitated Karwade for showing alertness in rescuing the minor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vasai-autorickshaw-driver-reunites-runaway-delhi-minor-girl-with-family-101643558123212.html
30-01-2022||Mumbai||TPR on decline but citizens shouldn’t get complacent||Mumbai The Test Positivity Rate (TPR) in Mumbai dipped below the three per cent-mark on Sunday, but officials asked citizens to not become complacent with the situation and continue adhering to Covid-appropriate behaviour. The city reported 1,160 fresh Covid infections in the past 24 hours, taking the overall case tally to 10,44,712 and 10 deaths taking the toll to 16,612.With 46,307 tests conducted in the last 24 hours, the TPR on Sunday stood at 2.5 per cent. Earlier on Saturday (January 29), the city had a TPR of 3.62 per cent while on Friday (January 28), the TPR of the city stood at 3.9 per cent. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) data also showed that the maximum number of tests were conducted on Sunday compared to the earlier two days.The BMC data also said that as of Sunday, 2,268 (six per cent) of the total 37,573 beds were occupied in Mumbai.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner and in charge of the BMC, said that it is safe to say now that the third wave has started to recede in Mumbai.“This Omicron wave lasted for only six weeks in Mumbai. The TPR started to go up from December 21 and on January 30, the TPR already stands at 2.5 per cent. Even the peak stage that came in early January only lasted for one week, following which cases started to decline steadily,” Kakani said on Sunday.He also mentioned that owing to the less severity of this variant, more than 70 per cent of the beds remained vacant throughout the third wave and most of the patients that required hospital admissions were either senior citizens with serious co-morbidities or unvaccinated or partially vaccinated citizens.Kakani also said that considering the fall in numbers, the BMC is set to take a call on issuing relaxations on some of the ongoing restrictions this week.“We may take a decision on relaxing a few curbs this week including extending operational hours of restaurants and allowing Mumbaikars in some of the open spaces,” he said.Meanwhile, experts said that while the Covid graph in Mumbai has started to show a downward trend, citizens should not become complacent and should continue to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour.Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the state and national Covid task force, said that as migration and reverse migration happen through Mumbai regularly, one shouldn’t get complacent even though the number of cases has started to fall steadily. “This is because Mumbai as a city may have reached the plateau stage and is on the verge of decline, there are still many districts which are yet to reach their peak,” he added. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state Covid task force, said that the doubling rate of Mumbai is 375 days now.“Now that cases have started to go down, our primary objective should be bringing down the mortality rate. Treating serious patients and giving special attention to patients under oxygen and ventilation should be our priority,” said Dr Joshi.Out of the total cases that were reported on Thursday, 87% are asymptomatic and at present, there are 16,612 active cases in the city and the recovery rate of Mumbai is 97%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/tpr-on-decline-but-citizens-shouldn-t-get-complacent-101643558003461.html
30-01-2022||Pune||65-year-old pedestrian killed after getting hit by a two-wheeler in Hadapsar||PUNE A 65-year-old pedestrian man was killed after being hit by a speeding two-wheeler in Hadapsar area of Pune on Friday night, said officials.The deceased man has been identified as Vishnu Pundalik Kale, a resident of Vishal Vasahat, Akashvani area of Hadapsar. He was hit by a two-wheeler while he was crossing the road in the same area. A complaint in the matter has been lodged by his 33-year-old son.“The rider was identified as Asif Iqbal Ansari, 25. He has sustained grievous injuries and is in the ICU,” said police sub-inspector Suvarna Gosavi who is investigating the case.A case has been registered under sections 279 (rash or negligent driving), 304 (A) (Causing death by negligence) and 427 (Mischief causing damage) of the Indian Penal Code along with sections 184, 119/177 of the Motor Vehicle Act at Hadapsar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/65yearold-pedestrian-killed-after-getting-hit-by-a-two-wheeler-in-hadapsar-101643555903479.html
30-01-2022||Pune||SEC sets ball rolling for PMC elections: final list of ward limits by March 2||The State Election Commission (SEC) has set the ball rolling for the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) elections with its notification issued late on Saturday setting the timetable for publishing the final draft of wards post-delimitation.As per the notification issued by the SEC, the final list of ward limits needs to be published by March 2, post which the process for civic elections will begin. With this, political circles in Pune are abuzz that civic elections are likely to be held in April.The SEC in its notification states that the draft delimitation map with boundaries of each electoral panel for the PMC will be published on February 1. Citizens are invited to file suggestions and objections to it by February 14. The public hearing for which should be completed by February 28 and the expert committee should submit suggestions by March 2 to the SEC, which will then declare the final map of delimitation for the forthcoming civic elections. While the current tenure of the PMC’s general body ends on March 15, the notification has accelerated the process of holding polls to various civic bodies across Maharashtra, including Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. The SEC’s notification also makes it clear that the representation of women in the PMC post-election will be more than men after the strength of the house has been increased from 164 to 173 considering the 23 villages merged with the PMC and the rise in the city’s population.As per the notification, there will be a total 58 wards with 57 of them to elect three members while the remaining one ward will elect two members. As the state government legislation mandates that 50% of the seats in civic bodies be reserved for women, there will be in all 87 out of 173 seats reserved for women in the PMC.The battle for PMC will be crucial for all parties including the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Nationalist Congress Party, Congress, Shiv Sena and Maharashtra Navnirman Sena. Currently, the BJP controls the civic body with 98 corporators. After coming to power in the state in 2019, the NCP is looking to regain its control over the PMC, which has an annual budget of Rs6,700 crore. The SEC has considered Pune’s population at 3,556,824, including 480,017 SCs and 41,561 STs, based on the 2011 census. Thus, the maximum population for a ward is 71,390 and the minimum is 37,589. 
30-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi sees slight fall in daily Covid-19 tally with 3,674 new cases, active caseload above 21,000||With 3,674 new Covid-19 cases and 30 deaths in the last 24 hours, Delhi’s total caseload reached 1,827,489 and the death toll went up to 25,827 on Sunday. The daily positivity rate stood at 6.37%, according to a bulletin from the city’s health department.The new infections on Sunday were marginally less than the 4,483 infections reported a day ago on Saturday. The city also logged 28 fatalities on the previous day.Meanwhile, the active caseload continued its declining trend on the day and stood at 21,490. Previously on Saturday it was recorded at 24,800 and on Friday it was at 29,152.Also read | PM Modi says India successfully fought fresh Covid-19 surge, lauds vaccine featAs many as 6,954 more people were discharged from hospitals on the day as the total recoveries reached 1,780,172, according to the latest data. On Sunday, 57,686 samples were tested for the disease and so far, 34,857,713 tests have been conducted in Delhi.Meanwhile, 89% of the beds remained vacant in dedicated Covid hospitals, the government said in its bulletin, while over 97% were unoccupied in dedicated Covid care centres. The city also has 38,853 active containment zones, despite the decline in daily infections.On the vaccination front, 2,95,59,726 total doses have been administered in the city, according to data from the Co-WIN dashboard at 8pm. As many as 70,263 beneficiaries were jabbed in the last 24 hours, data from the bulletin showed.Also, 2,71,503 precautionary third doses have been administered in the city so far to eligible beneficiaries – healthcare workers, front line workers and citizens above 60 years of age with comorbid conditions. Among those between 15 and 17 years of age 8,04,690 doses have been administered.More than 75% of the country’s adult population has now been fully vaccinated against the disease, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya informed on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sees-slight-fall-in-daily-covid-19-tally-with-3-674-new-cases-active-caseload-above-21000-101643554413985.html
30-01-2022||Mumbai||Malwani police search for two bullets misplaced during mob control||Mumbai The officers of Malwani police station in Malad are desperately searching for two bullets for the last four days, which was misplaced by an officer when his holster came off while detaining members of protesting political parties on Republic Day.According to the police, on January 26, police inspector (PI) Mahendra Suryavanshi along with police sub-inspector (PSI) Sandeep Gadde were on bandobast duty near Charkop Naka. At around 3.45 pm, members of the Bajrang Dal, Vishwa Hindu Parishad namely Vivek Singh, Hagman Thakur, Arvind Dubey, Umesh Pandey and Pradeep Gaud and 250 more men had gathered at the spot shouting slogans, protesting the naming of a ground after erstwhile Mysuru ruler Tipu Sultan. As there were chances of the protest turning violent, at least 300 officials from Malwani and other police stations across the North region were present. The protest took place near the cemetery in the Charkop Naka signal till the Marve Road, where the Tipu Sultan ground is situated.Gadde said that when the protesters refused to calm down after repeated reasoning, the police officers decided to detain the crowd and started to herd the protestors in police vans. While Suryavanshi was escorting the protestors into the van, they unbuckled his belt. As a result, his service pistol dropped and a part of the magazine, along with five bullets, were scattered on the ground. With the help of the officers present at the spot, the area was searched but the police team only recovered three bullets. “Suryavanshi immediately informed his superiors about the missing bullets,” said Gadde in his statement. The Malwani police registered an FIR against the protestors and also about the misplaced bullets. They are searching in a radius of 500 mts from the cemetery to the bridge connecting Malwani to Uncles Kitchen signal.The police said that the search is intended to ensure that the bullets are not misused. The loss of a firearm or ammunition by a police officer while on duty can attract a departmental inquiry and hence, they are searching high and low. The police officers said that they have been checking CCTV footage of the area and also conducting a thorough manual search of the spot where the bullets fell. They have also taken down the statement of about 100 protesters. “Shopkeepers around the area have been asked to be alert. The ragpickers and auto drivers who frequent the spot have been told to be on a lookout for the bullets or person who may find them and try to pocket them,” said a police officer from Malwani police station. The officers also said that the incident was mentioned in the FIR. So far, the police are yet to get a response from the locals but they are of the opinion that the bullets might have rolled into one of the drains in the area. When contacted, Pravin Padwal, additional commissioner of police North Region, said that there could be a departmental enquiry in the matter. “The officer misplaced the bullets while controlling the crowd and as reported by the official, it is possible that the buckle of his holster broke due to the shoving and pushing,” he said. Gadde was not reachable for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malwani-police-search-for-two-bullets-misplaced-during-mob-control-101643554823151.html
30-01-2022||Mumbai||HC asks Spicejet to maintain status quo on employment of 463 staff||Mumbai The Bombay high court (HC) last week directed the management of Spicejet airlines to provide the list of fixed-term contractual employees who can be offered work after it was informed that the Industrial court had directed the airline to provide employment to 463 employees whose contract had come to an end on December 31, 2021, and were not guilty of misconduct. The HC held that as these employees had been with the company on two-year contracts for 8-9 years, they could not be retrenched as per the relevant provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act (IDA) and posted a hearing of the petition filed by the Spicejet management challenging the Industrial court order on February 8. The single-judge bench of justice Ravindra Ghuge, which was hearing the petition of the Chairman & Managing Director of Spice Jet Ltd. and another represented by advocates Mahesh Shukla and Niraj Prajapati, was informed that the members of the India Spice Jet Staff & Employees Association had not been retrenched as per the IDA and as their contracts had expired on December 31, 2021, the company had exercised its choice of not renewing their contracts. The advocates submitted that the members were employed on Fixed Term Contract basis and it was not a case of termination of their services. However, advocate Jai Prakash Sawant for the Association argued that the Industrial court had held that as there were no allegations of misconduct as per the IDA against any of the 463 members, hence, the company should provide employment to them as an interim arrangement. Advocate Sawant referred to the observation of presiding officer Shyam Garg of the Central Government Industrial Tribunal-2 wherein it was observed, “...prima facie case is in favour of 463 workers” and submitted that the act of the airline company of not renewing the contract was bad in law and against principles of natural justice. After hearing the submissions for some time, the bench of justice Ghuge observed, “It would be appropriate for the petitioner-management to tender a list of their workmen, who have been termed as fixed-term contractual employees, who can be offered work today.” The bench also noted that the arguments of the airline management that relevant provisions of IDA regarding non-renewal of contracts would be applicable to the employees was not valid. The court further directed the airline management and the members’ union to maintain the status quo and restrained the deployment of new contractual employees or personnel by any agency till the date of the next hearing on February 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-asks-spicejet-to-maintain-status-quo-on-employment-of-463-staff-101643554283318.html
30-01-2022||Pune||PMPML to launch Pink e-cabs exclusively for women passengers||PUNE Soon, women commuters in the city can travel in ‘pink coloured’ electric cabs, as the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) is all set to launch its pilot project of electric cars. Under this project, the PMPML will have separate pink electric cars for women commuters. The transport body is also looking to hire women drivers for these e-cabs. Currently, the tender process for this pilot project is underway and the service will operational in the city in a month, said officials.“Our pilot project of electric cabs is underway and will soon be operational. We will initially ply 100 e-cabs in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad area.The tender process for this pilot project is underway and we will have cabs exclusively for women passengers. These cabs will be pink in colour so as to identify when a woman passenger is travelling. We are also looking for women drivers,” said Dattatray Zende, PMPML traffic manager.PMPML plans to keep the fares of these e-cabs cheaper than the other prominent e-cab services like Ola and Uber. It is the first of its kind attempt done by any public transport body to start its own e-cab service for public. “Initially we are going to start the service from Pune airport, railway station, ST stands, IT parks and outskirts of the Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad cities.” added Zende. This e-cab service will be operations from various PMPML bus stands around the city like - Shivajinagar, Deccan, Swargate, Pulgate, Pune railway station and markets in peth areas. There will be a daily limit of travelling for each e-cab up to 150 kms and approximately the fare would be ₹10 per km. Women passengers have welcomed this move, Charu Shinde a regular commuter said, “I often travel to my company by private cabs and many times the driver is rude while talking to women passengers, now if the PMPML operates exclusive pink cabs for women, it will be safer for us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmpml-to-launch-pink-e-cabs-exclusively-for-women-passengers-101643553863074.html
30-01-2022||Mumbai||Courier firm employee, 3 others arrested for stealing valuables from parcel||Mumbai: An employee of a courier firm and three others have been arrested for allegedly stealing valuables from parcels. The Mumbai crime branch said that after removing valuables from the parcel, the accused packed it to avoid suspicion and empty parcels were delivered to the customers.The police has recovered four laptops, two iPhones and other valuables worth ₹3.5 lakh from the accused.The arrested accused have been identified as Ramzan Shaikh, Devendra Singh, Ajeet Kumar Singhi, and Tejas Ambekar.The main accused, Shaikh, is a resident of Wadala and worked at a courier firm as a delivery boy. Singh, who lives in Goregaon, and Singhi, a resident of the Chinchpokli, work together in a private firm. Tejas resides in Nagpada and works at an electronic shop in south Mumbai.According to the police, the courier company, which has a godown in the Wadala area, received several complaints that empty parcels were being delivered to the customers. A company employee then registered a case in Wadala police station on Friday.Police found that Shaikh sold new laptops and iPhones to his friends, said police inspector Indrajeet More.Once Shaikh found expensive valuables in the parcel, he removed the valuables and packed the parcel again so no one could suspect him, More said.A police team searched for Shaikh and nabbed him from the Wadala area on Saturday.During interrogation, he confessed to the crime and revealed the names of the other accused. Later four laptops and two Iphones were recovered from them, added More.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/courier-firm-employee-3-others-arrested-for-stealing-valuables-from-parcel-101643553264166.html
30-01-2022||Pune||PMC lodged FIRs against 45 bogus doctors since 2013||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) since 2013 has lodged 46 FIRs against 45 bogus doctors on various charges, and the health department of the corporation has been directed to go all out against quacks through a health ministry order during the second week of January this year. The ministry has ordered all health departments across Maharashtra to ensure strict action against such practitioners.The 45 doctors stand accused of various charges including practising without bonafide degrees, practising without licenses, practising by seeking registration with the state medical council, and practising in domains other than their subject of expertise. The PMC administration said that they have found malpractices related to practising without registration and holding degrees from states other than Maharashtra.Assistant medical officer Kalpana Baliwant said, “Till date, criminal cases have been lodged against 45 doctors in 46 different FIRs in the city. There is a case where a medical practitioner faces two FIRs. The ‘Bogus Doctor Finding and Action Committee’ meets every three months and recently a meeting was held where the issue was analysed and introspected in detail. Once we complete our verification, the details are sent to the legal department which examines the case and then an FIR is lodged.”The Bogus Doctor Finding and Action Committee has been constituted under PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar, PMC health officer, assistant health officer, and members of non-government organisations (NGOs) to delve deep into various complaints received by the civic body about malpractices and irregularities on the part of the accused medical practitioners (having questionable credentials). In the last three years alone, 10 FIRs have been lodged against bogus doctors found operating without valid registration and qualifications under the guidance of assistant medical officer Kalpana Baliwant.Pune mayor Muralidhar Mohol said, “As per government orders, the committee has been formed and we are taking very strong action against those found engaged in malpractices. As per the order of the health department, action has been taken and more action will be taken soon.”The PMC health department has also listed out challenges such as the lack of awareness among the police regarding how to register an FIR against bogus doctors. The health department has faced critical situations at police chowkies and police stations where the officers had no idea under which sections of the IPC charges could be lodged against the accused. The department has drawn the police’s attention to videos on social media where unqualified persons are peddling medical cure prescriptions and cheating citizens.Past incidentsMeanwhile, in December 2021 the Pune city police busted an illegal hair treatment and transplant clinic in Vimannagar, where three bogus doctors were arrested for cheating over 300 customers. According to the police, the accused were operating the Hair Magica Hair Transplant and Aesthetic Studio at the Sky Max Mall in Vimannagar without medical qualifications. Pune Municipal Corporation’s zonal medical officer Dr Rekha Galande lodged an FIR against Shahrukh Haider Shah and Chaitali Mhaske, both residents of Vadgaonsheri; and Panchshila Shendge, a resident of Ramwadi. Police Inspector Jayant Rajurkar said, “The accused pretended to be hair transplant expert doctors and duped customers of lakhs of rupees by playing with their lives. They did not have a valid license to conduct the business,” she said.Committee constitutedAs per the directives of the state government’s department of medical education and drugs, the municipal corporation level committee has been constituted. The chairman of the said committee is the municipal commissioner, the member-secretary is a medical officer of health; other members are the assistant medical officer of health, a legal expert, an information and public relations officer, and zonal medical officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-lodged-firs-against-45-bogus-doctors-since-2013-101643546722537.html
30-01-2022||Pune||Five people killed as car collides with container truck along old Pune-Mumbai highway||PUNE: Five people were killed in an accident along the old Pune-Mumbai highway stretch after the car that they were travelling in rammed into a container truck near Shilatne village in Lonavla area of Pune on Sunday morning, confirmed police officials.The accident took place around 7.30 am as the car was going from Mumbai to Pune.The deceased were identified as Machidevi Tilok, 83, Seema Raj, 32, Shalini Rupnarayan Raj, 19, Mahavir Raj, 38, all residents of Mira road in Mumbai, and the driver Rehan Rizwan Ansari, a resident of Kurla area of Mumbai, according to the police. “The car, in which all the deceased were, was heading from Lonavla towards Pune. In the opposite direction, a container was heading towards Mumbai, parallelly. The car lost control and broke through the divider and crashed onto the other side and then onto the oncoming container truck. Now we do not know how the car ended up on the other side but the suspicion is that the driver lost control,” said police sub-inspector Sachin Bankar of Lonavla rural police station.“The family owns a private business. They were taking the elderly woman for treatment from Mumbai through Pune to some other place which we are finding out. She had a paralysis attack some time ago, according to the family members. We are yet to identify what caused the accident,” said assistant police inspector Nilesh Mane.The deceased were taken to the government hospital in Khandala for post mortem while the police are awaiting their relatives’ arrival. The police have cleared out the car that was completely damaged in the collision and cleared the road for traffic. The accident is getting recorded in a case at Lonavla rural police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/five-people-killed-as-car-collides-with-container-truck-along-old-pune-mumbai-highway-101643546003156.html
30-01-2022||Pune||Your Space: Pune civic body should provide water supply to merged villages||PMC is unable to provide tanker water to 23 merged villages and infrastructure work is underway for piped supply to reach these areas. With summer around the corner when the water crisis deepens, the tanker lobby raises the stakes. Our readers suggest steps to address the issueResponsibility lies with the civic administration It is the responsibility of the civic body to supply the villages with water. These 23 villages are now a part of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). We reside in Sus gaon, and we get hard water. It is not fit to drink or use. However, we are using it as it is. We are forced to use this water because the pipeline has not been operational yet. The PMC water that we get is treated and is not fit to drink directly. Because of the poor quality of water, the children in my family fall sick very often. I feel that the respective ward office will finish the work before summer approaches. It is not possible for every household to get water from tankers. If the groundwater has hard water, then the civic body should complete the work sooner to provide water to these villages. The issue of the merged villages has been dragging on for a very long time. It must be resolved soon to give relief to citizens in these parts of the city. -Sarika GaikwadNot everyone can afford water tankersI had rented a room in Dhayari area earlier as I was attending some coaching classes in the peth area. However, there was frequent water shortage which forced me to relocate to another area in the city. I would not be home during most part of the day due to my classes. I was forced to find a way to manage the water crisis. The water crisis has to be resolved by the PMC before summer begins. There are many societies where tankers supply water, but individual and small homes have to manage on their own. Water from the bore well is hard and is not fit for drinking. Many citizens have raised their voices against the crisis but the complainants have fallen on deaf ears. PMC should understand that citizens continue to suffer even when it is not summer. If the infrastructure was not in place then why has the PMC included these villages in its limits in the first place.-Nandini WaghmareProvide basic needs without extra costPune Municipal Corporation is responsible for providing the basic needs such as water to the citizens. If the water pipeline work is underway, they should make some other arrangements to help the residents in these areas. Citizens should not have to pay for the basic needs while also paying taxes for the same. The tanker mafia may cost an exorbitant amount when summer starts and the water crisis continues. Instead of the citizens having to pay for the tanker, the municipality should pay for it. Meanwhile, PMC can take as much time as they need to get the pipeline ready. The concern and focus should be that the citizens should not suffer.-Amruta DeshpandeDo not aid the water mafiaLast year the PMC decreased the quantity of water supplied per tanker. Many activists have raised concerns that this might aid the water mafia. If the water supply to these 23 merged villages is not in place, the water mafia may seek to benefit from this opportunity by charging many residents higher prices especially during the summer. Many big societies have made their own provisions to solve the water crisis issue. But as a tax paying citizen it is imperative for the civic body to help out citizens by providing basic infrastructure like pipelines. All across the city, we can see that potholes have been dug for the pipeline work. This work should be accelerated in order to finish it before summer season begins.-Niranjan Vaidya||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/your-space-pune-civic-body-should-provide-water-supply-to-merged-villages-101643539342408.html
30-01-2022||Delhi||No relaxation yet for gyms, owners worry about losses||The new order by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has no mention of reopening of gyms and fitness centres in the Capital, despite plenty of appeals and symbolic demonstrations. Several owners feel it is discriminatory that bars, restaurants and cinema halls are allowed to operate at 50% capacity but fitness establishments are still not allowed to function. They also staged another symbolic protest near Trauma Center, Civil Lines, on Saturday to demand for the reopening. “Government is not thinking about the five lakh families who depend on the fitness industry in Delhi. Everything else is open except gyms in the city. No study across the world has shown any Covid-19 transmission from gyms. We are always the first to close and the last to open. We condemn this decision by the DDMA to let everything function in Delhi, except gyms,” says Bhupender Sharma, president, Delhi Gym Association, who was at the protest. Some are struggling to clear outstanding payments and get rent waived off. Omesh Chandna, owner, Anytime Fitness, South Ex, says, “We have almost ₹20-25 lakhs outstanding which includes rentals, taxation and staff salary plus their incentives. And we don’t know when our situation will improve. It is suicidal for our business. The landlords are preferring other businesses over giving the place for rent to fitness centres.”Harnek Ghabri, owner, DNA Fitness, Janakpuri feels that this is an added stress in the times of pandemic. He says, “For some, it is tough to pay rent which can go up to two lakhs a month. So ever since 2020, the business is affected as gyms have been getting shut for longer duration. This is a mental torture as gyms are targeted everytime. More physical contact happens at salons, which didn’t even shut this time.”So, do online classes help in generating revenue? “It’s difficult to motivate clients to take the virtual mode; and then they ask to pause the membership and say that they will resume once the gyms are open. So our source of income gets impacted but we still have to pay the instructors as they’re full-time employed,” says Harpreet Singh, owner, Steppers Do The Step, Rajinder Nagar. Fitness enthusiasts also have concerns. Anam Qureshi, a south-Delhi resident, says, “If restaurants and bars can work with 50% capacity, then why not gyms? Is looking after one’s health not an essential service? How come bars fall under the essential category? Clearly, there is no rationale behind restraining gyms from operating. There is no science or logic behind this decision of the government, nor it has been proved yet.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-relaxation-yet-for-gyms-owners-worry-about-losses-101643530821867.html
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||Another sunny day in Valley brings some relief from chill||Valley witnessed another sunny day on Saturday that led to improvement in day and night temperatures. Last night, the city observed -1°C against the previous night’s - 3.6°C. Ski resort of Gulmarg which is under snow recorded - 7.5°C last night against minus 10.4°C on the previous night. Qazigund recorded minus 3.1°C and Kokernag in south Kashmir shivered at - 3.3°C.At another tourist resort Pahalgam, the night temperature settled at minus 2.8°C against - 11.8°C on the previous night. Kupwara town in north Kashmir recorded - 1.5°C night temperature. Jammu recorded 6.9°C against previous night’s 4.7°C. Ladakh’s Leh registered - 14.6°C and Kargil recorded -16.9°C. The weather office had said that the weather will remain fair to partly cloudy throughout J&K till January 29 with moderate to dense fog in morning hours in plains of Jammu.It said that there is no forecast of any major weather event till January end. On Sunday, harshest cold period of winter, also known as Chillai Kalan, is coming to an end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/another-sunny-day-in-valley-brings-some-relief-from-chill-101643495169399.html
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid’s third wave deals blow to tourism in J&K||The third wave of Covid has impacted tourism in Jammu and Kashmir in January after it had made an encouraging comeback till the end of last year. From a record 1.4 lakh tourist arrivals in December 2021, the numbers this month have come down to less than half with just over 60,000 visitors till January 27. Officials of the tourism department said owing to escalating Covid cases this month, the tourist arrivals have come down, but not stopped. “The pandemic has an effect on the arrivals, but they have not plunged as well. People are still arriving while taking precautions. We had 60,000 to 65,000 arrivals in January so far, which is still a good number,” said Zeeshan Khan, assistant director, tourism department, publicity.Covid-induced global restrictions, early snowfall in Kashmir and a vigorous campaign by administration had triggered more inflow of tourists into the Valley in the last half of 2021 as the UT started opening more offbeat and virgin destinations to keep the sector thriving throughout the year. Over 1.27 lakh visitors toured places in the Himalayan valley in November 2021, which was a seven-year high for the month. October had witnessed a footfall of 91,000.Around 6.65 lakh tourists visited the Valley in 2021. In the few years before that, the numbers could hardly cross 2.5 lakh, excluding the pilgrims. The decrease in footfall has an obvious effect on those dependent on tourism.Manzoor Ahmad, a tourist cab driver in Srinagar, was busy throughout November and December, but had mostly been idle in January. “This month, I could just make a single trip to Gulmarg while in the past few months, I had not stopped for a single day. The pandemic and the associated lockdown affected our work a lot,” he added. Mostly, tourists in winters would rush to Gulmarg, located in the Pir Panjal mountain range in the western Himalayas, some 50km from Srinagar.Mukhtar Shah, president of Hoteliers Club Gulmarg, said the hotel occupancy has come down to 50%-60% from full bookings in December. Tourism players and tour operators are, however, hopeful that the new wave will be over by the middle of February and the sector will revive in time for the peak season in spring and summer.Shah said if Covid cases kept on reducing like they were currently across many Indian states, they expect a revival of the sector soon.“We expect a good summer season. People are not able to go out of India so they head to hill stations and Kashmir is their first preference. If Covid situation gets better like it appears currently, undoubtedly we will again have good arrivals,” he added. Farooq Ahmad Kuthoo, president, Travel Agents’ Association of Kashmir, said tour operators have started getting queries from prospective visitors. “People are waiting for the third wave to get over. We are already receiving calls from Maharashtra and Gujarat. We are hopeful that by February 15 , we will again have a good footfall of tourists,” he said.Tourism players have already started pushing for the revival of arrivals. A special FAM (familiarisation) tour of all leading tour and travel operators of Maharashtra and Pune was organised by local tour operators in collaboration with the tourism department from January 23 to 27 to promote Kashmir as the most preferred tourism destination.“Despite the pandemic, 16 leading tour and travel operators of Maharashtra and Pune arrived in Srinagar to see the real beauty of Kashmir and enjoy the cultural heritage, handicraft, food and hospitality measures during the tour,” said Nayeem Nazir, owner of Wayn Tours & Travels. Covid cases on a decline in J&KSrinagar: Covid cases have been on a decline in Jammu and Kashmir for the past four days with Saturday witnessing 4,175 infections and five deaths, prompting the health authorities to conclude that the third wave of the pandemic has reached its peak phase in the UT.Covid cases had breached all records since the pandemic started with 6,570 infections on January 25 (Tuesday). After that, the cases have slowly declined with 5,606 infections on Wednesday, 4,959 infections on Thursday, 4,354 infections on Friday and 4,175 cases on Saturday.“We are around the peak. The only question now is whether we have crossed it or about to cross it. It will take a few more days to say that with certainty,” said Dr Rouf Hussain Rather, community medicine specialist and in-charge, data analysis, divisional Covid control room in Kashmir.“In Srinagar, cases are plateauing, but in some other districts they are still around the peak,” he added.On Saturday, Kashmir valley saw almost 67% of the infections with 2,812 cases and two deaths while 1,363 cases and three deaths were reported in the Jammu division.As many as 7,107 patients recovered and again, the number of recoveries was more than fresh infections.The month of January so far has contributed 86,970 cases and 124 deaths to UT’s tally.The active cases in the union territory were at 42,219, decreasing from the highest such cases (47,969) on Wednesday (January 26).Officials said 76,507 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT, taking Saturday’s daily test positivity rate (TPR) to 5.45%However, of the 5,038 beds dedicated for Covid patients, just over 10.79% (544) are occupied in J&K.The total number of people who have recovered reached 3,81,389, while the recovery rate was at 89.05%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have mounted to 4,28,260 and the death toll stands at 4,652.Himachal logs 1,714 infectionsHimachal Pradesh recorded 1,714 fresh Covid infections on Saturday, taking the state’s total case tally to 2,69,291 while the death toll mounted to 3,969 after eight patients died of the viral infection.Highest 402 cases were reported from Shimla, 349 from Kangra, 224 from Shimla, 163 from Hamirpur, 144 from Solan, 111 from Bilaspur, 101 from Una, 82 from Sirmaur, 63 from Chamba, 51 from Kullu, 20 from Kinnaur and four from Lahaul-Spiti.Two fatalities each were reported from Chamba, Kangra and Kullu and one each from Kullu and Una.Active cases have come down to 9,453 after 2,005 people recuperated, taking the total recoveries to 2,55,848.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covids-third-wave-deals-blow-to-tourism-in-jk-101643494989422.html
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||Man killed, 3 injured as truck rams into shop in Udhampur||An 18-year-old man was killed and three others injured when a truck crashed into a shop in Udhampur district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said on Saturday.The truck was on its way to Udhampur from Jammu when its driver lost control of the vehicle and it hit a roadside shop before turning turtle late Friday night, a police official said.He said four people, including the truck driver, were injured in the accident and were rushed to hospital where one of them succumbed to injuries on Saturday.An electricity transformer, a parked van and a two-wheeler were also damaged in the incident, the official said.He said a case was registered and further investigation is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-killed-3-injured-as-truck-rams-into-shop-in-udhampur-101643494869439.html
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||Cop shot dead in J&K’s Anantnag||A police head constable was shot dead in south Kashmir’s Hassanpora Bijbehara on Saturday evening. This was the second attack on policemen in Valley in the past 24 hours. On Friday, an off-duty constable had a narrow escape when he was attacked by an unidentified gunman. The deceased has been identified as head constable Ali Mohammad Ganie. A police spokesperson said around 5.30pm, they received information about a terror incident at Hassanpora, where terrorists had fired upon a policeman. “Senior police officers reached the terror crime spot where they learnt that head constable Ali Mohammad Ganie was shot at by terrorists near his residence at Hassanpora Tabala area of Bijbehara in Anantnag. In this terror incident, he had received grievous injuries. Although the injured policeman was immediately rushed to a nearby hospital, he succumbed to his injuries,” he added. Ganie was currently posted at Kulgam police station. “The police have registered a case and investigation is in progress. The area has been cordoned and search is going on,” he said. Terming the killing barbaric, BJP spokesperson Altaf Thakur said, “Strongly denounce the killing of policeman at Bijbehara. It’s a barbaric, condemnable and deplorable act. Urging the police top brass to punish killers forthwith.” National Conference and People’s Conference also condemned the killing. LeT module busted in Ganderbal; 3 heldA terror module of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) was busted by arresting its three associates in Ganderbal district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said Saturday.They said arms and ammunition was also seized from the arrested persons.“Police in Ganderbal have busted a terror module by arresting three terror associates linked with proscribed terror outfit LeT/TRF (The Resistance Front – a shadow of LeT) along with arms and ammunition,” a police spokesman said.He said acting on specific information, a special checkpoint was established by security forces in the Shuhama area of the central Kashmir district.“During checking, movement of three suspects was spotted and they were intercepted,” he said.The spokesman identified them as Faisal Manzoor, a resident of Braripora in Shopian, Azhar Yaqoob, a resident of Zaipora in Shopian and Nasir Ahmad Dar, a resident of Begam in Kulgam.Incriminating material, arms and ammunition including two Chinese pistols, three pistol magazines, 15 rounds of ammunition, two hand grenades and three mobile phones, were recovered from their possession, he said.They were arrested and shifted to a police station, he said.During preliminary investigation, it was revealed that the trio was working as terrorist associates of proscribed terror outfit LeT/TRF and involved in providing shelter, logistic support and transportation of arms and ammunition to the active terrorists across the district. Besides, they were also involved in various terror-related activities in the district, the spokesman said.A case has been registered and further investigation is in progress, he added.IED recovered, destroyed safely in Poonch Security forces on Saturday recovered and safely destroyed an IED in Shindara village in Poonch district, said officials. “The IED found in Shindara village was hidden in a bag. Bomb disposal squads of police and army reached the spot and destroyed it safely,” said a police official. Investigations have been initiated, he added. Further details were awaited.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cop-shot-dead-in-j-k-s-anantnag-101643494629523.html
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||Possibilities can never be ruled out: Jai Ram on HP cabinet reshuffle||A day after he called on Bharatiya Janata Party’s national chief JP Nadda in Delhi, Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Saturday hinted towards a long-waited cabinet rejig. “Possibilities can never be ruled out,” Jai Ram told reporters in Shimla on the sidelines of a prize distribution function at Gaiety Theatre. He had met several Union ministers in Delhi during his two-day tour. “The leadership is busy with elections in five states. I have discussed the issue with them. The matter will be discussed again after elections are over,” Jai Ram said when asked about the cabinet reshuffle. Speculation of cabinet reshuffle had been rife after the party suffered electoral reverses in the bypolls to three assemblies – Arki, Jubbal-Kotkhai, Fatehpur – and Mandi parliamentary seat from where former chief minister Virbhadra Singh’s widow Pratibha Singh trounced Kargil war hero Khushal Thakur. Neither party chief Suresh Kashyap nor chief minister Jai Ram Thakur owned direct responsibility of the defeat. Rather, the party blamed a wave of sympathy for the late former chief minister Virbhadra Singh for the BJP’s defeat in Mandi. Infighting and inflation had cost the BJP the four seats in Himachal Pradesh. The BJP had made its ministers in-charge of the elections in three assemblies and one parliamentary segment.Jai Ram in 2017 had left two vacancies in his 11-member cabinet. BJP’s Mandi legislator Anil Sharma, who took the oath with nine other ministers on The Ridge, was made to give up his cabinet berth after the Congress fielded his son Ashray Sharma against sitting Lok Sabha member Ramswaroop Sharma in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Ramswaroop Sharma was found dead at his official residence in New Delhi in March last year. His death necessitated the by-election to the Mandi Lok Sabha seat.It was in July 2020 that Jai Ram inducted into his cabinet three ministers — Nurpur legislator Rakesh Pathania, Ghumarwein legislator Rajendra Garg and Paonta legislator Sukhram Chaudhary. He had also changed the portfolios of his cabinet colleagues then. Health minister Vipin Parmar gave up his cabinet berth in February 2020. He was appointed Speaker of Himachal Pradesh Vidhan Sabha. In January 2020, Speaker Rajeev Bindal resigned from the post and was later appointed as the state’s party chief. He was later removed from the post after his name cropped up in medical equipment purchase scam. Shikhar samman conferred Jai Ram Thakur on Saturday said his government was committed to conserving the rich culture, heritage and literature of the state. He conferred Shikhar Samman, Kala Samman, Sahitya Purskar, Swaichchhik Sanstha Samman, and Chamba Rumal Pahari Chiktrakala Samman at an event at Gaiety Theatre. Jai Ram honoured Acharya Keshav Sharma with Bharat Ratan Atal Bihari Vajpayee Shikhar Sahitya Samman-2017 and OC Handa with Bharat Ratan Atal Bihari Vajpayee Shikhar Sahitya Samman-2018 for their outstanding contribution in the field of literature. Similarly, Mohan Rathore was given Maharaja Sansar Chand Shikhar Kala Samman-2017 while Dinesh Kumari was given this award for the year 2018 for their outstanding contribution in the field of art and promotion of Chamba rumal, respectively. They were given cash prize of ₹1 lakh each and a citation. Jai Ram Thakur gave away Sardar Sobha Singh Lalit Kala Award for the year 2016 to Prof Him Chatterji. Education and language, art and culture minister Govind Singh Thakur presented Sardar Sobha Singh Lalit Kala Award for 2017 to Nand Lal Thakur and for 2018 to Khimi Ram for their contributions in their respective fields. Jwala Prasad Sharma was awarded Manohar Singh Nishpadan Kala Samman for 2016, Sanjay Sood for the year 2017 and SD Kashyap was awarded this award for the year, 2018. They were awarded cash prize of ₹51,000 each and a citation. 
30-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram: One bike-borne man dies, another injured after speeding car hits them||Police booked an unidentified person in connection with the death of a man in a road accident on Sohna road in Gurugram on Thursday night, officials said on Saturday.  The victim -- Narender Saini, 33 -- succumbed to his head injuries during treatment at a private hospital in Gurugram Sector 66, on the Sohna road, around 4pm on Friday.According to the police, Narender was unmarried, and worked at a private firm.Police said the body was handed over to the victim’s family for his last rites, following an autopsy, on Saturday.Narender was returning home at Kanhai Mor in Sector 45 on a motorcycle with his elder brother Himmat Saini around 10pm on Thursday, when a speeding car allegedly rammed into them from behind. They had gone to visit their sister and brother-in-law, who live in Gurugram’s Badshahpur.Himmat, who managed to remember the registration number of the speeding car which rammed into them, shared the information with the police. “Both the brothers had fallen on the road, but Narender received severe injuries in his face and head. Narender also suffered wounds on lips, and was bleeding from his head too. Commuters took the duo to the hospital for treatment,” said a police officer privy to the case. The police officer also said that the deceased -- Narender -- had not regained consciousness till the end. “He had slipped into a coma,” he added. A case was registered against the suspect -- unidentified driver of the vehicle -- under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (causing death by negligence) at the Badshahpur police station on Friday evening.Subhash Boken, police PRO, Gurugram, said that officers have sought details about the ownership of the vehicle from the transport department authorities, on the basis of the car’s registration number mentioned by Himmat. “Further action would be taken after details are made available,” Boken said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-one-bike-borne-man-dies-another-injured-after-speeding-car-hits-them-101643491929328.html
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz | In waters of snows, war of the fish||‘Discarding the colonial past’ has found favour in contemporary controversies over eternal flames and war memorials. Yet, in our lofty Himalayan rivers tumbling from the eternal snows and glaciers, a native species, the snow trout (ST), is struggling to ward off a monster introduced in the British era, the brown trout (BT). Ever since the rivers were dammed for hydro-power, the exotic, invasive native shipped from Europe, the BT, has grown in numbers and savaged the ST by predating on its young ones. “This has forced ST to ‘live fast and die young’, so as to raise more soldiers for this war with BT. We found that ST is investing so much energy into raising egg numbers, that, post egg-laying, majority of adult ST die. Never, ever, has ST shown such a maturity-mortality trade-off. ST are taking slow poison by opting for this survival strategy,” Aashna Sharma, an intrepid field researcher and an alumnus of Panjab University, told this writer.Research carried out by Sharma and her colleagues from the Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun, revealed a pathway of hope for the proverbial return of the natives. That is, if we do not dam our rivers because altered, homogenous ecology favours invasive species. That is where hyper-nationalist governments, keen to ameliorate the colonial imprint, must not stop at vote-fetching, eyeball-grabbing war memorial makeovers.“Our research established that following a flash flood in the Asiganga tributary upstream of Uttarkashi, the BT were completely wiped out while ST survived. This is because the native fish sensed the impending flash floods and found safe havens. Since the Asiganga has not been dammed, the unaltered flow and flash floods selectively weeded out the progeny of British colonialism,” said Sharma.On wings of desireSome great literary figures share a common trait: a deep interest in birds and their use as complex metaphors and illustrative analogies in their plots. If Shakespeare was peerless when weaving the imagery of falconry into his plays, the 19th century writer of Wuthering Heights, Emily Bronte, used the cuckoo’s brood parasitism as the central analogy of her classic, with the lapwing and the Hedge sparrow also intervening in the guise of apt comparisons to illuminate human predicaments.In her novel, the central characters, Heathcliff and Catherine, are compared to cuckoo chicks who as interlopers displace the rightful progeny from their pride of place in two families of landed gentry. The novel situates a bizarre moment of ornithology when a frenzied Catherine tears open with her teeth her fluffy pillow and precisely identifies species of birds from its stuffing of diverse feathers: turkey, wild duck, pigeon, moorcock, lapwing! She goes on to examine if a lapwing’s feather was red, it meant the bird had been shot.What is lesser known is Bronte’s startling, life-evoking painting of a Merlin, a smaller species of falcon. In medieval England, a Peregrine / Gyrfalcon was considered worthy of possession by the high nobility while a Merlin was reckoned as ‘a falcon for a lady’. Mary, Queen of Scots and Catherine the Great were eminent female falconers to fly Merlins.The subject of Bronte’s finely-executed watercolour painting of 1841 was an injured Merlin rescued by her from the moors. She named the Merlin, ‘Nero’, presumably after the tyrannical emperor.Bronte’s multi-creative sensibilities also sparked poetic effervescence and she was a passionate pianist revelling in the repertoire of George F Handel, J Haydn, WA Mozart and LV Beethoven. Unlike falconers who are paranoid about losing their captive bird, Bronte was empathetic to freedom’s soar,which was so innate to her captive Merlin. Her soul kindled these kind, thoughtful verses: “Ah could my hand unlock its chain, How gladly would I watch it soar, And ne’er regret and ne’er complain, To see its shining eyes no more”.vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildbuzz-in-waters-of-snows-war-of-the-fish-101643491393621.html
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||Guest Column| Waltzing with the law||Penning a magnum opus of the glorious guardian of legal fraternity, a distinguished jurist and the keeper of Eden Garden of law, who has taught, practised and educated law enforcers, is a daunting task. In four parts, Balram K Gupta, describes waltzing with the law for six decades in his book, My Journey With Law And Justice. Married to law, for his family law is not a jealous mistress. Late Justice JL Gupta was the umbrella of the family, his son Shireesh, a bright lawyer, daughter Shruti,an erudite law professor and son-in-law, justice Jasjit Bedi,youngest on the Bench. His wife, Shashi, a homemaker, encourages the law indulgences, but the mistress has seeped into the crevices of the Gupta House, and the book penned, is an illustration of this. From 1980 onwards, as a fledgling,I have learnt law from him and have inculcated his vibrant energy. His book is curtain raiser to the inner workings and moorings of his legal, ethical and moral compass. He defected to the legal profession after a ripe tenure of teaching law, and scored centuries in a successful law practice. After 22 years he returned to academics,his first love, and of this, his book speaks. His vivid accounts as a lifelong student and teacher of law in the opening part narrate his elocution of law at global centres aimed to re-imagine law. He discusses his legal innings played with diligence, honesty and respect. Money for him was never a consideration.For him, his impressions reveal that the teacher was more overpowering than the lawyer in him.The book divulges his endeavours at national and Chandigarh judicial academies, resulting in an overhaul of teaching concepts. He was and continues to be the Mozart of law. His name will be enshrined in legal and social studies for time immemorial. And of this, I speak, with authority. As a resource person to the academies,I have been privy of enlightenment, just like the prisoners in Plato’s Allegory of the Cave. Sparkling Ruth Bader Ginsburg till 87, served the US Supreme Court. At 78, our distinguished jurist under Indian Constitution too deserves the Supreme Court Bench, dehors the age bar. The professor Emeritus, senior counsel, parliamentary fellow, judicial administrator,and Rotarian, in his commentary narrates a journey down memory lane. He can be best described as a philanthropist. He invested thought which is more valuable than material wealth. Gupta family is a reincarnation of the bygone Medici Family. The Guptas have invested in society all in name of progressive and consistent development of law for society. The 325 pages of the book are replete with anecdotes and perceptions of justice. Gupta may never have penned a judgment, but has trained minds to read, learn and write. His writings reveal sharp insights, which make him a leading educator and judicial laureate. His pioneer writings share leaves from the lives of legal giants. His writings on constitutional and administrative law launch readers into a contemporary legal world, captivating till an enticing finish. He writes in short and crisp sentences, a rarity in law. Calling law and literature Siamese twins, he weaves webs his webs. Alive to grim realities perpetuated in a fundamentalist and pandemic driven generation battling constitutional values, his writings are like the pied piper of law. In essays remembering Sir Robert Jennings, professor Vaughan Lowe quotes, “A lawyer without history of literature is a mechanic, a mere working mason; if he possesses some knowledge of these he may venture to call himself an architect”. Gupta, like an architect and non-conformist, orchestrates blueprints of judicial education designed to rethink justice in all its hues. As chapters unfold, productive, creative and thought-provoking writings of law reveal that he is still bubbling with judicial energy and can again relive his life. His unparalleled work and thoughts as a legal craftsman require that his book must be read by every law pupil, lawyer, legal commentator and judge. His words of wisdom are rich treasures and learning curves for every student of law. The judicial brotherhood and legal community remains beholden to him. (The author is a Chandigarh-based lawyer)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-waltzing-with-the-law-101643491029012.html
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||Murder accused nabbed with pistol, cartridges in Chandigarh||A 24-year-old man, facing two cases of murder and attempt to murder in Panchkula, was arrested with a country made pistol and two live cartridges on Friday.The accused, Rahul, of Rajiv Colony, Sector 17, Panchkula, was arrested by a police patrol team from Raipur Khurd, Chandigarh. Police said Rahul, who was currently out on bail in the murder case, claimed that he had kept the weapon for his safety. He was produced before a court on Saturday and sent to judicial custody. A fresh case under the Arms Act was registered against him at the Mauli Jagran police station. In another case, the crime cell of UT Police arrested Kuldeep Kumar, 31, of Dadumajra Colony after recovering a country made pistol and one magazine from his possession near the Dadumajra dumping ground on Friday. A case under the Arms Act was registered at the Maloya police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/murder-accused-nabbed-with-pistol-cartridges-in-chandigarh-101643490977652.html
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh weather: Mercury crosses 20°C mark after three weeks||In much-awaited relief from the chilly weather, city’s maximum temperature rose from 18.1°C on Friday to 20.4°C on Saturday, a first since the 21°C day temperature on January 8.For the majority of the past 21 days, the city had been experiencing shivering conditions due to cloud cover and rain, which went up to 203.9mm in January, making Chandigarh the wettest place in the country in the month.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the maximum temperature can rise further in the next couple of days, as similar clear weather is likely to continue. On the other hand, due to the clear skies, the minimum temperature went down from 7°C to 6.5°C in the past 24 hours. While the day temperature may increase by another two to three notches over the next three days, the night temperature will remain between 7°C and 9°C.Rain around the cornerMeanwhile, a fresh western disturbance will affect the city between February 2 and 4. Likelihood of rain will be the highest on February 3, which will again lead to a drop in the maximum temperature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-weather-mercury-crosses-20-c-mark-after-three-weeks-101643490976344.html
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Golf Club elections planned in March||The annual elections of the Chandigarh Golf Club (CGC), which were postponed earlier this month due to the Covid restrictions imposed by the UT administration, will now be held either on March 13 or March 20. This was decided in a meeting held on Saturday, with CGC president Ravibir Singh Grewal and three presidential candidates, SPS Ghai (Nippy), Lt Col HS Chahal (Bobby) and Maj Rajinder Singh Virk (Lally) in attendance. The final decision on the elections’ schedule will be taken in the executive meeting on February 2, according to club’s vice-president Dr GS Kochhar. The annual general meeting-cum-election was initially planned on January 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-golf-club-elections-planned-in-march-101643490971203.html
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid snuffs out 11 more lives in Chandigarh tricity, highest since second wave||In tricity’s highest daily death toll since the second wave, 11 people succumbed to Covid-19 on Saturday.Mohali alone recorded five deaths, the third time during the ongoing third wave, while Chandigarh and Panchkula lost three residents each. Their cumulative toll was tricity’s highest since June 2, 2021, when 14 people had died.All five deceased in Mohali were senior citizens, including three women and two men.The eldest among them, a 78-year-old man from Sector 61, died at Indus Hospital in Phase 3B2. Three patients, a 61-year-old man from Zirakpur, and two women, aged 65 and 60, from Kharar, were admitted at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh.The fifth patient, a 62-year-old woman from Kharar, breathed her last at PGIMER, Chandigarh.According to Dr Girish Dogra, nodal officer for Covid-19 in Mohali, most of these patients had other health complications.Two of the three deceased in Chandigarh were also senior citizens. Among them, a 74-year-old man, from Sector 38, was fully vaccinated, while a 76-year-old woman, from Sector 20, had received only the first dose. Both were also suffering from diabetes, hypertension and respiratory distress, and breathed their last at PGIMER.The third victim, a 27-year-old woman, who lived in Dhanas, was brought dead at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, and later found positive for Covid. She had also received only the first jab.Those who died in Panchkula were two senior citizens, a 99-year-old man from Sector 20 and a 65-year-old woman from Sector 12, and a 58-year-old man from Mansa Devi Complex.While the elderly patients had diabetes, hypertension and chronic kidney disease, the third patient was suffering from chronic inflammatory lung disease.With this, tricity’s toll in January has reached 101, nearly 15 times higher than the seven deaths in December last.At 47, Mohali has recorded the highest deaths in this period, followed by 35 in Chandigarh and 19 in Panchkula.Dr Sanjeev Palta, nodal officer, ICU management, Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, said, “People are not dying primarily due to Covid infection. Their comorbidities worsen their complications, which are the main cause of death. Also, most victims are elderly.”Dr Suman Singh, director, health services, Chandigarh, added that around 40% of people dying in the city were not vaccinated against Covid. “Despite door-to-door drive and awareness camps, people are still hesitant in getting jabbed. Its due to vaccination that the severity of infections has lowered in the third wave, which has further contributed to lesser fatalities, compared to the second wave. Hence, people must get fully vaccinated at the earliest.”Tricity’s daily cases dip to 1,168Tricity’s daily Covid-19 cases continued to recede for the ninth consecutive day, as 1,168 people tested positive for the virus, against 1,451 the day before.After peaking to 3,907 on January 16, the daily tally had remained around 3,000 till January 22. But thereon, the cases have steadily declined.On Saturday, Mohali reported 605 fresh infections, down from 693 on Friday. A total of 321 were found infected in Chandigarh, compared to 399 a day before, while the tally dropped from 359 to 242 in Panchkula in the same period.The decline in cases also helped lower tricity’s active caseload, which now stands at 11,074.At 5,880, Mohali has the highest number of positive patients, followed by Chandigarh with 3,819 and Panchkula with 1,375.However, the positivity rate didn’t record a significant decline. From 8.6% on Friday, it came down to 7.3% in Chandigarh. In Panchkula, it was still hovering around 18% and in Mohali, too, only a 1% change was seen from 21% a day ago.36 people on ventilator support in UT hospitalsAccording to the health bulletin, of the total 1,274 oxygen beds in Chandigarh’s government and private hospitals, 317 are currently occupied by locals and residents of other states. A total of 39 of the 239 ventilator or ICU beds are also occupied.Curbs in four more areasThe Chandigarh administration declared four new containment zones in the city on Saturday. The affected areas are located in Sectors 33-A, 34-D, 43-B and 49-B (Nirwana Society). Deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said regular screening and monitoring will be conducted in these areas by medical teams, and frequent sanitisation will be carried out by the municipal staff. “Residents are advised to strictly follow social distancing norms, wear masks and take care of hand hygiene,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-snuffs-out-11-more-lives-in-chandigarh-tricity-highest-since-second-wave-101643490969803.html
30-01-2022||Delhi||Draft UG curriculum: DUTA’s suggestions to be sent next week||The Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) on Sunday said that it will share its detailed feedback on the draft undergraduate curriculum framework, released by the varsity last week, with the university administration through a series of deliberations starting next week.The teacher’s body constituted a panel to review the proposed framework and is expected to submit its feedback by Tuesday. The university has given stakeholders time till January 30 to submit feedback on the proposed framework.“We invited feedback from college staff associations on the framework proposed by the university and will be submitting our representation to the university next week. The DUTA executive has already met and finalised an outline of our response to the framework, and the sub-committee will submit its final representation by Monday or Tuesday,” DUTA president AK Bhagi said.Bhagi said that the DUTA was of the view that “credit dilution and loss of academic content” of any kind was not acceptable. “We want the three-year honours degree to continue with the same number of credits as before. We will oppose any loss of any teaching position in any department of any college,” said Bhagi.The new draft reduces the number of credits to 176 from 196 outlined in the first draft of the framework, which was approved by the academic council last year.“In three years, students should be able to secure the same degree as before without any loss of academic content,” said Bhagi.He said that while DUTA representatives had already met vice-chancellor Yogesh Singh once, one or two more meetings were likely in the coming week to deliberate on the representation that the body will be submitting.DU registrar Vikas Gupta earlier told HT the university will place the draft before the academic council and executive committee after feedback was collected from all stakeholders..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/draft-ug-curriculum-duta-s-suggestions-to-be-sent-next-week-101643490115967.html
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||Random Forays | The unflagging zeal of the Mamarazzi||In the relatively short expanse of time that cellphones have existed, the one constant has been the human zeal for sharing pictures. Before the advent of digital photography, rare was the enthusiast who had the time, capacity, wherewithal and patience to click 36 photographs and get them developed. But roughly since the turn of the century, the sheer number of avid, not-so-capable photo persons have multiplied in geometric progression.The eagle-eyed and ever eager smartphone photo expert never lets his or her enthusiasm flag. At least a dozen pictures per day are a par for the course, with the number of selfies taken often exceeding Virat Kohli’s score! The ladies, of course, are more skilled, more prolific and more record-breaking in their selfie feats, even if their feet may not always be steadily planted on the ground while clicking away. A potentially dangerous scenario!But the ‘mamarazzi’ are the most obvious and perhaps most in-the-face champions of the bubbling, over-the-top, ‘clickerati’ brigade. Not for these motherly versions of the paparazzi is the easy-going style of moms and grandmoms of yore, who hardly clicked a ‘pic’ or two of their progeny in their growing up years.As soon as a baby is born in this era, he makes his way, or she makes her way to Instagram, the same day, or perhaps the next day. The oodles of oooohs and aaaahs that result on social media platforms make for an elevation in the general feel-good factor of the world. These moms don’t know just how much joy they bring to the hearts of the population at large by posting such cuddly pics.The life-long mamarazzi bandwagon takes off from there and never quite abates in intensity or gusto. Pictures of the first this and the first that, and of all sorts of landmarks that the baby, now a toddler, scales, make their way into our hapless screens.The only one who doesn’t seem too chuffed about the prospect of living a nascent life almost exclusively on Instagram is the subject. The toddler in question is usually moody, even recalcitrant, and generally disenchanted by the whole idea of being on camera all the time. There are of course exceptions and they love all the attention they can get from their gushing mamarazzi. A subtle hint in the form of a candy or a new plaything does wonders to the receptivity of the camera-shy ones!And as life rolls one, which it inexorably does, the young ones become a little more difficult to appease in order for them to pose for pics. They are hard to catch once they start running away, and the slightly older mamarazzi probably spend their free time fondly gazing at portraits of the good old days, when their babies were actually babies. But who can say when the next one will come along to enable their click-happy mom to venture into a series of encores? Only the stork knows. There are many websites which advise young mothers on how to click excellent pictures of their infants. Dads too are able learners in most cases, and they merrily click away, while the mom-child duo pose with winsome smiles. It is only when fathers have had enough that they will make their excuses and slip away.Men also frequently overutilise the camera function of their smartphones, but this write-up is about the mamarazzi so we will stick to them. Once the kids are all grown up, the femmes turn their attention to their hubbies. There is no one else available for sundry awkward poses, with the teenagers having gone off on some outing or having left home for higher education. It is then that the tiffs begin!Husbands can be the grumpiest of photo species. They can usually be found watching cricket, or whatsapping their friends, or even actually working, at any moment when the mamarazzi want to click pics. And they don’t look as great in the mornings, with bleary eyes and stubbles, as do their wives, who miraculously retain the ability to smile gloriously into their cameras, even at the oddest of hours!vivek.atray@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/random-forays-the-unflagging-zeal-of-the-mamarazzi-101643490669223.html
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||Roundabout | Bengal’s Binodini resurrected in a Punjabi play||Punjabi playwright Shabdeesh has been best described as a poet at heart. It is this mix of the head and the heart that has gone into writing the play, Nati Binodini, inspired by the remarkable story of Bengal’s pioneering actor Binodini Dasi. The dramatist creates the life and times of a girl brought up in the red-light area of Kolkata, who entered the world of theatre when she was just 11 or 12. Instead of following the profession of her mother and grandmother, Binodini (1862-1941) made history through her talent, dedication and sacrifice, and yet for polite Bengali society (bhadralok) she always featured in the roster of fallen women.The crowning glory of her remarkable career on stage came in one of her last performances in Chaitanyaleela, in which she brought alive the story of the 16th century Vaishnava saint of the Bhakti movement in Bengal and Orissa. Such was the grace of the performance that she reached the summit of fame. It is on record that on October 7, 1885, Ramakrishna Paramahamsa, the great Vaishnava saint of 19th century Bengal, came to see the performance. Lore has it that the saint was so moved that he went on stage, put his hand on her head and blessed her. She earned praise for the performance from the likes of philosopher Swami Vivekananda and writer Bankim Chandra Chatterjee who penned Vande Mataram, the national song of India. However, at the age of 23, she walked away from Star Theatre, which she had built, paying a heavy price.Journey of the playwrightBefore getting lost in the lanes of 19th century Kolkata, a city celebrated in a 20th century, let us return to the 21st century, and take a trip to a rural area in the Majha region of Punjab – Kallah village near Tarn Taran – where the playwright Shabdeesh began his journey. Coming of age in the 1980s when the influence of the Naxalbari movement had dwindled and the rise of Sikh terrorism had started, a young Jagdeesh, who would become famous as Shabdeesh, started dabbling in poetry. At the time, mainstream Punjabi literature was progressive and still left-of-the-road. His song, Tainu hasean te zhakham dikhavan, Je saade pind aanvein mitra’(I will show you the wounds over laughter, If you come to our village, my friend) became wildly successful. His first play was published in 1996 and the same year he married Anita, a talented actor working with the theatre legend, Gursharan Singh.With the head and heart in place, Shamdeesh (which literally means ‘the lord of words’) continued to pen poetry and plays besides writing in newspapers and journals. However, he published very little and most of his books have been brought out by friends. The play, ‘Nati Binodini’ was published by his better half and friends as an anniversary gift, recently. Shabdeesh laughs, “My pen name may be the Lord of Words but there is nothing lordly about me. Publishing a book in Punjabi is a cumbersome and costly affair. This turned out to be a pleasant surprise nevertheless.” How did the play happen? Shabdeesh recounts, “It was Anita who first discovered a copy of a Hindi play, translated from Bengali, with the same title. She was so keen to enact the character of the legendary actor that I first thought of translating it into Punjabi. But I felt it would have to be done in the metaphor of the Punjabi language. Fortunately, I came across the autobiographical accounts by Binodini Dasi herself and it was then that I decided to write a fresh play by including them.” He says he sees the play as a gift from Punjab to Bengal who gave the country an actor as talented as Binodini. For Anita it was a sheer joy to enact the role of Nati Binodini and she says it remains relevant as the prejudice of the 19th century against women can be found in the present times too.Angst of a woman as an actorThe first acquaintance one made with this legend of 19th century public theatre that came into being under the British colonial influence was through the translation of the autobiography of Binodini Dasi: Amar Katha (My Life) and Amar Abhinetri Jibon (My Life as an Actress) by scholar and writer Rimli Bhattacharya. The book, which was brought out by Kali for Women in 1998, included a translation of her poems, and reached far and wide to the English readership home and abroad. In an insightful and elaborate introduction to her writings, Bhattacharya says: “Her autobiographical writings along with her poems speak of a woman who wanted much more than contemporary society was willing to give her. Although a star in her own right and founder member of the first actor-owned theatre, Binodini was never allowed to forget her origin or her status”.Today too, some writers make the mistake of calling her ‘the actor who was a prostitute’. Raised in the red-light area, she had no choice but to take in male patrons: the first one for love, and the second one for theatre at the instance of her Guru, the celebrated actor and director Girish Chandra Gosh, to use the money he gave her for a theatre owned by artistes, which would be given her name. But when the time came, the men decided it could not be named after a fallen woman and named the theatre built over the flesh and soul of Binodini, Star Theatre. She wrote with pain of the betrayals and whenever she calls herself ‘a fallen woman’ it with the same disdain that a contemporary woman poet may have for the phoney world around her when she calls herself ‘a wicked woman’ or a ‘buri aurat’.nirudutt@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/roundabout-bengal-s-binodini-resurrected-in-a-punjabi-play-101643490310270.html
30-01-2022||Gurugram||Haryana CM conducts surprise checks at offices of Gurugram civic body and GMDA||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday conducted a surprise inspection at the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) office in Sector 39. Without any pre-scheduled program, CM Khattar reached the MCG office around 9.15pm on Saturday and he started his inspection of the control room and inquired about the vehicles and employees deployed across the city for cleanliness at night. He also checked the night duty roaster and asked for the people present on duty. The chief minister asked the staff present in the control room how many employees should be on duty at this time and how many cleaning machines are installed, and how they are being monitored. MCG officials said there are 13 vehicles that are being deployed for night cleanliness in the city and the work starts from 10pm. The chief minister also spoke to the MCG commissioner over phone from and inquired about cleanliness and duty roster, said officials. After the surprise visit at the MCG, CM Khattar reached the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) office in Sector 44, where he checked the operations at the integrated command and control system (ICCC) where cameras are linked to the traffic signals, with light sensors detecting the changes. The teams were seen constantly coordinating with the traffic police, cops at checkpoints and patrolling vehicles to ensure no stolen vehicle passes by the stretch. CM Khattar checked the functions of CCTV cameras installed on various roads of the city which are connected to that centre and from those cameras, the cleanliness of the streets by machines can be seen at night. Sudhir Rajpal, chief executive officer of GMDA, explained to CM how the cameras are monitored by the police teams deployed at the Integrated Command Centre set up by the GMDA to monitor the CCTV feed, sharing real-time data with the patrolling team as soon as they get an alert. He told CM that teams are working in three shifts of eight-hours each. On Saturday ICCC detected 32 stolen vehicles and others violating traffic with the help of the camera. CM discussed the plan for installation of 1,000 more CCTV cameras across the city this year under Phase 2 of the Safe City project. The GMDA officials explained that 1,200 cameras installed in the first phase have started showing results in general surveillance and traffic rule enforcement. CM Khattar said that on Saturday night he personally visited the ICCC of GMDA and he found that 32 stolen vehicles have been traced through the ANPR cameras installed at the centre. “I have also given a suggestion of face recognition, we have already started this service in Karnal. From this centre we can also monitor the city bus service,” he said. 
30-01-2022||Delhi||Balmy morning as day temperature climbs past 22°C||The mercury continued its slow climb in the Capital, with the maximum temperature settling at 22.4°C, around the season’s normal and up from 20.6°C recorded the previous day. The minimum, however, dropped a notch to 5.4°C on Saturday -- three degrees below normal -- from the 6.4°C recorded the previous day.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast that daytime temperatures are likely to remain above 20°C for the next four or five days, rising by 3-5 degrees till February 2 and falling subsequently. The weather office added that the minimum temperature too may gradually rise by 4-6°C till February 3, after which it is expected to fall by 3-4°C.According to IMD’s weekly forecast, strong surface winds (speed 15-25kmph) are likely over Delhi and its neighbouring states during the next three days.The IMD has also predicted scattered to fairly widespread light/moderate rainfall over Delhi and adjoining areas from February 2-4 on account of an active western disturbance likely to affect Northwest India.IMD scientist RK Jenamani said the western disturbance will not last for a long time. “On the night of February 3 or morning of February 4, we might see some drizzle. The western disturbance is moving very quickly and will affect the weather between the night of February 3 and 4,” he said.Delhi’s air quality remained in the poor category on Saturday evening with the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 6pm reaching 251, as per the data from the Central Pollution Control Board.The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research on Saturday said that AQI is likely to improve due to gradual increase of maximum as well as minimum temperature, which will enhance mixing layer height and dilution of pollutants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/balmy-morning-as-day-temperature-climbs-past-22c-101643489442226.html
30-01-2022||Gurugram||Two daily wage workers electrocuted in Manesar||Two construction workers fell to death while another was injured after they allegedly got electric shock during the renovation of a multi-storeyed building at Sector 8 of the Industrial Model Township (IMT) in Manesar on Saturday. Police said the deceased persons were identified as Pan Singh, (32), of Hardoi Gujar village and Bharat, (30), of Tagarepur village, in Jalaun district of Uttar Pradesh. The injured worker was identified as Bharat Kumar, (30), of Jaitia village in Nalanda district of Bihar. Police said the incident took place at around 10am. The three workers were busy painting walls when the metallic ladder came in contact with a livewire of 11,000V and two of them were electrocuted. The workers resided in Narpur and Bhangrola village in Manesar. “Two persons fell down from the building immediately after getting electrocuted. The loud thuds alerted the private security guards present at the premises. They rushed to the spot and found them lying without any movement,” a police officer said. They were rushed to a nearby hospital where doctors declared two of them dead on arrival. “The injured person is in a stable condition and is able to speak. He is presently admitted in a government hospital,” the police officer said. He said that the building in which they were working was sold in an auction after which renovation work had begun. Naresh Kumar, the station house officer (SHO) at IMT Manesar police station, said that cops will soon record the statement of the injured person. “A detailed investigation will be carried out soon,” he said and added that the autopsy of the bodies would be conducted on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/two-daily-wage-workers-electrocuted-in-manesar-101643489649222.html
30-01-2022||Other||Labourer’s 14-year-old daughter kidnapped in Panchkula||Police have booked a fish farm owner and his three accomplices for allegedly kidnapping the minor daughter of a labourer working on his premises on Friday.The girl’s mother, a resident of Mud village, Raipur Rani, told the police that the fish farm owner was carrying out construction of his building, located in the same village, and they were employed as labourers. On Friday, the farm owner, who remains unidentified, and his three accomplices, including two brothers, Shivnath and Meghnath, and their father, all labourers at a nearby fish farm, bolted her room from the outside and kidnapped her 14-year-old daughter.On her complaint, a case under Sections 342 (wrongful confinement), 365 (kidnapping or abducting with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine person), 506 (criminal intimidation), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (acts done in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Raipur Rani police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/labourers-14-year-old-daughter-kidnapped-in-panchkula-101643489529075.html
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana police fully vaccinated, 92% of force, tops Punjab||Having fully vaccinated 92% of their staff, Ludhiana police has topped the state in achieving the Covid vaccination target. The feat has come as a major boost for the force which has so far lost two of its personnel to the deadly virus.Across the state, Punjab Police has vaccinated 89.66% of its force with two doses of the Covid vaccine. In Ludhiana, 98% police personnel have received at least one dose of the vaccine, while 8% have received a booster dose as well. Across the state, 98% personnel have received at least one dose of the vaccine. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, headquarters) said the Ludhiana police will soon achieve the 100% vaccination target. Ahead of the assembly elections, the department had brought in mobile teams to administer booster doses to their personnel. Apart from that, the department also arranged vaccination for paramilitary forces deputed on election duty in the city.While Ludhiana police commissionerate has 15 active Covid cases at present, there are 341 active cases all over the state in the police department. Fazilka, with 46 infected cops, is the worst hit right now. Similarly, the intelligence department has 33, Indian Reserve Battalion has 29 and Jalandhar Rural police has 26 active cases. In Ludhiana police commissionerate, all 15 cases are home isolated.In Punjab, 11,032 cops have been infected till date, of which 10,597 have recovered and 78 have died. Of the 78, nine had received at least one dose while two had been fully vaccinated. In the district, a total of 635 police personnel have been infected so far, out of which 618 have recovered. Ludhiana’s cops who lost in the line of Covid duty include assistant commissioner of police (ACP, North) Anil Kohli. Eighteen deaths were reported in the home guard department also. 
30-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram: 2-year-old leopard allegedly hit by speeding vehicle rescued in Tauru||A two-year-old male leopard was found critically injured in the wee hours of Saturday after allegedly getting hit by a speeding vehicle near the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) expressway in Padheni village in Tauru, some 43 kilometres from Gurugram. According to wildlife officials, they received a call from the villagers around 5am, after they spotted the leopard lying injured in a field. Rajender Parsad Dangi, divisional wildlife officer, Gurugram, said that they sent their local team and police to the spot and rescued the leopard within an hour. “It was unable to move and it seemed that the wild animal met with an accident on the KMP expressway three days ago. It managed to enter the field to take shelter and could not move further due to the grave injuries. It is not in a condition to survive by itself in the forest and will take at least two months to recover,” he said. The leopard was sent to a veterinary hospital in Rohtak zoo and is undergoing treatment. Hospital sources said the animal suffered severe injuries and fractures. Dangi said the leopard suffered a fracture in its left leg and spinal cord due to which it was unable to move. “There has been excessive internal bleeding after the accident. In such cases, leopards are tranquilised and then taken to hospital. But in this case, tranquiliser was not required as the condition of the big cat was serious and there were thin chances of its survival,” he said. Wildlife officials will keep the leopard under observation until reported fit. “Under normal conditions, any captured wild animal has to be kept under observation for 48 hours, but in this case, it will take time and the next three days are critical. We are using heaters to keep the room warm for its quick healing,” said a senior wildlife official. Anil Gandas, a wildlife expert, who led the rescue operation, said that cops cordoned off the area, but said crowd management is still a challenge. “People wanted to record the movement of the rescue operation and were not ready to leave. Though we were ready with the tranquilisers, it was not required and there was no challenge as it was critically injured. When we reached the spot, villagers were seen attempting to take pictures and make videos,” he said. Cops are also conducting an investigation to identify the vehicle that hit the leopard. Teams from Tauru police station are questioning villagers and KMP expressway staff to gather leads into the incident. 
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||387 new Covid cases, 4 death in Ludhiana||Covid cases continued on the downward trend in Ludhiana with 387 fresh cases being detected here on Saturday. The day before, the district had 467 cases. Four residents also succumbed to the virus on Saturday, taking the toll to 2,210.The latest casualties include a 78-year-old man from Rupalon village, a 67-year-old man from Sahnewal, a 55-year-old woman from Shimlapuri and a 22-year-old woman from Vishwakarma Nagar. Ludhiana currently has 3,928 active cases, of which 3,722 are in home isolation while 206 are admitted in different hospitals. Civil surgeon Dr SP Singh appealed to residents to follow Covid-appropriate behavior and get themselves vaccinated at the earliest. He urged the residents to avoid visiting crowded places and take precautions at all times.Unvaccinated? Steer clear of public places, warns DCCiting the recent study of the Ludhiana health department, wherein it was found that 80% of those who succumbed to Covid-19 here in January were unvaccinated, deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said that those who have willfully avoided the second dose of vaccine are not allowed access to public spaces.Stating that only fully vaccinated people can move out of their houses as per the orders issued by the state government, Sharma said that around 10 lakh people in the district have still not turned up for the second dose of the vaccine. He said that if any unvaccinated or partially vaccinated person is found roaming in public places like markets, marriage palaces, malls, hotels, gyms or restaurants, the administration will take strict action against them.Sharma further said that it has already been decided that government employees will not get their salaries if they are not fully vaccinated. He added that he will also speak to industrialists to not issue salaries to unvaccinated staff in the coming time. Mega vaccination drive todayHe also informed that a mega vaccination drive is being organised on Sunday, and 282 vaccination sites will be set up throughout the district. He urged all eligible persons to come out and get vaccinated.In a video released on Saturday, Sharma said that in a meeting with police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar and civil surgeon Dr SP Singh, it was discussed that many residents have not turned up for the second dose despite repeated appeals. He said that 102% of the eligible residents have received the first dose in the district, but only 64% of those have got the second dose, which means 36% (around 10 lakh persons) are yet to become fully vaccinated. He said that out of 81 Covid deaths that took place in January this year, 80% of the victims were either unvaccinated or had missed their second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/387-new-covid-cases-4-death-in-ludhiana-101643489169079.html
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana police recovers 1 lakh litre lahan||The city’s rural police with the help of drone cameras traced live stills in Baghian village of Sidhwan Bet, near Sutlej River, on Saturday. The police have recovered 1.05 lakh litre lahan, 38 pits made by the bootleggers for preparing lahan and 6 dreams.The police have arrested Nirmal Singh, Jaswinder Singh and Manjit Singh – all residents of Baghian village. An FIR under Sections 61,1 and 14 of the Excise Act has been registered against the accused at Sidhan Bet police station. Patil Ketan Baliram, senior superintendent of police ( rural) said following a tip-off, the police with the excise department initiated a search operation using drone cameras and on finding suspicious activities, conducted a raid.He added that police will continue such raids.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-police-recovers-1-lakh-litre-lahan-101643489049104.html
30-01-2022||Other||Gurugram: Man assaults mother over property; tries to kill self to avoid arrest||A man allegedly assaulted his 60-year-old mother with a brick over property dispute on Friday afternoon, and later consumed poison to avoid arrest, in Gandhi Nagar, Sector 11 in Gurugram, said police.The woman suffered severe injuries in the head and received more than 20 stitches, her family said on Saturday, adding that the elderly woman is undergoing treatment at a nearby private hospital.Police said the 35-year-old man had gone to the hospital to check on his mother, but allegedly got to know that the police suspected him for the crime, and so he consumed poison while there. He was initially admitted to the Civil Hospital in Gurugram, and later taken to Safdarjung hospital in Delhi as his condition deteriorated.A case was registered against the suspect under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) on the basis of a statement by the mother at the Shivaji Nagar police station late Friday night.The woman, her husband (in his early 60s) -- a peanut wholesale trader, and their three daughters aged 30 years, 28 years and 26 years live in a three-storey house in Gandhi Nagar, police said, adding that the suspect lived separately with his wife and three minor daughters (two-and-a-half, four and eight years) in a rented accommodation in Gandhi Nagar for a year amid differences with his parents. According to the family, the wedding of the eldest daughter, 30, was scheduled to take place on February 11. On Friday, the suspect allegedly reached his parent’s residence and started arguing over the wedding, and later assaulted his mother with bricks, said the police. One of the daughters, requesting anonymity, said their parents were having lunch on the terrace when the incident took place. “He picked up a fight over his sister’s wedding as he felt the bridegroom was not good. He also kicked and punched our mother, and then picked up a brick and hit her in the head multiple times. He also threatened her of dire consequences if she agreed to the wedding. Our youngest sister, who was at home that time, called both of us to the office to inform them about the incident,” she alleged. “After we took our mother to the hospital, our brother also reached there. He consumed poison at the entrance, probably fearing he would be arrested as we had informed the police about the incident,” she claimed. An investigation in the case is underway, said police, adding that the woman had only told the police about her son arguing over the wedding of his sister.Gajraj (goes by first name), in-charge of the Pataudi Chowk police post, said that the condition of the suspect is now stable. “The suspect is yet to be arrested,” he said, adding that the suspect was discharged from hospital and sent home on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-man-assaults-mother-over-property-tries-to-kill-self-to-avoid-arrest-101643488929175.html
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||Narrow escape for family in Ludhiana as man sets house, 3 vehicles on fire||A family in Joshi Nagar had a narrow escape after a man, reportedly under the influence of liquor, set ablaze their house and three vehicles parked on the street, in the early hours of Saturday. The family, which includes two children, aged 8 and 3, managed to escape in time, and raised the alarm. Locals, meanwhile, nabbed the accused and handed him over to the police. He was identified as Shankar, 30, a labourer, of Joshi Nagar.Pankaj Walia, a caterer by profession, said that he, along with his wife and children, was fast asleep when the arsonist set their house on fire. They woke up and saw that the entire house was engulfed in flames, and rushed outside. Once outside, he noticed that a pick-up auto parked next to their house was also on fire, and called the fire brigade. Walia added that the fire had reached up to the second floor of the house and damaged furniture and other household goods. He said he has incurred a loss of approximately ₹4 lakh. Sandeep Rai, a local, said that his auto-rickshaw and a Tata Nano car belonging to another resident, Survinder Singh, had also been gutted.Rai added that over the last few months, several vehicles parked outside the houses were being damaged or set on fire but they were not aware who was behind it. However this time, they woke up in time and noticed Shankar fleeing the spot.Closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed in the locality also captured the accused in the act. Haibowal station house officer, sub-inspector Harpreet Singh said that Shankar has been arrested and booked under Sections 436 (mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to destroy house etc) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code, and Section 5 of the Punjab Prevention of Damage to Public and Private Property Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/narrow-escape-for-family-in-ludhiana-as-man-sets-house-3-vehicles-on-fire-101643488869096.html
30-01-2022||Gurugram||Now, videos of accident-prone spots in Gurugram for safety analysis a must: Cops||Top cops on Saturday directed all the 41 police stations to make videos of accident spots from Monday and submit reports detailing reasons that lead to mishaps. Police said that PCR vans and patrolling bikes are the first to reach the spots after receiving information regarding an accident. They are being directed to prepare a detailed report and mention the area of the accident, cite reasons for the mishap, road condition, number of accidents, and nearest police deployment. Earlier, police personnel reaching the accident spots used to record basic facts such as where did the accident take place, reason of accident, how many were killed or injured, but details such as condition of the roads, potholed roads, under-construction stretches and police deployment will have to be documented now. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that they are working on several methods to curb accidents across the city and majorly focusing on ‘black spots’ from where maximum accidents are reported. “This exercise will give clarity on the cause of accidents and what measures can be taken to curb them. If an accident is taking place due to poor road condition, then we will write to the civic agency concerned and get it repaired at the earliest and if it is due to speeding, then barricades will be placed to control speed on the concerned stretch,” Rao said. Cops have already identified 40 ‘black spots’ that reported most of the accidents. Rao said they have identified the accident-prone stretches over the last three years and analysed the reasons for accidents. In most of the cases, accidents took place due to speeding, stationary vehicles on roads, wrong-side driving and jaywalking. Police said the maximum number of accidents were reported from Golf Course Extension Road, Southern Peripheral Road (SPR), Shankar Chowk, Ghata Crossing, Bilaspur Crossing and IMT, Manesar. Also, Hero Honda Chowk has emerged as a “dangerous spot” along with the crossing at Sidhrawali, where speeding caused most fatal accidents. Traffic police in the city also roped in 200 homeguards and 50 personnel from the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) for traffic management. Sanjeev Balhara, assistant commissioner of police (ACP) (traffic), said that teams visit the ‘black spots’ after an accident is reported and an evaluation report is prepared and submitted to the DCP (traffic), following which the next plan of action is prepared. “If a team in its analysis finds that more measures are needed to curb accidents, action is taken then and there. After each evaluation, changes are made. We also inform the MCG officials if their help is required to fill potholes or any repair in the road structure”, Balhara said. There were six accidents reported on the Golf Course Extension Road this week and as many as three of them were due to speeding, while the rest were due to potholes where drivers lost balance and toppled. Cops have set up barricades at two spots and patrolling vehicles are taking rounds at night. Also, commuters are charged hefty fines if they are found speeding their vehicles, said police. Police said they have also prepared a list of solutions required to reduce accidents. They have written to the civic body and urged it to install proper signage at various intersections, warning boards before merging traffic, speed-breakers and properly constructed central verges, officials said. There are around 700 traffic personnel deployed across the city and to keep them safer during night duty, they are being provided with reflective lights, jackets and hand gloves. In July last year, a six-member accident response team (ART) was formed to revisit ‘black spots’ in hit-and-run cases and to identify drivers who fled after hitting motorists and pedestrians. Cops said that the team solved more than 50 blind cases in four months in 2021. 
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||In joint raid, Himachal, Punjab Police seize huge quantity of lahan||The police and the excise department in collaboration with the Himachal Pradesh police conducted a joint raid in the bordering area of Mukerian (Hoshiarpur district) and Kangra district (HP) and seized 1,40000 kg of lahan apart from 10 working stills. The raiding team took possession of boiler drums, plastic cans and other apparatus used for manufacturing the illicit liquor. Hoshiarpur assistant excise and taxation commissioner AS Kang revealed that four cars and five motorcycles belonging to the liquor mafia were also seized. He said that drones were used to locate the illegal liquor manufacturing site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-joint-raid-himachal-punjab-police-seize-huge-quantity-of-lahan-101643487849559.html
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||Suspended Punjab Police constable held for stealing purse from car in Chandigarh||A suspended Punjab Police constable was arrested for stealing valuables from a car after smashing its window in Sector 10. The accused, Nitin Kumar, 37, a resident of Manimajra, had been under suspension for remaining absent from duty. In his complaint, Karamjit Singh of Delhi, said his wife had gone to a restaurant in Sector 10 on January 26, and had parked the vehicle behind the coal depot. However, when she returned, she saw that a window of her car had been broken, and her purse, which contained an Aadhaar card, Pan Card, Airpods, an ATM card and cash, was missing. A case was registered under Section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 3 police station. So far, the police have recovered 10 stolen mobile phones from the accused. Chandigarh superintendent of police Ketan Bansal said more recoveries are expected from Nitin. He was sent to two-day police remand on Saturday. Since November 2021, valuables have been stolen from 15 vehicles after smashing their windows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/suspended-punjab-police-constable-held-for-stealing-purse-from-car-in-chandigarh-101643487789243.html
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||50-year-old woman found murdered in Faridkot||The Faridkot city police have booked an unidentified person after a 50-year-old woman was found murdered inside her house at Baba Farid Nagar in Faridkot on Saturday. The deceased was identified as Latika Arora. Station house officer Harjinder Singh said that a relative of the deceased informed the police that she is not answering and her house is also locked. “When the police checked inside the house, the woman was found dead lying in a pool of blood. She had sustained an injury on her head and the crime seems to be around four days old. We have sent the body for a post-mortem,” he said. The daughter and son-in-law of the deceased are abroad and the police are in touch with them. “The husband of the deceased is also missing since the crime, so we are suspecting his involvement,” the police said. A case has been registered against an unidentified person under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Faridkot city police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/50yearold-woman-found-murdered-in-faridkot-101643487369100.html
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||At 3,325, Punjab’s daily Covid cases slightly up after three days; 31 virus-related deaths||Punjab’s single-day Covid-19 infections rose slightly on Saturday with the state witnessing 3,325 fresh cases and 31 virus-related deaths. State’s positivity rate also went up to 8.83% as against 7.68% recorded on Friday. SAS Nagar continued to be the worst affected district with 605 fresh cases, followed by 387 in Ludhiana, 301 in Amritsar, 277 in Hoshiarpur, 225 in Bathinda, 216 in Jalandhar. A maximum of five deaths were registered in SAS Nagar, followed by four each in Amritsar, Bathinda, and Ludhiana districts. With 6,805 patients recovering from the virus, the number of cured persons has reached 6,91,749 while the patient tally stands at 7,38,405. There are 29,466 active cases in the state. Till now, 17,190 people have lost their lives due to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-3-325-punjab-s-daily-covid-cases-slightly-up-after-three-days-31-virus-related-deaths-101643485928852.html
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police nab rape accused||A proclaimed offender accused of rape has been arrested in Ram Darbar. The accused, Vishal of Phase 1, Ram Darbar, was arrested during a checking in the wake of the upcoming Punjab polls near tube well park. A case had been registered against him on August 4, 2018, under Section 420 (cheating) and 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code in Sector 31, Chandigarh. The accused was produced in court, and sent to judicial custody. MORE TRICITY NEWS IN BRIEFS3 arrested for attacking Chandigarh man Three people were arrested for attacking a man with sticks in Daria village. The complainant, Amrender Kumar, said that his tenant, Laxman, and his aides had attacked him at his house on January 23. Laxman, 24; Rohit Singh, 19; and Vikas Deep, 20, have been arrested, and a juvenile was also apprehended. A case was registered under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 149 ( common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.  cars’ catalytic converter stolen in UT The catalytic converter, which converts harmful pollutants into less harmful emissions was stolen from three new Maruti Eeco vehicles from a stock yard in Phase -1, Industrial Area, on Friday. A case was registered under Section 380 (theft in dwelling house) on the complaint of Yogesh Kapoor. PU teacher gets ₹5.78 cr physics projectLokesh Kumar, a faculty member from Panjab University’s department of physics, has received a project worth ₹5.78 crore from the department of science and technology, New Delhi. Under this project, Kumar will work at CERN (European Council for Nuclear Research), Switzerland and Brookhaven National Laboratory USA, for the study of quark gluon plasma (QGP), which filled the universe before matter existed. Kumar, who is working in the field of experimental high energy physics, has authored more than 350 publications.Financial assistance: PU invites applications from hostellersPanjab University (PU) has invited applications for “Scholarship for hostel students” for the ongoing 2021-22 session. The forms are available at the hostel warden offices. Financial assistance will be granted to a hosteller on the basis of their family income from all sources, which should not exceed ₹3 lakh. The applicant should also not own a vehicle. PhD scholars and students pursuing a second PG programme are not eligible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-police-nab-rape-accused-101643485809254.html
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana Education Board superintendent booked for molesting colleague||A Haryana Education Board superintendent was booked for molesting a colleague in Zirakpur on Saturday. The accused, Ram Lal Hans of Panchkula, owns a property dealing office in Zirakpur. The victim, a resident of Manimajra, said the accused had claimed that he could help her get groceries from the army canteen. On finding the canteen closed, he took her to his office in Zirakpur and molested her. The victim managed to escape, and lodged a complaint with the Panchkula district education officer, but he did not take any action. Later, she approached the women’s police station in Panchkula, where a zero FIR was lodged, and the case was transferred to Zirakpur. Investigating officer Nirmal Kaur said, “We are carrying out raids at different hideouts, and will soon arrest the accused.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-education-board-superintendent-booked-for-molesting-colleague-101643485569405.html
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh man cheated of ₹65 lakh on lure of high return on investment||A resident of Small Flats, Dhanas, has been booked for duping a man of ₹65 lakh on the pretext of high return on investment in a kitty committee scheme. The accused has been identified as Manjeet Singh.He has been booked based on the complaint of Ramji Verma, a resident of the same locality. He said that between 2012 and 2018, he had invested in 49 schemes which were being run by Manjeet on the promise of high returns. But, the accused failed to pay back the maturity amount of around ₹65 lakh to Verma and kept delaying payment. Later, the accused even stopped taking his calls. Verma later found out that Manjeet had also cheated others in a similar manner. A case under Prize Chits and Money Circulation Scheme (Banning) Act 1978 as well as Sections 406 and 420 of Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sarangpur police station.KYC update fraud: Elderly woman duped of ₹10 lakh A 60-year-old resident of Sector 18 was duped of ₹10 lakh on the pretext of updating the KYC for her sim card. In her complaint, Kiranjit Dhillon said that she had received a call from a person identifying himself as an employee of her mobile service provider. The caller told her that she had not updated her KYC and asked her to install a remote access app and one more app on her phone so that he can do it. The accused later asked her to make a payment of ₹10 two times. Later, Dhillon got a message from the bank that ₹10 lakh had been withdrawn from her account. A cheating case has been registered at the Sector 19 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-man-cheated-of-rs-65-lakh-on-lure-of-high-return-on-investment-101643485512439.html
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||Groom, family booked in Karnal for demanding SUV in dowry||Seven people, including a groom, his parents and relatives were booked for allegedly demanding an SUV in dowry from the family of a Karnal-based girl, two weeks before the marriage.Family of the girl filed a complaint at Kunjpura police station alleging that they have called-off the marriage and decided to lodge a police complaint against the groom’s family as their list of demands were increasing. They had demanded a Hyundai Creta besides gold and other items, the family alleged.In his complaint, the bride’s father, Variyam Singh, of Kalwehari village, alleged that the wedding of his daughter was fixed with Salindar, of Datauli village in Sonepat district around six month ago. Salindar is a clerk in the electricity department and posted in Kharkhoda.The complainant said earlier they had promised that they will not take any dowry and the marriage was fixed for February 11 and all preparations were made. But on January 24, the groom’s family demanded an SUV, a bike, and high-quality furniture and other items.The police said a case has been registered against the groom and his family members including Surender, Yashwant, Sudhir, Vinit alias Kala, Shakuntala, and Nirbhay under Sections 3 and 4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act. Investigation is on and appropriate action will be taken after probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/groom-family-booked-in-karnal-for-demanding-suv-in-dowry-101643485509580.html
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana students demand conducting exams in both online and offline modes||A day after the Haryana government decided to reopen universities, colleges and other educational institutes from February 1, students and student organisations demanded conducting winter season examinations in both online and offline modes.Krishan Punia, a student of MA (English) at Rohtak’s Jat College, said he had returned back to his native village after the government shut down all educational institutes amid rise in Covid-19 cases.“Most of our classes were conducted in online mode and a few in offline mode. Many students from other states had moved back to their villages. It will be difficult for everyone to come back for offline exams. So, the university authorities should conduct exams in both modes,” he added.Deepak Malik, a student leader of the Jannayak Janata Party’s student wing INSO, said he had submitted a memorandum to Rohtak’s Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) registrar Prof Gulshan Taneja and urged him to give a chance to students to appear in online as well as offline modes.“We have also written to the Haryana governor urging him to ensure that all state universities conduct exams in both modes. We have asked the MDU authorities to follow the exam pattern adopted last year. Students should also have a choice to attempt any five questions of total nine in the exams,” Malik added.INSO national president Pradeep Deswal said they will conduct an online survey to take opinion of students regarding mode of examination.“I have been receiving calls from students from across state and they are concerned about the mode of exams. Many students face internet connectivity issues in villages and prefer offline mode while some students who cannot come to the university due to Covid and prefer the online mode,” he said.“All universities should release their exam calendar so that students can start preparing for their odd semester exams,” Deswal added.MDU registrar Gulshan Taneja said he will discuss this issue with other officials in the meeting before announcing exam dates for graduation and postgraduation courses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-students-demand-conducting-exams-in-both-online-and-offline-modes-101643485210484.html
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||‘Discrepancies’ in affidavit: Congress files plea against election of deputy mayor into Chandigarh MC House||The Congress has filed a plea against the election of deputy mayor and BJP leader Anup Gupta into the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) House alleging discrepancies in his affidavit.In the MC election held on December 24, Gupta was declared elected from ward 11 on BJP ticket. Later, in the mayoral polls on January 8, he was declared elected as deputy mayor. He was the richest candidate contesting MC elections with assets worth ₹45 crore.In a press conference on Saturday, his opponent from ward 11 and Congress leader Rajiv Kumar Moudgil said that he had approached deputy commissioner with his complaint regarding the election of Gupta and demanded that it be declared null and void.Moudgil and Chandigarh Congress chief Subhash Chawla said that Gupta is enrolled as an advocate with Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana. “He filed an affidavit before the council to the effect that after being enrolled as an advocate, he would not personally engage in any business activity. But, on 3 December 2021, he swore in an affidavit before the returning officer for MC polls that he is a businessman by occupation and declared his income from business,” they said, adding that his affidavit before election commission is different from the one he filed before Bar Council.When contacted, Gupta said that there was nothing wrong with his affidavit. “It is just to remain in limelight after losing the election. Bar council has to decide of any such issue and it has nothing to do with MC elections,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/discrepancies-in-affidavit-congress-files-plea-against-election-of-deputy-mayor-into-chandigarh-mchouse-101643485209038.html
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||Panipat woman police station shifted for the third time in 11 months||Even as the staff of Panipat women police station are busy in decoration and shifting of their paraphernalia from the ground floor to the first floor of the existing building, they have received fresh orders to shift again to the new location in Sector 6.This is for the third time in the past 11 months that the Panipat women police station has been shifted from its inaugural building in Sector 13-17.In February last year, it was shifted to a new building on NH-44 and in the middle of the city and near the bus stand to provide easy accessibility to women complainants.But on December 26, the orders were issued to shift the women police station to the first floor of the same building as the government had approved setting up of a new tehsil camp police station for the city on the location of the women police station.The tehsil camp police station has been set up in the existing building of the women police station. Now, orders have been issued to shift the women police station to the new location in Sector 6 which is around 4km from the bus stand.As per cops associated with the women police station, there was not enough room to run two police stations on both floors of a building so now, the women police station has been shifted to an independent building in Sector 6.Now, the number of police stations in Panipat city has increased to 10, including a women police station.Panipat superintendent of police Shashank Kumar Sawan said, “The new tehsil camp police station has been made operation from the building of the women police station and there is a shortage of buildings, but a women helpdesk has been opened in every police station to help women complainants.”On why the women police station is being shifted repeatedly, women police station in-charge Sunia Rani said, “I don’t think this is an issue as it is better that the women police station has now been shifted to an independent building.”
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh mayor awards city’s swachhata leaders||Mayor Sarbjit Kaur on Saturday honoured associations and citizens for their contribution towards keeping the city clean and leading the charge in spreading the message of swachhata during the Swachh Prerak Samaan Samaroh organised at the Rani Laxmi Bai Mahila Bhawan in Sector 38.While addressing the awardees, Kaur touched upon how the Swachh Survekshan has become a tool for citizen engagement the focus on citizen participation has been taken a notch higher this year by introducing initiatives that encourage innovations led by citizens, start-ups and entrepreneurs.Speaking about the Survekshan in 2022, the mayor said that the scope of the survey has been expanded to now cover 100% wards for sampling compared to 40% in previous years. In order to seamlessly carry this out, more than twice the number of assessors will be deployed for the on-field assessment. She said keeping with the Prime Minister’s vision of a Digital India, new and improved technology will be used such as digital tracking of documents, geo-tagging of sanitation and waste management of facilities for better efficiency.The winners in various categories were Government Medical College Hospital in Sector 32 under swachh hospital; Hyatt Regency in Industrial Area, Phase 1, under swachh hotels; examination branch of MCM DAV College, Sector 36, under swachh government office; residents’ welfare association of Sector 7-A for Swachh RWA and the market welfare association of Sector 16 for Swachh MWA. A special award was also presented to Kamaljit Singh Panchhi of Chandigarh Traders Association, Sector 17. Under the swachh schools (private) category, St Johns High School and Sacred Heart Senior Secondary School, both in Sector 26, were joint winners. Out of government schools, Government Model Senior Secondary School (GMSSS) Sector 21-A, performed the best. The swachh technology challenge was won by Dross Managament. Infosys Limited was declared zero waste campus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhmayor-awards-city-s-swachhata-leaders-101643484970888.html
30-01-2022||Other||‘Agra metro rail stations to reflect city’s heritage’||The Agra metro rail stations will be equipped with advanced technology and automatic systems and will reflect the heritage and beauty of Agra. This was stated by Kumar Keshav, the managing director of Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) in a press release. The MD also said in the release that the construction work for station control room (SCR) of Taj East Gate metro station has started and work on track, lifts and signaling systems will soon begin.“The station control room is the most important part of a metro station as from here the station controller monitors all the activities of the station as well as the train operations. The room is fully equipped and automated to receive prompt signals from the operations command centre, the central unit which monitors overall operations of the metro trains,” the UPMRC MD stated in a press release.“The work on railway tracks and lifts and other signaling systems will also commence soon. The construction work for station control room of Taj East Gate metro station has begun and the platform level of the metro station has also started taking shape,” he added. At present the civil construction work is on for the 3 kilometers elevated section of priority stretch of the first corridor. The elevated section comprises three metro stations, namely Taj East Gate, Basai and Fatehabad Road. The Agra Metro team has already completed the construction work of 684 piles and erection of all 144 Double T Girders in a record time, he added. The Agra metro project was inaugurated virtually by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi on December 7, 2020 in presence of chief minister Yogi Adityanath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/agra-metro-rail-stations-to-reflect-city-s-heritage-101643484730967.html
30-01-2022||Other||Varanasi: High-risk angioplasty performed at IMS-BHU; woman with rare heart disease saved||VARANASI  A team of doctors at the department of cardiology, Institute of Medical Sciences- Banaras Hindu University (IMS-BHU), here has performed a complex and high-risk angioplasty on a 35-year-old woman, who was suffering from a complicated and rare heart disease. Head of the department, Prof Om Shankar, who led the doctors’ team, said that the woman, a resident of Azamgarh, was referred to him on Thursday after an angiography of her was done in a private hospital. “The young lady never consumed tobacco. She had no hypertension, diabetes and takayasu disease. She had even not any family history of cardiac disease. But her angiography revealed that the main artery of her left side of heart was narrowed like the thread-like structure, which was a complicated condition,” said Prof Shankar. He said, this type of heart disease is considered to be the most serious and such people can die of sudden death due to cardiac arrest any time. “However, we decided to do angioplasty on her, which was a challenging task. The condition of the artery was very difficult to negotiate through the wires. Then the position and alignments of the blood vessels was so complex that it was complicated to determine where to place the stent? Even slight mistake in this procedure could lead to death of the patient within minutes,” said Prof Shankar. After the angioplasty, the patient was completely healthy and her entire surgery cost only ₹50,000, he said. Prof Shankar expressed heartfelt gratitude to his team members who supported him in this operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/varanasi-high-risk-angioplasty-performed-at-ims-bhu-woman-with-rare-heart-disease-saved-101643484729168.html
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||House allotment: PU mulls implementation of reservation policy for persons with disabilities||Panjab University (PU) is mulling the implementation of reservation policy in house allotment for persons with disabilities.A panel has already been constituted by the PU’s house allotment committee (HAC) to consider the matter as per the Rights of Persons With Disabilities (RPWD) Act 2016. Presently, there is no particular reservation policy in the house allotment rules of the university for the persons with disabilities and the matter has remained under debate over the last few years. However, the houses are allotted to such persons on medical grounds as per their need. There are dozens of employees with disabilities working in PU and its regional centres and the varsity has now proposed implementation of reservation policy in house allotment for these persons as per the RPWD Act 2016. The agenda was placed before the panel during a meeting which was held a few days ago, where the members reiterated that the reservation policy should be framed and implemented. However, no final recommendation has been made yet.The members also deliberated on the relevant reservation policies of several universities including Kurukshetra University. However, the panel decided that the reservation policy related to house allotment for persons with disabilities of Punjab and Chandigarh should be placed before committee in the next meeting before any decision is taken.The estate branch of the university has also been asked to present the guidelines or policy document of Punjab and UT in the next meeting. A member of the panel on condition of anonymity, said, “We have agreed to its immediate implementation in the university. There are variations in the policies adopted by some other universities and we cannot implement it in bits and pieces. So, it was decided to study the policy of UT and Punjab first.”Since it is a policy matter, all the recommendations of the committee will be placed in syndicate and senate for the final approval.Meanwhile, PU V-C Raj Kumar has also constituted a panel to deliberate on the matter related to charging of rent from retired employees
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||Property dispute drives 38-year-old Ludhiana man to hang self||Allegedly harassed by his two uncles and two cousins over a property issue, a 38-year-old man ended his life by hanging himself from a ceiling fan in Muradpura on Saturday. The accused Balbir Kumar, Raghbir Singh – uncles of the victim – and his cousins Vishal and Vinod used to live on the first floor of the house, whereas, the victim, survived by his wife and 14-year-old daughter, was living on the second floor of the house. A dispute between them over the property was on for past many years.Victim’s wife said as per the settlement, agreed a few months ago, the accused had to give them ₹40 lakh in cash or they will vacate the house but they (accused) neither gave them money nor vacated the house.“When my husband talked to the accused over the issue, they threatened him. He was under mental depression and ended his life by hanging himself,” added victim’s wife.Inspector Rohit Sharma, station house officer at Division number 6 police station, said a case under Section 306 (abetment to suicide ) of Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/property-dispute-drives-38-year-old-ludhiana-man-to-hang-self-101643484012346.html
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab Dyers’ Association join hands with CICU in Ludhiana to strengthen textile industry||To discuss issues being faced by the textile industry, a delegation, including Harvinder Singh from Sanchi Processor, Vishal Jain from Amar Dyers, Harminder Singh from Sky Clothing and Rahul Verma from Gulab, visited the Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertaking (CICU).They said the textile industry is going through a difficult time and is not running as per expectations. “There are a number of issues with state and central government, which need to be resolved on priority. The major issues are related to GST, Punjab Housing and Urban Development, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited, Punjab Pollution Control Board and customs department,” said the traders.The delegation further added that Punjab Dyers’ Association is honoured to be associated with CICU and will extend its support to CICU for the betterment of the industry.CICU president Upkar Singh Ahuja, general secretary Pankaj Sharma, joint secretary SB Singh said the industrial body with the help of all affiliated associations will work together and fight for the betterment of the industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-dyers-association-join-hands-with-cicu-in-ludhiana-to-strengthen-textile-industry-101643483409012.html
30-01-2022||Other||Inter-state gang of cyber criminals busted in Prayagraj, 3 arrested||PRAYAGRAJ: With the arrest of three persons, a joint team of Cyber Cell of the district police and Cantonment police claimed to have busted an inter-state gang of cyber criminals, involved in activating SIM cards using the illegally acquired documents, and then selling these to other criminals to commit cybercrimes, said police officials. Many SIM cards, illegally procured Aadhaar cards, a finger print activation machine, a laptop and ₹24,600 cash were recovered from the arrested criminals, they said. Prayagraj SSP Ajay Kumar informed that the three criminals were arrested from Cantonment police station and they were identified as Iqbal Ahmad (30) of Lakhimpur Kheri, Kalish Ahmad (24) of Sitapur and Shailesh Yadav (31) of Lucknow. “Now efforts are underway to nab Kaleem of Lakhimpur Kheri, Kapil Verma and Ram Murti of Sitapur and Raju Mandal of Murshidabad district of West Bengal. An FIR in this connection has been registered at the cantonment police station,” he said. According to the SSP, the nabbed accused during interrogation revealed that Iqbal Ahmad, an employee of a known mobile phone company, used to procure these un-activated SIM cards from his distributers at a rate of ₹5 per SIM card. He then used to activate them using illegally procured Aadhaar cards to complet the needed KYC formalities and then used to sell these SIM cards to Kalish Ahmad at a rate of ₹100 to ₹150 per SIM card. Kalish along with his cohort Kaleem, who has a mobile phone shop, in turn used to activate Paytm using these activated SIM cards through KYC process and then sell it to Shailesh Yadav at a rate of ₹300 to ₹350 per SIM card. Shailesh, who has worked for Paytm in the past, then used to access the GST website and procure PAN card number of people and used to add them to the Paytm accounts which completed the necessary KYC formalities required for increasing the limit of the transactions using them. Shailesh then used to pass these activated SIM cards with verified Paytm accounts to fellow gang members in West Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand, Gujarat, Haryana, Rajasthan and Delhi through couriers for committing cyber frauds. So far, the arrested persons had confessed to have supplied around 5000 such SIM cards to their fellow gang members, the SSP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/interstate-gang-of-cyber-criminals-busted-in-prayagraj-3-arrested-101643483109147.html
30-01-2022||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Election Commission bans exit polls from Feb 10 to March 7||Lucknow: The Election Commission (EC) has banned all exit polls pertaining to the forthcoming Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh from 7am on February 10 to 6.30pm on March 7. Giving this information here on Saturday, chief electoral officer Ajay Kumar Shukla said that conducting exit polls, their publication in print or electronic media or their publicity in any other manner would remain banned as per the Election Commission’s guidelines. “Any person who violates the order will be punished with two-year jail-term or fine or both,” he said. He said opinion polls will also remain banned before 48 hours of voting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-election-commission-bans-exit-polls-from-feb-10-to-march-7-101643482629198.html
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Burglars decamp with ₹35,000 from sweetmeat shop on Gill road||A gang of burglars struck at a sweetmeat shop-cum-bakery on Gill Road and decamped with ₹35,000 in the wee hours of Thursday. Closed-circuit television cameras (CCTV) installed at the shop captured two men on a bike breaking into the shop and fleeing with the cash box and another electronic device, which they seemed to have mistaken for the DVR of the CCTV. The CCTV clipping of the incident is now doing the rounds of social media. Bakery owner Gurpreet Singh, who lives in Model Town, said that on the night of January 26, he locked his shop and went home. Around 5.15 the next morning, he received a call from the area watchman that the shutter of his shop was found broken. Gurpreet immediately rushed to the shop and found that the burglars had taken away ₹35,000 kept in his cash drawer.Later, on examining the CCTV footage, he found that two men had come on a motorcycle and tried to break open the locks of the bakery. After failing to do so, they pulled up the shutter, and one of them sneaked in through the gap, and took away the cash box and another electronic device. The bakery owner alleged that he had filed a police complaint soon after he got to know about the crime, but no action was taken. Fed up of waiting for a response from the police, he circulated the CCTV footage from the shop on social media.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Sukhdev Singh, the investigating officer, refuted the claims and said that it was the complainant who was delaying the FIR as he thought he could trace the accused through the CCTV footage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-burglars-decamp-with-35-000-from-sweetmeat-shop-on-gill-road-101643482568757.html
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab poll buzz: Jalandhar Youth Congress backs Channi as CM face||The Jalandhar unit of Youth Congress has written to Rahul Gandhi, requesting the high command to declare incumbent Charanjit Singh Channi as the party’s chief ministerial candidate ahead of the Punjab assembly elections. Addressing a virtual rally at Jalandhar Cantonment on Thursday, Rahul had announced that the Congress would reveal its CM face after obtaining feedback from party workers. Backing Channi’s claim, Jalandhar Youth Congress president Angad Dutta said that in just a few months, the CM has taken a slew of measures for the state’s development.Bank accuses MLA of loan default A bank manager has approached the Punjab chief electoral officer to not allow Congress legislator Ramanjit Singh Sikki file his nomination papers from Khadoor Sahib for “intentionally and deliberately” defaulting on a ₹6.35-crore loan. Besides declaring the loan a non-performing asset, the bank has also filed a suit against him, stated the letter, reportedly sent from a Bank of India branch in Jalandhar.Khadoor Sahib returning officer Deepak Bhatia said the details are being verified. However, Sikki said he had received no notice from the bank, and alleged “political rivalry” behind it. Shot in the arm for Akalis on Sidhu’s seatIn a jolt to the Congress in Amritsar East segment, from where its state president Navjot Singh Sidhu is contesting the assembly elections, two local party leaders Parveen Sareen and Om Parkash Bhatia joined the Shiromani Akali Dal along with their supporters on Saturday. SAD candidate and former minister Bikram Singh Majithia inducted them into the party during a function held in the constituency set for a high-profile contest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-poll-buzz-jalandhar-youth-congress-backs-channi-as-cm-face-101643482328717.html
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||Burglars strike at sanitary shop in Ludhiana, decamp with ₹18K||A gang of burglars on Saturday targeted a sanitary shop at Pakhowal Road in Phullanwal village and decamped with ₹18,000 cash, debit card swiping machine and other valuables.Complainant Yogesh Kumar of Basant Avenue, shopkeeper, said as a daily routine, he pulled down the shutters of the shop at night and came to the shop next morning at around 10am to see the shop ransacked.Kumar learnt that some accused had barged into his shop via an underconstruction building located adjacent to his shop and had stolen some sanitary products, a laptop, a debit card swipe machine and ₹18,000 cash.Assistant sub-inspector Satinderpal Singh, the investigating officer, said the police has registered a case under Section 457 (house-breaking by night in order to commit offence) and 380 (theft in dwelling house) of Indian Penal Code against the unidentified accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/burglars-strike-sanitary-shop-in-ludhiana-decamp-with-18k-101643482148763.html
30-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram: Man forges document to get new electricity line, arrested||Police arrested a stamp paper vendor from his shop at Wazirabad on Friday evening for allegedly creating a forged document of the Union ministry of home affairs and submitting it to the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam to get a new electricity connection for his rented flat in D-block of Ardee city in Sector-52. Police said the accused, Sanjay Kumar Singh (45), a native of Basarikpur village in Ghazipur, Uttar Pradesh, was living in the flat without paying rent to the owner for seven years and was also not paying electricity bills, following which the power supply to his residence was disconnected in October last year.According to police, Singh started living in the flat from December 2014. “The tenure to vacate the flat ended in November 2015 but he is yet to vacate it. An eviction suit filed by the complainant is pending before a Gurugram court,” said a senior police officer. Police said the cheating came to light when colonel (retired) Rajendra Singh, owner of Singh’s flat, reached Gurugram from Bikaner and visited officials of the state power utility on December 23 last year to know how Singh was getting power supply when the electricity connection to his residence was already snapped. It was then that the officials showed him the application made by his tenant along with the forged documents. On December 24, the retired army officer submitted a complaint alleging that Singh had forged his signatures to prepare a no-objection certificate for getting the electricity connection in his name as it was disconnected due to non-payment of bills.Police said an FIR was registered against Singh soon after they received a reply from the Union ministry of home affairs on Friday stating that the document submitted with the ministry’s letterhead to the state power utility was forged. Police said Singh allegedly forged a letter in the name of one K P Singh, showing him as an officer on special duty to the Union home minister and submitted it to the DHBVN executive engineer for treating his application for a new electricity connection favourably.“MHA in its reply informed police that no such officer named K P Singh actually exists in the ministry,” said a senior police officer. An FIR was registered against Singh at Sector 53 police station on Friday evening under Sections 419 (punishment for cheating by personation), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 465 (punishment for forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will etc), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (punishment for forging documents or electronic records) and 472 (making or counterfeiting seals, plates for purpose of committing forgery) of the Indian Penal Code. Singh was produced before court on Saturday, which granted one-day police remand for his interrogation.Subhash Chand, station house officer of Sector-53 police station, said, “We are currently interrogating Singh. Investigation is on.” Chand said the state power utility had slapped penalty to the tune of ₹1.15 lakh on Singh for electricity theft after his power supply was disconnected. DHBVN officials said Singh is yet to clear the dues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-man-forges-document-to-get-new-electricity-line-arrested-101643481848818.html
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Ex-GM of distillery unit booked forging permission letters of excise dept||The former general manager (operations) of a distillery unit has been booked for allegedly presenting fake permission letters of the excise department to get clearance for new projects.The accused has been identified as Sachin Loomba of Grami Patti village of Samana.Complainant Lakhwinder Singh, who is the director of Kaya blender and distillery, Patiala, said the accused was a general manager (operations) at the firm’s unit on Mullanpur Road, Hambran, but resigned on June 2, 2021, citing personal reasons. After his resignation, the unit’s officials found that Loomba had committed multiple frauds during his tenure, and also leaked some sensitive information to other firms, leading to losses for Kaya blender and distillery. Lakhwinder said the accused had forged permission letters of the excise department and forwarded it to other departments, seeking their nod to start operations at other places also. The accused kept on forwarding fake permissions even after leaving the job. In view of this, Lakhwinder filed a police complaint. Meanwhile, the excise department had also come to know about the fraud and filed a complaint.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Malkit Ram, the investigating officer, said Lakhwinder had filed a complaint on September 28, 2021. After investigating the matter for four months, police registered an FIR under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-ex-gm-of-distillery-unit-booked-forging-permission-letters-of-excise-dept-101643481668774.html
30-01-2022||Lucknow||UP polls: Past hints postal ballots may play vital role in close fights||PRAYAGRAJ: Even as candidates for the upcoming assembly elections are trying hard to woo voters, past records show that along with votes cast on the electronic voting machines (EVMs), postal ballots also play a vital role in close fights in some assembly seats of Prayagraj. Postal ballots assume more importance as from this year, not only voters in service and posted outside but even senior citizens (above the age of 80 years) and differently-abled can cast their votes through postal ballots. Hence, candidates of 22 seats of Prayagraj region, comprising Prayagraj, Pratapgrah and Kaushambi districts are formulating their strategy keeping in mind the large number of postal ballots which could be decisive on some seats. As per the revised voter list, there are 67,028 senior citizen voters in Prayagraj who can use postal ballot on 12 assembly seats. Likewise, there are 7,828 voters who are in defence services and posted outside. In Pratapgrah, which has seven seats, there are 37,330 senior citizen voters and 4,697 servicemen. In Kaushambi, 12,639 voters are senior citizens who can elect their representatives for the district’s three assembly seats. The importance of postal ballots can be gauged by the results on some seats of these three districts in the 2012 assembly elections. In 2012, Deepak Patel of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) had defeated Samajwadi Party candidate Ujjwal Raman Singh by a margin of just 404 votes. Even in 2007 elections, Anand Kumar of BSP had defeated Singh by a margin of just 345 votes. Likewise, in 2012 elections, SP candidate Haji Parvez Ahmed had defeated Nand Gopal Gupta ‘Nandi’, who was contesting as a BSP candidate, by 414 votes. In 2002 elections, Udaybhan Karwariya had defeated Ram Sevak Singh Patel of BSP by just 65 votes to win Bara assembly seat. In terms of the last assembly elections of 2017, the maximum number of postal ballots were cast for Allahabad North seat where BJP candidate Harshvardhan Bajpai won. He had got 425 votes through postal ballot, the highest among the 12 assembly seats of the district. At number two was Sidharth Nath Singh, the BJP candidate from Allahabad West who got 217 postal ballot votes. Nand Gopal Gupta had bagged 192 postal ballot votes in Allahabad South. In the 2017 elections, a total of 5,472 postal ballots were counted. The maximum number of votes (848) were polled in Allahabad North, 717 in Phulpur, 495 in Pratappur, 485 in Handia, 419 in Allahabad West, 397 in Soraon, 395 in Meja, 383 in Karchana, 378 in Phaphamau, 357 in Allahabad South and 337 in Bara. With 261 postal ballots, Koraon was at the bottom. When the counting of votes starts in the election, the postal ballots are counted first, followed by votes of the EVMs. In Pratapgrah, Rajendra Pratap Singh aka “Moti Singh” of BJP had got the maximum number of postal ballots (583) and had won Patti assembly seat. Apna Dal candidate from Pratapgarh Sangam Lal Gupta and Congress candidate from Rampur Khas Aradhana Mishra had got 515 postal ballot votes each and won their respective seats. In Kaushambi district, a total of 644 postal ballots were polled out of which Indrajeet Singh Saroj of BSP had got 320 votes and had won the Manjhanpur seat. “Although previously postal ballots were not considered as a factor which could influence the victory of a candidate, now that the senior citizens and differently-abled too are included among those who can cast their votes through postal ballots, candidates in fray need to make sure that they do not lose these votes”, said Prof MP Dube, political analyst and former vice-chancellor of Uttar Pradesh Rajarshi Tandon Open University (UPRTOU).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-polls-past-hints-postal-ballots-may-play-vital-role-in-close-fights-101643481550502.html
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Setback to Amarinder, two PLC candidates opt out||In a setback to former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, two nominees fielded by his Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) — former Indian Hockey team captain Ajit Pal Singh and Nawanshahr unit president Satvir Singh Palli Jhikki — have given up their candidature while four others have opted to contest on the senior ally Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s lotus symbol. While hockey Olympian Ajit Pal was declared the candidate from Nakodar, Palli Jhikki was in the fray from Nawanshahr. In the fresh list of PLC candidates announced on Saturday, Ajit Pal was replaced by Shammi Kumar Kalyan, while the party is likely to give the Nawanshahr seat to the BJP. According to senior PLC leaders, Ajit Pal has cited “personal reasons” behind not contesting from Nakodar. In the case of Palli Jhikki, there are talks of him being hopeful of getting the Congress ticket from Nawanshahr. “It’s a totally new field for me while the PLC needs more time for its organisational set up,” said Ajit Pal. “I am not aware of rules of politics. Moreover, my village is Sansarpur near Jalandhar but I am settled in Delhi and don’t have vote in Punjab, which is mandatory to contest the elections. That is why I opted out.”Palli Jhikki, who was the district planning board chairman in the Congress government, was named the PLC district president after joining Capt Amarinder’s party. He confirmed to the HT that he has refused to contest as a PLC candidate. Leaders close to him said that if the Congress doesn’t give the ticket to sitting Nawanshahr MLA Angad Saini, it hardly has any replacement other than Palli Jhikki, as he belongs to the Saini community that holds sway in the segment. Four to contest on BJP symbol Meanwhile, four PLC candidates from Bathinda, Kharar, Ludhiana South and Atam Nagar (Ludhiana) have decided to contest on the BJP’s lotus symbol. At least three more are seeking the BJP’s symbol, it is learnt. According to one of the candidates from Ludhiana, voters are still not aware of the PLC’s symbol of hockey stick and ball, the reason behind his decision to go for the BJP symbol. “As we are contesting polls from urban segments, having a large presence of Hindu voters, we got feedback from our supporters that if we take the BJP’s symbol, it would add to our votes,” said the candidate cited above, while requesting not to be named. In Kharar, where PLC’s general secretary in-charge Kamaldeep Singh Saini is the candidate, the saffron party is learnt to have pushed for making him contest on its symbol, keeping in mind the large migrant population from Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand.“When we are contesting as alliance partners, there is hardly any difference in who contests from which symbol. We all are candidates of the alliance,” said Saini. A senior BJP leader at the helm of affairs said the saffron party has agreed to allot its symbol to the four candidates, and has handed over official letters of their candidature to the PLC. Seven more candidates declared The PLC on Saturday declared seven more candidates, including Jaskaran Singh Sandhu from Patti, Shammi Kumar Kalyan from Nakodar, Jagdish Rai Jassal from Adampur (reserved), Karanveer Singh Indora from Malout (reserved), and Jiwan Dass Bawa from Mansa. In a faux pas, the party included the name of Maya Devi, who is the wife of former MLA Makhan Singh, from Bathinda Rural. Her son Savera Singh had already been announced as the candidate in the first list. Later in the evening, the party once again named him as the candidate from Bathinda Rural. So far, the PLC has declared 32 candidates out of the 37 seats allotted to it in alliance with the BJP and Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt). 
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Day after debt-ridden trader ends life, 21 booked for abetment to suicide||A day after a trader ended his life, after allegedly being humiliated by some persons whom he owed money to, police have booked 21 persons for abetment to suicide.The accused had allegedly taken away two of his cars in lieu of the outstanding loan. The FIR has been registered on the statement of the victim’s son. The accused have been identified as Navin Bhatia, Madaan, Rahul, Anuj Narang, Dinesh Nautia, Shanty, Boby Chopra, Amit, Poonam Bhandhari, Harjap, Khurana, Pooja Kotisan, Abhishek Saini, Harminder Singh, Ashok Thapar and Naman Jain. The owners of Om Knitwears, Goyal Knitwears, DS Knitwear and Mahinder Hosiery have also been booked, but not by name as the victim’s son was not aware of their names. In his statement to the police, the victim’s son said that due to the pandemic-induced lockdown, his father had suffered losses in his business. He was under debt, and struggling to repay the lenders. The lenders had been threatening him for a long time, and on Thursday, they took away his Honda Jazz and Hyundai Creta cars. Upset over this, his father ended his life on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Gurpreet Singh, the investigating officer, said a case under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-day-after-debt-ridden-trader-ends-life-21-booked-for-abetment-to-suicide-101643481188904.html
30-01-2022||Lucknow||Covid: Fresh cases dip, but deaths, vaccination of leftover population pose challenge in UP||Although the number of daily fresh Covid cases is receding in Uttar Pradesh (UP), the deaths during the third wave of infections and vaccination of the leftover eligible population remain a challenge for the state health and family welfare department. After a surge in late December, the trajectory of the third wave of Covid in UP reached its peak on January 17 when 1,06,616 active cases were reported in the state. The number of fresh cases started declining from then onwards indicating that Covid-19 cases have started to plateau. On Saturday, 59,610 active cases were reported in the state, according to the data released by the state health and family welfare department. During the third wave, a majority of the infected people remained in home isolation. Out of the 59,610 active cases, merely 1,200 people are currently undergoing treatment in health facilities in various districts. A total of 2,93,260 Covid cases were reported in the state between January 1 and January 29, according to health department data. Also, 249 deaths were reported within 29 days. This is at least eight deaths per day on average. The death rate between January 1 and 29 was 0.084%. After the decline of the second wave of the Covid-19 infection in UP, no deaths were reported in November and December. Dr Amresh Singh, head of the microbiology department at Baba Raghav Das (BRD) Medical College (Gorakhpur) said the death audit of the Covid-19 patients who succumbed shows that majority of the fatalities during the third wave is due to co-morbidity. During the second wave of Covid infection, even the patients who did not have any disease, as well as the middle-aged patients whose immunity is strong, died, he said. In the third wave, the patients suffering with uncontrolled diabetes, high blood pressure, asthma, those whose lungs were compromised or infected with other diseases have died. About 90% of the Covid deaths in the third wave are due to co-morbidity, he said. Dr Singh said the patients who had taken both doses of the Covid vaccine recovered fast. Though the vaccine did not check infection, it built strong antibodies and the condition of vaccinated people did not become serious even after infection. The state government should ensure that maximum number of people get vaccine coverage, he said. Among eligible beneficiaries above 18 years of age in Uttar Pradesh, 14,62,08,498 first doses of the Covid vaccine has been administered, which is 99.18% of the eligible population. Among the beneficiaries, 10,05,20,497 people have got their second dose, which is 68.18% of the eligible population. The state health and family welfare department has launched a statewide drive to identify the people who have not taken the first dose, as well as the people who did not turn up for the second one after taking the first dose, said a health department officer. Till January 1, a total 12,80,30,367 first doses were administered and the number went up to 14,62,08,498 on January 29.“A total 99.18% eligible beneficiaries above 18-years have got their first dose and 68.18% got their second dose also. The state has administered a total 25,68,04,944 Covid-19 vaccine doses,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, in a press statement on Saturday.“It has been observed that those who are vaccinated have mild symptoms even if they get infected with the Covid-19 virus,” said Prasad.Experts said that vaccination is the safety shield against the virus. “Getting vaccinated is just like having a preventive dose against the virus. If the virus attacks, the vaccinated person will have the least impact,” said Dr PK Gupta, the former president of the Indian Medical Association, Lucknow and a microbiologist.The Election Commission of India has called upon the poll-bound states, including UP, to ramp up the Covid vaccination as well as to ensure that the eligible population gets vaccine cover when UP goes for first phase of polling on February 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid-fresh-cases-dip-but-deaths-vaccination-of-leftover-population-pose-challenge-in-up-101643479748853.html
30-01-2022||World||WHO’s push for 70% vaccination, equitable use of strategies on 2 years of Covid-19 pandemic||Director-general of the World Health Organization (WHO) Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus on Sunday said that the world can end the acute phase of the Covid-19 pandemic this year if every nation could vaccinate 70% of their populations against the disease, particularly the at-risk populations. He also called for the strategies and the tools available to be used in a “comprehensive and equitable” way.The remarks from the UN health body’s chief came on Sunday, a day on which the WHO declared the Covid-19 pandemic a public health emergency of international concern two years ago in 2020.This year we could end the acute phase of the #COVID19 pandemic if we vaccinate 70% of the population of every country, with a focus on the most at-risk groups, and use all strategies and tools in a comprehensive and equitable way. pic.twitter.com/XX8Sb2faMU“#OnThisDay 2 years ago I declared the #COVID19 outbreak a Public Health Emergency of International Concern to alert the world to this threat. @WHO had been sharing advice with countries to help them respond since early Jan 2020 & we haven't stopped since,” Ghebreyesus wrote in a tweet.He also reiterated his previous remarks where he said that countries must strive towards vaccinating 70% of their populations to end the pandemic as a global health emergency.Also read | ‘Risk persists despite plateauing Covid-19 cases in India’: WHO“This year we could end the acute phase of the #COVID19 pandemic if we vaccinate 70% of the population of every country, with a focus on the most at-risk groups, and use all strategies and tools in a comprehensive and equitable way,” Ghebreyesus said in a subsequent tweet.Earlier on January 24, during his opening remarks at the 150th session of the WHO’s executive board meeting, he said that the world would be living with Covid for the “foreseeable future”. He also said that in two years the world has seen nearly 350 million cases and 5.5 million deaths, numbers which he called an “underestimate”.He said that the WHO has been providing strategies, tools, technical and operational support to countries during the pandemic. “If countries use all of these strategies and tools in a comprehensive way, we can end the acute phase of the pandemic this year - we can end Covid-19 as a global health emergency, and we can do it this year,” he said.Further, he also noted that countries must aim for “reducing mortality through strong clinical management, beginning with primary health care, and equitable access to diagnostics, oxygen and antivirals at the point of care.”While vaccines alone were not a “golden ticket” out of the pandemic, there is no other path out if the target of 70% vaccinations in every country was achieved, he further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/whos-push-for-70-vaccination-equitable-use-of-strategies-on-2-years-of-covid-19-pandemic-101643563045281.html
30-01-2022||World||What is MERS-CoV, first identified in 2012, which has a link with NeoCov?||With Wuhan scientists alerting the world about the NeoCov virus which has been reported among bats in South Africa, a fresh apprehension was born. But scientists have assured that NeoCov should not be a cause of concern as it can't infect humans in its present form. NeoCov is also not a variant of SARS-Cov-2 and has been linked to MERS, an old coronavirus -- not the one which is driving the pandemic in the past two years.Here is all you need to know about MERS:1. The full form of MERS is Middle East respiratory syndrome. It was first identified in Saudi Arabia in 2012.2. It is also a coronavirus. Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that can cause from common cold to Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS). SARS-CoV outbreak was reported in 2002 which was quickly contained. SARS-CoV-2 was first reported in Wuhan in December 2019, and then the pandemic began.NeoCov: What WHO says on this new coronavirus variant found among bats in Wuhan3. After MERS was first identified in 2012, 27 countries reported MERS cases, including Algeria, Austria, Bahrain, China, Egypt, France, Germany, Greece, Islamic Republic of Iran, Italy, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Malaysia, the Netherlands, Oman, Philippines, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Thailand, Tunisia, Turkey, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, United States, and Yemen.4. MERS is a zootonic virus which means it can transmit between animals and people. Dromedary camels were the major host of the virus at that time. According to WHO information, people in Saudi Arabia mostly got infected through unprotected contact with infected dromedary camels.5. MERS had symptoms like fever, cough, shortness of breath etc.MERS has come into discussion in the last few days as scientists have said that this NeoCov is a close relative of this MERS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/what-is-mers-cov-first-identified-in-2012-which-has-a-link-with-neocov-101643560632045.html
30-01-2022||World||Qatar approves Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine for children aged 5-11 years||Qatari Ministry of Health approved the Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine for children aged 5 to 11 years, it said on Sunday.In November, Gulf states Bahrain and Saudi Arabia approved the Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine for emergency use for children in the same age category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/qatar-approves-pfizer-biontech-vaccine-for-children-aged-5-11-years-101643557763543.html
30-01-2022||World||Scientists on alert over rising cases caused by Omicron subvariant BA.2||The highly transmissible Omicron variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus - the most common form of which is known as BA.1 - now accounts for nearly all of the coronavirus infections globally, although dramatic surges in Covid cases have already peaked in some countries.Scientists are now tracking a rise in cases caused by a close cousin known as BA.2, which is starting to outcompete BA.1 in parts of Europe and Asia. The following is what we know so far about the new subvariant:‘Stealth subvariant’ Globally, BA.1 accounted for 98.8% of sequenced cases submitted to the public virus tracking database GISAID as of Jan. 25. But several countries are reporting recent increases in the subvariant known as BA.2, according to the World Health Organization.In addition to BA.1 and BA.2, the WHO lists two other subvariants under the Omicron umbrella: BA.1.1.529 and BA.3. All are closely related genetically, but each features mutations that could alter how they behave.Trevor Bedford, a computational virologist at Fred Hutchinson Cancer Center who has been tracking the evolution of SARS-CoV-2, wrote on Twitter on Friday that BA.2 represents roughly 82% of cases in Denmark, 9% in the UK and 8% in the United States, based on his analysis of sequencing data from the GISAID database and case counts from the Our World in Data project at the University of Oxford.The BA.1 version of Omicron has been somewhat easier to track than prior variants. That is because BA.1 is missing one of three target genes used in a common PCR test. Cases showing this pattern were assumed by default to be caused by BA.1.BA.2, sometimes known as a "stealth" subvariant, does not have the same missing target gene. Instead, scientists are monitoring it the same way they have prior variants, including Delta, by tracking the number of virus genomes submitted to public databases such as GISAID.As with other variants, an infection with BA.2 can be detected by coronavirus home tests kits, though they cannot indicate which variant is responsible, experts said.More transmissible?Some early reports indicate that BA.2 may be even more infectious than the already extremely contagious BA.1, but there is no evidence so far that it is more likely to evade vaccine protection.Danish health officials estimate that BA.2 may be 1.5 times more transmissible than BA.1, based on preliminary data, though it likely does not cause more severe disease.In England, a preliminary analysis of contact tracing from Dec. 27, 2021, through Jan. 11, 2022, by the UK Health Security Agency (HSA) suggests that household transmission is higher among contacts of people infected with BA.2 (13.4%) compared with other Omicron cases (10.3%).The HSA found no evidence of a difference in vaccine effectiveness, according to the Jan. 28 report.A critical question is whether people who were infected in the BA.1 wave will be protected from BA.2, said Dr. Egon Ozer, an infectious disease expert at Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine in Chicago.That has been a concern in Denmark, where some places that saw high case counts of BA.1 infections were reporting rising cases of BA.2, Ozer said.If prior BA.1 infection does not protect against BA.2, "this could be sort of a two-humped camel kind of wave," Ozer said. "It's too early to know if that will happen."The good news, he said, is that vaccines and boosters still "keep people out of the hospital and keep people from dying."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/scientists-on-alert-over-rising-cases-caused-by-omicron-subvariant-ba2-101643551692029.html
30-01-2022||World||'Unacceptable': Canada to appoint representative to fight Islamophobia; Pakistan welcomes decision||The Canadian government on Sunday announced its intention to appoint a special representative to combat Islamophobia in the country as part of its anti-racism strategy. "Islamophobia is unacceptable. Full stop. We need to put an end to this hate and make our communities safer for Muslim Canadians. To help with that, we intend to appoint a Special Representative on combatting Islamophobia," Justin Trudeau tweeted.Islamophobia is unacceptable. Full stop. We need to put an end to this hate and make our communities safer for Muslim Canadians. To help with that, we intend to appoint a Special Representative on combatting Islamophobia. More details here: https://t.co/sEiOYlLRawThe decision comes as the country marked the National Day of Remembrance of the Québec City Mosque Attack and Action against Islamophobia on January 29. In the statement, the government also reaffirmed its "commitment to denounce and tackle Islamophobia and hate-fueled violence.""This year, on the eve of the five-year anniversary of this act of terror, the Government of Canada stands with and supports Muslim communities across Canada and reaffirms its commitment to take action to denounce and tackle Islamophobia and hate-fueled violence," it also said.The government noted that Islamophobia is a "concrete and daily reality" for Muslim communities across the country and around the world. It then underlined that it is their responsibility to build a more inclusive country to combat discrimination.The special representative appointment is one of the recommendations put forward during the virtual National Summit on Islamophobia, which was held in July 2021. It will be an additional step in the government’s ongoing work through Canada’s Anti-Racism Strategy to tackle Islamophobia in all its forms, the government said.Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan welcomed the decision and write, "I welcome Prime Minister @JustinTrudeau's unequivocal condemnation of #Islamophobia & his plan to appoint a Special Representative to combat this contemporary scourge. His timely call to action resonates with what I have long argued. Let us join hands to put an end to this menace."I welcome Prime Minister @JustinTrudeau's unequivocal condemnation of #Islamophobia & his plan to appoint a Special Representative to combat this contemporary scourge. His timely call to action resonates with what I have long argued. Let us join hands to put an end to this menaceIn 2017 on January 29, six worshippers were killed and five others got seriously injured after a 27-year-old opened fire in a mosque during evening prayers. The shooting, which Prime Minister Trudeau denounced as a terrorist attack, provoked debate over the treatment of new arrivals at a time when Canadians were being tested by a growing number of migrants crossing from the United States into the province of Quebec.In the same year, an anti-Islam rally was held in the London city of Ontario, which was organized by a group called the Patriots of Canada Against the Islamization of the West (PEGIDA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/-unacceptable-canada-to-appoint-representative-to-fight-islamophobia-pakistan-welcomes-decision-101643552587815.html
30-01-2022||World||3 Brazilians tested Covid positive continuously for over 70 days: Reports||A new study published in the Frontiers in Medicine Journal has claimed that the SARS-CoV-2 virus may remain active for more than what is now believed. These are, however, not regular cases and have been terms as atypical cases. Out of 38 Brazillian patients, who have been tracked for this study, two men and a woman were continuously found positive for more than 70 days."Based on this result, we can say that about 8 per cent of people infected by SARS-CoV-2 may be able to transmit the virus for more than two months, without necessarily manifesting any symptoms during the final stage of the infection," said Marielton dos Passos Cunha, first author of the article.The aim of the study was to assess whether a period of 14 days is adequate as the quarantine period. The author said though these atypical cases were few, they have concluded that 14 days are not enough to be sure that the person can't spread the infection. . It can take a month for a patient to test negative, and in some cases included in our study the patients remained positive for 71 to 232 days, the researchers said.The patients who participated in the study were tested until they tested negative.In these three atypical cases, the virus remained detectable for 71 days in the woman and 81 days in one of the two men. None of them had comorbidities and all had mild symptoms of Covid-19. The other man who continued to test positive for coronavirus for 232 days had HIV but he had no viral load as he had already undergone treatment. All of them were infected by lineage B.1.1.28, which entered Brazil at the start of 2020, reports said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/3-brazilians-tested-covid-positive-continuously-for-over-70-days-reports-101643542572711.html
30-01-2022||World||Russian foreign minister Lavrov suggests Moscow will wait longer before Ukraine response||Russia wants an explanation of European security obligations from western nations before making its next proposals on the Ukraine crisis, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said. Moscow is asking Nato members and countries in the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe to clarify how they intend to fulfill OSCE obligations not to strengthen security at the expense of the security of others, Lavrov said on Russian state television. Their answers to the Foreign Ministry’s official request will be “key to determining our future proposals, which we will report to Russian President Vladimir Putin,” Lavrov said.The U.S. has warned repeatedly in recent weeks that Russia may be preparing to invade Ukraine after massing more than 100,000 troops near their border. The Kremlin denies this, while also demanding binding security guarantees from Washington and its Nato allies that Ukraine will never be allowed to join the military alliance.Russia’s Patrushev calls Ukraine invasion threat ‘absurd’: IFXRussia also wants the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to withdraw its forces to positions held in 1997 before central and eastern European countries became members. While the U.S. and Nato have rejected these demands, they sent written proposals for strengthening European security to Moscow in the past week, including on missile deployments and military maneuvers.Russian President Vladimir Putin told his French counterpart Emmanuel Macron in a “lengthy” phone call Friday that the proposals failed to answer Russia’s main concerns, though Moscow would study them further before deciding on its next step, according to a Kremlin statement. He said the U.S. and Nato had “ignored a key question” on ensuring indivisible European security.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russian-foreign-minister-lavrov-suggests-moscow-will-wait-longer-before-ukraine-response-101643542503765.html
30-01-2022||World||H-1B visa registration for fiscal year 2023 from March 1 to 18: Details here||The initial registrations for H-1B visas for the fiscal year 2023 will open on March 1 and will go on till March 23. In a press release, the US Citizenship and Immigration Services said during this period, prospective petitioners and representatives will be able to complete and submit their registrations using the online H-1B registration system. H-1B visa is a non-immigrant visa with many Indian takers for this visa programme. US companies can hire Indians through this visa programme. In a financial year, which starts in October in the US, 65,000 H-1B visas are issued while 20,000 visas are kept reserved for US Masters' degree holders.Amazon, Infosys, Tata Consultancy Services and Cognizant were the top recipients of H-1B visas in the fiscal year 2021.Here is all you need to know about the initial registration process1. After the registration, the immigration department will assign a confirmation number to track registrations. This number is not for applicants to track the status of the registrations.2. Prospective H-1B cap-subject petitioners or their representatives are required to use a myUSCIS online account to register each beneficiary electronically for the selection process and pay the associated $10 H-1B registration fee for each registration submitted on behalf of each beneficiary.3. Prospective petitioners submitting their own registrations (U.S. employers and U.S. agents, collectively known as “registrants”) will use a “registrant” account. Registrants will be able to create new accounts beginning at noon Eastern on Feb. 21.4. The department said if enough registrations are received by March 18, then it will randomly select registrations and send selection notifications via users’ myUSCIS online accounts.In December 2021, the US waived the in-person interview requirement for H-1B visa applicants given the pandemic situation.In 2021, the number of H-1B visas dropped the most in a decade, according to analysts. US employers’ preliminary applications submitted for engineering and mathematics jobs under the H-1B visa program fell 12.6% in the fiscal year ending September 2021 compared to the previous year, a Bloomberg News analysis said. The drop was attributed to the slow visa processing during lockown and also to the rising popularity of Canada visas among Indians.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/h1b-visa-registration-for-fiscal-year-2023-from-march-1-to-18-details-here-101643532528414.html
30-01-2022||World||Canada PM Trudeau moved to secret location as protests flare-up: Reports||Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and his family have left their home in the country's capital and shifted to a secret location after a large-scale protest opposing Covid vaccine mandates converged on Parliament Hill, media reports said on Saturday.What started as a protest dubbed as 'Freedom Convoy' against a vaccine requirement for cross-border truckers has grown into a large demonstration against the Trudeau government's coronavirus regulations.Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and his family have left their home in the country's capital and shifted to a secret location after a large-scale protest opposing Covid vaccine mandates converged on Parliament Hill, media reports said on Saturday.What started as a protest dubbed as 'Freedom Convoy' against a vaccine requirement for cross-border truckers has grown into a large demonstration against the Trudeau government's coronavirus regulations.|#+|Thousands of truckers and other protesters converged in the Capital city on Saturday to call for an end to Covid-19 vaccine mandates and other public health restrictions, the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation reported.Among the people were some kids with their kids, elderly and disabled people. Some even carried signs with aggressive and obscenity-laced rhetoric directed mostly at the Canadian prime minister, according to The Globe and Mail newspaper.Some of the protesters were seen dancing on the prominent war memorial, prompting condemnation from Canada's top soldier Gen. Wayne Eyre and Canadian Defence Minister Anita Anand.Police are on high alert for possible violence after hundreds of protesters flooded into the parliamentary precinct, despite an extreme cold warning."I am sickened to see protesters dance on the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier and desecrate the National War Memorial. Generations of Canadians have fought and died for our rights, including free speech, but not this. Those involved should hang their heads in shame," General Wayne Eyre tweeted.Anita Anand also condemned this incident saying this "behaviour we're seeing today is beyond reprehensible.""The Tomb of the Unknown Soldier and National War Memorial are sacred sites for our country. I urge all Canadians to treat them with solemnity, out of respect for those who have fought and died for Canada," she said.Police said nearly 10,000 people were expected to be on hand by day's end. Media reports say that by Saturday evening the force did not have an official estimate of the crowd's size.On Friday, Trudeau told media he was concerned the protest would turn violent, but said the convoy represented a "small fringe minority" who "do not represent the views of Canadians."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-pm-trudeau-moved-to-secret-location-as-protests-flare-up-reports-101643517143393.html
30-01-2022||World||Carbon monoxide poisoning at US hotel; 7 in critical condition||Seven people were hospitalized in critical condition Saturday after suffering from carbon monoxide poisoning at a Hampton Inn in Ohio, local officials said.A total of nine people were taken to local hospitals, according to The Columbus Dispatch. Marysville Fire Chief Jay Riley told the newspaper that the source of the carbon monoxide was unclear but everyone who was hospitalized had been in the hotel's pool area.Riley said the victims included both children and adults. He did not provide exact ages.Authorities said they received a 911 call Saturday evening about a 2-year-old girl who had either fallen into the pool or was found in the pool unconscious at the Hampton Inn in Marysville. More 911 calls soon followed about unconscious people or others who reported symptoms such as dizziness and a burning in the throat, Marysville Police Chief Tony Brooks said.The hotel was evacuated shortly after. Brooks told the newspaper that all of the injured were alive when they were transported and that seven of the patients were in critical condition.Two others were treated at the scene, and five more later sought treatment on their own at a hospital, Brooks said.The Dispatch could not reach any members of the hotel management late Saturday. Riley said a Hampton Inn maintenance team was en route from out of state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/carbon-monoxide-poisoning-at-us-hotel-7-in-critical-condition-101643515529403.html
30-01-2022||World||Donald Trump says he would pardon Jan 6 rioters if he runs and wins||US former President Donald Trump said on Saturday if he were to run for president and win in 2024, he would pardon people charged with criminal offenses in connection with the deadly Jan 6 assault by his supporters on the US Capitol.Trump, who has not said whether he will run for president again after his defeat by Democrat Joe Biden in the 2020 election, was speaking at a rally in Conroe, Texas."Another thing we'll do, and so many people have been asking me about it, if I run and if I win, we will treat those people from Jan. 6 fairly," Trump said to applause. "We will treat them fairly. And if it requires pardons we will give them pardons. Because they are being treated so unfairly."Thousands of Trump supporters stormed the Capitol on Jan. 6, 2021, the worst assault on Congress since the War of 1812. Fueled by Trump's false claims that his November 2020 election defeat was the result of fraud, the attackers sought to stop Congress from certifying Biden's victory.One police officer who responded to the scene died the day after the attack, while four others who guarded the Capitol died later by suicide. About 140 police officers were injured during the hours-long attack. Four rioters also died. More than 700 people have been charged with joining in the assault.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-says-he-would-pardon-jan-6-rioters-if-he-runs-and-wins-101643515422310.html
30-01-2022||World||Snow 'bomb' unleashes blizzard in US; New York, other states declare emergencies||Blinding snow whipped up by powerful winds pummeled the eastern United States on Saturday, as one of the strongest winter storms in years triggered transport chaos and power outages across a region of some 70 million people.Major cities like New York and Boston bore the brunt of the blizzard, which the National Weather Service (NWS) confirmed intensified Saturday into a "bomb cyclone" -- characterized by the explosive power of rapid drops in atmospheric pressure.The heaviest-hit parts of New York and Massachusetts received two feet (61 centimeters) of snow by early evening, with more than 95,000 homes in Massachusetts reported without power.Cold weather stretched as far south as Florida, where the NWS warned of "scattered to isolated falling iguanas from trees" as plunging temperatures temporarily paralyzed the large lizards.Residents in towns and cities across the eastern seaboard were urged to avoid all unnecessary travel for a second night of whiteout conditions, with additional snowfall expected to be heaviest across New England.In Long Island, officials said a woman had been found dead in her car by a snowplow operator.Salt machines and snowplows crawled along the streets of New York City, where Central Park was covered in 7.5 inches of snow and regional train lines were partially shut down.In Times Square, the famous neon billboards formed glowing halos in the snowy air. But the frigid temperatures didn't stop Robert Burck, a Times Square fixture known as the "Naked Cowboy."Wearing only his underwear, a cowboy hat and cowboy boots, he strolled through the nearly empty tourist hotspot, strumming his guitar."It's fantastic," one undaunted tourist, Gonzalo Vazquez of Spain, told AFP in Times Square. "It's like skiing, surrounded by lights and awesome LED screens."In the trendy Cobble Hill neighborhood in Brooklyn, the sidewalks were almost deserted and many businesses were closed. But the few who did brave the elements smiled as they wished each other, "Happy snow day!"New York and the neighboring state of New Jersey plus Virginia, Maryland and Delaware declared emergencies for all or part of the states.New York Governor Kathy Hochul said the storm's perils were not over yet, warning residents Saturday that "the most dangerous phase of the storm is now.""Please continue to avoid any unnecessary travel while our crews are working to clear the roads," she said.Getting 'quite uglyIn Boston where a snow emergency was declared, Mayor Michelle Wu tweeted a reminder Saturday "to stay off the roads if you can."Massachusetts Governor Charlie Baker said there had been "serious whiteout conditions for most of the midday today," and that there was still "pretty limited visibility out there."Eric Calessandro, a homeowner in the town of Marshfield near Boston said he had just lost power, but was optimistic his 8,000-watt generator would pull him through.He said he "should be able to bear it out for a couple days without power," adding that he had stocked up on food and water in advance.Boston Public Works said 900 snow plows were hard at work on the city streets.Plow driver Mark Burns, working in Boston's South Shore area, said the snow had gotten heavy: "It was supposed to be light and fluffy, but it's a little wet now."More than 3,500 flights were cancelled for Saturday travelling within, into or out of the United States, according to flight tracker FlightAware, and just over 1,000 flights have already been canceled for Sunday.Cancellations on Friday totaled more than 1,450.The blizzard comes on the heels of a similar winter storm that blanketed a swath of Eastern North America -- from Georgia to Canada -- just two weeks ago, cutting power to thousands of homes and also disrupting thousands of flights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/snow-bomb-unleashes-blizzard-is-us-new-york-other-states-declare-emergencies-101643502633811.html
30-01-2022||World||US woman led all-female Islamic State unit, charged with planning attacks||A woman who once lived in Kansas has been arrested after federal prosecutors charged her with joining the Islamic State group and leading an all-female battalion of AK-47 wielding militants.The US Attorney in Alexandria, Virginia, announced Saturday that Allison Fluke-Ekren, 42, has been charged with providing material support to a terrorist organization.The criminal complaint was filed under seal back in 2019 but made public Saturday after Fluke-Ekren was brought back to the US Friday to face charges. Her alleged participation in the Islamic State had not been publicly known before Saturday's announcement.Prosecutors say Fluke-Ekren wanted to recruit operatives to attack a college campus in the US and discussed a terrorist attack on a shopping mall. She told one witness that “she considered any attack that did not kill a large number of individuals to be a waste of resources,” according to an FBI affidavit.That affidavit from FBI Special Agent David Robins also alleges that Fluke-Ekren became leader of an Islamic State unit called “Khatiba Nusaybah” in the Syrian city of Raqqa in late 2016. The all-female unit was trained in the use of AK-47 rifles, grenades and suicide belts.In all, the affidavit cites observations from six different witnesses, including some who have been charged with terrorism offenses and some who were held at prison camps for former Islamic state members.A detention memo filed Friday by First Assistant US Attorney Raj Parekh states that Fluke-Ekren even trained children how to use assault rifles, and that at least one witness saw one of Fluke-Ekren's children, approximately 5 or 6 years old, holding a machine gun in the family's home in Syria.“Fluke-Ekren has been a fervent believer in the radical terrorist ideology of ISIS for many years, having traveled to Syria to commit or support violent jihad. Fluke-Ekren translated her extremist beliefs into action by serving as the appointed leader and organizer of an ISIS military battalion, directly training women and children in the use of AK-47 assault rifles, grenades, and suicide belts to support the Islamic State’s murderous aims,” Parekh wrote.According to court papers, Fluke-Ekren moved to Egypt in 2008 and traveled frequently between Egypt and the US over the next three years. She has not been in the US since 2011.Prosecutors believe she moved to Syria around 2012. In early 2016, her husband was killed in the Syrian city of Tell Abyad while trying to carry out a terrorist attack, prosecutors said. Later that year, prosecutors say she married a Bangladeshi ISIS member who specialized in drones, but he died in late 2016 or early 2017.Four months after that man's death, she again remarried a prominent Islamic state leader who was responsible for the Islamic State group's defense of Raqqa.She told one witness in 2018 that she instructed a person in Syria to tell Fluke-Ekren's Family she was dead so the US government would not try to find her, according to Parekh's memo.Photos from a family blog called 4KansasKids show her and her children in the years they traveled between Kansas and Egypt, posing at the base of the pyramids in Egypt and playing in the snow in the U.S.A 2004 article about homeschooling in the Lawrence Journal-World featured Fluke-Ekren and her children. She told the paper she pulled her kids from public school because she was dissatisfied with how her children were performing in public and private schools. Homeschooling allowed her to teach Arabic to her kids.Court papers do not indicate how she was captured, or how long she was in custody before being turned over to the FBI Friday.She is scheduled to make an initial appearance at US District Court in Alexandria on Monday, at which time she would likely be appointed an attorney.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-woman-led-all-female-islamic-state-unit-charged-with-planning-attacks-101643501090239.html
30-01-2022||World||Thousands protest Covid vaccine mandates and curbs in Canada's capital Ottawa||Thousands of protesters gathered in Canada’s capital on Saturday to protest vaccine mandates, masks and lockdowns.Some parked on the grounds of the National War Memorial, others carried signs and flags with swastikas and some used the statue of Canadian hero Terry Fox to display an anti-vaccine statement, sparking widespread condemnation.“Parking on this sacred ground that includes the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier was a sign of complete disrespect,” Ottawa Mayor Jim Watson tweeted.Protestors compared vaccine mandates to fascism, one truck carried a Confederate flag and many carried expletive-laden signs targeting Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau.The statue of Fox, a national hero who lost a leg to bone cancer as a youngster, then set off in 1980 on a fundraising trek across Canada, was draped with a upside down Canadian flag with a sign that said “mandate freedom.”Trudeau retweeted a statement from The Terry Fox Foundation that said “Terry believed in science and gave his life to help others.”Eric Simmons, from Oshawa, Ontario, said all vaccine mandates should be ended.“They’re not effective, they’re not working. It’s not changing anything. We can’t keep living like this. People are losing their jobs because they don’t want to get the vaccine,” Simmons said.The convoy of truckers and others prompted police to prepare for the possibility of violence and warn residents to avoid downtown. A top Parliament security official advised lawmakers to lock their doors amid reports their private homes may be targeted.Trudeau has said Canadians are not represented by this “very troubling, small but very vocal minority of Canadians who are lashing out at science, at government, at society, at mandates and public health advice.″The prime minister's itinerary for the day usually says he is in Ottawa if he's at home, but on Saturday it said "National Capital Region" amid a report he's been moved to an undisclosed location. One of Trudeau's kids has COVID-19 and the prime minister has been isolating and working remotely.Canada has one of the highest vaccination rates in the world and the premier of the province of Quebec who is proposing to tax the unvaccinated is popular.Some are, in part, protesting a new rule that took effect Jan. 15 requiring truckers entering Canada be fully immunized against the coronavirus. The United States has imposed the same requirement on truckers entering that country.The Canadian Trucking Alliance said a great number of the protesters have no connection to the trucking industry, adding they have a separate agenda to push. The alliance notes the vast majority of drivers are vaccinated.The organizers of the protest have called for the forceful elimination of all COVID-19 restrictions and vaccine mandates and some called for the removal of Trudeau.Some opposition Canadian Conservative lawmakers served coffee to the protesters including Michael Cooper, who did a live television hit while a person with a upside down Canadian flag with a swastika walked by. Conservative party leader Erin O'Toole met with some truckers. The protest has also attracted support from Donald Trump Jr. and some Fox News personalities.“Today the threat against democracy isn't only happening in America,” former U.S. Ambassador to Canada Bruce Heyman tweeted.“Both the use of the swastika and the confederate flag are symbols of hate. So very sad to see these symbols anywhere and especially in Canada.”The Parliamentary Protective Service expects as many as 10,000 protesters as part of a weekend-long rally.“I’m locked into my own country right now,” said Tom Pappin, an unvaccinated man who came from just outside Ottawa. “I can’t go on a holiday. I can’t go to a restaurant, I can’t go bowling. I can’t go to a movie. You know, these are things that it’s just gotten out of control.”The 52-year-old said attendees are likely to stay parked by Parliament until vaccine mandates are lifted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thousands-protest-covid-vaccine-mandates-and-curbs-in-canada-s-capital-ottawa-101643500952021.html
30-01-2022||World||North Korea may have fired ballistic missile, most powerful since 2017||North Korea has fired a projectile that may be a ballistic missile, Japan’s coast guard said Sunday. The projectile has likely already fallen, the coast guard said, while warning ships to not approach they get near it. The launch comes after North Korea this month set off one of its biggest series of missile volleys since August 2019. It also threatened to end its nearly four-year hiatus on tests of nuclear weapons and long-range missiles designed to deliver warheads to the US mainland.North Korean leader Kim Jong Un told a top-level meeting of his ruling party at the end of 2021 that he was more interested in bolstering his arsenal than returning to nuclear disarmament talks with the US, which have been stalled for nearly three years.While Kim has stayed away from such talks, he has been steadily increasing his nuclear arsenal, testing new systems for quick strikes and those that can maneuver in flight to avoid U.S.-operated interceptors in the region. These have included long-range cruise missiles that could hit almost all of Japan, a new submarine-launched ballistic missile and a hypersonic system designed to use high speeds and maneuverability to deliver a warhead.North Korea has also resumed plutonium-producing operations at its main Yongbyon nuclear site last year, while satellite imagery shows it expanding a plant that enriches uranium for weapons. The latest launch provides a reminder to the Biden administration that Kim’s nuclear arsenal remains among the US’s biggest foreign policy challenges despite former President Donald Trump’s decision to hold face-to-face summits with the North Korean leader. Although Kim made a vague commitment in 2018 to “work toward complete denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula,” he has continued to advance his nuclear weapons program.The North Korean leader is facing one of the most difficult periods during his decade in power. Sanctions have helped push his economy to its smallest since he took charge and his closure of borders about two years ago due to the coronavirus slammed the brakes on the little trade he had.But Kim’s regime has also found ways to evade sanctions, with the US and United Nations Security Council accusing it of stepping up its cybercrimes to fill its depleted coffers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-may-have-fired-ballistic-missile-japan-says-101643500393226.html
30-01-2022||India||Four labourers killed in Telangana road accident||Four women labourers were killed and three others sustained injuries after a speeding car ploughed through their roadside huts near Kothirampur area, on the outskirts of Karimnagar town in Telangana on Sunday morning, the police said. Later in the evening, Karimnagar police arrested a 16-year-old boy, who was driving the car, along with his father and two of his friends, in connection with the accident.The deceased were identified as Fariyad, Sunitha, Latha and Jyothy. Their exact ages are yet to be ascertained, said police.Sub-inspector at Karimnagar Town-1 police station, Sandeboyina Srinivas, said an over speeding Hyndai Creta car (registration no. TS02EY 2121), on the way from Karimnagar to Hyderabad, ploughed through the huts of the pavement dwellers, early in the morning.“The accused teenager is a resident of Gayatrinagar area in the town. He took out the car from his house early morning and told his parents that he would be going to local Ambedkar stadium to play badminton. Instead, he picked up two of his friends, both 14, from the Kaman area in the town and proceeded towards Lower Manair Dam reservoir,” said Karimnagar commissioner of police V Satyanarayana. “As they were approaching the Kothirampur area, the boy lost control over the vehicle and ran over the people on the pavement, killing four people on the spot and injuring three others,” Satyanarayana said.The boy claimed that he was blinded by the smoke coming out of the huts, where women were burning charcoal and accidentally pressed the accelerator leading to the mishap, said the police.The police have registered a case under Section 304 (ii) (causing death by doing any rash or negligent act) of the Indian Penal Code against the teenager and his father. Karimnagar assistant commissioner of police Tula Srinivasa Rao, who is investigating the case, warned people of stern action against giving their vehicles to minor children.The labourers, who belong to Adilabad district, had put up huts on the roadside pavements and were involved in making knives and other kitchen appliances. “We will launch a special drive to remove encroachments from the pavements,” Rao added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-labourers-killed-in-telangana-road-accident-101643567204279.html
30-01-2022||India||Only party which keeps its poll promises, says Rajnath Singh on BJP||Advocating politics aimed at nation-building, and not only for government formation, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections will decide the fate of the state.Rajnath Singh was at Kasganj in Aligarh division of Uttar Pradesh to campaign for the BJP and address a gathering of prominent people.He claimed the BJP is the only party which keeps its promises and has got no corruption charges against it in either the state or at the Centre. The defence minister invoked former Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh governor and ex-UP chief minister the late Kalyan Singh, whose home district Aligarh is near Kasganj, and his contribution to the Ram Janmabhoomi movement. “No one can dare make any corruption charges against our governments or leaders at the Centre and in the state. Former prime minister and Congress leader the late Rajiv Gandhi had once said that only 15 paise out of every rupee reached the poor, but Prime Minister Narendra Modi ensured that the full amount allocated reaches the beneficiary,” claimed Rajnath Singh. “By paying mere lip service, one cannot weed out corruption, but the system requires change and that was done by the BJP. The BJP delivered what it promised, be it scrapping of Article 370 in Kashmir, a promise that the Bharatiya Jan Sangh led by Shyama Prasad Mukherjee had made in the 1950s,” he said. “We offered citizenship to Hindus from Pakistan and those facing atrocities in other nations. The Opposition always doubted our promise to build the Ram Temple at Ayodhya but we are doing it and have silenced the Opposition. If the Ram Temple does not come up in India, where else in the world would it be constructed?” asked Rajnath Singh, a former UP chief minister (2000-2002).“We are not only committed to development, but also to safeguarding our rich cultural heritage,” said Singh. He blamed the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) for resorting to divisive tactics to try and attain power. “Uttar Pradesh developed in Yogi Adityanath’s regime. Expressways and airports are coming up in the state. But the Samajwadi Party caused riots and failed to safeguard the respect of women and girls. We were able to do so because our intentions were honest,” he said.“India is now recognized as a powerful nation worldwide, yet we have not attacked any nation nor encroached on their land. Nevertheless, some powers have bad intentions towards India and we warn them that India will reply in a befitting manner if even an inch of our land is encroached,” the defence minister said. Rajnath Singh mocked the “laal potli” (red packet) being carried by Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav these days and said that one has to perform to earn the confidence of the masses, adding that such gimmicks won’t work in elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-party-which-keeps-its-poll-promises-says-rajnath-singh-on-bjp-101643566223726.html
30-01-2022||India||Best time to ask Israel for advanced Pegasus software: Chidambaram in dig at Modi||Senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha lawmaker P Chidambaram attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, over his congratulatory message on the completion of the three-decade-long Indo-Israeli relationship, in connection with the reignited Pegasus controversy.“The PM said that it is the best time to set new goals in the India-Israel relationship. Of course, it is the best time to ask Israel if they have any advanced version of the Pegasus spyware,” tweeted the Rajya Sabha MP. In a follow-up tweet, he added, “The last deal was for $2 billion. India can do better this time. If we get more sophisticated spyware ahead of the 2024 elections, we can give them even $4 billion.”This tweet came after The New York Times, published a report, on Saturday, titled ‘The Battle of the World’s Most Powerful Cyber-weapon,’ that said Israeli firm NSO Group had for nearly a decade been “selling its surveillance software on a subscription basis to law-enforcement and intelligence agencies around the world, promising that it could do what no one else could do: consistently and reliably crack the encrypted communications of any iPhone or Android smartphone”.Not just Chidambaram, but the Congress party as a whole, has intensified its attack on the Modi government over the spyware controversy, accusing the government of treason for allegedly “tapping” phones of Opposition leaders, armed forces and the judiciary. Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi accused the Modi government of treason. In a tweet posted on Saturday, he said, “This is treason. Modi government has committed treason.”Congress has pledged to raise the issue in the Budget Session of Parliament starting on Monday, and demand accountability from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Bharatiya Janata Party government. Moreover, Opposition parties also urged the Supreme Court to take cognizance of the matter and initiate appropriate penal proceedings against the government for attempting to “deliberately and knowingly deceive” it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/best-time-to-ask-israel-for-advanced-pegasus-software-chidambaram-in-dig-at-modi-101643563763554.html
30-01-2022||India||Godse's ideology is becoming 'dominant' in country: Mahatma Gandhi's great-grandson||On the 74th death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, his great-grandson Tushar Gandhi on Sunday said that the number of people following Bapu's ideology is decreasing in the country, whereas the ideology of his assassinator Nathuram Godse is becoming increasingly dominant, according to a report by PTI.He also said that while the Central government is organising the Amrit Mahotsav of Azadi to celebrate the 75th year of independence, "poison of hatred" is spreading in society.Tushar Gandhi was speaking in a virtual programme 'Kar Ke Dekho' organised by the Gandhi Study Centre of JES College in Jalna district of Maharashtra. The event was organised to mark the 74th death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi."The government is celebrating 'Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav' to commemorate 75 glorious years of progressive India and its rich history, but now 'amrit' has become poison of hatred and it is increasing and being spread," Tushar Gandhi said."The teachings of Mahatma Gandhi are on the wane and the ideology of his killer, Nathuram Godse, is dominating over it," he added."A section of people is distorting the history and rewriting it in their own way. But we have to revive the real history and raise voice against hatred and division in the society," Tushar Gandhi said.Earlier in the day, the Hindu Mahasabha paid tribute to Nathuram Godse and a co-accused in the Gandhi murder trial, Narayan Apte, in Madhya Pradesh's Gwalior by observing "Godse-Apte Smriti Diwas".The right-wing organisation also bestowed “Godse-Apte Bharat Ratna” in Gwalior upon jailed religious leader Kalicharan Maharaj. He was arrested last December for allegedly making derogatory remarks against the Mahatma.Last November, the Hindu Mahasabha said it will sculpt a statue of Nathuram Godse using the soil brought from Haryana's Ambala Central Jail, where he was hanged to death in 1949.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/godses-ideology-is-becoming-dominant-in-country-mahatma-gandhi-s-greatgrandson-101643562894925.html
30-01-2022||India||Akhilesh Yadav to file nomination for UP’s Karhal assembly seat on Monday||Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav will file his nomination papers for the Karhal assembly seat in Mainpuri (Uttar Pradesh) on Monday, the party said on Sunday. This is the first time the four-time Member of Parliament (MP) will contest an assembly seat. Karhal is scheduled to go to polls on February 20 in the third phase of the seven-phase Uttar Pradesh assembly elections.Akhilesh, the sitting Azamgarh MP, reached his ancestral village Saifai in neighbouring Etawah district on Sunday.“He will start from Saifai at 11 am to file nomination at the Mainpuri district collectorate,” the SP said in a statement.Ever since speculation of chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s candidature for assembly polls had surfaced, there was talk about Akhilesh, too, contesting the 2022 polls. The BJP has fielded Yogi Adityanath from the Gorakhpur urban seat.Yogi Adityanath and Akhilesh Yadav have been MPs, but they have never contested assembly elections. Both took the Vidhan Parishad route to become members of the UP legislature when they took oath as chief ministers.Karhal is a stronghold of the Samajwadi Party since 1993, with only one exception. In the 2002 assembly election, the seat went to the BJP. Sobaran Singh Yadav (Samajwadi Party) is the sitting MLA from Karhal. He was with the BJP when he won the seat in 2002. Since 2007, he has been contesting on the SP ticket. Mainpuri, in which the Karhal assembly segment falls, is SP chief patron Mulayam Singh Yadav’s Lok Sabha constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhilesh-yadav-to-file-nomination-for-up-s-karhal-assembly-seat-on-monday-101643562443574.html
30-01-2022||India||Bhima Koregaon probe panel to resume hearings from January 31||The hearings of the Bhima Koregaon Inquiry Commission will resume at its Pune office on Monday with former Pune city chief Rashmi Shukla and former Additional Superintendent of Pune Rural Police Tejashwi Satpute are among the five people scheduled to record their statements before the commission, officials said. Shukla, Additional Director General with the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), was then Pune Police Commissioner while Satpute, who is now Superintendent of Police at Solapur, was posted at Pune rural unit. The two-member panel comprises of Calcutta High Court former Chief Justice Jayant Patel and State Chief Information Commissioner Sumit Mullick. The scheduled hearings were suspended in the second week of January owing to the rising numbers of Covid-19 infections in Maharashtra. The others on the current list of witnesses to be examined include Sambhaji Shivale, Balasaheb Jamadar, and ACP Ramesh Galande. The Commission, that was formed on February 19, 2018 by the Bharatiya Janata Party government led by then Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis, has been granted nine extensions ever since. The current extension was granted in December 2021 and will last till June 30, 2022. During the riots that ensued in January 2018 during the 200 anniversary of the battle of Bhima Koregaon, one person died while scores were injured including some police officials. The commission was formed and tasked with finding out who was responsible for the violence while also suggesting policy changes to avoid such incidents in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhima-koregaon-probe-panel-to-resume-hearings-from-january-31-101643561303700.html
30-01-2022||India||Covid-19: Nasal vaccine could be a ‘game-changer’, says AIIMS epidemiologist||As Hyderabad-based drug maker Bharat Biotech has got regulatory approval to conduct Phase-3 clinical trials of its intranasal COVID-19 vaccine as a booster dose, senior epidemiologist in All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi, Dr Sanjay Rai, on Sunday said the vaccine could be a game-changer in the fight against the pandemic if it provides mucosal immunity."If this vaccine gives mucosal immunity, then it would be a great achievement for the human race. There are 33 vaccines all over the world but none is effective in preventing the infection. We are hoping that this vaccine will provide mucosal immunity that can prevent further infection," Dr Rai told ANI here.As the Budget Session starts from Monday, the AIIMS Senior epidemiologist expects that need of the hour is to strengthen the public health system at all primary, secondary level and tertiary levels."This is not the last pandemic, we must prepare for future pandemics and to handle that, we need to strengthen the public health system," he said.The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has granted permission to Hyderabad-based biotechnology firm Bharat Biotech, the manufacturer of India's first indigenous COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin, for intranasal booster dose trials. The trials will be done at nine different sites.Earlier this month, DCGI's Subject Expert Committee (SEC) had granted 'in-principle approval to Bharat Biotech for the conduct of 'Phase III superiority study and Phase III booster dose study' for its intranasal COVID vaccine BBV154.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-nasal-vaccine-could-be-a-game-changer-says-aiims-epidemiologist-101643559976369.html
30-01-2022||India||BJP declares Manipur candidate list; inclusion of former Congress MLAs leads to protests||After several days of speculations, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday announced its list of candidates for all 60 assembly seats for the coming assembly elections in Manipur. The inclusion of several former Congress MLAs, some of whom had joined BJP recently, upset saffron party workers who burnt party flags, banners and effigies of leaders in several parts of the state including Imphal. Security has been beefed up to prevent violence. There are reports that announcement of the list also led to a spate of resignations by several BJP leaders, some of whom failed to secure tickets. There was no immediate response from the party on exact number of resignations. In 2017, BJP came second by winning 21 seats, but was able to upset the Congress, which won 28 seats, and form government with the support of NPP, Naga People’s Front and others. Since then many Congress MLAs have left the party and joined BJP. “Congratulations to all the BJP candidates for Manipur assembly election 2022. With Prime Minister Narendra Modiji and BJP national president JP Nadda’s guidance, I am confident that the BJP will come back with an absolute majority in the upcoming assembly election,” Chief Minister N Biren Singh tweeted. Chief Minister N Biren Singh will seek re-election from Heingang constituency in Imphal East district-the same seat he represented in 2017. This time he will be facing P Saratchandra Singh of Congress. The other ministers who will also be seeking re-election include Th Biswajit from Thongju, S Rajen from Lamshang, O Lukhoi from Wangoi, Vungzagin Valte from Thanlon and Th Satyabrata from Yaiskul. Former National Peoples’ Party (NPP) MLA, Letpao Haokip, a minister in the present government, who joined BJP recently, will contest from Tengnoupal. As many as 11 former Congress MLAs, who jumped ship after their wins in 2017 and joined the BJP, were among the 60 candidates the saffron party announced on Sunday. The move upset some BJP workers who protested in Imphal. They are Th Shyamkumar (Andro), Rajkumar Imo Singh (Sagolband), Okram Henry Singh (Wangkhei), Oinam Lukhoi Singh (Wangoi), K Govindas (Bishnupur), P Brojen Singh (Wangjing Tentha), Y Surchandra Singh (Kakching), Yamthong Haokip (Saikul), Ngamthang Haokip (Saitu), Chaltonlien Amo (Tipaimukh) and Ginsuanhau Zou (Singhat). While Shyamkumar was the first Congress MLA to join BJP immediately after announcement of results, most others including former Congress state president K Govindas joined BJP in recent months. One of them is related to former chief minister Okram Ibobi Singh of Congress while another to present chief minister N Biren Singh. Okram Henry Singh is Ibobi’s his nephew while Rajkumar Imo Singh is son-in-law of Biren. Inclusion of several former Congress MLAs at the cost of BJP old timers didn’t go down well with many saffron party supporters who protested on Imphal streets by burning banners and flags. The inclusion of former IAS officer, Y Surchandra Singh, who left Congress and joined BJP just 10 days back, peeved several. The list also included a former Trinamool Congress (TMC) legislator T. Robindro Singh (Thanga) who joined BJP 10 days back and former Lok Janshakti Party MLA Karam Shyam (Langthabal). Two former Congress leaders, M Prithviraj Singh (Moirang) who was a runner up in 2017 and Preshow MK Shimray, who came third behind BJP’s Sword Vashum in Shingai seat five years ago and Y Antas Khan, who contested as an Independent in 2017 from Lilong were also in the BJP list. Three BJP sitting MLAs-P Sarat of Moirang, M Rameshwar of Kakching and Y Irabot of Wangkhei constituencies, were not listed in the party’s candidates list. They were replaced by three former MLAs in the list. The BJP list had three women candidates-S Kebi Devi who will contest from Naoriya Pakhanglakpa seat in Imphal West district, SS Olish for Chandel seat in Chandel district and Nemcha Kipgen for Kangpokpi seat in Kangpokpi district. Among the new faces, L Basanta Singh will contest against former Chief Minister and Congress heavyweight O Ibobi Singh from Thoubal seat while former national footballer Somtai Shaiza will contest from Ukhrul seat. The assembly election in the state will be held in two phases on February 27 and March 3 and results will be announced on March 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-declares-manipur-candidate-list-inclusion-of-former-congress-mlas-leads-to-protests-101643557523178.html
30-01-2022||India||Trinamool MP says WHO showing wrong map of India, writes to PM||Trinamool MP Dr Santanu Sen has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the World Health Organization is showing a wrong map of India. "When I clicked the site WHO Covid19.int, a world map was displayed and when I zoomed the portion of India, it was showing a blue map with surprisingly two different colours for Jammu and Kashmir," the MP wrote. He said when he clicked over the blue portion, the map was showing him India's data, but the other portion was showing the data of Pakistan, he said.
30-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: ‘Bengal becoming gas chamber for democracy’, says governor Dhankhar and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Bengal gas chamber for democracy, says Dhankhar on Gandhi’s death anniversaryWest Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Sunday chose the occasion of Mahatma Gandhi’s 74th death anniversary to target the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) government, saying the state “is becoming a gas chamber for democracy”. Read moreDelhi sees slight fall in daily Covid-19 tally with 3,674 new cases, active caseload above 21,000With 3,674 new Covid-19 cases and 30 deaths in the last 24 hours, Delhi’s total caseload reached 1,827,489 and the death toll went up to 25,827 on Sunday. The daily positivity rate stood at 6.37%. Read moreRafael Nadal wins record 21st Grand Slam title, beats Daniil Medvedev in five-set thriller in Australian Open finalRafael Nadal created history at the Rod Laver Arena on Sunday as he won a historic 21st Grand Slam title, defeating Russia's Daniil Medvedev in the final of the Australian Open. Read moreFrustrated Ashneer Grover calls pitcher's product 'wahiyat' on Shark Tank India, exclaims 'bhagwan utha le'. WatchOn reality show Shark Tank India, ‘shark’ Ashneer Grover visibly took offence to a product pitch, calling the product disgusting in an exasperated manner. He also asked the pitcher to ‘respect’ the platform and not take it as a ‘joke’. Read moreMouni Roy wows in red Banarasi silk saree with Suraj Nambiar for first public appearance: All pics insideActor Mouni Roy and her husband, Suraj Nambiar, made their first public appearance on Sunday evening. The two were snapped together for the first time after getting married on January 27. Read moreCOVID, U.S.-led diplomatic boycotts overshadow Beijing Winter OlympicsBeijing opens the 24th Winter Olympics on February 4, the sporting event marred by controversies. With Winter Olympics near, the Chinese capital reported the highest COVID-19 cases since June 2020. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bengal-becoming-gas-chamber-for-democracy-says-governor-dhankhar-and-all-the-latest-news-101643555960775.html
30-01-2022||India||Suspected Maoist killed in encounter in Bastar’s Sukma district||A suspected Maoist was killed in an encounter with security forces in Bastar’s Sukma district on Sunday. Officials said that the body of the deceased is yet to identified and combing operation in the jungles is still going on. Bastar range, Inspector General of Police, Sunderaj P, in a statement said that searching in the area is going on after the encounter, which took place at around 7 am. “The encounter took place near the forest of Thimmapuram village under Chintalnar police station limits. A joint team of District Reserve Guard and the 201st battalion of CoBRA (Commando Battalion for Resolute Action), an elite unit of the CRPF, was out for patrolling duty for providing security for the ongoing road construction work in interior areas. Suddenly, Maoists opened fire on the patrolling team near Thimmapuram and the encounter started,” the IG said. Police said that after the firing stopped, the body of a male Maoist clad in ‘uniform’ and firearms was recovered from the spot. When the patrolling team was withdrawing from the forest, again an exchange of fire broke out. “The combing operation in the area is going on,” said the IG. Last week after an encounter of a suspected Maoist in Narayanpur district of Bastar region, the family members of the suspected Maoist killed in the encounter with security personnel, raised questions over the encounter and claimed that the deceased was not a Maoist. Police said that the Maoist, Manu Ram Nureti, was killed in an encounter with security forces on January 23. The brother of the deceased, Renu Raam Nureti, who is presently in district reserve guard (DRG) of Chhattisgarh Police, told the media in Narayanpur district, that his brother was not a Maoist. 
30-01-2022||India||Did night curfew, weekend curfew help in containing Omicron? What this Bengaluru study says||A Bengaluru-specific study has revealed that night curfew and weekend curfew slowed and delayed the spread of Omicron at best. "Omicron eventually spreads and affects nearly as much of the population as it would have without the restrictions," the case study conducted by experts from the Indian Statistical Institute, Indian Institute of Science and University of Virginia's Biolcomplexity Institute said.In the first week of January, the number of Covid infections across the country increased, restrictions like weekend lockdown, night curfew were brought back. Whether these restrictions work remains a contentious issue as many experts have, in past, questioned how these restrictions contain the spread of the infection.Karnataka lifts night curfew, Bengaluru schools to reopen from January 31The researchers said they used community mobility reports published by Google and then they quantified the impact o such restriction via a simulation study. And this study said the restrictions have slowed down the spread as Omicron would reach the same number of people with or without the restrictions.Using mathematical models, the study confirmed that the benefit of the mobility restrictions is to flatten the curve and reduce the peak. And once the curve is flattened, the daily demand for hospitals beds reduce. It also said that once the peak of the wave is past, the usefulness of the restrictions is limited.“If Karnataka cases trajectory follows the SA trend and hospitalisation is similar to that observed in well-vaccinated countries, the healthcare requirement is likely within capacity when the caseload peaks, with or without the mobility restrictions,” the study noted. Karnataka is going for a reopening starting from January 31 with all schools in Bengaluru reopening. The government has also withdrawn weekend lockdown and night curfew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/did-night-curfew-weekend-curfew-help-in-containing-omicron-what-this-bengaluru-study-says-101643552303698.html
30-01-2022||India||Caught in crossfire: NTPC, energy conglomerate, urges Railways to rename tests||"Caught in the crossfire" over the rail exams, NTPC, the country's largest power producer has written to the Railways to rename its Non-Technical Popular Categories (NTPC) tests organised by the Railway Board.The Railway exams have been in the news for the last week over large-scale protests over certain irregularities in its screening process.The abbreviation of the exams which is the same as the one used for the power producer has been widely used to refer to the controversial test during the reportage on the issue."This is with reference to the recent protest in some parts of the country with respect to Railway Recruitment Board Non-Technical Popular Categories (NTPC RRB) exam of Indian Railways," a letter from NTPC (the power corporation) states."While we are confident that the Railways is taking all necessary steps to address the situation, we just wish to bring to your notice that NTPC Limited has inadvertently been caught in the crossfire. The media has been using the abbreviated form NTPC, which gives the impression that the exams are linked to India's largest power producer," the NTPC said."This, you would agree, is also hurting our reputation," it pointed out.It further requested that the full form of the tests be used by the national transporter."Use full form of the Railway Recruitment Scheme in your press releases/ statements so that this misconception is not carried on creating wrong impression amongst the users of social media and also public at large," the NTPC said."We would therefore urge you to kindly rename these exams so that no confusion is created in future," it said.Since the protests, the Railways has suspended this exam along with the Level 1 tests and have formed a committee to look into the grievances of the aspirants. PTI ASG RHL||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/caught-in-crossfire-ntpc-energy-conglomerate-urges-railways-to-rename-tests-101643551366113.html
30-01-2022||India||Bengal gas chamber for democracy, says Dhankhar on Gandhi’s death anniversary||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Sunday chose the occasion of Mahatma Gandhi’s 74th death anniversary to target the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) government, saying the state “is becoming a gas chamber for democracy”. “Bengal is becoming a gas chamber for democracy. We cannot let it turn into a laboratory for human rights violations… We cannot let this soil soak in blood. There is no rule of law in Bengal. Only the ruler rules here. It is my responsibility to protect the Constitution,” Dhankhar said. The Bengal governor was addressing people at a programme held at Gandhi Ghat in Barrackpore in North 24 Parganas district. Dhankhar’s statements came days after the TMC decided to move motions against him at the coming sessions of the Rajya Sabha and the state legislative assembly to condemn his actions which the ruling party describes as violation of Constitutional norms and practices. Ruling party leaders have repeatedly alleged that he is “an agent of the Centre”. Dhankhar was sworn in on July 30, 2019, and the face-off started in less than two months. On Thursday, the TMC decided to place a Substantive Motion in the Rajya Sabha criticizing Dhankhar. The decision was taken at a meeting chief minister Mamata Banerjee held with her party’s Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha members. The party is also planning to move a motion against the governor in the coming session of the state legislature. Even as the acrimonious relationship between Raj Bhawan and the TMC touched an all-time low, Dhankhar on Sunday reiterated that there should be a dialogue between the governor and the state government. “On the death anniversary of the Father of the Nation, honourable Mamata Banerjee should take an oath to follow the Constitution. I request her to take out time from her schedule and hold discussions with the governor. Democracy wants people in high positions to work together in the interest of the people who look up to us. We cannot be arrogant. We cannot be driven by ego. I hold no malice against those who pass comments on the governor every day because the chief minister herself has made comments inside and outside the state. This was not right. I hope that today she gets the message through you (the media). She and I should hold discussions,” Dhankhar said. He also alleged at the event that funds from the state exchequer were diverted last year to start a subsidised canteen chain for poor people affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. The chain was named Maa (mother). “Guv WB -It is obligatory for Government @MamataOfficial to impart full details of ‘Maa’ scheme that came to be launched mid Feb 2021 though it could be operationalised only from April 1, 2021. Such diversion of funds from consolidated fund of state is a serious matter,” Dhankhar tweeted after Sunday’s event. TMC ministers reacted sharply to the governor’s comments. “If Dhankhar thinks that Bengal has become a gas chamber then he should leave immediately. He is an agent of the BJP and speaks in their language all the time,” Kolkata mayor and minister Firhad Hakim said. Supporting the governor, Bengal Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Sukanta Majumdar said, “The fact that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is bringing charges against a host of TMC leaders in the post-poll violence cases proves how democracy has been violated in Bengal.” The exchanges took place a day after Gopal Majumdar, a local TMC leader at Ishapore in North 24 Parganas, was murdered. The police on Sunday arrested a local BJP leader, Bijay Mukherjee, while preliminary probe indicated the involvement of hired killers. Arjun Singh, the BJP’s Lok Sabha member from the district’s Barrackpore constituency, was present on the dais with the governor. Accusing Singh of masterminding the murder, state forest minister Jyotipriyo Mullick refused to share the dais and sat among the audience at Gandhi Ghat. “Singh is a professional killer and the governor chose to have him by his side. I told the governor that it is not possible for me to share space with Singh,” Mullick said. As the TMC alleged that Bijoy Mukherjee was an associate of Singh, the MP said, “The murder was the fallout of an internal feud of the TMC over selection of candidates for the coming civic polls. Mukherjee is not involved in any way.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-gas-chamber-for-democracy-says-dhankhar-on-gandhi-s-death-anniversary-101643550202789.html
30-01-2022||India||Farmers to observe ‘Betrayal Day’ on Jan 31, BKU’s Rakesh Tikait says Centre yet to fulfill promises||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday said that a nation-wide “Betrayal Day” would be observed on Monday (January 31), alleging that the Union government has not fulfilled the promises it made to the protesting farmers to withdraw from their agitation against the three farm laws last year.Further, Tikait also said that the protesting farmers withdrew from their more-than-a-year-long protests at Delhi’s borders based on the Centre’s promises made in a letter on December 9, 2021, but said that the promises were yet to be fulfilled by the government.सरकार द्वारा किसानों से वादाखिलाफी के खिलाफ कल 31 जनवरी को देशव्यापी "विश्वासघात दिवस" मनाया जाएगा ।सरकार के 9 दिसंबर के जिस पत्र के आधार पर आन्दोलन स्थगित किया गया था, सरकार ने उनमें से कोई वादा पूरा नहीं किया है .!#FarmersProtest #विश्वासघात_दिवस pic.twitter.com/dBAlfXCGUI“Tomorrow, January 31, a nation-wide "Betrayal Day" will be observed by the farmers against the government’s breach of promise to the farmers,” the BKU leader said in a tweet in Hindi. “The government has not fulfilled any of the promises made on the letter dated 9th December (2021), on the basis of which the movement (farmers protest) was suspended,” he added. In November 2021, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the Centre would roll back the three contentious farm laws, against which several farm unions, spearheaded by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), staged the protests at Delhi’s outskirts. Also read | Rakesh Tikait interview: ‘Farmers are above caste, we’re united on issues’Following the announcement, the three laws were repealed after the Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021, was passed in both houses of Parliament on the first day of the Winter Session on November 29, 2021.Further, the Centre had also said that a committee would be constituted to work towards a new framework for the minimum support price (MSP), a legal guarantee for which has been one among the key demands from the farmers besides the repeal of the three laws.The announcement from Tikait came a day after he said on Saturday that the demand for a guarantee on MSP will continue. “The families of farmers have lost more than 700 of their loved ones in the movement. Farmers will never forget these days of last year,” he said in a tweet in Hindi. “MSP is the backbone of farmers and farmers want MSP guarantee law to save the future of farming! The fight continues, the fight will continue,” he further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-to-observe-betrayal-day-on-jan-31-says-bku-s-rakesh-tikait-101643549516643.html
30-01-2022||India||Former Kerala minister K T Jaleel raises serious charges against Lokayukta||Amid a row over the Kerala government’s plan to clip the wings of anti-corruption body Lokayukta through an ordinance, former minister K T Jaleel on Sunday posted a controversial message on social media casting serious aspersions on Lokayukta Justice Cyriac Joseph, also a former judge of the Supreme Court. Without naming him, Jaleel alleged that the Lokayukta “will do anything for money and position” and the Congress-led UDF is using him as a weapon to stab CM Pinarayi Vijayan in the back. Jaleel was forced to resign from the Vijayan government last year after the Lokayukta found him guilty of nepotism. In the post he also alleged that in 2005 a senior leader of the UDF was saved from a controversial case when he was a judge in the high court and in turn he managed a plum post for his sister-in-law. He was indirectly referring to the appointment of Jancy James as the vice chancellor of the Mahatma Gandhi University in Kottayam. “It is a tragedy that a weapon meant for Gandhiji is getting into the hands of Godse. If he gets good returns he will do any job. When three central agencies gave me a clean chit in a trumped up case he appeared all of a sudden to weaken the government,” he said in the post referring to his own case. Later he also posted the verdict in the ice cream parlour case-- a sex scandal in which Muslim League leader P K Kuhalikutty’s name allegedly cropped up but later the Supreme Court gave him a clean chit. Last year Jaleel resigned from the Pinarayi Vijayan government after the Lokayukta found him guilty of nepotism. He was found to have lobbied for a relative to be appointed as the general manager of the State Minority Welfare Corporation. Lokayukta found that he diluted some of the qualifications required for the post. Though he moved the High Court and Supreme Court both refused to entertain his plea. The opposition Congress and BJP slammed Jaleel for targeting constitutional positions. The Congress has sought the CM’s reply to Jaleel’s post. “Justice Cyriac Joseph was appointed Lokayukta by the present government. It is for the CM to reply to such wild allegations,” said opposition leader VD Satheesan. “Frustrated Jaleel is attacking constitutional positions to vent his anger,” said BJP state president K Surendran. The ruling CPI(M) is yet to comment on his post. The Opposition parties have said the move to curtail the powers of the Lokayukta came in the wake of three complaints against the CM for allegedly abusing his position to grant financial help to three “ineligible persons” from his disaster relief fund. Complaints claimed he misused funds meant for disaster relief and distributed lakhs of rupees to former party MLA K K Ramachandran’s family to clear his debts, help to the family of former NCP leader Uzhavoor Vijayan and relief to the family of a gunman who died on escort duty of CPI(M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan. Similarly, higher education minister R Bindhu is also feeling the heat of the Lokayukta. Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala had moved the legal body last month citing two letters the former wrote to the Governor recommending the re-appointment of Kannur vice- chancellor Gopinath Raveendran. Chennithala said the minister has no right to send such letters to the Governor and it was a clear case of nepotism and misuse of power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-kerala-minister-k-t-jaleel-raises-serious-charges-against-lokayukta-101643547322524.html
30-01-2022||India||Charanjit Channi to contest from 2 seats; 'I said before' is Kejriwal's reaction||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi will be contesting from two seats in the upcoming Punjab Assembly Election 2022. As the party released a list of eight candidates on Sunday, it was made clear that the party is fielding Channi from Bhadaur as well. Earlier, he was declared as a candidate from Chamkaur Sahib, the constituency he has been representing for over a decade. The development comes amid speculations over Congress's CM candidate in Punjab on which Congress leader Rahul Gandhi assured that despite the party's tradition of not announcing a CM face generally, the party will be announcing the CM face this time in Punjab, after consulting with the party workers.While Chamkaur Sahib is a known turf for Channi as he has been representing the constituency since 2007, Bhadaur is uncharted territory for the party. In 2017, the Congress got only 20% votes. The Aam Aadmi Party has a stronghold in the region. Full coverage of Punjab Assembly Election 2022As the Congress seeks to retain power in Punjab, the leadership question remains unsettled with both Channi and Punjab Congress chief Navjot Sidhu being contenders for the top job. The party has so far announced a collective leadership. Channi is in the CM seat only for the last few months and was apparently considered as a stop-gap arrangement in Punjab between Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu, support in favour of Channi as the next CM, if Congress wins, is swelling.When Rahul Gandhi visited Amritsar, both Channi and Sidhu urged Rahul to announce a CM candidate as they said this is the demand of the Punjab people. “Normally, the Congress doesn’t do it, but if the party, its workers or Punjab wants it, then we will take a decision on the chief ministerial face by consulting our workers and the right person will lead Punjab,” Rahul said.“See, two people can’t lead. Only one will lead. Both of them promised me that the other person will commit to helping whoever becomes the CM face,” he added. मैंने कहा था कि हमारे सर्वे के मुताबिक़ चन्नी जी चमकौर साहिब से हार रहे हैं। आज कांग्रेस ने एलान किया है कि वो दो सीटों से चुनाव लड़ेंगे। इसका मतलब सर्वे सच है?AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal said his party's survey found out that Channi is going to lose from Chamkaur Sahib. “I already told that according to our survey Channiji is going to lose from Chamkaur Sahib. Today, Congress announced that he would be contesting from two seats. Does this mean that the survey was true?” Kejriwal tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/channi-to-contest-from-two-seats-chamkaur-sahib-bhadaur-101643545393155.html
30-01-2022||India||Assam likely to use Meghalaya formula to resolve border disputes with other states||The Assam government is likely to use the same give and take formula of land swapping, that it agreed upon with Meghalaya, to resolve similar border disputes with three other neighbouring states. Earlier this month, chief ministers of Assam and Meghalaya met Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi and apprised him of the recommendations of regional committees of the two states which suggested division of 6 of the 12 disputed border areas between them with the help of a give-and-take formula of swapping land. The CMs also urged the Centre to take necessary action so that the recommendations get implemented. As per the recommendations, of the total 36.79 sq km disputed land in six areas-Gizang, Tarabari, Boklapara, Khanapara-Pilingkata and Ratacherra-- Assam would get 18.51 sq km while Meghalaya would get 18.28 sq km. The recommendations, which sought to end the five-decade old border row between the two neighbours, were approved earlier by cabinets of both states. Soon after the agreement with Meghalaya, Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma held meetings with his counterparts from Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh, Neiphiu Rio and Pema Khandu respectively, where they discussed the existing border disputes and ways to sort them. “We would like to start talks on the border issue with Arunachal Pradesh. With Mizoram, we will form a committee after discussion with them. If both state governments agree, we should be able to resolve the issues based on spirit of accommodation,” Sarma said in Guwahati on January 23. A day after his meeting with Sarma, Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio said in Kohima that his government is in favour of settling its six-decades-old border dispute with Assam outside the court. A decision in this regard was taken at a meeting of the state assembly’s select committee and Rio said he was hopeful that the Assam-Meghalaya model of setting up of a local body from both sides and resolving on division of disputed areas can be done to resolve the Assam-Nagaland border issue. “We had gone to Guwahati and had fruitful discussions on the border issue with Sarma. Both governments are in favour of an out-of-court settlement, and maybe our teams will meet Shah in the first part of February to discuss and formulate how to go about it,” Rio said. Nagaland and Assam share about 500 km boundary and disputes along the border between the two states were stated to have been going on as early as 1963 after Nagaland attained statehood. Past attempts made by the two state governments to resolve the perennial issue had not worked. Both states have refused to accept recommendations of two commissions set up by Centre to solve the issue and a suit is pending in Supreme Court on the issue since 1988. “(We) had detailed discussion on the boundary issue between the two states. We will sincerely work towards a permanent solution on this long pending issue,” Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Pema Khandu tweeted after his meeting with Sarma in Guwahati. Assam shares an 804 km long boundary with Arunachal Pradesh. Though there was no dispute initially, over the years allegations of residents of one state encroaching land on the other have led to disputes and violence. A suit has been pending in Supreme Court since 1989 on the issue. In July last year, both states agreed to sort their border dispute out of court through meetings. In November, exactly four months after violent clashes between police forces of both states left 6 Assam policemen dead, Assam and Mizoram agreed to resolve their contentious boundary dispute by forming committees and through discussions. Chief Ministers of both the north-eastern states took the step following a meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi. Though the committees are yet to be formed, it is expected that they could be on the lines of similar committees formed by Assam and Meghalaya governments to address the border dispute between the two states. Assam and Mizoram share a 164.6 km of inter-state border and there has been a long-standing dispute on the exact boundary. In Mizoram’s side the bordering districts are Aizawl, Kolasib and Mamit, while in Assam’s side, the border sharing districts are Cachar, Hailakandi and Karimganj. As per official data presented in Assam assembly, the total disputed area with the four states is around 690 sq km. There are apprehensions among some in Assam that if the formula agreed upon with Meghalaya is used to sort out all these disputes, the state could lose nearly 345 sq km of its land allegedly encroached by neighbours. “In past there have been different committees set up to sort out the border disputes, but there recommendations were not accepted by both disputing states. So, the only way out is to sort it through mutual discussions and taking civil society groups on board,” said H Srikanth, political science professor at Shillong-based North Eastern Hill University. 
30-01-2022||India||Bengaluru traffic police official suspended for assaulting differently-abled woman||BENGALURU: Karnataka home minister, Araga Jnanendra, on Sunday said that a traffic police official who physically and verbally assaulted a differently abled woman in Bengaluru has been suspended. “The police official who used foul language and attacked a helpless woman has been suspended and an enquiry has been ordered,” Jananendra said on Sunday. The orders come days after a video of a traffic police official physically and verbally assaulting a differently-abled woman went viral on social media, adding to the growing outrage against law enforcement officials in Bengaluru and other parts of Karnataka. The video, posted by several of Bengalur’s citizens and shared on social media platforms like Twitter, continues to attract sharp criticism against the police, who have been accused of using excessive force on common folk. The woman had pelted a stone at the police on January 24 which had caused minor injuries to the official. But his actions of pushing her to the road, repeatedly kicking her and using foul language has not gone down well with the public. “No matter who it is, law cannot be taken into their hands and the police are no exception,” the home minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-traffic-police-official-suspended-for-assaulting-differently-abled-woman-101643540902371.html
30-01-2022||India||BJP will win more than 40 seats, form next govt, says Manipur CM N Biren Singh||After five years of political churning that witnessed many opposition Congress MLAs switching sides and aligning with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Manipur is going to polls again. In an interview with Utpal Parashar, Manipur Chief Minister N. Biren Singh elaborates on the BJP’s poll prospects, his government’s performance and other issues in the north-eastern state. Q: How is the campaigning for the assembly polls going on till now for BJP? How many seats does the party hope to win this time around? A. We had to rely on virtual rallies and on social media for the campaign as the Election Commission has put a ban on physical rallies in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. We are optimistic of winning more than 40 seats. Q: One of your coalition partners, NPP, has decided to fight the contest alone. They have also kept the option open of joining either Congress or BJP after the polls. Do you think it could impact BJP’s prospects in polls or in formation of the next government? A: We are fully confident of forming the next government. Q: What do you think are your government’s biggest achievements in the past five years? A: In the last five years, the BJP-led state government has achieved so many things in terms of governance, welfare activities and development projects including infrastructure, besides the overall improvement in law and order. Through the Go to Hills, we have achieved considerable progress in bridging the hill-valley divide and restoring the confidence of the hill people, while also balancing the development budget in the hill areas through increased funding based on topography. Through the Go to Village mission, we have been able to take governance at the village level even to the remote and interior areas of the state. People have been able to avail several facilities and welfare benefits under various schemes directly. Besides these two important missions, the government had introduced several welfare schemes for the under-privileged and vulnerable sections of the society, sportspersons, artists etc and not to forget the Chief Minister Hakshel gi Tengbang, the first ever health insurance scheme taken up by a state to benefit the poor and needy. Here, we would like to hail the landmark decision of the Government of India under the leadership of Hon’ble Prime Minister, Narendra Modi to implement Inner Line Permit System in the state and it will be remembered as one of the most important political episodes of all time in the history of Manipur. One of the most important achievements of the government is ensuring a bandh blockade free Manipur, which had long been impeding development and peace in the state. Q: You have been vocal about repeal of AFSPA from Manipur. But BJP is the ruling party both in the state and Centre. Do you think this could impact how voters vote in the coming polls? A: Insurgency and AFSPA had always been important issues. However, in recent times we have been able to bring insurgent activities to a bare minimum while ushering in peace and normalcy in the state. People are beginning to feel the change and we are happy that we have been able to achieve this in such a short time. Q: There have been several instances of violence in the state including the attack on Assam Rifles convoy as well as killing of political party workers. Do you think there could be more such instances in the run-up to the elections? If so, could that impact polls? A: Security has been beefed up in view of the elections and the state is on high alert to prevent such incidents from happening. Q: The unemployment rate in Manipur is 9.5% as per the Union labour ministry’s data tabled in Parliament last year. It is the second highest in northeast after Nagaland and the Covid-19 pandemic has made it worse. Do you think this could impact BJP? A: Our government had been able to generate 1 lakh employment in the MSME sector alone. Human resource is our strength and biggest resource. Our youth is brimming with talent and innovative ideas, just waiting to be tapped and nudged in the right direction. The banks helped with the necessary financial support through schemes like StartUp and next StandUp. Never before in the history of Manipur, had a state government had such a good working relationship with the banks operating in the state. Q: There has been no final outcome to the issue of granting ST status to the Meitei community as well as passing of the Manipur (Hill Areas) Autonomous District Council Bill. Do you think both these issue could hurt BJP’s prospects in the Imphal Valley as well as the hill districts? A: It would not impact our prospects as people understand that these issues need careful consideration and consensus. Q: There have been some speculations that BJP might use the same option as it did in Assam last year while deciding on the CM’s post after the elections. What do you have to say to that? A: It is for the party leadership to decide. 
30-01-2022||India||Evening brief: Ashok Gehlot asks PM Modi to address the nation on Pegasus, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to address the nation on the Pegasus issue to end the confusion on the matter. Read moreFive persons were killed in an accident along the old Mumbai-Pune highway stretch passing through Shilatne village in Lonavla area of Pune on Sunday morning, police said. Read moreAbdullah Azam Khan, son of veteran Samajwadi Party (SP) politician Azam Khan, said on Sunday that a “conspiracy” is in the works on part of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to put him “behind bars” in a fake case. Read moreKapil Sharma made his OTT debut this week through his Netflix special Kapil Sharma: I'm Not Done Yet. The hour-long comedy special saw the actor-comedian enthrall audiences with anecdotes from his life, jokes about politics and Bollywood, and some heart-touching moments too. Read moreVeteran Indian cricketer Dinesh Karthik has backed young uncapped Indian spin sensation Ravi Bishnoi to challenge senior leg-spinner Yuzvendra Chahal for a spot in the ODI squad, opining that the latter, despite his recent struggle in limited-overs cricket, has gone unchallenged due to lack of wrist spinning options. Read moreCervical Cancer Awareness Month 2022: Cervical cancer is a type of cancer that begins in the cervix - the lower part of the uterus that connects to the vagina. It is caused by various strains of HPV (human papillomavirus), a sexually transmitted infection. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/evening-brief-ashok-gehlot-asks-pm-modi-to-address-the-nation-on-pegasus-and-all-the-latest-news-101643533609027.html
30-01-2022||India||‘BJP may orchestrate an attack to kill me,’ alleges Azam Khan's son||Abdullah Azam Khan, son of veteran Samajwadi Party (SP) politician Azam Khan, said on Sunday that a “conspiracy” is in the works on part of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to put him “behind bars” in a fake case. He also said that BJP candidates from the Suar and Rampur seats in Uttar Pradesh “could orchestrate an attack or road accident” to kill him.“I am being followed,” he said. “A conspiracy has been hatched to put me behind bars in a fake case. BJP candidates from Suar and Rampur seats could orchestrate an attack or road accident to kill me.”Notably, Abdullah Azam Khan is contesting the forthcoming UP assembly elections as the Samajwadi Party candidate from Rampur's Suar. Earlier, he had claimed that the policemen assigned to his security were not trustworthy, suspecting that they can shoot him down anytime.“.....BJP has officers with them,” Abdullah had said while speaking to reporters yesterday. “The police are with BJP, two governments are with BJP. I am alone. I have no one with me. I don't even trust the policemen who are with me. Police can shoot me...They are not deployed for my security.”The Samajwadi Party, led by Akhilesh Yadav, has fielded Abdullah's father Azam Khan from the Rampur constituency, where he already is the sitting member of Parliament (MP). However, at present, Azam Khan is languishing in jail after several cases were registered against him.The jailed leader's son and wife have filed their nominations from the same assembly constituency as the party's candidates for the Uttar Pradesh polls.Both Mohammad Abdullah Azam Khan, who was released from jail recently, and his mother Tazeen Fatma have filed their affidavits from the Suar assembly seat in Rampur district, according to the Election Commission (EC) website.Uttar Pradesh will go to the polls for its 403-member assembly in seven phases on February 10, 14, 20, 23, 27, and March 3, and 7. The counting of votes will take place on March 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-may-orchestrate-an-attack-to-kill-me-alleges-azam-khan-s-son-101643537865715.html
30-01-2022||India||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot asks PM Modi to address the nation on Pegasus||JAIPUR: Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to address the nation on the Pegasus issue to end the confusion on the matter. “The GoI should come forward and give a clarification…if the government is clean, then the Prime Minister should himself address the nation and end the confusion,” said Gehlot, addressing newspersons on the reports claiming that India bought the Pegasus spyware from Israel as part of a defence deal in 2017. He said, “Supreme Court is not able to do hearings on the matter on priority, which it should, but that’s not happening…who should be blamed? Spying in itself is wrong, and if you put the telephone on surveillance illegally, it is a big atrocity, then you can imagine what happened in it, and is happening.” He added that Richard Nixon had to resign as US president in a matter of spying. He said that an atmosphere is there in the country where those who disagree or express disagreement are targeted. Wherever elections are scheduled in any state, the CBI and Enforcement Directorate go after them. “The democracy is running in such an atmosphere in the country, and so I repeatedly say that the democracy and the Constitution are in danger,” said the CM. Hitting at the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), he said they have created a ‘Troll Army’ on social media, who attack anyone who disagrees with them. “You write anything on social media, the troll army of RSS and BJP, which is given lakhs and crores of rupees, comes to attack. In a democracy, disagreement and criticism are welcomed but today if you criticise, you are anti-national. In what direction the county is moving? This should be a matter of concern for every citizen,” he said. After offering tributes to Mahatma Gandhi on Shaheed Diwas at the state secretariat, Gehlot said that those who follow the ideology of the man who assassinated Gandhi are ruling the country and are MPs. On the issue of the Rajasthan Eligibility Examination for Teacher (REET) paper leak, the chief minister said that the state government took swift action and handed over the investigation to a special operation group of the Rajasthan police, which has conducted a thorough probe. Apparently ruling out the possibility of a CBI inquiry in the paper leak case, as demanded by the Opposition BJP, Gehlot said that the BJP leaders should give suggestions to the state government to improve the system instead of playing with the future of youngsters. He also said that such people have become leaders in the BJP who have no understanding of politics and give statements without thinking. “They should do some brainstorming before speaking. Because of them, lakhs of students are getting demoralised. After inflation, unemployment is a major issue. The state government has taken steps to improve the system,” he said. Gehlot said that the chairman of the Board of Secondary Education was sacked and secretary and other officials were suspended in connection with the matter and action will be taken against all those, whose names come in the course of the investigation. A committee of high court judge has been constituted to probe the matter, and in the future to ensure that such things shouldn’t happen, the government is bringing a bill in the coming assembly session. The board chairman DP Jaroli was sacked and the board secretary Arvind Kumar and two others were suspended by the state government on Saturday late evening in connection with the REET exam paper leak, which was held in September last year. Commenting on the allegations, BJP MLA and spokesperson Ram Lal Sharma said, “The opposition and 85% of the youth are demanding cancellation of REET exam, the CM should value their sentiments.” He said the constitution has given the right to speech to the citizens, if people are expressing their view on social media, what is wrong in it? It is rather healthy that people are sharing their views and opinion. On Pegasus, he said a story in a paper cannot be held credible or correct. 
30-01-2022||India||Five killed as car crashes into container truck along old Pune-Mumbai highway||PUNE: Five persons were killed in an accident along the old Mumbai-Pune highway stretch passing through Shilatne village in Lonavla area of Pune on Sunday morning, police said. The deceased were identified as Masidevi Tilok, 42, Seema Raj, 32, Shalini Rupnarayan Raj, 19, Mahavir Raj, 38, all residents of Mira Road in Mumbai, and the driver, Rehan Rizwan Ansari, a resident of Kurla area of Mumbai, according to the police. “The car, in which all the deceased were travelling, was heading from Lonavla towards Pune. In the opposite direction, a container was heading towards Mumbai, parallelly. The car lost control and broke through the divider and crashed onto the other side and then onto the oncoming container truck. Now we do not know how the car ended up on the other side but the suspicion is that the driver lost control,” said police sub inspector Sachin Bankar of Lonavla rural police station. The deceased were taken to the government hospital in Khandala for post mortem while the police are awaiting their relatives’ arrival. The police have cleared out the car that was completely damaged in the collision and cleared the road for traffic. The accident is recorded in a case at Lonavla rural police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-killed-as-car-crashes-into-container-truck-along-old-pune-mumbai-highway-101643536641923.html
30-01-2022||India||Delhi court rejects bail plea of ‘Bulli Bai’ app creator Niraj Bishnoi||A Delhi court has rejected the bail plea of Niraj Bishnoi, the alleged creator of the ‘Bulli Bai’ app observing that various women journalists of a particular community have been targeted by the accused person, to be abused and insulted on a public platform, which is certainly going to have an adverse impact upon the communal harmony.Additional sessions judge Dharmender Rana dismissed the bail plea of Niraj Bishnoi and said, “Considering the nature of the crime, the seriousness of allegations and nascent stage of the investigation, I do not find any merits in the application at hand and the same is accordingly dismissed.”The court noted that in the case at hand, around 100 women journalists of a particular community have been targeted by the accused persons, to be abused and insulted on a public platform."The act is certainly going to have an adverse impact upon the communal harmony of a society wherein woman has been deified since time immemorial and any attempt to scornfully objectify them is certainly going to invite vehement resistance from the community at large," said the court."The act of the applicant accused cannot be countenanced by any civilized society and the modus operandi of the alleged offence suggests meticulous planning and deft execution," stated the court.The court also noted that the sardonic conduct of the applicant/accused Bishnoi in targeting women journalists of a particular community, using offensive monikers with derogatory communal overtones, on a social platform is not only an offence against the essence of womanhood but also an act designed to enrage passion cause ill will amongst communities and disturb communal harmony.The court observed that the allegations against the applicant/accused are serious in nature."The investigation is at a nascent stage. I do not find any merits in the application at hand, " said the court in its order dated January 29.The Delhi Police on Tuesday opposed the bail plea of Niraj Bishnoi, the alleged creator of the Bulli Bai app, saying that the investigation is at a very nascent stage.Public Prosecutor Advocate Irfan Ahmed appearing for Delhi Police submitted that the contents on his Twitter handles were derogatory, accused with others were using words like "Suli" and "Buli" against the girls of a particular community.Advocate Irfan Ahmed also submitted that the accused used his Twitter handle to target women of a particular community. Only one victim has turned up by now and there are many others who are yet to be found out.Advocate L Ojha appearing for Niraj Bishnoi submitted, "I was arrested as a suspect. It's a bailable offence but during disclosure, sections of the IT Act was slapped on me. The Twitter handle which was used in the offence of committing the crime, my client have not used any derogatory language." He also submits that section 153A also invoked in FIR, it says about communal harmony. The complaint is by an individual and there is no group or community.Bishnoi, a 21-year-old engineering student, who is said to be the main conspirator and creator of the Bulli Bai app on GitHub and the main Twitter account holder of the app, was arrested by Delhi Police Special Cell's Intelligence Fusion and Strategic Operations unit (IFSO) from Assam's Jorhat on January 5, 2022.Earlier, the Magistrate court had dismissed the bail petition of Niraj Bishnoi stating that a vilification campaign against women containing derogatory content and offending material having communal overtones was run on this App being made by the accused.Delhi Police had earlier said that during interrogation, Niraj Bishnoi disclosed that the app was developed in November 2021 and updated on December 21 and he had created one more Twitter account to talk about the app.Several complaints were received by police stations in the country regarding the listing of Muslim women for "auction" on the 'Bulli Bai' mobile application with photographs sourced without permission and doctored. It has happened for the second time in less than a year. The app appeared to be a clone of 'Sulli Deals' which triggered a similar row last year.An engineering student from Bengaluru, a young girl from Uttarakhand, and one of her friends have also been arrested by Mumbai Police in connection with the 'Bulli Bai' app case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-court-rejects-bail-plea-of-bulli-bai-app-creator-niraj-bishnoi-101643534416473.html
30-01-2022||India||Mann Ki Baat: PM Modi cheers TN woman selling coconuts for donating ₹1L to school||During his address on the first episode of this year's ‘Mann Ki Baat’, Prime Minister Narendra Modi applauded the inclination towards education of a Tamil Nadu woman, who donated ₹1 lakh for the improvement of a school by selling coconuts.Speaking about Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh and his contributions to the establishment and betterment of educational institutions in Aligarh and Mathura in Uttar Pradesh, Modi mentioned one Tayammal hailing from Tiruppur district of Tamil Nadu.Hailing Tayammal's story as “very inspiring,” the Prime Minister said she does not own land in the southern state and has been making a living by selling coconut water for years. Despite her not-so-good financial condition, Tayammal left “no stone unturned” to educate her son and daughter. Her children studied at the Chinnaveerampatti Panchayat Union Middle School, Modi said.Also Read | Maan Ki Baat: From postcards to Collarwali tigress, highlights of PM’s addressNarrating her journey further, Modi informed the ‘Mann Ki Baat’ listeners of Tayammal being present in a parents-teachers' meeting one day when the poor infrastructure of the school and dearth of adequate funds to cater to the issues were raised.He said the woman donated ₹1 lakh to the school for improving the infrastructure, from money that she had saved by selling coconut water. “Indeed, it takes a big heart, a sense of service, to do this," Modi said.Modi further said, at the moment, the school has classes till standard 8, but as the infrastructure of the same improves, higher secondary education will also start there.Also Read | Mann Ki Baat: PM Modi gives deets on upcoming football stadium in LadakhFurther, the PM mentioned an alumnus of Banaras Hindu University (BHU) named Jai Chaudhury, who donated $1 million ( ₹7.5 crore) to the IIT-BHU Foundation.Modi touched upon varied topics in the day's ‘Mann Ki Baat’ address, and even appreciated the efforts of Indian youngsters for getting vaccinated against coronavirus disease (Covid-19). He said within a few \weeks, around 4.5 crore children (nearly 60 per cent) aged 15-18 have been jabbed against the disease. He also lauded the one crore coverage of precaution vaccine shots among eligible beneficiaries within 20 days.India commenced Covid-19 vaccination for individuals aged 15 and above on January 3, while the precaution dose (booster shot) was opened for healthcare workers and those with comorbidities on January 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mann-ki-baat-pm-cheers-tn-woman-selling-coconuts-for-donating-rs-1l-to-school-101643527298160.html
30-01-2022||India||Mann Ki Baat: PM gives deets on new football stadium in Ladakh, talks of fitness among youth||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday spoke about a culture of fitness as he cited the popularity of sports across the country starting from Manipur to Ladakh. Addressing the nation through his first ‘Mann Ki Baat’ radio programme of the year, Modi said Ladakh will soon have an open synthetic track and astro turf football stadium.“This stadium is being built at a height of more than 10,000 feet and its construction is going to be completed soon. This will be the largest open stadium in Ladakh where 30,000 spectators can sit together,” he added.The football stadium will also have a synthetic track with eight lanes, Modi said, adding there will also be a hostel facility with one thousand beds.He further said the stadium has been certified by FIFA, world biggest organisation of football.Also read | Maan Ki Baat: From postcards to Collarwali tigress, highlights of PM Modi’s address"Whenever such a big sports infrastructure comes up, it brings great opportunities to the youth of the country," Modi said during the address. A project like this also promotes tourism and generates employment, he added.Modi further spoke about Thounaojam Niranjoy Singh, a 24-year-old youth from Manipur, who had made a record of 109 push-ups in a minute. "Breaking the record is nothing new for Niranjoy Singh. Earlier too, he had held the record for most knuckle push-ups with one hand in a minute," the Prime Minister said, hoping this will inspire the youths in the country to make physical fitness a part of their life.'Mann Ki Baat' is the Prime Minister's monthly radio address, which is broadcast on the last Sunday of every month.The programme is broadcast on the entire network of AIR and Doordarshan and also on AIR News and mobile app. The first episode of the programme was aired on October 3, 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mann-ki-baat-pm-gives-deets-on-new-football-stadium-in-ladakh-talks-of-fitness-among-youth-101643530279506.html
30-01-2022||India||YouTuber arrested for defaming MP chief minister by uploading edited video||BHOPAL: The crime branch of the Madhya Pradesh police arrested a Youtuber and journalist from Mumbai for allegedly uploading the edited video of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan regarding the new liquor policy on YouTube and other social media platforms, an official said. The accused Iqbal Parvez uploaded the video after the state government announced a new liquor policy, which reduced the excise duty and introduced new home bar licences for people having an annual income of more than ₹1 crore. Crime branch Bhopal deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Amit Kumar, said that Iqbal Parvez has been arrested from Mumbai. “We have received a complaint on Thursday. After the arrest, he has been brought to Bhopal on Saturday. He is accused of making objectionable videos by editing the statements of CM Shivraj Singh. The accused had made this video viral on other social media platforms including YouTube,” said the DCP. “Iqbal Parvez had shared the video on the YouTube channel named “Sach Sabse Tez” with the name “Yeh kya bol rahe hai BJP Chief Minister. In the video, an old video of the CM was edited and linked with his statement given for the new liquor policy. He also said that after consuming liquor, people will shout Jai Shree Ram,” said Shivpal Kushwaha, assistant commissioner of police (ACP). He has been booked under section 500 (punishment for defamation), 501 (printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory), 505 2 (statements conducing to public mischief), 465 (punishment for forgery), 469 (whoever commits forgery) and 294 a (obscene acts in public place) of IPC, said Kushwaha. Iqbal is from Bihar and he worked as a journalist for many national channels. He has been working in Mumbai for the past 15 years. 
30-01-2022||India||Rajasthan: After donkey theft, now police team set up to find stolen goats||JAIPUR: A month after 70 donkeys went missing, alleged theft of goats is keeping the local police engaged in Hanumangarh district of Rajasthan. While the Khuiyan station police have been looking for the 70 stolen donkeys for the last one month, a case of 14 stolen goats is keeping the Tibbi station police on their toes. A special team with dedicated personnel of Tibbi police station have launched a hunt to find the stolen goats. Station house officer, Tibbi police station, Bhoop Singh said a complaint has been lodged by a few people alleging their goats have been stolen from their houses. In the complaint, people alleged that seven goats were stolen on January 15 and another seven on January 25. The theft of goats has been done from different houses in the area. “We have recovered CCTV footages, where it is seen that some unidentified people in a small car are lifting goats from houses,” said Singh. He said the involvement of locals cannot be ruled out as they would have done the recce. The people in winters sleep early, and the thief knowing about the locations, late night used to pick these goats from the houses. “We have constituted a team headed by an assistant sub-inspector to search for the goats. A goat costs from ₹7,000 to ₹10,000 in the market, and could be the reason for theft,” he said. Singh said around 10 days back, the Sirsa area police in Haryana busted an interstate gang involved in cattle theft, especially goats. The gang operated in Rajasthan, Punjab, and Haryana. Sirsa is around 50 km away from Tibbi. 
30-01-2022||India||Afternoon brief from HT: Political leaders pay floral tribute to Mahatma Gandhi at Rajghat, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Congress MP Rahul Gandhi were among the top leaders of the nation to pay floral tribute to Mahatma Gandhi at Rajghat in New Delhi on the 74th death anniversary of the father of the nation. Read morePrime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday addressed the nation in the first episode of this year's ‘Mann Ki Baat’. The address coincided with the death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi; hence instead of its usual starting time of 11am, it commenced at 11.30am. Read moreAs the country celebrated the 73rd Republic Day, telecom inventor and author Sam Pitroda shared a tweet on Prem Bihari Narain Raizada, a calligraphy artist of Delhi, who had written the entire Constitution of India by hand. Read moreVirat Kohli's decision to step down as the captain of the Indian Test team came as a surprise to the entire cricket fraternity, even those who knew him closely as a player, like the former India bowling coach Bharat Arun, who feels that the 33-year-old still had a few years left in him to lead the national side in the traditional format. Read moreKrishnendu Kalesh’s feature film debut Hawk's Muffin (Malayalam title: Prappeda) is a weird film, sharing DNA with such Indian films as Q's Tasher Desh or Lilo Jose Pellissery's Churuli. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afternoon-brief-from-ht-political-leaders-pay-floral-tribute-to-mahatma-gandhi-at-rajghat-and-all-the-latest-news-101643528034625.html
30-01-2022||India||Pegasus spyware row: Fresh plea in SC seeks probe into 2017 deal with Israel||An advocate has filed a fresh petition in the Supreme Court seeking its cognisance of a report in the New York Times on the alleged use of Israeli spyware Pegasus.Coming close on the heels of the Budget Session of Parliament, the report has claimed India had bought the Pegasus snooping tool as part of a $2 billion defence deal with Israel in 2017, triggering a major controversy with the Opposition accusing the Narendra Modi-led government of indulging in illegal spying that amounted to "treason". The Opposition has decided to raise the issue in the upcoming session starting Monday.According to a PTI report, the plea has been filed by advocate ML Sharma, one of the original petitioners in the case before the top court. The petition said the deal was not approved by Parliament and, therefore, needs to be cancelled and money be recovered.Also read | 'India can do better if…': In Chidambaram's Pegasus tweet, a dig at PM ModiHe urged the top court to issue suitable directions for registering a criminal case and to investigate the impugned Pegasus spyware purchase deal and alleged misuse of public funds in the interest of justice.The New York Times report said the Pegasus and a missile system were the "centrepieces" of a roughly $2 billion deal of sophisticated weapons and intelligence gear between India and Israel in 2017.Also read | Political storm brews before Budget sessionIn its report titled 'The Battle for the World's Most Powerful Cyberweapon', the NYT said the Israeli firm NSO Group had for nearly a decade been "selling its surveillance software on a subscription basis to law-enforcement and intelligence agencies around the world, promising that it could do what no one else -- not a private company, not even a state intelligence service -- could do: consistently and reliably crack the encrypted communications of any iPhone or Android smartphone".On October 27, last year, the top court had appointed a three-member panel of cyber experts to probe the alleged use of Pegasus for surveillance of certain people in India, saying the state cannot get a "free pass" every time the spectre of national security is raised and it cannot be the “bugbear” that the judiciary shies away from.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pegasus-spyware-row-fresh-plea-in-sc-seeks-probe-into-2017-deal-with-israel-101643528288808.html
30-01-2022||India||Zahid Wani's killing likely to disorient JeM terrorists operating in Kashmir||Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) commander Zahid Wani along with three other terrorists – one of them from Pakistan – were neutralised by security forces in an overnight encounter that broke out on Saturday evening in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district. The cooperation between Jammu and Kashmir police and XV Corps, or Chinar Corps, headed by lieutenant general Devendra Pratap Pandey, led to the successful operation.Zahid Wani was wanted by security forces for a long time and J&K police, on receiving specific inputs on the JeM commander, launched a search operation in the Naira area of Pulwama. The search operation was followed by an encounter in which Wani and three other terrorists, including a Pakistani named Kafil was neutralised, police said.Wani, one of the key JeM commanders after Lamboo and Sameer Dar, was arrested in Srinagar in 2016 for harbouring two Tehreek-ul-Mujahideen (TuM) terrorists Danish and Mugeez, both from Srinagar’s Parimpora. Extremely radical and a hardcore Jihadi, Wani had arranged camouflage gear for those two terrorists. He became the top Jaish commander in south Kashmir after security forces killed Pulwama attack mastermind, Sameer Dar, last year.JeM commander Zahid Wani, 4 other terrorists killed in twin encounter in J&KWani’s killing is expected to disorient the remaining JeM terrorists operating in the valley as he used to provide the planning and leadership. People in the security establishment believe that local recruitment in JeM may see a drop in the coming days since Wani was actively involved in the recruitment of young boys.The other three terrorists killed in the Pulwama encounter have been identified as Waheed Ah Reshi, a resident of Khadarmuh, Inayaitullah Mir, a resident of Naira where the operation took place, and Kafil aka Chotu, a Pakistan-based terrorist.Another terrorist working for Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and local The Resistance Front (TRF) was killed in a separate encounter in the Charar-i-Sharief area of central Kashmir’s Budgam district. An AK 56 rifle along with other incriminating material was recovered from the site.In January alone, security forces have neutralised 21 terrorists, including eight from Pakistan, in 11 encounters so far. Security forces have intensified counterterrorism operations in the Kashmir valley following the recent civilian killings which particularly targeted minority communities and migrants in the region.
30-01-2022||India||Maan Ki Baat: From postcards to Collarwali tigress, highlights of PM Modi’s address||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday addressed the nation in the first episode of this year's ‘Mann Ki Baat’. The address coincided with the death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi; hence instead of its usual starting time of 11am, it commenced at 11.30am.During his address, Modi spoke on various topics, including receiving one crore postcards from the youth of the country and Collarwali tigress who recently passed away.Here are the top highlights of PM Modi's ‘Mann Ki Baat’:1. Modi urged the citizens of the country to visit the National War Memorial in New Delhi. “We have seen the 'Amar Jawan Jyoti' near India Gate and the flame at the nearby National War Memorial have been merged into one…Some veterans wrote to me that 'Amar Jawan Jyoti' (at the National War Memorial) is a great tribute to martyrs,” he said.2. The PM talked about receiving one crore postcards from the youngsters of the country, which shed light on their dreams of India on the country's 100th year of independence. He read out some postcards that he received from various parts of the country, including Prayagraj and Goa, among others. Modi talked about an Assam girl namely Riddhima Swargiyari, a class 7 student, and her postcard. In the note, she mentioned that on India's 100th year of independence, she wishes to see it becoming the cleanest country in the world.3. Modi said he also received as many as 75 postcards from Croatia on the occasion of the 75th year of India's independence - Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav. These postcards were sent to him by the students of Applied Arts and Design in Croatia's Zagreb.4. While sharing stories of Indian citizens and their good deeds, the PM talked about a Tamil Nadu woman named Tayammal, who donated ₹1 lakh to a school, from the money she saved by selling coconut water.5. He also lauded a 24-year-old Manipur youth, named Thounaojam Niranjoy Singh, who made a record of doing 109 push ups in a minute. This was not the first time though that the man did these many push ups, PM Modi said. “Earlier too, he had held the record for most Knuckle push-ups with one hand in a minute. I am sure you will be inspired by Niranjoy Singh and make physical fitness a part of your life.”6. Further, he talked about an open synthetic track and astro turf football stadium coming up in Ladakh, which has also received certification from the FIFA. He said the venue will be constructed at a height of over 10,000 feet and will be the largest open stadium in the Union territory that can accommodate as many as 30,000 spectators at a time.7. The Prime Minister also remembered the famous Collarwali tigress, who recently passed away at the Pench Tiger Reserve in Madhya Pradesh. “You must have also seen these pictures on social media. This love of Indians for nature and living beings was greatly appreciated the world over,” he said. PM Modi also talked about elite horse Virat, who participated in his last parade at this year's Republic Day. “In view of Virat's immense services, after his retirement he was given farewell in an equally grand manner,” he added.8. Modi lauded the citizens of the country, especially the youth for their efforts to get vaccinated against Covid-19. He said that since the start of the vaccine doses for youth, 4.5 crore of them have already been jabbed with the shots. He further stated in 20 days, one crore people have taken the precaution dose of the Covid-19 vaccine.9. At the end of his speech, the PM reiterated the importance of ‘Swachhta Abhiyan’ (cleanliness campaign), vocal-for-local mantra and the dangers of single-use plastic. He ended his address by saying that all Indians need to work “wholeheartedly” for ‘Atma Nirbhar’ India and with such collective efforts, the country will reach “new heights of development.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maan-ki-baat-from-postcards-to-collarwali-tigress-highlights-of-pm-s-address-101643524439179.html
30-01-2022||India||Sam Pitroda recalls calligraphist Prem Bihari and how Constitution’s manuscript came into being||As the country celebrated the 73rd Republic Day, telecom inventor and author Sam Pitroda shared a tweet on Prem Bihari Narain Raizada, a calligraphy artist of Delhi, who had written the entire Constitution of India by hand.Born on December 16, 1901, in the family of a renowned calligraphy writer, Raizada was taught the art from an early age. All through his childhood he learnt calligraphy from his grandfather, who was a scholar of Persian and English and handwriting researcher.After graduating from Delhi's St'. Stephen's College, Raizada started practising calligraphy and gradually became known for his beautiful handwriting, read the tweet shared by Pitroda, known as the advisor of the late Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi.His name also reached the then Prime Minister of India Jawaharlal Nehru's ears who later summoned him when the Constitution of India was ready for printing.Nehru wanted the entire Constitution to be scribed in handwritten calligraphy in italic and not in a print format.The tweet then talks about the exchange that took place between Raizada and Nehru. When Nehru had asked Raizada what fee he would charge for hand writing the entire Constitution, the latter said "not a single penny". However, he had one wish. He wanted to write his name on every page of the constitution while, on the last page, he wanted to have his grandfather Ram Prasad Saxena' name mentioned along with his name. Nehru accepted and the rest is history.The tweet also mentions other noteworthy details about the Indian constitution and subsequent visit by Raizada along with the then President of India, Rajendra Prasad, to Santiniketan before embarking on his six-month journey to hand write the document, hailed as the supreme law of India.During their visit to Santiniketan on November 29, 1949, they met renowned painter Nandalal Basu to decide the layout of the Constitution.“Unsung Hero’s of India” - Interesting facts that people should know and appreciate. pic.twitter.com/lrApxyW53iThey decided what part of the leaf Raizada would write on, while Basu and his students would use the blank parts of the leaf to decorate with paintings.The spaces on pages left by Raizada would make way for impeccable imagery showcasing Mohenjo-daro seals, Indian mythologies – Ramayana, Mahabharata, life of Gautam Buddha and the Mughal empire among other things.To complete his task, Raizada needed 432 pen holders, all of which were brought from England and Czechoslovakia. He wrote the constitution in a room in the Constitution Hall of India. He died on February 17, 1986.The Indian Constitution, the world's longest written one, lays down the framework that demarcates fundamental political code, structure, procedures, powers, and duties of government institutions and sets out fundamental rights, directive principles, and the duties of citizens.While the Constitution was adopted by the Constituent Assembly of India on 26 November 1949, it became effective on 26 January 1950. The day is now celebrated across the country as the Republic Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sam-pitroda-recalls-calligraphist-prem-bihari-and-how-constitution-s-manuscript-came-into-being-101643526470940.html
30-01-2022||India||‘Real Hindutvavadi would have shot…’: Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Gandhi's assassin||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday said that the real ‘Hindutvavadi’ would have shot Pakistan’s founder Mohammad Ali Jinnah and not Mahatma Gandhi. Raut was responding to a tweet by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in which he said a Hindutvavadi shot Mahatma Gandhi dead but “Bapu is still alive where the truth prevails today.”Nathuram Godse, a member of Hindu Mahasabha, assassinated Mahatma Gandhi at Birla House in New Delhi during a prayer meeting in Birla House in New Delhi on January 30, 1948. Godse was a member of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) as well but his affiliation to the saffron organisation at the time of assassination remains contested.“A Hindutvavadi had shot Gandhiji. All Hindutvavadis feel that Gandhiji is no more. Where there is truth, Bapu is still alive today! #GandhiForever," Rahul Gandhi tweeted in Hindi.Gandhi death anniv: Prez Kovind, PM & Rahul Gandhi pay floral tribute at RajghatRaut told reporters that shooting Jinnah would have been an act of patriotism since he was the one who demanded the partition of India and the formation of Pakistan. He believes, the Rajya Sabha member said, shooting an unarmed Mahatma Gandhi was wrong and the whole world mourns his death even today.“Formation of Pakistan was Jinnah's demand…If there was a real 'Hindutvawadi', then the person would have shot Jinnah, not Gandhi…Such an act would have been an act of patriotism…The world even today mourns Gandhi Ji's death,” Raut said.#WATCH Formation of Pakistan was Jinnah's demand. If there was a real 'Hindutvawadi', then he/she would've shot Jinnah, not Gandhi. Such an act would've been an act of patriotism. The world even today mourns Gandhi Ji's death: Sanjay Raut, Shiv Sena pic.twitter.com/f0uJUvUjRBIndia is observing the 74th death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi as Martyr's Day in memory of freedom fighters who sacrificed their lives for India’s independence. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, President Ram Nath Kovind, and other top political leaders paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi at New Delhi’s Rajghat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/real-hindutvavadi-would-have-shot-shiv-sena-mp-sanjay-raut-on-gandhi-s-assassin-101643523583929.html
30-01-2022||India||Mann Ki Baat: PM Modi says India successfully fought fresh Covid-19 surge, lauds vaccine feat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday, in his first ‘Mann Ki Baat’ of the year, said the country is successfully fighting the latest wave of the coronavirus pandemic. He lauded the huge number of children in the age group of 15-18 being vaccinated against Covid-19.“It is a matter of pride that so far almost 4.5 crore children have taken Covid vaccine. The faith of our people in our nation's vaccine is a great source of strength. Now, the number of COVID infections is declining. This is a very positive sign,” he said, while reiterating the importance of taking possible precautions. “It is important to defeat COVID and ensure economic progress.”He said corruption is like a "termite" which makes the country hollow and all the people of the country have to work together to rid the nation of it as soon as possible.The PM began his speech by urging people to visit the National War Memorial in New Delhi.“We have seen the 'Amar Jawan Jyoti' near India Gate and the flame at the nearby National War Memorial have been merged into one. On this emotional moment, many countrymen and the family of martyrs had tears in their eyes,” he said.“Some veterans wrote to me that 'Amar Jawan Jyoti' (at the National War Memorial) is a great tribute to martyrs… I request you to visit the War Memorial… As part of 'Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav' many awards such as PM Bal Puraskar, Padma awards were also announced.”Check Live Updates here:He then shared that he had received a large number of postcards from children across the country and outside as well.“More than one crore children have sent me their ‘Mann Ki Baat’ via postcard. These postcards have come from many parts of the country and even from abroad. These postcards give a glimpse of broad and comprehensive outlook of our new generation for our country's future.”In his customary style, the PM then spoke about some citizens of the country whom he calls unsung heroes.  He referred to the family of Tayammal in Tamil Nadu's Tiruppur who has been making a living selling tender coconut water. “Despite financial strains, she left no stone unturned to educate her children. She even donated ₹1 lakh for a school. To do this, you need a very big heart,” he said. Speaking about the citizens love for nature and compassion for every living being, Modi said, “A glimpse of our culture was seen when a tigress in Pench Tiger Reserve of MP bid adieu to the world. People used to call this tigress Collar Wali Tigress and were heartbroken when she passed away.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mann-ki-baat-pm-modi-urges-citizens-to-visit-national-war-memorial-101643523112712.html
30-01-2022||India||Gandhi death anniv: Prez Kovind, PM & Rahul Gandhi pay floral tribute at Rajghat||President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Congress MP Rahul Gandhi were among the top leaders of the nation to pay floral tribute to Mahatma Gandhi at Rajghat in New Delhi on the 74th death anniversary of the father of the nation.Earlier in the day, Modi, who is scheduled to address his first Mann ki Baat' of the year, took to Twitter to state it is our collective endeavour to further popularise Gandhi's noble ideals. Delhi | President Ram Nath Kovind lays a wreath at Rajghat as the nation observes the death anniversary of #MahatmaGandhi pic.twitter.com/9XVB1ZuArf"Remembering Bapu on his Punya Tithi. It is our collective endeavour to further popularise his noble ideals. Today, on Martyrs' Day, paying homage to all the greats who courageously safeguarded our nation. Their service and bravery will always be remembered," Modi wrote. Also read | Martyrs' Day: Tributes pour in as India observes Gandhi's death anniversaryRahul Gandhi while training his guns on the assassination of Gandhi in 1948 at the Birla House (now Gandhi Smriti) in Delhi, wrote, “A Hindutvawadi shot Gandhiji. All Hindutvaists feel that Gandhiji is no more. Where there is truth, Bapu is still alive there!”Later, sharing images from his visit to Rajghat, the Congress leader wrote a quote of Gandhi. “When I despair, I remember that all through history the way of truth and love have always won. There have been tyrants and murderers, and for a time they can seem invincible but in the end, they always fall. Think of it always.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gandhi-death-anniv-prez-kovind-pm-rahul-gandhi-pay-floral-tribute-at-rajghat-101643521786875.html
30-01-2022||India||Manipur imposes new Covid restrictions, night curfew to continue till Feb 28||IMPHAL: The Manipur government on Saturday revised the Covid-19 restrictions including night curfew from 9pm to 5am in the state and the order will remain in force till February 28. Dr Rajesh Kumar, chief secretary, Manipur, who is also the chairperson of the executive committee of the state disaster management authority, issued the order “in view of the huge increase of infection by the highly mutant Covid-19 variant Omicron in the country”. As per the order, physical classes will be only for class IX and above while the number of students should not exceed 50 percent of the capacity of the classroom. “Online classes should be increased and physical classes reduced,” the order said, adding, “Only online classes in coaching centres and private tuition centres (No physical classes).” Directing the shopping malls to ensure limiting the number of customers to 50 percent inside the mall and strict observance of Covid appropriate behaviour, the order said that the eating areas of hotels or restaurants shall allow and serve only 50 percent capacity while the Gymnasium and fitness centres may open from 5am to 12noon. All shops and commercial establishments can open from 8 am to 5 pm. However, shops selling fish, poultry and poultry products, milk and fresh milk products are to open from 8 am to 1 pm, the order added. In respect of shops in Thangal and Paona Bazar, the shops may open from 7am to 5pm. All Central and state government offices can function with 66 per cent physical attendance of employees by taking adequate precaution and strictly following Covid appropriate behaviour, the order said. Gathering is allowed subject to a maximum of 50 persons or half of the capacity whichever is less in case of closed spaces and maximum 200 persons in case of open spaces, it added. Meanwhile, the state on Saturday reported one Covid death from Imphal East district in the last 24 hours.The death toll stands at 2,038. The state also reported 425 new Covid-19 cases after 2,615 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, officials said. The positivity rate is 16.3 percent. Thus, the state’s tally increased to 1,32,581 with 3934 active cases. With 294 new recoveries in the last 24 hours, the total number of recovered Covid-19 cases in Manipur reached 1,26,609. Thus, the state’s recovery rate declined to 95.50 %. According to latest official reports, the state has so far given 24,79,919 doses of Covid vaccines including 14,13,057 first and 10,42,114 second doses besides 24,748 precautionary doses to the residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-imposes-new-covid-restrictions-night-curfew-to-continue-till-feb-28-101643521340847.html
30-01-2022||India||At 2,34,281, India's Covid tally sees minor dip, positivity rate up at 14.50%||India's fresh tally of coronavirus (Covid-19) cases dropped for a third consecutive day on Sunday after 2,34,281 fresh infections were reported, according to the morning update by the Union health ministry. With this, the overall caseload of the country reached 4,10,92,522.Fresh fatalities as well as daily positivity rate, however, rose in the last 24 hours. As many as 893 patients succumbed to the virus, up from 871 on Saturday. Meanwhile, the case positivity rate shot up to 14.50 per cent from 13.39 per cent on the preceding day.A total of 3,52,784 people recuperated from Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, up from 3,35,939 on Saturday, taking the total number of patients who have recovered from the disease to 3,87,13,494.The active case count of the country dipped below the two-lakh mark and currently stands at 18,84,937, the health ministry's update showed. It accounted for 4.91 per cent of the cumulative tally.India's vaccination coverage against Covid-19 has surpassed 165.70 crore, with as many as 62,22,682 jabs administered to eligible beneficiaries in the last 24 hours. Health minister Mansukh Mandaviya took to Twitter on Sunday to inform that over 75% of the adult population of the country has been jabbed with both doses of Covid-19 vaccine.“We are getting stronger in the fight against coronavirus. We have to follow all the rules and get the vaccine as soon as possible,” his tweet roughly translated from Hindi read.India began administering Covid-19 vaccine shots to individuals aged 15-17 on January 3, while precaution doses (booster shots) for healthcare and those with comorbidities commenced on January 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-2-34-281-india-s-covid-tally-sees-dip-for-3rd-straight-day-log-893-deaths-101643515893680.html
30-01-2022||India||Mandaviya says more than 75% adult population fully vaccinated, PM lauds feat||Union health minister Mansukh Mandiaviya said on Sunday more than 75 per cent of the eligible population in the country is fully vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The health minister’s tweet came amid the latest resurgence in Covid-19 cases, driven by the fast-spreading Omicron variant, with the country registering more than two lakh fresh cases on a daily basis over the past few days.“With the mantra of 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Prayas', India has achieved the target of 75% of its adult population being administered both doses of the vaccine. We are getting stronger in the fight against the coronavirus. We have to follow all the rules and get the vaccine as soon as possible,” the health minister wrote on Twitter in Hindi. Soon after, Prime Minister Narendra Modi shared Mandaviya's tweet and congratulated citizens for the feat. “75% of all adults are fully vaccinated. Congratulations to our fellow citizens for this momentous feat. Proud of all those who are making our vaccination drive a success,” he wrote.75% of all adults are fully vaccinated.Congratulations to our fellow citizens for this momentous feat. Proud of all those who are making our vaccination drive a success. https://t.co/OeCJddtAL8In a press release, the government said more than 62 lakh doses (62,22,682) were administer in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative coverage to more than 165.70 crore (1,65,70,60,692).The nationwide vaccination drive to combat the pandemic’s spread was launched on January 16 last year starting with the inoculation of health and frontline workers. It was gradually expanded to senior citizens and those above 45 years with comorbidities. It was then given to all above 45, followed by all adults above 18 years.Earlier this year, the government expanded the drive to children above 15 years and a third ‘precaution’ dose for frontline workers and senior citizens with comorbidities.Meanwhile, the health ministry said more than 164.36 crore (1,64,36,66,725) vaccine doses have been provided to states and Union territories so far (free of cost channel) and through direct state procurement category.It said another 12.43 crore (12,43,49,361) balance and unutilised vaccines are still available with the states and UTs.The country recorded 2,34,281 new cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours pushing the active caseload 18,84,937.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-more-than-75-adult-population-fully-vaccinated-says-mandaviya-101643515400206.html
30-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Lok Sabha speaker to chair all-party meeting today, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Budget 2022: Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to chair all-party meeting todayLok Sabha Speaker Om Birla will chair an all-party meeting on Sunday as Parliament readies for the Budget Session from a day later. The customary meeting will see the attendance of floor leaders of all political parties and the discussions will focus on the smooth functioning of Parliament. Read more…'India can do better if…': In Chidambaram's Pegasus tweet, a dig at PM ModiCongress leader P Chidambaram on Sunday took a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s message on the eve of 30 years of ties between India and Israel amid the latest row over the Pegasus controversy coming close on the wheels of the Budget session. Read more…Github case: An act to disturb harmony, says courtA Delhi court has rejected the bail application of Neeraj Bishnoi, the main accused in the case of online harassment of Muslim women through a website called Bullibai, with the judge calling his alleged actions “sardonic conduct in targeting women journalists of a particular community” and an act to “disturb communal harmony”. Read more…'I'm not too sure if he can be captain': Ex-bowling coach Bharat Arun gives verdict on India star for leadership roleSince Virat Kohli announced his decision to step down as the Test captain of the side earlier this month, speculations are rife over his successor. India's former bowling coach Bharat Arun – who has worked closely with Bumrah over the past few years – believes that the fast bowler might not be the right option to lead the country. Read more…Kapil Sharma I'm Not Done Yet: Kapil, we hope you're not done yet with stand-up and there is more to comeIn 2016, at the sidelines of a fan meet-and-greet with YouTube creators, a popular English language stand-up comic (let them remain unnamed) was asked by a fan if it irked them they weren't as popular as Kapil Sharma even though their jokes were 'classier'. Without missing a beat, the comedian replied, "Kapil Sharma actually has great comic timing. He is just doing what sells. Just give him a stage minus the distractions and you'll see." I had always wondered what that would be like. As someone who was not a regular viewer of his shows, over the years, my exposure to Kapil Sharma's comedy was only at award functions and random YouTube clips. Read more…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-lok-sabha-speaker-to-chair-all-party-meeting-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101643511305040.html
30-01-2022||India||'India can do better if…': In Chidambaram's Pegasus tweet, a dig at PM Modi||Congress leader P Chidambaram on Sunday took a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s message on the eve of 30 years of ties between India and Israel amid the latest row over the Pegasus controversy coming close on the wheels of the Budget session.Chidambaram urged the PM to ask Israel if the latter has any advanced version of the Pegasus spyware that was bought by the Modi government as a part of $2-billion deal with Israel for military hardware and intelligence tools in 2017, as reported by the News York Times.The Congress leader said the country can do better with a more sophisticated software ahead of the 2024 general election and pay the Israeli company even $4 billion.Also read | Political storm brews before Budget sessionTaking to Twitter, the Rajya Sabha MP wrote, “The PM said that it is the best time to set new goals in the India-Israel relationship. Of course, it is the best time to ask Israel if they have any advanced version of the Pegasus spyware. The last deal was for $2 billion. India can do better this time. If we get more sophisticated spyware ahead of the 2024 elections, we can give them even $4 billion.”The last deal was for $2 billion. India can do better this time. If we get more sophisticated spyware ahead of the 2024 elections, we can give them even $4 billionOn Saturday, Modi issued a special video message, marking 30 years of the establishment of diplomatic relations between India and Israel. "The history of the relationship between our countries is very old. There has been a strong relationship between the people of India and Israel for centuries," the Prime Minister said.The Congress has intensified its attack on the Modi government over the spyware controversy, accusing the government of treason for allegedly “tapping” phones of Opposition leaders, armed forces and the judiciary.The party has said it will raise the issue in the Budget session of Parliament starting on Monday, and demand accountability from the Prime Minister and his government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-can-do-better-if-in-chidambaram-s-pegasus-tweet-a-dig-at-pm-modi-101643512329744.html
30-01-2022||India||Amar Jawan Jyoti-like memorial to be built in Raipur in honour of martyrs||RAIPUR: Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, on Saturday, announced that a memorial to honour the martyrdom of slain soldiers will be built in Raipur on the lines of India Gate’s Amar Jawan Jyoti flame which was recently merged with the National War Memorial (NWM), a press note issued by Chhattisgarh government stated. Congress leader and MP Rahul Gandhi will perform bhoomi poojan of the memorial on February 3. Expressing his dissatisfaction over the Centre’s move of merging of Amar Jawan Jyoti, Baghel said that it hurts his sentiments, but now the flame of Chhattisgarh Amar Jawan Jyoti will be lit in honor of the martyrs in Raipur. “In honor of the martyrs, the memorial named, ‘Chhattisgarh Amar Jawan Jyoti’, will be constructed in the campus of Chhattisgarh Armed Force’s 4th battalion in Mana area here. The flame at the memorial will glow continuously,” the chief minister said in a statement. “Congress has been the party of people who make sacrifices and knows how to respect the sacrifice. It is evident in the history that any society which does not respect its martyrs, not preserve the memories of their sacrifices and insults their memorials, such society gets destroyed,” the release quoted Baghel. “We will honor the martyrdom of the bravehearts (Police/Paramilitary/Army) of Chhattisgarh who sacrificed their lives for the nation in any part of the country, as well as the bravehearts of the country who sacrificed their lives in state through this memorial,” the chief minister said. Rahul Gandhi is scheduled to visit the state capital on February 3 to launch a financial assistance scheme named ‘Rajiv Gandhi Bhoomihin Krishi Majdoor Nyay Yojana’ for landless labourers of rural areas, a government official said. Under the scheme, registered labourers in rural areas, who do not possess agricultural land, will be given financial assistance of ₹6,000 per year, he added. On the occasion, he will lay the foundation stone of Chhattisgarh Amar Jawan Jyoti memorial as well as of Gandhi Sevagram ashram in Nava Raipur, the upcoming capital city of the state, similar to the lines of the one in Wardha (Maharashtra).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amar-jawan-jyoti-like-memorial-to-be-built-in-raipur-in-honour-of-martyrs-101643512580033.html
30-01-2022||India||Martyrs' Day: Tributes pour in as India observes Mahatma Gandhi's death anniversary||Today is the death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, observed across the country as Martyrs’ Day in memory of freedom fighters who sacrificed their lives for India’s independence. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, President Ram Nath Kovind and other top political leaders will pay tributes to Mahatma Gandhi at New Delhi’s Rajghat. The central government has directed the state and Union territories to observe two minutes of silence at 11am in the memory of martyred freedom fighters.India is observing the 74th death anniversary of Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi, popularly known as Mahatma Gandhi, who was assassinated by Nathuram Godse on January 30, 1948, at Birla House in New Delhi. Godse, a member of Hindu Mahasabha, fired three bullets in Gandhi’s chest as he made his way to a prayer meeting. Godse was also a member of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh but his affiliation to the organisation at the time of assassination is contested.Union home minister and minister of cooperation Amit Shah will unveil the mural of Mahatma Gandhi at the Sabarmati Riverfront in Gujarat's Ahmedabad city."Union Home Minister and Minister of Cooperation Amit Shah will unveil the Mural of Mahatma Gandhi Ji at the Sabarmati Riverfront, Ahmedabad Gujarat t 10 am on January 30," Home Minister's Office (HMO) tweeted.Tributes to the Father of the Nation have poured in for his immense contribution to India’s freedom struggle through non-violent methods. “We pay our tribute to the Father of the Nation on his death anniversary. On this day, also observed as Martyrs' day, we salute all the brave men and women who laid their lives for the country,” Congress tweeted on Sunday.Taking the 'Hindus and Hindutvavadis' debate forward, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said Hindutvavadis feel that Gandhi is no more but he is still alive where there is truth."A Hindutvavadi had shot Gandhiji. All Hindutvavadis feel that Gandhiji is no more. Where there is truth, Bapu is still alive today! #GandhiForever," he tweeted in Hindi.एक हिंदुत्ववादी ने गाँधी जी को गोली मारी थी।सब हिंदुत्ववादियों को लगता है कि गाँधी जी नहीं रहे।जहाँ सत्य है, वहाँ आज भी बापू ज़िंदा हैं!#GandhiForever pic.twitter.com/nROySYZ6jUSand artist Sudarsan Pattnaik shared one of his sand art to pay homage to Mahatma Gandhi on the occasion of Martyrs' Day.Paying homage to #MahatmaGandhi ji on his 74th Death anniversary today. I am sharing one of my SandArt .#MartyrsDay pic.twitter.com/njIvaQWsCT||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/martyrs-day-tributes-pour-in-as-india-observes-mahatma-gandhi-s-death-anniversary-101643509787313.html
30-01-2022||India||JeM commander Zahid Wani, 4 other terrorists killed in twin encounter in J&K||Five terrorists were killed overnight in two separate operations by security forces in the Budgam and Pulwama districts of Jammu and Kashmir, police said on Sunday. Kashmir’s inspector general of police Vijay Kumar said that the terrorists neutralised in the encounters were affiliated to Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed, both Pakistan-based terror outfits. Kumar said that JeM commander Zahid Wani and a Pakistani terrorist were among the killed, calling it a big success for security forces. A total of 21 terrorists, including eight from Pakistan, have been killed in 11 encounters this month so far, he added.05 #terrorists of #Pakistan sponsored proscribed #terror outfits LeT & JeM killed in dual #encounters in last 12 hours. JeM commander terrorist Zahid Wani & a Pakistani terrorist among the killed. Big #success for us: IGP Kashmir@JmuKmrPoliceKashmir Zone Police informed on Saturday evening that an encounter broke out between terrorists and security forces in the Naira area of Pulwama. A total of four terrorists were killed in the overnight operation in the south Kashmir's district. Incriminating materials including arms and ammunition recovered were recovered from the site, said police.One terrorist affiliated to LeT was killed in a separate encounter that broke out in the Charar-i-Sharief area of central Kashmir's Budgam district on Saturday. Police said that incriminating materials including an AK 56 rifle were recovered from the site.Earlier on Saturday, a 53-year-old policeman was shot dead by terrorists in South Kashmir’s Hassanpora Bijbhera. Some unidentified gunmen fired at head constable Ali Mohammad Ganie near his residence in Anantnag’s Bijbehara area. He was rushed to the hospital where the doctors declared him dead on arrival."I strongly condemn the brutal killing of our J&K Police HC Ali Mohammad in Anantnag district by terrorists. His supreme sacrifice won't go in vain. The perpetrators of this barbaric act will be punished soon. My deepest condolences to the family of martyr," J&K L-G Manoj Sinha tweeted after the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-terrorists-including-jem-commander-zahid-wani-killed-in-dual-encounters-101643504133229.html
30-01-2022||NA||Highlights: Punjab CM Channi to contest polls from Chamkaur Sahib and Bhadaur||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Pegasus inquiry: Take note of the NYT reportA controversy over the alleged purchase and potential use of Pegasus spyware reignited last week after the New York Times (NYT) reported that India bought the sophisticated malware as part of a $2-billion weapons package. Read More Gunmen kill priest on his way home from church in PakistanGunmen killed a Christian cleric and wounded his colleague as they were driving home from church in Pakistan’s northwestern city of Peshawar on Sunday, police said.Godse's ideology becoming dominant:  Mahatma Gandhi's great grandsonMahatma Gandhi's great grandson Tushar Gandhi on Sunday lamented that the number of people who follow the teachings of the Father of the Nation is shrinking in the country, while the ideology of his assassin, Nathuram Godse, is becoming dominant.‘Raut has partnership with wine company': BJP leader slams Sanjay Raut over 'wine is not liquor'Bharatiya Janata Party leader Kirit Somaiya on Sunday hit out at Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut for his "wine is not liquor" comment and said that the latter is saying so because he has a partnership with a wine company and has a big investment in the business which gives him a profit of ₹100 crores annually.Nadal wins Australian Open for 21st major titleRafael Nadal becomes the first men's player to win 21 Grand Slams, defeats Daniil Medvedev 2-6, 6-7, 6-4, 6-4, 7-5 in the final to win his second Australia Open title. Israel president on 1st visit to UAE amid regional tensionIsrael's figurehead president met the powerful crown prince of Abu Dhabi on Sunday on the first official visit to the United Arab Emirates by the country's head of state, the latest sign of deepening ties between the two nations as tensions rise in the region.Punjab CM Channi to contest polls from Chamkaur Sahib and BhadaurLeader of Congress in Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury writes to Speaker Om Birla, demanding a privilege motion against the Minister of Information Technology for "deliberately misleading the House on the Pegasus issue" pic.twitter.com/vJuR2lnJUaBJP announces candidates for all 60 assembly seats in ManipurThe BJP has announced the names of its candidates for all 60 assembly seats in Manipur for next month's elections. Chief minister N Biren Singh has been fielded from Heingang constituency.Jasbir Singh Khangura, former Cong MLA from Punjab, quits partyJasbir Singh Khangura, former MLA from Qila Raipur in Punjab quits Congress party. pic.twitter.com/4x5VPi4zVBJasbir Singh Khangura, former MLA of the Congress party Punjab's Qila Raipur in Punjab, resigned from the party.PM lauds Manipur youth's record of doing 109 push ups in one minuteAt Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi lauds Manipur youth's record of doing 109 push ups in one minute.PM Modi remembers Collarwali tigress, Elite horse Virat in 'Mann ki Baat' programmePM Modi talks about the demise of Collarwali tigress at Mann Ki Baat, saying that India's love for nature and animals is appreciated worldwide. He also remembered elite horse Virat.PM talks about Tamil Nadu man, who donated ₹1 lakh to a school, from the money he saved by selling coconut waterPrime Minister Narendra Modi at Mann Ki Baat talked about a Tamil Nadu man named Tayammal, who donated ₹1 lakh to a school, from the money he saved by selling coconut water.Received 75 postcards from Croatia: PM Modi at Mann Ki BaatPM Narendra Modi said he received as many as 75 postcards from Croatia on the occasion of ‘Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav’ for 75th year of independence.PM talks about Assam girl's postcard on India being cleanest nationPrime Minsister Narendra Modi read out a postcard sent to him from an Assam girl Ridhima, studying in class 7, who said she dreams of India becoming the cleanest nation on its 100th year of independence.At Mann ki Baat, PM Modi urges people to visit National War MemorialAt Mann ki Baat, Prime Minister Narendra Modi urges people to visit National War Memorial.PM Modi addresses nation in year's first episode of Mann Ki BaatPrime Minister Narendra Modi addresses nation in year's first episode of Mann Ki Baat.PM Modi and President Kovind pay tribute to Gandhi at Rajghat on his death anniversaryDelhi | Prime Minister Narendra Modi pays tribute to Mahatma Gandhi at Rajghat on his death anniversary pic.twitter.com/u4oTZLWKgkPrime Minister Narendra Modi, and President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday paid tribute to Mahatma Gandhi at Rajghat in New Delhi on his death anniversary. Read here.Chief economic advisor Nageswaran to hold press briefing on Jan 31New chief economic advisor V Anantha Nageswaran to address a press conference on January 31 at 3.45pm in New Delhi after the presentation of the economic survey by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in the Parliament.Tamil Nadu Governor, CM pay tributes to Gandhi on death anniversaryChennai | Tamil Nadu Governor RN Ravi and CM MK Stalin pay tributes to Mahatma Gandhi as the nation observes his death anniversary today pic.twitter.com/Vnr0cmf2Y8Tamil Nadu Governor RN Ravi and chief minister MK Stalin on Sunday paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi as the nation observes his death anniversary today.75% of India's adult population fully vaccinated against Covid: Mansukh Mandaviya'सबका साथ, सबका प्रयास' के मंत्र के साथ, भारत ने अपनी 75% वयस्क आबादी को वैक्सीन की दोनों डोज लगाने का लक्ष्य हासिल कर लिया है। कोरोना से लड़ाई में हम निरंतर मज़बूत हो रहें है। हमें सभी नियमों का पालन करते रहना है और जल्द से जल्द वैक्सीन लगवानी है। #SabkoVaccineMuftVaccine pic.twitter.com/wSBg9AQphxHealth minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Sunday took to Twitter to announce that 75% of India's adult population has been fully vaccinated against Covid-19.India's single-day Covid cases further dip to 2,34,281, 893 deaths in 24 hrsIndia continued its downward swing in fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday with 2,34,281 fresh infections, down from Saturday's 2,35,532. New fatalities, however, saw a rise to 893 from yesterday's 871.Ambassador of Israel to India Naor Gilon shares video of illuminated Masada Fortress on 30 years of diplomatic ties between two nations#WATCH | Ambassador of Israel to India Naor Gilon shared a video of the illuminated Masada Fortress in Israel to celebrate three decades of full diplomatic relations between India and Israel (29.01)(Video courtesy: Naor Gilon's Twitter handle) pic.twitter.com/i9M8B4TpCHAmbassador of Israel to India Naor Gilon on Saturday (January 29) shared a video of the illuminated Masada Fortress in Israel to celebrate 30 years of full diplomatic relations between the two countries.5 terrorists of LeT and JeM killed in last 12 hours: Kashmir PoliceFive terrorists of LeT and JeM were killed in dual encounters in the last 12 hours, Kashmir Police said in a statement. JeM commander terrorist Zahid Wani and a Pakistani terrorist were among those killed, the statement added. Read here.PM Modi's Mann Ki Baat to start at 11.30am todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi to address the nation via the ‘Mann Ki Baat’ today at 11.30am. Read here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/live-pm-modi-s-mann-ki-baat-address-to-start-at-11-30am-today-101643503694417.html
30-01-2022||India||PM Modi to address the nation today in 1st episode of this year's Mann ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation today in this year's first episode of his monthly radio programme 'Mann Ki Baat'. The 85th episode of 'Mann Ki Baat', which is broadcast on the last Sunday of every month, will be aired at 11.30am on the entire network of All India Radio and Doordarshan and also on AIR News and mobile app."This month's Mann Ki Baat, which will take place on the 30th, will begin at 11:30 am after observing the remembrances to Gandhi Ji on his Punya Tithi," said Prime Minister's Office last week.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief JP Nadda had directed party workers to make arrangements at booth level to ensure maximum participation of people in PM’s 'Mann Ki Baat' programme. BJP has made special preparations to make people listen to his address at different places across the country. The address comes on the death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, observed as Martyrs Day to honour his contribution towards the freedom of the country.PM Modi talks about 'Kaavi' on Mann Ki Baat, stresses ancient art’s preservationThe Prime Minister had invited citizens to share ideas and suggestions for this month's Mann ki Baat episode."On the 30th of this month, the first #MannKiBaat of 2022 will take place. I am sure you have lots to share in terms of inspiring life stories and topics. Share them on @mygovindia or the NaMo App. Record your message by dialling 1800-11-7800," PM Modi said in a tweet.In the last edition of Mann ki Baat on December 26, PM Modi spoke on several topics including coronavirus disease and Swachh Bharat' initiative. He also spoke about Kaavi, a form of painting mostly found in Goa and coastal parts of Maharashtra, urging people to work towards preserving such ancient forms in the country.The first episode of the programme was aired on October 3, 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-the-nation-today-in-1st-episode-of-this-year-s-mann-ki-baat-101643502055237.html
30-01-2022||India||Github case: An act to disturb harmony, says court||A Delhi court has rejected the bail application of Neeraj Bishnoi, the main accused in the case of online harassment of Muslim women through a website called Bullibai, with the judge calling his alleged actions “sardonic conduct in targeting women journalists of a particular community” and an act to “disturb communal harmony”.The 21-year-old engineering student from Assam was arrested on January 6 for allegedly creating a web-based application that hosted doctored photographs along with objectionable comments targeting Muslim women.The web app was hosted on US-based code sharing service GitHub on December 31, carrying at one point doctored photos of at least 100 Muslim women along with offensive remarks and comments. On January 2, separate FIRs were registered in Delhi and Mumbai based on complaints by women who were among those targeted.Hearing the bail application of Bishnoi on January 27, Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana said that Bishnoi’s act of using derogatory social overtones against the women of a particular community was designed to enrage passion and cause ill-will amongst communities. The order was released on Saturday.“…around 100 women journalists of a particular community have been targeted by the accused persons to be abused and insulted on a public platform. The act is certainly going to have an adverse impact upon the communal harmony of a society wherein a woman has been deified since time immemorial and any attempt to scornfully objectify them is certainly going to invite vehement resistance from the community at large,” the court said in its order.On Saturday, the court, while dismissing the bail plea, noted that the “allegations are serious in nature and the investigation is at a nascent stage”.It also disagreed with Bishnoi’s counsel that since the provisions of Information Technology (IT) Act are attracted, the penal provision of promoting enmity among religions under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) cannot be invoked.“Suffice, it would be to observe that the IT Act is not meant to supplant IPC. If the argument of the defence counsel is accepted then any mischievous criminal, in order to avoid his liability under the stringent provisions of IPC, while committing a heinous offence, would simply use an electronic device and then would claim that he is not liable for punishment under the stringent provisions of IPC,” the court noted in its order.The cyber cell of Mumbai Police, which is also probing the case, has made three arrests – 19-year-old Shweta Singh, alleged to be the main culprit, from Uttarakhand, a 21-year-old engineering student from Bengaluru, and another 21-year-old Mayank Rawat also from Uttarakhand.
30-01-2022||India||‘Time to set new goals’: India and Israel mark 30 yrs of bilateral ties||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday the 30th anniversary of diplomatic relations between India and Israel is an occasion to frame new goals for mutual cooperation, while his Israeli counterpart Naftali Bennett said ties between the two sides will only grow stronger.Modi, who took ties with Israel to a new level with the first prime ministerial visit to that country in 2017, said in a video message that relations between the two sides went back centuries and India’s Jewish community had lived in a harmonious environment without facing discrimination.In a similar video message, Bennett said the two countries shared a “gehri dosti” or deep friendship and had forged a “wonderful partnership” over the past three decades. “The ties between Israel and India are strong, and together they will only grow stronger. The opportunities are endless,” he said.“Today, when significant changes are occurring around the world, the importance of India-Israel relations has increased,” Modi said, speaking in Hindi.“And what better occasion to set new goals for mutual cooperation – when India celebrates its 75th anniversary of independence this year, when Israel celebrates its 75th anniversary of independence next year, and when the two countries celebrate the 30th anniversary of their diplomatic ties.”Bennett said: “India – Israel and India have a gehri dosti, deep friendship. Today we honour 30 years of diplomatic relations between Israel and India – 30 years of a wonderful partnership, a deep cultural connection, and military and economic cooperation.”India recognised Israel on September 17, 1950, but full-fledged diplomatic relations were established on January 29, 1992. Since then, Israel has emerged as a strategic partner and key supplier of military hardware. Modi said the establishment of diplomatic ties with Israel had begun a new chapter. “The history of both our countries is very old. Our people have had close ties for centuries.”
30-01-2022||India||60-year-old Covid patient killed as fire breaks out in Bengal hospital||Burdwan: An elderly Covid-19 patient was killed after fire broke out at the Burdwan Medical College and Hospital in West Bengal on Saturday morning, officials said.The deceased, Sandhya Mondal (60), was admitted to a Covid ward of the hospital, where the blaze erupted around 4.30 am, they said.Other patients in the ward were safely moved to another wing, hospital sources said.Hospital authorities doused the blaze before fire brigade personnel arrived, the sources said.A relative of Mondal claimed that she had called for help when the fire broke out all of a sudden, but nobody came to her rescue. A five-member team has been constituted to investigate the cause of the fire, Hospital Superintendent Tapas Kumar Ghosh said. Meanwhile, Leader of Opposition in West Bengal assembly Suvendu Adhikari alleged that hospitals in the state have turned into a death trap for patients, and demanded a thorough inquiry into the incident.“WB Health Minister’s apathy towards the safety and wellbeing of the patients admitted in Govt Hospitals is evident from the fact that incidents of fire emergency have become a common occurrence. The Hospitals as if ‘House of Lac’ have become death trap for the unfortunate patients (sic),” the Nandigram MLA tweeted.He also demanded a compensation of ₹50 lakh for the next of kin of the deceased.Reacting to Adhikari’s remarks, Trinamool Congress MP Sougata Roy said the state government has provided improved healthcare to people, which was lacking during the tenure of previous governments in the state.“BJP should explain what happened in Covid hospitals in states ruled by it. The Burdwan incident is unfortunate, but the saffron party should not politicise it,” Roy added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/60yearold-covid-patient-killed-as-fire-breaks-out-in-bengal-hospital-101643483769285.html
30-01-2022||India||Akal Academies founder, Padma Shri awardee Baba Iqbal Singh dies||Shimla: Founder of Akal Academies and Padma Shri awardee Baba Iqbal Singh died in Himachal Pradesh’s Sirmaur district on Saturday, a district official said. He was 96.Singh breathed his last at Baru Sahib in Sirmaur district, the official said.He was unwell for past some time and was admitted to a private hospital in Punjab’s Mohali for about one month, the official added.Singh had been brought to Baru Sahib on Friday and passed away on Saturday at around 3 pm, the official said.His last rites will be performed on Monday afternoon.Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the passing away of Singh and said he will be remembered for his efforts to increase education among youngsters.“Pained by the passing away of Baba Iqbal Singh Ji. He will be remembered for his efforts to increase education among youngsters,” Modi tweeted.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, while condoling Singh’s demise, said he played an important role in spreading general and religious education, which would always be remembered.Thakur prayed to the Almighty to grant peace to the departed soul and strength to his bereaved family members and admirers to bear this irreparable loss.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akal-academies-founder-padma-shri-awardee-baba-iqbal-singh-dies-101643483469204.html
30-01-2022||India||Air India launches ‘helpdesk’ for exclusive fliers after Tata takeover||New Delhi: Air India has launched a “helpdesk” to cater to its exclusive passengers, including government officers and senior executives among others, a day after the Tata Group acquired the airline.The initiative by Air India, according to an internal communication to employees sent on Friday evening, aims at “enhancing the brand and business” of the airline.Also Read | PF rules change for Air India employees as it becomes private. Details hereThe “helpdesk”, according to the airline, will handle high-level complaints and resolve them within a fixed deadline.An email from the airline’s director, commercial, Meenakshi Mallik, to the employees, read: “As we become part of the Tata Group, we have taken many initiatives to further enhance our brand and business. One such initiative is to ensure a seamless customer experience.”The email dated January 28 further read: “Executive helpdesk… has been formed with the philosophy to help our most valuable customers on priority basis, to ensure we deliver a world-class experience to them and inspire them to be our brand ambassadors… this helpdesk will cater to a select, exclusive set of our customers: leading government stakeholders, senior executives of India Inc. influencers with a large sphere of influence and so on.”Also Read | ‘Air India will regain its lost place in domestic, int’l skies’The email also asked the airline teams to extend “full co-operation” in “solving complaints” in a timely manner.“We will track and develop regular reports, highlighting our achievements and improvement areas across departments regarding customer satisfaction,” the email added.The Union government completed Air India disinvestment on Thursday. Talace Pvt Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of Tata Sons, got 100% equity shares of AI and AI Express, along with the government’s 50% stake in ground-handling company, Airport Services Private Limited (AISATS). The autos-to-steel conglomerate will pay ₹18,000 crore for the 100% stake. The Union government announced the airline’s sale to Tatas in October last year.The national carrier was started by the Tatas 90 years ago, before the sector was nationalised by the government in 1953.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-launches-helpdesk-for-exclusive-fliers-after-tata-takeover-101643482809009.html
30-01-2022||India||CBI changes probe team in judge death case after Jharkhand high court rap||New Delhi: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has changed the entire team investigating the death of Dhanbad judge Uttam Anand two weeks after the Jharkhand high court criticised its handling of the case.A superintendent of police (SP) rank officer, Vikas Kumar, from Delhi has already reached Dhanbad to replace the current investigating officer ASP (Additional SP) Vijay Shukla and has sought permission from the court to re-interrogate the two people arrested so far, Rahul Verma and Lakhan Verma.A 20-member special investigation team (SIT) of the central agency has been probing the case since August last year.Officials familiar with the development confirmed that the members of the SIT probing Dhanbad judge’s death have been changed “to probe the larger conspiracy”.One of the officials added that CBI joint director Sharad Aggarwal will continue to supervise the investigation in the case, but all other officers from the existing team have been replaced.The new team, led by SP Kumar from Delhi-based Special Crimes Unit-2, visited the Randhir Verma Square on January 26 to recreate the crime scene. The new team has also sought permission from the court to interrogate the accused persons for three days inside the prison.Judge Uttam Anand was mowed down by an autorickshaw on July 28 last year, an incident that sparked off security concerns in the entire judiciary. The vehicle, which was stolen from Dhanbad, was recovered from neighbouring Giridih district that night. The auto driver Lakhan Verma (22) and his accomplice Rahul Verma (21) , were arrested two days later.The Supreme Court and the Jharkhand high court took suo motu cognisance of the hit-and-run incident in which Anand (49) was killed after CCTV footage showed a three-wheeler swerving on an empty road to deliberately knock him down as he was jogging outside Magistrate Colony near Randhir Verma Square in Dhanbad. The apex court later expressed distress over rising incidents of verbal and physical attacks on judges throughout the country.The central investigation agency filed a charge sheet against the two in October last year for murder and destruction of evidence, but the high court was unhappy with the CBI probe.A division bench of chief justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and justice Sujit Narayan Prasad on January 14 pulled up CBI for not properly conducting the probe, saying that the larger conspiracy needs to be investigated. The bench observed that the murder has not happened because of any mobile phone theft or any other trivial matter.“The investigation into the case raises a question on the credibility of the CBI. It seems that the agency is now tired of the case and wants to quit the investigation, which is why it is making up stories so that the accused are not charged with murder. The probe is going in such a direction that it appears that the CBI is trying to protect the accused,” the bench noted.The narco-analysis test report was read out in the court. In the report, the autorickshaw driver’s assistant Rahul said, “Lakhan was driving the autorickshaw fast. I was sitting on the left side. The judge was jogging slowly. He had a handkerchief in his left hand. Lakhan hit the judge intentionally and he collapsed on the ground.” The report found that someone had assigned them the task of killing the judge.The court said that even after the passage of so many months since the incident on July 28 last year, the CBI’s inability to close the case raised questions on the agency’s credibility.It said that the incident was gradually moving towards a hit-and-run case.“Jharkhand has been affected by militancy but never before has a judge come under threat. The incident has caught the attention of the entire nation. The court wants that the main conspirator be brought to book and sentenced so that such incidents don’t recur,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbichanges-probe-team-in-judge-death-case-after-jharkhand-high-courtrap-101643482509014.html
30-01-2022||India||Policeman shot dead by terrorists in Kashmir||Srinagar: A 53-year-old policeman was shot dead by terrorists in South Kashmir’s Hassanpora Bijbhera on Saturday, police said. The killing comes a day after a cop escaped unhurt in a terrorist attack in the Batmaloo area of Srinagar.According to the police, unidentified gunmen fired at Jammu & Kashmir Police head constable Ali Mohammad Ganie around 5.35pm near his residence, in Anantnag’s Bijbehara area. He was rushed to the Government Medical College in Anantnag where the doctors declared him dead on arrival, an official added.Ganae was posted at the Kulgam police station.“Senior police officers reached the crime spot. Officers attending the terror crime spot learnt that head constable Ali Mohammad Ganie was shot at by the terrorists near his residential house at Hasanpora Tabala area of Bijbehara Anantnag. He had received grievous gunshot injuries. The injured officer was immediately evacuated to nearby hospital, but he succumbed to his injuries,” said a police spokesperson.“Police have registered a case and a hunt has been launched to nab the assailants,” he added.Leaders across party lines condemned the incident as “deplorable” and “cowardly”.“Strongly denounce the killing of Policeman at Bijbehara. Its barbaric, condemnable and deplorable act, urges police top brass to punish killers forthwith,” Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson Altaf Thakur said.The J&K National Conference also tweeted: “Unequivocally condemn the cowardly attack on JKP Head Constable Ali Muhammad Ganie in Anantnag’s Hassanpora area in which he lost his life. Our condolences go out to his family, friends and colleagues. May Allah grant him a place in Jannat.”“Yet another gruesome act of senseless violence. Ali Mohd Ganai of JK police falls to the bullets of cowardly violent thugs. Salute his sacrifice,” said Sajad Lone of the J&K People’s Conference.On Friday, four Army personnel were injured when a blast took place during a training session in Jammu & Kashmir’s Rajouri district on Friday. A court of inquiry has been ordered into the incident.This is the second killing of a policeman in south Kashmir this year. Earlier a policeman Rohit Chib was killed in an encounter in Kulgam on January 13, a foreign militant was also killed in that encounter. Last year 20 cops were killed in Kashmir either during encounters or targetted killings across Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/policeman-shot-dead-by-terrorists-in-kashmir-101643482089092.html
30-01-2022||India||‘Censorship’ in India, 5 other nations pose risk to business: US trade panel||An increase in “censorship-related policies and practices” in India has affected American businesses across different media segments, including films, social media and video streaming, according to a new report released by the United States International Trade Commission (USITC), an independent and non-partisan US federal agency. In particular, the report has flagged rules related to intermediary rules, increase in instances of internet shutdowns, and rules related to foreign investment limits in digital media in India as having an impact on US businesses. Some of the instances it cited included “threat of arrest” of Twitter executives and increase in takedown orders sent to the microblogging service as well as Google.The Commission prepared the report based on a request by the Senate Committee on Finance; it is the first of two reports focusing on foreign censorship practices that American businesses cite as “impediment for trade or investment in key foreign markets”. A major section of the report focuses on China, and concludes it has one of the highest levels of censorship “across all sectors” — a conclusion that has already led to calls from Senators for action and new measures against Beijing. Besides India and China, the report focuses on four other markets – Russia, Indonesia, Vietnam, and Turkey. The report claims these markets were examined because governments here had deployed a “wide range of censorship policies” with regard to digital content, and because demand in each of these markets represented a significant opportunity for US businesses.The report is advisory in nature, but can be used as a basis for a probe and action. India’s commerce ministry did not respond to an email seeking its response to the USITC report. “Indo-US trade relationships are very vibrant and growing,” a government official said on condition of anonymity.Indian officials have in the past said that companies are free to operate as long as they respect the law of the land. “I politely remind the companies, whether it is Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn or WhatsApp or anyone, they are free to work in India, do business, but they need to respect the Indian Constitution, they need to respect the Indian law,” former Union minister for electronics and information technology, Ravi Shankar Prasad, said during the Budget session of Parliament in 2021.USITC said US businesses were active in most segments of the media market in India – television, publishing, films, online services, and were among the “leading providers of social media and video streaming services”. The report claimed that the government exercised censorship practices in two ways – by citing relevant laws and regulations to provide notices to “remove content, shut or slow down internet access, file criminal charges, block the release of a documentary or prevent a television station from broadcasting”; and through a “variety of informal mechanisms based on intimidation and harassment”.The report has outlined a series of what it sees as restrictive measures.One, it asserts that a range of laws “have been used extensively in India to target speech and have had a significant impact on US firms operating in India” – these include Indian Penal Code, Information Technology (IT) Act, Disaster Management Act, Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, among others. Two, it refers to Cinematographer Act requiring that a film first get certification for public exhibition, and says, “In some instances, so many edits are required that they affect the content of the movie, and therefore, its box office success”.Three, it cites internet shutdowns. “The number of internet shutdowns in India has increased, with significantly more shutdowns in 2020 than in 2016… these shutdowns are typically regional in nature”, and claimed that it affected both US and Indian firms. “For example, Facebook reported 90 shutdowns that affected access to their service for a total of 17 months (combined lengths for all regions) in 2020.” Four, the USITC referred to the government using its authority to “block access to websites and user accounts”. “The government’s use of Section 69A (of the IT Act) has increased significantly in recent years, with the number of ‘websites/wepages/accounts’ blocked… increasing from 2,799 in 2018 to 9,849 in 2020.” The report claimed that the section had also been used to block access to US firm websites and user accounts on US social media platforms. Five, the USITC report refers to the IT (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Rules), 2021 – these rules impose a range of obligations on social media companies and digital media platforms – as having raised a number of concerns for US firms. It cites Facebook’s legal challenge against the provision requiring it to identify the “first originator” of information; Facebook has claimed that this will break WhatsApp’s end-to-end encryption, while the government has cited the need for this provision for law enforcement and in the interests of public order. Six, the report flags that the requirements, under the new rules, to have local presence “may enable censorship”. Seven, the report flagged the government capping foreign investment in digital media to 26% (which is in line with print media, but below the 49% set for television media), and claimed, “These new rules have subsequently led a number of US firms to close news operations in India”. And finally, the report claimed informal mechanisms “promoting self-censorship” have affected US firms. “US firms also pre-emptively self-censor certain content in India. For example, certain video streaming services reportedly censor content before releasing it in India. In addition, they have withheld all or parts of certain shows in India because of perceived sensitivities to criticism within the government”. (With inputs from Rajeev Jayaswal in New Delhi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/censorship-in-india-5-other-nations-pose-risk-to-business-us-trade-panel-101643481008042.html
30-01-2022||India||R-Day celebrations conclude as modernity, tradition blend||A 1,000-drone display, the grand finale of the Beating Retreat on Saturday and a first at the ceremony, was the highlight of the musical extravaganza that featured a raft of military bands that belted out patriotic tunes and marked the end of Republic Day celebrations.In a never-seen-before display in India’s history, the drone fleets positioned themselves into breathtaking formations to depict the 75th year of India’s Independence, the ‘Make-in-India’ lion, the National War Memorial, Mahatma Gandhi’s contribution, a rotating globe, a map of India and the Tricolour.
30-01-2022||India||Congress attacks government after Pegasus row reignites||New Delhi: The central government has “hijacked democracy” and misled Parliament and the Supreme Court, the Congress and other opposition parties alleged on Saturday after a report in the New York Times said India bought the Pegasus spyware from Israel as a part of a $2-billion deal in 2017.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi accused the government of treason for allegedly “tapping” phones of Opposition leaders, armed forces and the judiciary using the Pegasus spyware.Also Read | Political storm brews before Budget session“The Modi Government bought Pegasus to spy on our primary democratic institutions, politicians and public. Government functionaries, Opposition leaders, armed forces, judiciary all were targeted by these phone tappings. This is treason,” Gandhi said on Twitter. “The Modi Government has committed treason.”The Congress said it will raise the issue in the budget session of Parliament starting on Monday, and demand accountability from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Bharatiya Janata Party government.
30-01-2022||India||Political storm brews before Budget session||New Delhi: The latest revelations in the Pegasus spyware controversy are set to heat up the budget session of Parliament starting Monday, with the Opposition keen to hold the government accountable and the Centre preparing to tackle the onslaught.Also Read | Opposition hits out at govt over Pegasus purchaseThe session, starting with the President’s speech at the joint sitting of both Houses, will approve the Union Budget and key government legislations.The first half of the budget session from January 31 to February 11 has a packed schedule, with the President’s speech, the presentation of the Budget, and a debate on both. The Finance Bill, the Appropriation Bills and demand for grants for various ministries will be cleared in the second half that is expected to run from March 14 to April 8. The New York Times report on January 28, which said that the Narendra Modi government purchased the controversial Pegasus software in 2017 as a part of $2-billion deal with Israel for military hardware and intelligence tools, has triggered a political storm in India, and coming, as it does, just two days before the start of the longest and most crucial session of Parliament every year, it is certain to find an echo in both Houses.
30-01-2022||Today's||India and Israel are not just friends, but strategic partners||What Israel and India have achieved together since the establishment of formal diplomatic ties on January 29, 1992 is unprecedented. The relations between our two ancient civilisations date back thousands of years and the Jewish community in India is one of the cornerstones of these ties.
30-01-2022||Today's||Budget 2022 should lend a helping hand||The political view is that Budget 2022 will be an election budget as five states, including Uttar Pradesh, go to polls in the next two months. The economic view is that it is difficult to use the Union Budget to benefit the citizens of just five states, and there isn’t enough money to give the pre-2009 election farm loan waiver-equivalent to everybody. The direction of the government spends and reliefs are a manifestation of the core idea that drives that year’s budget. By all indications, Budget 2022 is going to be a helping hand budget — a budget that has proposals to stop the slide back into poverty of the newly non-poor population cohort and to help lower- income households in the organised sector find the money to spend.
30-01-2022||Today's||UP polls: Which way will Dalits go this time?||Uttar Pradesh (UP)’s Karhal assembly seat is all over the news these days as Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Akhilesh Yadav is going to contest the election from there.
30-01-2022||Editorials||Nadal proves doubters wrong||In many ways, this Australian Open (which he won), encapsulates everything that sets Rafael Nadal apart — the fight after the frailties, the undying hunger to play on at 35, instead of spending his days fishing on the island of Mallorca, the inspiring ability to find new ways to adapt to different surfaces and younger opponents, and, above all, finding joy in simply being able to play tennis to date. In the second half of last year, a chronic foot injury after failing to defend his French Open throne inflicted a crushing blow to Nadal. Injuries aren’t a novelty for the Spaniard. He has had them on his knee, back, wrist, hip, hamstring and foot — each essential for an elite tennis player — through various points of his career and he believes this limited him from achieving further heights. And last year, as he went through another lengthy rehabilitation process, it emerges that Nadal wondered if the time had come. But like he so often does in a five-set slugfest that he so often wins — including the one on Sunday — Nadal pushed a little more in his quest to get back on court. This, at 35, an age by which most had predicted that his playing days would be long over from the wear and tear on the body due to his brutally taxing physical game style. But here was Nadal, back in Melbourne for his 17th appearance in the season-opening Grand Slam, proving all doubters wrong. More importantly, waving goodbye to his own goodbye thoughts from a few months ago.
