07-10-2021||World||WHO says Covid-19 testing, vaccination declining in Afghanistan since August: Report||The World Health Organization (WHO) has said that there has been a drop in Covid-19 testing and vaccinations in Afghanistan since August and nearly 1.6 million doses of vaccine could expire if not used quickly, local media has said.The WHO and its partners are boosting testing and supporting the rollout of the Covid-19 vaccination campaign in 16 provinces of Afghanistan in an attempt to address the issue, reported Khaama Press citing the UN health body.Taliban took control of the country in August.Recently, the UN health body flew 50,000 Covid-19 testing kits to Afghanistan and to fill gaps at labs and 1,50,000 more kits are in the pipeline.A microscope lab was completed in Nimroz province in September and in Kunar province on Tuesday. And the process for establishing labs in Parwan, Laghman and Kapisa is also underway.After completion of these facilities, Afghanistan will have 36 WHO-supported labs.The UN health body sent life-saving medicines and medical supplies to 360 health facilities in Afghanistan since August in an attempt to cover the health needs of 3.9 million people.On Wednesday, supplies were sent to two hospitals in Kabul and WHO provincial offices for onward distribution. The supplies will cover the health needs of 50,000 people in Afghanistan, the organisation stated, according to Khaama Press.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-says-covid-19-testing-vaccination-declining-in-afghanistan-since-august-report-101633630107871.html
07-10-2021||World||HT This Day: October 8, 2001 - US begins attacks against Afghanistan||Peshawar/Islamabad- VENGEANCE DROPPED from the skies on Afghanistan on Sunday night. President George W. Bush said today the United States had begun military strikes against the Taliban regime and Osama bin Laden's Al-Qaeda network, both in Afghanistan.A first wave of 50 cruise missiles bracketed the country, the beginning of what is likely to be a sustained assault on Taliban military targets and Al-Qaeda installations.Meanwhile, there were also reports of fighting on the Iran Afghanistan border.Bush, in a simultaneous television address from Washington, said US-led military forces were taking "targetted action." He noted how, after the terrorist attacks of September 11, the US had demanded the Taliban hand over the terrorist mastermind, Bin Laden.“None of those demands were met and now the Taliban will pay a price," said Bush. He said the US was "supported by the will of the world." Bush signalled that the war on terror would not end with the assault on Afghanistan. "Every nation has a choice to make in this conflict. There is no neutral ground."He said it would be a long war, but "We will win this conflict through the patient accumulation of successes." Pentagon sources said Tomahawk cruise missiles were launched from ships and submarines in the Arabian Sea.The official said targets included air defences, military communication sites and terrorist training camps inside Afghanistan. The cruise missiles were followed by a wave of fighter-bombers. In northern Afghanistan, helicopters were sighted.UK Prime Minister Tony Blair later made a statement in London saying British submarines had participated in the attack. He said of the Taliban, "They were given the choice of siding with justice or siding with terror and they chose terror."The first explosions could be heard about 8.57 pm Afgan time. Thunderous explosions and the rattle of aging anti-aircraft fire were heard Sunday night in Kabul as the cruise missile and airborne munitions began hitting the Afghan capital. Power went off, plunging the city into darkness.The explosions seemed to have been concentrated in the south-west of Kabul. The firing tapered off for a few minutes, but resumed after the sound of jet aircraft over the city could be heard."A huge plume of smoke is rising near Kabul airport," said the Afghan Islamic Press agency. The city's residents, inured to war, were reported to be showing no signs of panic.CNN reported explosions in Jalalabad in northeastern Afghanistan. Explosions also rocked Kandahar, the spiritual capital of the Taliban mullahs. Kandahar's airport control tower was damaged, said a Taliban source over telephone. Qatar's Al Jazeera television network said the strikes had levelled the Taliban headquarters in Kandahar."We condemn this attack," said Rehmantullah Kakazada, the Taliban consul-general in Karachi. "We are ready for jihad," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ht-this-day-october-8-2001-us-begins-attacks-against-afghanistan-101633628963602.html
07-10-2021||World||IBM tells US staff to get vaccine by December 8 or face suspension||International Business Machines Corp said all of its US-based employees must be vaccinated by December 8 or be put on unpaid suspension. The Armonk, New York-based company told workers that because it’s a government contractor, it’s required to adhere to President Joe Biden’s vaccine mandate for federal contractors.IBM said the new mandate will apply to all US employees regardless of where they work or how often they go into a company office and will offer “limited” medical or religious exemptions. The decision was prompted by “the continued spread of Covid-19, local clinical conditions around IBM sites, and the reality that vaccines are readily available nationwide,” a company spokeswoman said in a statement. “As we’ve said throughout the pandemic, IBM’s health and safety practices are driven by science.”CNBC earlier reported on the mandate. In June, IBM told US employees to return to the office by September but was then forced to shut down New York City locations amid rising Covid-19 cases in August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ibm-tells-us-staff-to-get-vaccine-by-december-8-or-face-suspension-101633628451486.html
07-10-2021||World||Dad who fled Afghanistan sues US to reunite with young sons||The Afghan man was attending a conference in California as part of his job for a U.S.-government funded project in Afghanistan when the Taliban sent a written death threat to his home, forcing him to make a heart-wrenching decision: He would not return to his wife and two young sons and instead would seek asylum and try to bring them to the United States.Two years later, Mohammad said he regrets leaving them, and wished he had never worked for the U.S. government given the price he has paid.As Mohammad tried to get visas for his family, his wife collapsed in 2020 and died of a heart attack while the Taliban threatened them. Mohammad, who lives in California, has been fighting ever since to be reunited with his sons, who are now 9 and 11, and are moving from house-to-house, living in hiding with their grandmother and uncle, he said. He asked that only his first name be used to protect them.On Thursday, the International Refugee Assistance Project, whose lawyers are working on his behalf, filed a lawsuit in a federal court in San Francisco against Secretary of State Antony Bilken, alleging the administration failed in its legal obligations under the Afghan Allies Protection Act to help his family despite his work for the U.S. government during the 20-year war there.“The only thing that I want is just one hug" from my kids, Mohammad said.Mohammad said he has repeatedly asked the U.S. government for help. He contacted the State Department in August after bullets pierced the home where his sons were hiding before the Taliban took control of the country. He asked for his children to be evacuated as the U.S. military conducted one of the largest airlifts in history, but they were left behind.The State Department did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Mohammad communicates daily with his sons either through calls or texts.His youngest has broken down crying, asking, “Dad, are they going to kill me?”“What can I say?” Mohammad asks.He sent another letter to the State Department on Sept. 9 asking that his sons be granted humanitarian parole, but again he said he got no response. He also contacted his California lawmakers.Mohammad was approved for a special immigrant visa in January and applied the next month for his sons, requesting that their visa applications be expedited because they are in “imminent danger.” Their applications are still pending.The lawsuit states that “removing his children from Afghanistan, where they are in daily peril, and reuniting them with their only remaining parent is essential to their survival and wellbeing.”“At this point the government has known since mid-August at minimum that these kids are alone and in serious danger, and they didn't take any action to protect them," said lawyer Alexandra Zaretsky of the New York-based International Refugee Assistance Project.Zaretsky said Mohammad is one of thousands of Afghans who worked for the U.S. government in Afghanistan and were forced to leave behind close family members to be able to get to safety. Many are still fighting to be reunited with them. The administration has provided no figures for how many special immigrant visa applicants and their family members are still stuck in Afghanistan a month after the U.S. withdrew its troops, and it has yet to take substantial action to protect them, according to the lawsuit.Mohammad said he wants his sons to know that his work in promoting women's rights in Afghanistan for a program funded by the U.S. government was worth it, even if many of those advances may vanish under the new Taliban government.He said he also wants them to see “because of my loyal service to the United States,” they have the chance to come to a good country like the U.S. where “your future is guaranteed" and they can get a "good education and other rights that human beings should have."He tries to encourage them not to give up, though he is losing faith in his words.“I'm giving them hope whenever I am talking to them, but I’m also thinking, ‘But is this even possible? Are they ever going to be reunited with me here?'" he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dad-who-fled-afghanistan-sues-us-to-reunite-with-young-sons-101633625313679.html
07-10-2021||World||India-US ties, Quad: More collaborative era for businesses, says S Jaishankar||Indian external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Thursday that the state of India-US ties and the Quad platform with Japan and Australia speak of a “newer and more collaborative era” that should be important for businesses to consider.The second factor stemming from closer US-India ties that S Jaishankar proposed for the consideration by businesses was a “very positive, enabling environment” that follows “when polities have strong convergences that economic energies tend to find partners, much more readily”.And the third, he added, was how best to take forward post-Covid-19 recovery in an era “where technology is increasingly connected with trust and supply chains with reliability”.S Jaishankar made these observations in remarks delivered virtually at the annual summit of the US-India Business Council (USIBC). The minister updated the summit on the state of the ties highlighting the first in-person bilateral meeting between Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Joe Biden and then of the Quad with Prime Minister Scott Morrison of Australia and then Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga of Japan.S Jaishankar recalled the Five Ts proposed by Narendra Modi for the way forward for the bilateral relationship with the US - Tradition, Technology, Trade, Talent and Trusteeship. He said the spirit of the Five T as proposed by the prime minister also “permeates” the Quad.Focusing on the bilateral relationship, the foreign minister said, “What is noteworthy about our conversations is that they have gone well beyond general arguments, and are now expressed as specific initiatives, or programmes, considering some of the recent developments.”S Jaishankar listed out an entire range of discussions and issues that the two sides are tackling - technology trade, climate change, infrastructure, defence and people-to-people cooperation.And he added, “We not only work together on global issues, but are dedicated to the well being of the global commons that provides the basis for coordinated action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indiaus-ties-quad-more-collaborative-era-for-businesses-says-s-jaishankar-101633624563837.html
07-10-2021||World||Immunity weakens faster in men than women after second Pfizer shot: Study||The immunity against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) weakens faster in men than women after the second dose of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, according to a new study released Wednesday. Pfizer vaccine has shown the efficacy of 94-95% in preventing symptomatic Covid-19 seven days after the second shot of the two-dose regimen, however, the data on the durability of vaccines are still limited.The incidence of symptomatic Covid-19 has been increasing in Israel despite high vaccine coverage and effectiveness, prompting researchers to study whether it is due to waning immunity after the receipt of two doses of Pfizer’s BNT162b2 vaccine. More than 4,800 healthcare professionals participated in the 6-month longitudinal prospective study.The study, published in the New England Journal of Medicine, found that the neutralising antibody level substantially decreased six months after the second dose of Pfizer vaccine, especially among participants 65 years of age or older. It also suggested that neutralizing antibody concentrations among persons 65 years of age or older were at a lower level than participants between 18 to 45 years of age.Also Read | When Pfizer Covid vaccine for children may be rolled out? White House adviser answersThe neutralizing antibody concentrations were lower in men 65 years of age or older as than women in the same age group. The neutralizing antibody titers declined briskly in the period of up to 80 days after the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, but slowed afterwards, according to the study.“Particularly vulnerable populations with lower neutralizing titers were older men and participants with immunosuppression,” the authors wrote.While obesity is associated with severe Covid-19, the authors said it is still unclear whether vaccinated obese persons are at higher or lower risk for breakthrough infection. The United States has recommended a booster dose of Pfizer vaccine for people aged 65 and above and other vulnerable groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/immunity-weakens-faster-in-men-than-women-after-second-pfizer-shot-study-101633623722900.html
07-10-2021||World||Earthquake of 6.1 magnitude shakes Tokyo area; no tsunami danger||A powerful earthquake registering a preliminary magnitude 6.1 shook the Tokyo area on Thursday night, but officials said there was no danger of a tsunami.The Meteorological Agency said the quake was centered in Chiba prefecture, just east of Tokyo, at a depth of 80 kilometers (48 miles).It caused buildings to sway but there were no immediate reports of damage or injuries.NHK public television showed a sign hanging from the ceiling in its office swaying violently. Power lines shook in Tokyo's Suginami district.“Shinkansen” super express trains in and out of Tokyo were temporarily halted, NHK said.Video taken in the busy downtown districts of Shibuya and Shinjuku showed cars moving and people walking on the streets as usual.New Prime Minister Fumio Kishida posted a message on Twitter urging people to “check the latest information and take action to protect your lives.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/earthquake-of-6-1-magnitude-shakes-tokyo-area-no-tsunami-danger-101633615616934.html
07-10-2021||World||When Pfizer Covid vaccine for children may be rolled out? White House adviser answers||After Pfizer Inc and BioNTech formally requested emergency use authorization for their Covid-19 vaccine in children aged five to 11, a White House adviser said that the new vaccine could be ready as early as November pending approval from regulatory agencies. The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) will review the application to decide whether there’s enough evidence to support the vaccine’s safety and efficacy.White House Covid-19 response coordinator Jeffrey Zients told CNN that the advisory panel of the FDA will debate the evidence at the end of October. The Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine will be rolled out for children after recommendations from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).The United States is witnessing a worrying surge in infections among children as there was a 7% increase in the cumulated number of child Covid-19 cases between September 16-30 since the beginning of the pandemic. Pfizer’s Comirnaty has received emergency user authorisation from the FDA for its use in individuals 12 years of age and older to prevent Covid-19.According to a report by the American Academy of Pediatrics, nearly 5.9 million children have tested positive for Covid-19 as of September 30. It further stated that the number of new Covid cases among children remains exceptionally high as more than 173,000 infections were reported in the last week of September.“At this time, it appears that severe illness due to Covid-19 is uncommon among children. However, there is an urgent need to collect more data on longer-term impacts of the pandemic on children, including ways the virus may harm the long-term physical health of infected children, as well as its emotional and mental health effects,” the Illinois based association said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/when-pfizer-covid-vaccine-for-children-can-be-rolled-out-us-official-answers-101633614742569.html
07-10-2021||World||Nobel Literature Prize: Tanzanian-born novelist Abdulrazak Gurnah wins award||Tanzanian writer Abdulrazak Gurnah was awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature on Thursday for works that explore the legacies of imperialism on uprooted individuals.The Swedish Academy said the award was in recognition of his “uncompromising and compassionate penetration of the effects of colonialism and the fate of the refugee in the gulf between cultures and continents”Born in Zanzibar in 1948 and based in England, Gurnah is a professor at the University of Kent. He is the author of 10 novels, including “Paradise,” which was shortlisted for the Booker Prize in 1994.Anders Olsson, chairman of the Nobel Committee for literature, called him “one of the world’s most prominent post-colonial writers.”The prestigious award comes with a gold medal and 10 million Swedish kronor (over $1.14 million). The prize money comes from a bequest left by the prize’s creator, Swedish inventor Alfred Nobel, who died in 1895.Last year's prize went to American poet Louise Glück for what the judges described as her “unmistakable poetic voice that with austere beauty makes individual existence universal.”Glück was a popular choice after several years of controversy. In 2018 the award was postponed after sex abuse allegations rocked the Swedish Academy, the secretive body that chooses the winners. The awarding of the 2019 prize to Austrian writer Peter Handke caused protests because of his strong support for the Serbs during the 1990s Balkan wars.On Monday, the Nobel Committee awarded the prize in physiology or medicine to Americans David Julius and Ardem Patapoutian for their discoveries into how the human body perceives temperature and touch.The Nobel Prize in physics was awarded Tuesday to three scientists whose work found order in seeming disorder, helping to explain and predict complex forces of nature, including expanding our understanding of climate change.Benjamin List and David W.C. MacMillan were named as laureates of the Nobel Prize for chemistry Wednesday for finding an easier and environmentally cleaner way to build molecules that can be used to make compounds, including medicines and pesticides.Still to come are prizes for outstanding work in the fields of peace and economics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nobel-literature-prize-tanzanian-born-novelist-abdulrazak-gurnah-wins-award-101633605790368.html
07-10-2021||World||Cold-case investigators claim they have identified ‘Zodiac Killer’; DNA needed for confirmation||An independent group of cold-case investigators claim to have solved the mystery behind the identity of the so-called Zodiac Killer who was behind the decades-old serial murders. The Case Breakers, a task force of 40 former law enforcement investigators, believes that the hairs found in the clenched fist of a murdered teen student, Cheri Jo Bates, belong to the “Zodiac Killer” suspect, according to a press release.The Riverside Police Department (RPD) had refrigerated the hairs, skin and blood found under her fingernails of Bates after her body was discovered in October 1966. The Case Breakers requested the RPD to allow a comparison of Bates’ computer-coded DNA to the sequence of a person whom the independent investigators believe is a “very strong suspect”. RPD denied the request saying the department is “100% sure” Bates was killed by someone other than the Zodiac, according to the investigators.“Fifty-five years ago this month, RPD chose to ignore the obvious. It would take just minutes to quickly and quietly compare [suspect’s] DNA. You’d think the pain Cheri Jo’s family and her old friends have been living with would be Priority #1. Here’s to hoping the next chief finds the courage to act,” Thomas J. Colbert, team organiser, Case Breakers, said in a statement.The Zodiac Killer first began terrorising the streets of Northern California in the early 1960s and the Case Breakers believe the dreaded serial killer was behind the murders of 10 Californians between 1962 and 1970.The investigators said they have recovered new physical and forensic evidence, signed up eyewitnesses and secured pictures from Poste’s former darkroom. They believe the scars on the suspect forehead is irrefutable evidence that has been spotted by three case witnesses and an observing cop who later passed on to the San Francisco Police Department sketch artist.However, the SFPD and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FB) have not acknowledged the claims and said that the Zodiac Killer case is still an open investigation, reported CNN. “We have no new information to share at the moment," the FBI said in a statement to CNN.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/private-investigators-claim-they-have-identified-zodiac-killer-dna-needed-for-confirmation-101633600365557.html
07-10-2021||World||WHO to send essential Covid-19 medical supplies to North Korea via Chinese port||The World Health Organisation (WHO) has declared in its latest weekly monitoring report that it will be sending essential Covid-19 aid to North Korea through the Chinese border port of Dalian."To support DPR Korea with essential COVID-19 medical supplies, WHO started the shipment through Dalian port, China for strategic stockpiling and further dispatch to DPR Korea," the UN body said.WHO had claimed earlier in a monitoring report that North Korea has reported zero cases of Covid-19 till the end of September. The country told WHO that some 40,700 people were tested till September 23, including health care workers and those with flu-like symptoms, for Covid-19 but all of them tested negative.The highly secretive nation shut its borders in January last year and imposed strict measures to combat the virus, describing its campaign as a matter of “national existence”. This has put additional strain on the country’s resources and economy. A Reuters report opined that WHO’s efforts to provide aid to North Korea might be a signal of the nation easing its border rules.Also Read: North Korea's Kim Jong Un seen with head bandage, sparks yet another round of health speculationSo far the country has resisted any help from nations, refusing vaccine shipments from close ally China and Russia. China made Covid-19 vaccine, Sinovac, was offered to North Korea under the Covax program, but the country asked for it to be distributed among harder hit nations in view of the global vaccine shortage.In July of this year Russia’s offer of Sputnik shot donations was also rejected by North Korea. In addition to this an offer of donation of AstraZeneca shots have also been met with refusal. The state owned television in North Korea have regularly highlighted cases of adverse reaction to vaccines reported in the US and Europe, which experts opine points towards the nation’s vaccine hesitancy, and the ruling elite’s disapproval of international monitoring requirements that would be attached to the vaccines it receives from the outside world.WHO’s announcement of shipping aid to North Korea comes weeks after Kim Jong Un urged party workers to fight the virus in “our style”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-to-send-covid-19-essential-medical-supplies-to-north-korea-via-chinese-port-101633594020577.html
07-10-2021||World||Former DG (ISI) could succeed Gen Bajwa as Pakistan Army Chief||After successfully handing over the keys of Kabul to Sirajuddin Haqqani, head of eponymous global terrorist network, former head of Pakistani ISI and now XI Corps Commander at Peshawar Lt Gen Faiz Hameed is in reckoning to succeed his fellow Baloch regiment senior, Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa, as the next Chief of Pakistan Army in 2022. Gen Bajwa is expected to complete his extraordinary six-year tenure as Pakistan Army Chief in November 2022.According to Pakistan watchers, Lt Gen Faiz Hameed was made Peshawar Corps commander as it is mandatory for contenders of Pakistan Army Chief’s post to have commanded a Corps level formation for at least one year. Gen Hameed has served staff posting at Rawalpindi GHQ after commanding an infantry division at Pano Aqil in Sindh province between 2015-2017. He was the 24th chief of ISI and has now been succeeded by former Karachi Corps Commander Lt Gen Nadeem Anjum.While many a Pakistan Army watchers believe that Gen Bajwa may secure another two-year tenure for himself in November 2022, there is unison that Gen Hameed has been rewarded to the prestigious Peshawar Corps for getting Pakistan a much-required strategic depth in Afghanistan under the proxy Taliban regime. Not only did the ISI provided tactics, arms, ammunition and medical support to the Taliban, it also broke the back of Panjshiri resistance by providing Pakistani commandoes in mufti with military maps and drone surveillance of the area. Today, the Panjshiri resistance is cooling its heels in Dushanbe in Tajikistan with all major powers simply tired of Afghanistan.As commander of Peshawar Corps, Gen Hameed will be directly in touch with the Miramshah shura of the Taliban, the Haqqania madrassa in Akora Khattak in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa and will also be part of negotiations with the Tehreek-e-Taliban, Pakistan. The Corps controls Khyber Pass on Afghanistan-Pakistan border as also keeps an eye on the Wakhan corridor, which juts into Xinjiang.By having personal access to the entire top Taliban leadership including Defence Minister Mullah Yaqoob and Interior Minister Sirajuddin Haqqani, Gen Hameed could play a key role in using the Sunni Pashtun force to push TTP towards a ceasefire with Pakistan Army in light of Prime Minister Imran Khan’s peace overtures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/former-dg-isi-could-succeed-gen-bajwa-as-pakistan-army-chief-101633582925139.html
07-10-2021||World||Ndakasi, mountain gorilla famous for selfie with park ranger, passes away in his arms||Ndakasi, the mountain gorilla who became world famous in 2019 after its selfie with a park ranger went viral, passed away last week aged 14, taking its last breath in the ranger's arm, Metro has reported citing the Virunga National Park. “Ndakasi took her final breath in the loving arms of her caretaker and lifelong friend Andre Bauma,”the park, located in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, said in a statement.Bauma, who rescued the animal in 2007, said it was a “privilege” to support and care for “such a loving creature.” He said, “It was Ndakasi's sweet nature and intelligence that helped me to understand the connection between humans and great apes, and why we should everything in our power to protect them. I am proud to have called her my friend. I loved her like a child, and her helpful cheerful personality brought a smile to my face every time I interacted with her.”The gorilla, who passed away after a prolonged illness, was clinging to the lifeless body of its mother when it was rescued by Bauma and a fellow ranger 14 years ago. Then aged just two months, it was shifted to the Senkwekwe Center in Virunga for rehabilitation with fellow gorilla Ndeze, who, like Ndakasi, was orphaned as well.Ndakasi featured in the documentary “Virunga,” which showed individuals risking their lives to rescue the mountain gorillas, which are listed as “endangered” species. Virunga is one of the last parks trying to rescue this species but has to rely on donations by visitors and tourists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ndakasi-gorilla-famous-for-selfie-with-park-ranger-passes-away-in-his-arms-101633580856902.html
07-10-2021||World||No more assistance to Pakistan, hold Imran Khan accountable now: Ex-US advisor||Asserting that Pakistan has “had it both ways” for too long, a former US national security advisor during the Trump Administration has advised lawmakers against any fresh aid to Islamabad.Testifying before a powerful Congressional committee on Afghanistan, Gen (retd) H R McMaster, said that the US needs to hold the Pakistan prime minister accountable for some of his comments after the fall of Kabul in August.It is also delusional, he said, to think that any of the money that would go to the Taliban or through the Taliban for humanitarian purposes would not immediately be used by the Taliban to solidify their power and to become an even greater threat. “So, we're in a situation where we're facing a really extraordinary dilemma that it's going to be tough for us to mitigate the humanitarian crisis without empowering the Taliban,” he said in response to a question.“I don't think we should give any assistance to Pakistan at all. I think Pakistan has had it both ways for way too long. I think Pakistan should be confronted with its behavior over the years that has actually resulted, I think, in large measure in this outcome,” McMaster said.It was during the Trump Administration that the US had blocked all security assistance to Pakistan. The Biden Administration has not resumed the security aide yet.“I think we ought to hold Imran Khan responsible for his comments when Kabul fell and he said that the Afghan people have been unshackled. Why should we send a dime to Pakistan under any conditions? I think that they should be confronted with international isolation because of their support for jihadist terrorists, who are threats to humanity, including the Haqqani network, the Taliban, and groups like Lashkar-e-Taiba,” he said.Responding to a question from Congressman Scott Perry, during the Congressional hearing convened by the House Foreign Affairs Committee, McMaster said that it is a good idea to remove Pakistan’s status as a major non-NATO ally.“I would say the only time I think we have ever laid out a very clear and realistic assessment of South Asia and prioritised the strategy was President Trump's speech in August of 2017. Now, he abandoned it and he doubled down on the flaws of the Obama administration. I don't know how that happened. But I think if you go back to that August 2017 speech, that was the proper approach to Pakistan as well, which called for a suspension of all assistance to Pakistan until Pakistan fundamentally changed its behaviour,” McMaster said.Congressman Bill Keating said Pakistan remains a problem and the US needs to assess it.“Its long-standing activities, by many accounts, have been negative. I think that's putting it mildly. For decades, though, for decades, whether you go back to'96 when the Taliban took control, Pakistan was one of the first to recognise them,” he said.“When you go through the change in 2001 in Afghanistan and then the reconstruction of the Taliban starting around 2005, they were there giving assistance, by all accounts, and I believe those accounts are accurate. And indeed, right up into this current change in the government, Pakistan, there were many people that suggested their intelligence was embedded with them,” Keating said.Pakistan’s relationship with the Haqqani network is one that is of great concern.“That may indeed affect our relations with India in that respect. But can you comment on that? I think they have been duplicitous, not just recently, not just in the few months of this administration, but for decades in this with many administrations, Republican and Democratic alike,” he said.Former US Ambassador to Pakistan Ryan Croker acknowledged that Pakistan worked against the US in some very fundamental aspects with their support for the Taliban.“Earlier, I tried to present their narrative as to why. We were going to walk out, and they did not want to be left with the Taliban as a mortal enemy. They may get that anyway. And as satisfying as it would be to a lot of us, myself included, to do something to punish Pakistan for this, I don't think we have the luxury. They are already worried over the repercussions inside their own country of the Taliban's so-called victory in Afghanistan,” he said.“Now, we can say, ‘Yeah. Well, they deserve whatever they get.’ But again, a blow-up in Kashmir is going to bring a regional war. So, I think reassessment is always good, but let's reassess with a clear eye on the dangers now that the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan has created throughout the region. We do not need a completely destabilized Pakistani state with nuclear weapons,” Croker said.McMaster told the lawmakers that the Taliban was backed by ISI and that’s why they recaptured Afghanistan.“The Taliban's differential advantage was the backing by the ISI of other groups. But it was the unscrupulous units who are willing to terrorise. They didn't give up their differential advantage. And so, I don't think it's a mystery at all why they collapsed. And I think it should be unacceptable, to disparage the Afghans who did fight, and over 60,000 of them made the ultimate sacrifice to preserve the freedoms we're now seeing,” he said.The Taliban, he said, went around to the Afghan units, and they said, "Hey, here's how this is going to go."With the backing of the Pakistani ISI, intertwined with the Haqqani network and Al-Qaida, what they did is they told those commanders, "Hey, listen. You accommodate with us. We give you the signal, or we kill your family. How does that sound?" he said.And that's why the Afghan forces collapsed in addition to the withdrawal of US intelligence support, the withdrawal of our airpower, which was the Afghan forces differential advantage, McMaster said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-more-assistance-to-pakistan-hold-imran-khan-accountable-now-ex-us-advisor-101633568192266.html
07-10-2021||World||US watchdog to inspect if Ashraf Ghani fled Afghanistan with money from country||John Sopko, the U.S. special inspector general for Afghanistan reconstruction, said on Wednesday his office would look into allegations that former Afghan President Ashraf Ghani took millions of dollars with him when he left the country.Ghani has said he left Kabul to prevent bloodshed and denied reports he took large sums of money with him. But speculation has persisted, and Congress asked Sopko's team to get to the bottom of it."We haven't proven that yet. We're looking into that. Actually, the Oversight and Government Reform Committee has asked us to look into that," Sopko told a House of Representatives subcommittee.Ghani has been bitterly criticized for fleeing as the militant Islamist Taliban reached the outskirts of Kabul in August.Sopko's Office of the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (SIGAR) has long been investigating fraud, waste and abuse during America's massive state-building effort, which came to an ignoble end after 20 years with the Taliban takeover.Sopko suggested to the House Foreign Affairs Committee subcommittee that oversees development aid that the failure of the U.S. project shouldn't have been a surprise, given rampant corruption and mismanagement."Corruption grew so pervasive that it ultimately threatened the security and reconstruction mission in Afghanistan," he told the House panel.The congressional hearing was one of a series looking at the chaotic U.S. withdrawal and the path forward. "We can apply the lessons learned in other conflict zones," Representative Joaquin Castro, the subcommittee's Democratic chairman, said.The United States and other countries have cut off almost all aid to Afghanistan."These are trying times for all of us who care about the future of the Afghan people, especially the Afghans that aided the U.S. and its allies over the past 20 years," Sopko said.He said all of SIGAR's staff - including locally employed Afghan staff - were safely evacuated from Kabul. (Reporting by Patricia Zengerle and Phil Stewart; Editing by Chris Reese and Hugh Lawson)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-watchdog-to-inspect-if-ashraf-ghani-fled-afghanistan-with-money-from-country-101633573058982.html
07-10-2021||World||All you need to know about Mosquirix, first malaria vaccine approved by WHO||The World Health Organisation (WHO) on Wednesday endorsed the world's first malaria vaccine. The global health body said that it should be given to children across Africa in the hope that it will spur stalled efforts to curb the spread of the parasitic disease.The WHO recommendation is for RTS,S - or Mosquirix - a vaccine developed by British drugmaker GlaxoSmithKline."This is a vaccine developed in Africa by African scientists and we're very proud," said WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus.What is Mosquirix?According to European Medicines Agency, Mosquirix is a vaccine that is given to children aged 6 weeks to 17 months to help protect against malaria. It also helps protect against infection of the liver with the hepatitis B virus, but European Medicines Agency warns that the vaccine should not be used only for this purpose.The vaccine was developed by GlaxoSmithKline in 1987. However, it does face challenges: Mosquirix requires up to four doses, and its protection fades after several months.Still, scientists say the vaccine could have a major impact against malaria in Africa.Since 2019, 2.3 million doses of Mosquirix have been administered to infants in Ghana, Kenya and Malawi in a large-scale pilot programme coordinated by the WHO. The majority of those whom the disease kills are aged under five.How is Mosquirix used?Mosquirix is given as a 0.5 ml injection into a muscle of the thigh or in the muscle around the shoulder (the deltoid). The child is given three injections with one month between each injection.A fourth injection is recommended 18 months after the third. Mosquirix can only be obtained with a prescription.How does Mosquirix work?Scientists at the European Medicines Agency say that the active substance in Mosquirix is made up of proteins found on the surface of the Plasmodium falciparum parasites.When it is administered to a child, the immune system recognises the 'foreign' proteins from the parasite and makes antibodies against them.What is the efficacy of Mosquirix?The vaccine's effectiveness at preventing severe cases of malaria in children is only around 30%, but it is the only approved vaccine. The European Union's drugs regulator approved it in 2015, saying its benefits outweighed the risks.WHO said the side effects of the vaccine were rare, but sometimes included a fever that could result in temporary convulsions.How will Mosquirix help in checking the spread of malaria?Azra Ghani, chair of infectious diseases at Imperial College London, said she and colleagues estimate that giving the malaria vaccine to children in Africa might result in a 30% reduction overall, with up to 8 million fewer cases and as many as 40,000 fewer deaths per year.“For people not living in malaria countries, a 30% reduction might not sound like much. But for the people living in those areas, malaria is one of their top concerns,” Ghani said. “A 30% reduction will save a lot of lives and will save mothers (from) bringing in their children to health centers and swamping the health system.”The malaria burden in AfricaMalaria is far more deadly than Covid-19 in Africa. It is caused by the parasite plasmodium falciparum. The disease killed 386,000 Africans in 2019, according to a WHO estimate, compared with 212,000 confirmed deaths from Covid-19 in the past 18 months.The WHO says 94% of malaria cases and deaths occur in Africa, a continent of 1.3 billion people. The preventable disease is caused by parasites transmitted to people by the bites of infected mosquitoes; symptoms include fever, vomiting and fatigue.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/all-you-need-to-know-about-mosquirix-first-malaria-vaccine-approved-by-who-101633571543085.html
07-10-2021||World||US judge temporarily blocks near-total ban on abortion in Texas||A federal judge on Wednesday temporarily blocked a near-total ban on abortion in Texas, the toughest such law in the United States, in a challenge brought by President Joe Biden's administration after the US Supreme Court had allowed it to go into effect. The action by US District Judge Robert Pitman in Austin prevents the state from enforcing the Republican-backed law, which prohibits women from obtaining an abortion after six weeks of pregnancy, while litigation over its legality continues. The case is part of a fierce legal battle over abortion access in the United States, with numerous states pursuing restrictions.“This court will not sanction one more day of this offensive deprivation of such an important right,” Pitman said in the ruling.Biden's Justice Department sued Texas on September 9 and sought a temporary injunction against the law, arguing during an October 1 hearing that the measure violates the US constitution. The US Supreme Court on September 1 let the law take effect in a 5-4 vote powered by conservative justices.At six weeks of pregnancy, many women do not yet know they are pregnant. The law makes no exceptions for pregnancies caused by rape or incest. It also lets ordinary citizens enforce the ban, rewarding them at least $10,000 if they successfully sue anyone who helped provide abortion after a fetal cardiac activity is detected. Critics of the law have said this provision enables people to act as anti-abortion bounty hunters.The Justice Department argued that the law impedes women from exercising their constitutional right to terminate a pregnancy that was recognized in the Supreme Court's 1973 Roe v. Wade decision that legalized abortion nationwide. The department also argued that the law improperly interferes with the operations of the federal government to provide abortion-related services.Texas Governor Greg Abbott, a Republican, has defended the legality of the state's abortion law, with this office saying in a statement: "The most precious freedom is life itself."Pitman heard about three hours of arguments on the Justice Department's request. Justice Department attorney Brian Netter called the law an "unprecedented scheme of vigilante justice" that must be struck down.Will Thompson, an attorney in the Texas Attorney General's Office, countered the department's arguments, saying there were plenty of opportunities for people in Texas to challenge the law on their own. He said the department's arguments were filled with "hyperbole and inflammatory rhetoric."Pitman's action can be appealed to the New Orleans-based US 5th Circuit Court of Appeals, a conservative-leaning body that previously allowed the Texas abortion ban to proceed. Pitman was appointed by Democratic former President Barack Obama.US conservatives have long sought to have Roe v. Wade overturned. The Supreme Court on Dec. 1 hears arguments in a separate case involving a Mississippi law that bans abortions after 15 weeks of pregnancy. Mississippi has asked the high court to overturn the 1973 precedent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-judge-temporarily-blocks-near-total-ban-on-abortion-in-texas-101633569347900.html
07-10-2021||World||At least 20 dead as magnitude 5.7 earthquake strikes Pakistan||Around 20 people have been killed after a 5.7 magnitude earthquake hit southern Pakistan in darkness early on Thursday, government officials said. Many of the victims died when roofs and walls collapsed, Suhail Anwar Hashmi, a senior provincial government official, told AFP. A woman and six children were among twenty dead, he said.“We are receiving information that 20 people have been killed due to the earthquake,” provincial interior minister Mir Zia Ullah Langau added. “Rescue efforts are underway.”Naseer Nasar, the head of Balochistan's provincial disaster management authority, told AFP that between 15 and 20 people had died, but that the toll may increase.The worst-affected area was the remote mountainous city of Harnai, in Balochistan, where a lack of paved roads, electricity, and mobile phone coverage has hampered the rescue effort. The earthquake was also felt in Balochistan's provincial capital Quetta.The US Geological Survey said the quake had a magnitude of 5.7 and struck around 3am at a depth of around 20 kilometres (12 miles).Pakistan straddles the boundary where the Indian and Eurasian tectonic plates meet, making the country susceptible to earthquakes.In October 2015, a 7.5-magnitude quake in Pakistan and Afghanistan killed almost 400 people across rugged terrain that impeded relief efforts. The country was also hit by a 7.6-magnitude quake on October 8, 2005, that killed more than 73,000 people and left about 3.5 million homeless, mainly in Pakistan-occupie Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-least-20-dead-as-magnitude-5-7-earthquake-strikes-pakistan-101633568466241.html
07-10-2021||World||Taiwan raises spectre of invasion||Military tensions with China are at their worst in more than 40 years, Taiwan’s defence minister said on Wednesday, promoting a new arms spending package to lawmakers days after record numbers of Chinese aircraft flew into the island’s air defence zone.Tensions have hit a new high between Taipei and Beijing, which claims the democratic island as its own territory, and Chinese military aircraft have repeatedly flown through Taiwan’s air defence identification zone, though no shots have been fired and the planes have stayed away from mainland Taiwan.Over a four-day period beginning last Friday, Taiwan reported close to 150 Chinese air force aircraft entered its air defence zone, part of a pattern of what Taipei calls Beijing’s continued harassment of the island. Just one incursion was reported on Tuesday. Asked by a lawmaker on the current military tensions with China at the parliament, defence minister Chiu Kuo-cheng said the situation was “the most serious” in more than 40 years since he joined the military, adding there was a risk of a “misfire” across the sensitive Taiwan Strait.“For me as a military man, the urgency is right in front of me,” he told a parliamentary committee reviewing an extra military spending plan worth T$240bn ($8.6 billion) over the next five years for home-made weapons including missiles and warships.China says Taiwan should be taken by force if necessary. Taiwan says it is an independent country and will defend its freedoms and democracy, blaming China for the tensions.Chiu said China already has the ability to invade Taiwan and it will be capable of mounting a “full scale” invasion by 2025.US President Joe Biden said on Tuesday he had spoken to Chinese President Xi Jinping about Taiwan and they agreed to abide by the Taiwan agreement.Biden appeared to be referring to Washington’s long-standing “one-China policy” under which it officially recognises Beijing rather than Taipei, and the Taiwan Relations Act, which makes clear that the US decision to establish diplomatic ties with Beijing instead of Taiwan rests upon the expectation that the future of Taiwan will be determined by peaceful means.Halt provocative actions towards Taiwan: BlinkenUS secretary of state Antony Blinken called China’s recent actions around Taiwan “provocative and potentially destabilising”, urging leaders in Beijing to stop such behaviour.“The actions we’ve seen by China are provocative and potentially destabilising,” Blinken said in an interview in Paris with Bloomberg Television. “What I hope is that these actions will cease because there’s always the possibility of miscalculation, of miscommunication, and that’s dangerous.“It’s very important that no one take unilateral actions that change the status quo by force.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taiwan-raises-spectre-of-invasion-101633566986265.html
07-10-2021||World||‘Historic day’: WHO go-ahead for broad use of first-ever malaria vaccine for children in Africa||The first vaccine for malaria, the mosquito-borne disease that kills about 400,000 people each year, is set to be deployed more widely after more than three decades of work and about $1 billion in investment.The vaccine developed by GlaxoSmithKline Plc and its partners won a recommendation from the World Health Organization (WHO) on Wednesday for use in children in sub-Saharan Africa and other regions with moderate to high transmission. It marks a turning point in a battle against the parasite that causes malaria.The shot prevented only about four in 10 malaria cases among children who received four doses in a large study, but the injection, along with other measures, could still save hundreds of thousands of lives. Now the focus will shift to getting it to more people following a pilot program in Africa that began in 2019.Following a meeting of the United Nations health agency’s vaccine advisory group, WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus spoke of “a historic moment”.“Today’s recommendation offers a glimmer of hope for the continent, which shoulders the heaviest burden of the disease and we expect many more African children to be protected from malaria and grow into healthy adults,” Matshidiso Moeti, WHO regional director for Africa, said in a statement.The WHO said its decision was based on results from ongoing research in Ghana, Kenya and Malawi that has tracked more than 800,000 children since 2019.Many vaccines exists against viruses and bacteria but this was the first time that the WHO recommended for broad use a vaccine against a human parasite.GSK, which has developed the shot with non-profit organisation PATH, committed to donating as many as 10 million doses for the ongoing pilot, and to supply as many as 15 million doses annually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/historic-day-who-go-ahead-for-broad-use-of-first-ever-malaria-vaccine-for-children-in-africa-101633551343298.html
07-10-2021||World||HT This Day: October 7, 1981 - President Sadat Assassinated||Grenade, rifle assault by six soldiers at army paradeThree attackers killed in gun battle; emergency declared Cairo- President Anwar Sadat was killed today by a group of Egyptian soldiers who attacked his reviewing stand with grenades and assault rifles during a military parade in Cairo. National Assembly Speaker Soufi Abu Taleb, who has been named, acting President, has declared a state of emergency for a year throughout the country. The naming of Speaker Taleb as acting President was announced by Vice-President Hosni Mubarak in a radio-television address. A new leader will be elected within 60 days, Mr. Mubarak said, in the first official statement on Mr. Sadat's death to be broadcast in Egypt. Mr. Mubarak said the Cabinet was unchanged. Groomed by Mr. Sadat to be his successor, Mr. Mubarak pledged that Egypt would continue Mr. Sadat's foreign and domestic policies. He remains in charge of the armed forces and was expected to exercise strong powers in the interim Government. One of the President's military aides and at least one of his bodyguards were also killed in the hand grenade-and-automatic weapon attack during the military parade.Mr. Hosny Mubarak, Defence Minister General Abdel Halim Abu Ghabale, the Chief of the General Staff, Gen. Abdel Rab El-Nabi Hafis and several diplomats including the Ambassadors of Australia and Belgium, were wounded in the attack. The Belgian Ambassador, Mr Claude Ruelle, was in extremely serious condition in hospital, a Belgian Foreign Ministry spokesman said in Brussels. Egypt's Ambassador to Washington, Mr. Ashraf Ghorbal, said his Government had told him that three of the attackers were killed and three were captured alive. An Egyptian Foreign Ministry official, who requested anonymity, said many Foreign Ministry officials and others were wounded. Three members of a US military delegation were wounded, the Defence Department said in Washington. The delegation headed by the chief of the U.S Rapid Deployment Force (RDF) Gen. Robert Kingston, were on the reviewing stand. Gen. Kingston himself was not wounded. Mr Sadat, who broke with the rest of the Arab World to make peace between his country and Israel, was assassinated on the anniversary of his greatest military triumph. Eight years ago on this day Egyptian troops launched a successful surprise attack across the Suez Canal into the Israeli-occupied Sinai peninsula. The official in the Presidency said he had lived several hours after being hit in today's shooting. The source could give no further detail.As a convoy of trucks towing artillery weapons passed about 20 metres from where President Sadat was taking the salute, several-hand grenades were thrown at the President’s dais, one of the trucks stopped and about six young soldiers in blue berets leapt out and sprinted towards Mr Sadat, their Kalashnikov assault rifles blazing.  Bullets sprayed into the grandstand as people crashed to the floor amid tumbling chairs.After a brief but fierce gun battle, several of the soldiers were overpowered and dragged off amid a kicking, struggling crowd.People were piled up in a bloodstained tangle on the floor of the stand from where Mr Sadat had been watching the parade and several appeared to have serious wounds.Mr Sofi Abu Taleb, the Speaker of the Egyptian Parliament who was sitting nearby, told Reuters the President was hustled away in the pandemonium. Mr Sadat was flown to hospital in a helicopter.Defence Minister Ghazala took control as the gunbattle abated, calmly issuing orders to guards and officers around him.Among those carried away on stretchers were Bishop Samuel, a leader of Egypt's Christian Coptic Church, Belgian Ambassador Claud Ruelle and one of Mr Sadat's closest aides, Sayed Marei. Diplomats who were only metres away from the President said it appeared Mr Marei and Mr Ruclie were both seriously wounded.They also reported an American officer, Lt.-Col. Charles Luney, and a member of an Omani delegation injured. Angry soldiers hustled foreign correspondents from the scene as ambulances carried away the injured had it appeared that at least a dozen people had been hit by bullets.Cairo Television cut its live coverage of the parade, after a number of explosions were heard. A Cairo Radio announcer shouted "traitors" and interrupted his description of the scene.Neither the radio nor the television explained what had happened. The television and radio later reported that the parade had ended and that President Sadat had left the scene. Neither mentioned the shooting.When President Gamel Abel Nasser died on Sept. 28, 1970, he left a void few thought could be filled. In stepped Mr Anwar Sadat, a virtually unknown Vice-President and Egypt changed direction.While Mr Nasser had led the Arabs in losing wars against Israel, Mr Sadat led them in what he hailed a "glorious Arab victory" in the 1973 West Asia war. Then at the risk of condemnation by other Arab leaders, he became a peacemaker in November 1977 by visiting Israel.The trip by the Egyptian President shattered Arab precedent.Within three years after taking office, Mr Sadat crushed one internal revolt, expelled 15,000 Soviet advisers and started turning Egypt's orientation from the Soviet Union to the United States.In November 1977 he declared he would go to "even to the Israeli Knesset to discuss peace if it would save even one Egyptian soldier."Less than two weeks later, Mr Sadat was in Israel. The visit culminated in the 1978 US-mediated Camp David accords that established peace between the two nations.  Mr Sadat waged an off-again, on-again relationship with Col Moammar Khadafy, leader of Libya, Egypt's western neighbour and one of Mr Sadist's harshest critics.In July 1977, Egypt and Libya clashed for five days along the border from the Mediterranean Sea south into the desert. The skirmishes subsided, but the rhetoric heated up from time to time.In August 1976, Mr Sadat won Parliament's unanimous nominations for another six-year term. He vowed to liberate all Arab lands taken by the Israelis in the 1987 West Asia war and to establish a "Palestinian entity." After the 1973 West Asia war broke out, Mr Sadat was hailed as a hero. In October, he sent his troops storming across the Suez Canal in an operation that caught the Israelis by surprise.While Mr Sadat was waging war and questing for peace, he turned his countrys economy from Mr Nasser's socialist to an ever-widening open-door policy in search of West money and products.In 1974, he launched a policy of economic liberalisation and invited Western companies to do business with Egypt. Mr Sadat held several posts under President Nasser, including Secretary-General of the Islamic Congress. He was named Vice-President less than 10 months before Mr Nasser died.Mr Sadat, third President of Egypt, was born on Dec. 25, 1918, in the poor Nile delta village of Mit Abu Al-Kom. His father was a civilian clerk in the army. His mother was Sudanese. His family later moved to Cairo and Mr Sadat entered the military academy and graduated in 1938. One of his classmates was Nasser. After World War II, Mr Sadat was jailed twice for involvement in assassination plots against royalist politicians but was acquitted both times. Released from jail in 1948, he drove a truck and worked as a journalist for a time.Mr Sadat was well-educated and taught himself English, German and Persian. A dapper man, he leaned to British-tailored suits and smoking jackets. His dazzling smile came across well on television: he has used his rural roots to build a "man of the people" image.Many say his subtle elegance was due to his half-English second wife Jiban, by whom he had three daughters and a son. Under Islamic law, Mr Sadat still was legally married to his first wife, who lived in the delta. He had three daughters by her, all of whom married army officers.When Mr Sadat took over from Mr Nasser, many critics claimed he had little executive experience and referred to him as "Colonel Yes Sir," referring to his deference to Mr Nasser. In May 1971, plotters led by leftleaning Vice-President Aly Sabry decided to act before Mr Sadat became too powerful, introducing reforms, cutting prices and developing a folksy image. Mr Sabry and two of Mr Nasser's henchmen, Presidential Affairs Minister Sami Sharaf and Interior Minister Sharawi Goman, who controlled the police and the intelligence apparatus, forced a confrontation when Mr Sadat agreed to federate with Libya and Syria. At a meeting of the leadership, Mr Sadat was outvoted. He then fired Mr Sabry. When six Cabinet Ministers, including Mr Sharaf, Mr Goman and the War Minister resigned in an attempt to convince him, he put them under house arrest. They were later convicted of treason and sent to prison. Dissolving the Arab Socialist Union, the country's only political party, Mr Sadat ordered new elections. He held a referendum on the federation and a new Constitution. Both passed with 99 per cent of the vote.To reassure the Russians, Mr. Sadat signed a 15-year treaty of friendship and co-operation. But he sent the Russian military advisers home in July 1972, saying the Soviet Union, despite his four visits to Moscow, would not provide the equipment needed to wage a war against Israel. Expecting his dramatic initiative to budge Washington, Mr Sadat was disappointed when the stalemate continued. At home, a wave of internal dissent hit campuses, the Muslim and Christian communities and the army, but Mr Sadat rode it out. As 1973 drew to a close, Mr Sadat counselled Egyptians to be patient. In April, he decided there was no alternative to war. During a secret visit to Damascus in August, he and Syrian President Hefez Assad set D-day. Mr Sadat also worked that summer to shore up the Arab alliance in preparation for the battle, abandoning a union with Libya in favour of solidifying ties with Saudi Arabia. He urged the Saudis to use their vast ad wealth to pressure the US when hostilities came. One of Mr Sadat's boldest moves was the signing in September 28, 1978, in the US of the Camp David accords with Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin and former US President Jimmy Carter. Although the accords called for a peace treaty between Egypt and Israel, it urged further negotiations on creating a form of autonomy for Palestinians living on Israeli-occupied land. That contentious issue resisted agreement between the two nations and talks resumed only this year.Although the treaty evoked the Opposition of almost the entire Arab world and resulted in the Arab boycott of Egypt, Mr Sadat and Mr Begin were awarded the Nobel peace prize in 1978.On March 26, 1979, Mr Sadat signed the Egyptian-Israeli peace treaty with Mr Begin and Mr Carter.Last month, citing an alleged plot to incite Muslim Christian strife, Mr Sadat ordered the arrest of 1,536 political opponents, including Muslim fundamentalists, Coptic Christian leaders, Opposition party leaders, journalists, lawyers and former politicians. Mr Sadat later expelled the Soviet Ambassador, six top Soviet diplomats and about 700 Soviet advisers working in Egypt, accusing the Soviet Union of efforts to incite sectarian strife.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/videos/world-news/ht-this-day-october-7-1981-president-sadat-assassinated-101633545571359.html
07-10-2021||World||Facebook: Zuckerberg says Frances Haugen’s claims do not make sense||Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg has pushed back against the testimony of Frances Haugen, a former employee, saying many of her “claims don’t make any sense”.“If we wanted to ignore research, why would we create an industry-leading research programme to understand these important issues in the first place?” Zuckerberg wrote in an internal note, which he later posted on Facebook, rhetorically questioning Frances Haugen’s charge that the social media giant ignored internal research findings that Facebook and Instagram were harmful for children and public safety as the company prioritised growth over safety.“At the heart of these accusations is this idea that we prioritise profit over safety and well-being. That’s just not true,” Mark Zuckerberg wrote.The Facebook founder went on to say the business model of the company was nothing like the picture painted of it by Frances Haugen, whom he did not name in the long post. “The argument that we deliberately push content that makes people angry for profit is deeply illogical,” Mark Zuckerberg said, adding, “We make money from ads, and advertisers consistently tell us they don’t want their ads next to harmful or angry content.”Mark Zuckerberg has few friends on Capitol Hill, home to US Congress, and none whatsoever at the subcommittee that heard and agreed with much of Frances Haugen’s testimony, as they sought more details from her, a former product manager, and her suggestion on what she thinks needs to be done.Many senators pointed out that as the subcommittee heard Frances Haugen’s testimony, Zuckerberg was out sailing with his wife and friends. He had himself posted a video of that but the hearing was clearly on his mind.Haugen called Facebook’s decision “disastrous” for children, public safety, privacy and democracy and urged the lawmakers to “help” the social media giant fix its issues, which, she added, the company cannot do on its own.To back her allegations, Frances Haugen has given US Congress thousands of documents containing internal research findings, which she also provided to the Wall Street Journal and US market regulators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-zuckerberg-says-frances-haugen-s-claims-do-not-make-sense-101633494935876.html
