01-07-2021||First Edit||SC rap, directive to govt welcome||Migrant labourers will benefit most by the ONOR scheme because they can avail of the benefits of the Public Distribution System (PDS) at their workplace and in their home states. But it must also be ensured that the PDS is efficient and meets their needs. Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, two states which account for a large number of migrant workers, are not known for a working PDS. The court also wants the government to make available from its stocks the food grains needed for the states to distribute dry rations to migrant workers or run community kitchens. The states must complete registrations by the end of the year. The ONOR will also tie food entitlements under the National Food Security Act to individual beneficiaries, rather than to a family unit, and portable across states. The court had directed the government to make a national registry of the migrant workers many months ago when, after losing jobs in their workplaces, they had started trekking to their home states during the national lockdown. That had revealed the heartless way in which they were treated by governments and the larger society. The government had even misrepresented their situation to the Supreme Court. It is because the government has not done the registration till now that the court has had to issue a deadline. It is hoped that the government will complete the job in time and will not plead for more time. The registration of many millions of migrant workers spread over many states and in different areas of work is not an easy job, but it must be undertaken and should be updated from time to time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/sc-rap-directive-to-govt-welcome-1003415.html
01-07-2021||In Perspective||Covid-19 in sewage: Should effluent reuse be stopped?||Bengaluru has experienced unprecedented growth in recent decades. As population grew and infrastructure lagged, groundwater became over-exploited and untreated sewage was let into the waterways, resulting in severe pollution of its lakes and waterways. Against this backdrop of water scarcity and inadequate wastewater treatment, the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board issued a Zero Liquid Discharge order in 2004. It mandates that all buildings with more than 50 residential units or a built-up area of more than 5,000 m2 in unsewered areas must install on-site Sewage Treatment Plants (STP) and reuse 100% of the treated water. Complying with this, many apartments have set up decentralised STPs and are utilising treated effluent for non-potable purposes such as landscaping, car-washing and flushing via dual piped systems. Since the onset and spread of Covid-19, however, residents in high-rise apartments are increasingly sceptical of reusing treated effluent, for fear of contracting infection. Is this fear scientifically valid? Some of this fear comes from media articles discussing the possibility of using sewage to quantify disease burden. The presence of Covid-19 RNA strands in raw sewage from areas with infection rates is well established. Scientists have shown that Covid-19 monitoring data from STPs can provide useful information about the onset of the infection before it is reported at the hospitals. This data can serve as an early warning system, help with tracing the location of the infected population, and to set up control/quarantine measures to curb the spread of the virus. While Covid-19 has been widely reported in raw sewage, none of the studies have reported its presence in treated effluent. Wastewater treatment systems are by design meant to remove all kinds of harmful bacteria and viruses present in raw sewage. Even during pre-Covid times, raw sewage contained various pathogens that were eliminated by treatment. Broadly, wastewater treatment comprises of three steps: primary, secondary and tertiary treatment. Primary treatment is designed to remove large, suspended particles (organic and inorganic), followed by secondary treatment, where micro-organisms are employed to remove dissolved organic matter. Tertiary treatment is deployed depending on the required end-use of the treated effluent. For example, if the treated effluent is to be used for landscaping, tertiary treatment involves disinfection only, with the objective to retain nutrients (N and P) that are crucial for plant growth, while eliminating harmful pathogens. If the treated effluent is to be discharged into a water body (pond/lake), it is crucial to deploy a tertiary treatment process to remove nutrients and pathogens. The objective here is to prevent eutrophication in the receiving water body. Whatever the end-use is, disinfection is mandatory to eliminate pathogens and prevent the spread of infections. Chlorine – as bleaching powder, liquid chlorine gas, or sodium hypochlorite – is highly effective in killing pathogens present in treated effluent. The WHO guidelines on wastewater management have not recommended any fresh measures as existing guidelines are enough to prevent Covid-19 infection via reuse of treated effluent. Ensuring wastewater treatment systems run at their design capacity and treated effluent is disinfected using chlorine is sufficient. Although reuse of treated effluent is not considered a risk at present, there is some evidence of another possible infection pathway. Some studies have reported faecal aerosols as a potential pathway for the spread of Covid-19. In high-rise buildings, toilets, kitchen sinks, and washbasins are usually vertically aligned. The plumbing systems in such buildings act as a conduit for wastewater flow (down-flow) and aerosols (up-flow) within the apartment units. Piping systems connecting bathrooms (toilet and hand wash) are potential spaces for aerosol development. These are the spaces where the faeces become aerosolised. During the SARS-CoV-1 outbreak in 2003, a study from China reported the spread of infection by aerosols developed in and transmitted via plumbing systems. Residents living in the apartment unit vertically aligned to the unit with infected people contracted the virus. However, this aerosol exposure pathway can be intercepted if: a) the infected person uses a separate bathroom, disinfects the bowl, shuts the bowl and ensures sufficient ventilation; b) the Resident Welfare Association is informed about which bathroom is being used by the infected person so that other residents can avoid using washrooms that are vertically aligned. There is a concern that the treatment efficiency of an STP goes down if bleaching powder or any disinfectant is added to the plumbing system. In addition to killing pathogens, disinfectant in raw sewage also kills the heterotrophic bacteria that aids in removing organic matter. This issue can be fixed by maintaining higher concentrations of heterotrophic bacteria in the reactor, which can be achieved by lowering sludge wastage and maintaining high oxygen supplies in the STP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/covid-19-in-sewage-should-effluent-reuse-be-stopped-1003413.html
01-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Koraneshwar Mutt seer cancels appointment of woman as successor  ||Khajuri village's Koraneshwar Sansthan Mutt pontiff Murughendra Koraneshwar Shivayogi, who appointed a 40-year-old woman as his successor has now cancelled her appointment as she is the relative of four predecessor Swamijis (barring the present Swamiji). Pontiff Murughendra Koraneshwar Shivayogi told DH that the seer objected to the appointment of Neelalochana Taayi as his successor as she is the relative of the predecessor swamijis and also told that there is no provision for those who adopted Basava principles to appoint a relative as head of the mutt.   "Khajuri's mutt is the branch of Chitradurga's Murugha mutt which has the sole authority to appoint the successor. Hence, the appointment of Neelalochana Taayi as his successor has been cancelled. Mutt's devotees and Murugha mutt will select his successor," the Swamiji told. Neelalochana Taayi has been sent as head of the branch of Koraneshwar mutt located at Arahatti in Navalagund taluk of Dharward district, the seer told.  She was appointed as successor to Murughendra Koraneshwar Shivayogi in March. The Shivayogi Swamiji had then stated that he had just followed the fundamental principles of Basaveshwara.  "We keep talking about equality and an egalitarian society. But we do not practise it. Being a follower of Basavanna’s principles, I decided to make it practical”, the seer had told at the time of the appointment of Neelalochana Taayi as head of the mutt. The mutt has followers from both Karnataka and Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/koraneshwar-mutt-seer-cancels-appointment-of-woman-as-successor-1003382.html
01-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Actor Jaggesh's son's car meets with accident||A car in which Kannada actor Jaggesh's younger son Yathiraj was travelling, met with an accident on National Highway 44 (Bangalore-Hyderabad) near Agalagurki on the outskirts of the city on Thursday.  Yathiraj was travelling to Bengaluru from Bagepalli side. The accident occurred when his car collided with a road divider when a motorist tried to take a U-turn. Locals attended to Yathiraj who sustained minor injuries. The car's front part is damaged. Later, he was sent to Bengaluru for further treatment.  SP G K Mithun Kumar said Yathiraj was injured in the face and legs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/actor-jaggeshs-sons-car-meets-with-accident-1003745.html
01-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||No role to play in Youth Congress president election: Siddaramaiah||Opposition party leader Siddaramaiah on Thursday said that he has no role to play in the election of a president for Youth Congress. Speaking to reporters Siddaramaiah said that the election is a separate system and the president will be elected through an election.   Siddaramaiah also accused the state's Cabinet ministers of having no coordination. "The government has cancelled the PUC examination but, announced dates for the SSLC examination. Education Minister S Suresh Kumar announced the dates without discussing the matter and Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar was unaware of the examination," he said. Siddaramaiah charged Dr Sudhakar and said, "Though the state has no sufficient vaccination for Covid, the Minister has been making false statements."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/no-role-to-play-in-youth-congress-president-election-siddaramaiah-1003542.html
01-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah says no discussion on CM face for 2023 polls yet, rubbishes natives vs migrants divide in Congress||Leader of Opposition in the Karnataka Assembly Siddaramaiah on Thursday said there have been no talks yet within the Congress regarding its Chief Ministerial face for the 2023 assembly polls, as he also ruled out any natives vs migrants divide in the party's state unit. "There has been no discussion at all (on the next CM candidate), no such discussions have taken place on this in the Congress. Election is still one year-ten months away. Election has to happen, new legislators will come, based on their opinion, high command will decide, why discuss now," Siddaramaiah said. Speaking to reporters here, in response to a question he said, there is no natives vs migrants issue in the Congress. "...I came to Congress from outside, didn't I become the Chief Minister, then where is the talk of natives or migrants. There is no such thing," he said in response to a question on talks about natives vs migrants in the party. Siddaramaiah had joined the Congress with his followers in 2006, after he was expelled from JD(S), and went on to become Chief Minister in 2013. The issue of CM face during the 2023 assembly polls, has widened fissures within the party, and also has triggered a game of one-upmanship between state Congress President D K Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah, who is the legislature party leader. Recently, several MLAs had openly favoured Siddaramaiah as the CM face, despite a diktat from the party leadership, which had irked Shivakumar, who is also nursing Chief Ministerial ambitions. On the Karnataka Pradesh Youth Congress President issue, ruling out any differences between him and Shivakumar, Siddaramaiah said, we don't have anything to do with it, as it is an independent body. "It (Youth Congress) is an independent body, an election was held for it, the returning officer and the National Youth Congress President will look into issues... what I have suggested is an amicable settlement to resolve the issue that has cropped up," he said. Differences between incumbent state Youth Congress President Raksha Ramaiah and his rival Mohammed Haris Nalapad has become murkier, forcing the party high command to step in to sort out. Raksha became the president in February after an election in which Nalapad came first, but was disqualified at the last minute due to an assault case against him. There seems to be some discontent about the compromise formula suggested, under which Raksha will hold the president's post for 18 months and Nalapad, for the remaining 18 months. Raksha, son of former minister M R Seetharam has Siddaramaiah's backing, whereas Nalapad, son of MLA N A Haris is supported by Shivakumar, party sources said. Hitting out at the BJP government in the state over its handling of the Covid-19 crisis, Siddaramaiah demanded that an assembly session should be called immediately. "They (BJP) don't have belief in democracy...they should have called the assembly amid the crisis thrown by the second wave and taken the opposition into confidence...why is the assembly for? It looks like they don't want to face the opposition fearing their true colours will come out," he said in response to a question.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiah-says-no-discussion-on-cm-face-for-2023-polls-yet-rubbishes-natives-vs-migrants-divide-in-congress-1003606.html
01-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Arun Singh's initiative has few takers||Despite directions from BJP national general secretary Arun Singh that all Cabinet ministers should meet party workers, legislators and common people every Thursday, less than half of the Cabinet members showed up in their offices. Among those who were present at their offices include Dy CMs Laxman Savadi, C N Ashwath Narayan, ministers K S  Eshwarappa, J C Madhuswamy, Byrati Basavaraju, Jagadish Shettar, Umesh Katti, S T Somashekar, C P Yogeshwar and S Angara. Ministers Basavaraj Bommai, R Ashoka among a few others are on a tour of the districts. Last Thursday, only five ministers arrived at Vidhana Soudha, riling Mudigere BJP MLA H K Kumaraswamy. He had threatened to file a complaint with party president Nalin Kumar Kateel as ministers were 'unavailable to address grievances.'||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/arun-singhs-initiative-has-few-takers-1003752.html
01-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress can’t come to power but leaders want to be CM, mocks HDK||The Congress does not have the strength to come to power on its own but its leaders are already getting ready to become the next chief ministers, JD(S) legislature party leader H D Kumaraswamy said.  Speaking to media persons here on Thursday, Kumaraswamy “appealed to voters to understand” that the prospects of Congress in Karnataka are weak. “I want our Muslim brethren to understand this,” he said.  “Both the national parties have projected that JD(S) does not have a future. We did not want to play politics during Covid. We will show our strength now,” Kumaraswamy said in retort to Singh’s remarks.  The decline of the national parties has begun. In West Bengal, Narendra Modi and Amit Shah acted like they already had come to power. They eventually had to bow down before regional parties. In Karnataka too, BJP came to power only because of some Congress leaders who were responsible for bringing down the coalition government, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-can-t-come-to-power-but-leaders-want-to-be-cm-mocks-hdk-1003754.html
01-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Vijayendra's name doing rounds for Hangal bypoll||BJP vice president and Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s son B Y Vijayendra’s name is once again doing rounds as the possible candidate for the bypoll-bound Hangal Assembly constituency, a claim dismissed by his loyalists. His name had also cropped up during the bypoll to Basavakalyan election held this year. The Hangal constituency was vacated with the death of senior BJP MLA C M Udasi. According to locals, Vijayendra’s name started doing the rounds over the past week as the possible candidate for Hangal. However, BJP’s Haveri unit president Siddaraj Kalkoti, dismissed this as mere speculation. “The party has not even started deliberations on the candidate for Hangal,” he said. The rumours of Vijayendra’s candidature gained traction thanks to BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal. The former Union minister claimed that Vijayendra’s supporters were drumming up support for his candidature in Hangal. “The same people who are unhappy with the state leadership are behind these speculations. The objective is to cast him in a bad light by projecting him as the candidate...,” a BJP functionary said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/vijayendras-name-doing-rounds-for-hangal-bypoll-1003755.html
01-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah questions Karnataka govt over vaccine shortage||Leader of the Opposition in Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah on Thursday claimed that Karnataka is facing a shortage of Covid vaccines and the statements issued by Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar are false. Speaking to reporters here, Siddaramaiah said, the minister claims of having a stock of five lakh doses. Then, why people are returning without getting vaccines? The state government has failed totally in managing Covid, he charged. ‘Don’t conduct SSLC exam’ Siddaramaiah said that the state government should not conduct the SSLC examination at this point. The government has cancelled the second PUC examination and there is no meaning in conducting SSLC exams amid the Covid-19. “I have explained to the minister. But it is of no use,” he said. Govt flayed Siddaramiah said there is no coordination among the ministers in Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s cabinet. The health minister has claimed he is not aware of the SSLC examination. There is a lack of coordination between him and Education Minister S Suresh Kumar, he charged. ‘Call legislature session’ He said the government should convene a legislature session to discuss the issues haunting the state. The chief minister has refrained from doing so as the irregularities of the government will be unfolded in the session, he remarked. The opposition parties are not taken into confidence and the BJP has no trust in democracy, he slammed. CM candidate issue Siddaramaiah also said that there are no discussions about the next chief ministerial candidate. There is no question of an outsider or insider in Congress. “I joined Congress from another party. But I served as chief minister for five years. The next CM candidate will be decided only after assembly election,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiah-questions-karnataka-govt-over-vaccine-shortage-1003756.html
01-07-2021||Main Article||Is Pakistan back in action?||Terrorist acts often reveal their intentions by the choice of targets. The drone attack on the IAF’s Jammu airbase on the night of June 26/27 may have more tactical and strategic strands than meets the eye. The combination of the choice of target, the method of attack, and its timing could provide clues on the purpose of the attack. The identification of purpose will indicate the perpetrators and help formulate responses. The attack was launched from an air-based platform that caused two explosions. One of them made a hole in the roof of a building next to the Technical Area at the airbase and the other exploded harmlessly in the open. The damage can be described as minimal. The air-based platform was ab initio described as a drone and from all reports, it appears that a drone armed with explosives was the attack vector. Technologically sophisticated armed and unarmed drones have been in use for nearly two decades, especially by the Americans. But drone attacks came to the fore in September 2019 when two key oil installations in Saudi Arabia were damaged through the innovative use of a small-sized drones in a swarm by the Houthis of Yemen. Iran had supposedly supplied the drones. The attack temporarily disrupted global oil supplies. In September 2020, the victory of Azerbaijan over Armenia was attributed to the successful use of armed drones supplied by Turkey. Reportedly, the Taliban has used low-technology armed drones against the US. Drone warfare seems to have come of age. Surveillance drones have been in use on the Indo-Pak border for nearly a decade. In mid-May 2021, the BSF had reported that they had recovered some arms and ammunition, which was said to have been drone-dropped 250 meters inside Indian territory in the Samba Sector. It had triggered much debate in India about the use of drones by China and Pakistan. The use of drones to deliver explosive warheads in Jammu therefore further inflames the debate and, more importantly, serves to publicise India’s vulnerabilities. Notably, the use of drones in the manner it was done provides deniability and is typical of Pakistan’s style of conducting terrorist operations. No terrorist group in J&K or Pakistan have claimed responsibility so far. The Pakistani hand in the attack is apparent. The question is, why was a military target chosen? An attack on a military target ensures that the news of the attack receives national and international attention. Domestically, it dents the strongman image that the Modi government has carefully nurtured and therefore had the potential to provoke a quick reaction had it been successful. Someone wants to deepen tensions between the two countries. The question is, why at this time? The ambience of Indo-Pak relations was apparently improving after it touched the deep end following India’s abrogation of Article 370 and the division of the erstwhile state of J&K in August 2019. The thaw was flagged in February 2021 by an understanding that both sides would respect the 2003 cease fire agreement. The Pakistan Army had supported the move. However, the US troop withdrawal from Afghanistan by September and India’s moves for reconciliation with the political leaders of J&K may have converged with the complex domestic political factors within Pakistan for the military to change its mind regarding stabilising relations with India. While the precise motivations for the military’s change of mind will remain unknown, the fact that it has apparently changed its mind is what is pertinent. The objective of Pakistan could be two-fold. First, derail political reconciliation in J&K by inducing insecurity and prevent relaxation of restrictions imposed on civilians – a key demand of J&K political leaders. Second, utilise the continued restrictions on human rights in J&K to keep India from moving closer to the US. A lobby exists in the US that exerts pressure to link human rights with strategic partnership. It is possibly being hoped that Pakistan’s loss of leverage with the US after the Afghan withdrawal may not thus easily translate to stronger Indo-US relations. The greatest fear of the Pakistani military is the weakening of the ‘India threat’ in Pakistan’s political discourse. It can be rekindled only if India reacts militarily. The Jammu gamble has in all probability emanated from military minds, as they must have calculated that with the Chinese already putting pressure on the northern border, India’s military reaction can be invited as it will only be a muted one that Pakistan can handle. The objective of restoring the ‘India threat’ will have been achieved. The military’s hand will thus be strengthened and terrorism in Kashmir can be ignited using the fuel of local discontentment. The plan may not have worked too well this time, but further attempts to provoke a military reaction can be expected. Measures for defence against drones and other enhanced security measures can now be expected to remain the staple of security and media discourse. India’s political leadership must be cognisant of the Pakistani military’s gameplan, which may well be disconnected from its political leadership. The Jammu attack may also be another round of a growing Sino-Pak nexus. It was meant to provoke but has failed due to its apparent ineffectiveness. It provides India some time to prepare to prevent future attacks as well as to formulate reactions to them. Whatever be the case, India must disabuse Pakistan of the notion that its reaction to a terrorist strike will be stymied by China posing a military threat. The ostensible failure of the Jammu attack has forewarned us. The challenge for statecraft is to fashion a response that strengthens deterrence. The time gained must not be wasted, for it is not a question of whether the next terrorist strike will happen, but when.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/is-pakistan-back-in-action-1003414.html
01-07-2021||Mysuru||Sudharma Sanskrit daily editor Sampath Kumar passes away||K V Sampath Kumar (64), editor of 'Sudharma', the world's only Sanskrit daily newspaper, passed away following cardiac arrest in Mysuru on Wednesday. Sampath Kumar's father Pandit Varadaraja Iyengar had launched 'Sudharma' in 1970. After Varadaraja Iyengar passed away, Sampath Kumar and his wife Jayalakshmi took over its mantle to ensure that it reached the readers. He used advanced technology, made 'Sudharma' available online and launched the epaper. The print edition of 'Sudharma' has nearly 4,000 readers from various Sanskrit universities and institutions across the country. However, the digital edition has more readers. He had once said in a programme that the newspaper has readers from Kashmir to Kanyakumari. The Union government announced the Padma Shri award to Sampath Kumar and his wife K S Jayalakshmi in 2020, under Literature and Education-Journalism category. They are yet to receive the award. He has also received several awards like the Siddarudha award, the Shivaratri Deshikendra Media award, the Abdul Kalam award and others. In a condolence message, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said Sampath Kumar was an inspiring personality who worked tirelessly towards preserving and popularising Sanskrit, specially among youngsters. His passion and determination were inspiring, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/sudharma-sanskrit-daily-editor-sampath-kumar-passes-away-1003439.html
01-07-2021||National||PM Modi to interact with beneficiaries of various schemes of Digital India on July 1||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with beneficiaries of the Digital India programme on Thursday, as the flagship initiative of the government completes six years, according to an official statement. The digital India initiative was launched with a vision to transform India into a digitally empowered society and knowledge economy. The programme, to be held on July 1, will start with the opening remarks of Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad. "The program will then see a presentation of a video on key achievements of the Digital India, which will lead to an interactive session of Prime Minister with the beneficiaries of various schemes of Digital India, moderated by Shri Ajay Sawhney, Secretary, MeitY," the Ministry of Electronics and IT said in the statement. The programme was launched on July 1, 2015, by the Prime Minister. "It's going to be a very interactive and informative session wherein the PM will speak with the beneficiaries of Digital India from across the country. It's a proud moment for us as the guidance and support we have got from the Prime Minister is unparalleled," Digital India Corporation MD and CEO Abhishek Singh said. All the interactions and addresses will be done virtually at the event, which will be also telecasted live on social media platforms Facebook and YouTube channel of Digital India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-interact-with-beneficiaries-of-various-schemes-of-digital-india-on-july-1-1003381.html
01-07-2021||National||India dismisses reports that it requested Sri Lankan airspace for military exercise||India on Wednesday dismissed as "factually incorrect" media reports that claimed it sought to use Sri Lankan airspace for a joint military exercise with a third country. "We have seen some media reports stating that authorities in Sri Lanka declined a request by India to use Sri Lankan airspace for a Joint Military Exercise with a third country. High Commission of India would like to deny these reports as they are factually incorrect,” the Indian High Commission here said in a statement. It said that "no such request has been made by India for using the Sri Lankan airspace in the recent past for the purpose of any joint exercise with a third country." The High Commission, however, did not mention which media had speculated on the purported Sri Lankan denial of India's request.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-dismisses-reports-that-it-requested-sri-lankan-airspace-for-military-exercise-1003386.html
01-07-2021||National||European countries not supporting TRIPS waiver move to deal with Covid-19: Goyal||Union Minister Piyush Goyal on Wednesday said that sadly, European countries and many other developed nations are not supporting the proposal of India and South Africa in the WTO on the temporary waiver of patent norms to deal with the Covid-19 crisis. It is "very very" unfortunate that some countries still put profit over prudence, the Commerce and Industry Minister said. In October 2020, India and South Africa had submitted the first proposal suggesting a waiver for all the World Trade Organisation (WTO) members on the implementation of certain provisions of the TRIPS Agreement concerning the prevention, containment or treatment of Covid-19. In May this year, a revised proposal was submitted by 62 co-sponsors, including India, South Africa and Indonesia. The agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights or TRIPS came into effect in January 1995. It is a multilateral agreement on intellectual property (IP) rights such as copyright, industrial designs, patents and protection of undisclosed information or trade secrets. "We have tried in the WTO to promote waiver on TRIPS so that vaccines and essential medicines can be available to all in the world. “Sadly, the European countries, particularly, and many other developed countries are not supporting that move... Believe me, until all of us are vaccinated, until everybody in the world gets the benefit of modern technology, even the developed world will not be safe," Goyal said at a webinar of India Global Forum. The developed countries have to make the choice whether the profits of the pharma companies are important or saving lives all over the world, including in their countries, he added. "I personally believe that its extremely myopic of any country to believe that they are insulated (from the crisis) and they would remain safe even if other parts of the world do not and I think today is not the time, even for the pharma companies to be counting their dollars,” he said, adding today is the time for the world to support each other and work as one family to get rid of this pandemic. The commerce minister suggested that sharing technology in an organised manner will help promote good manufacturing, otherwise, people would try to reverse engineering and "then you will have a bigger problem on your head of unauthorised vaccines, medicines, and that is more dangerous for the world". Expressing concern, he said at the time of this pandemic, pharma companies are looking at a profit over the public good. "It really pains me to hear these kinds of arguments that it (TRIPS waiver) will impact innovation and invention. We have tonnes and tonnes of things to invent, we have a huge amount of profits to be made in the future. But, we first have to get rid of this pandemic, get economies back in shape, otherwise people will lose jobs and lives," the minister added. Further, he said that large parts of the world are asking to implement the Cowin app, which is used for conducting vaccination programmes here, because of its success. India is happy to share free of charge, unlike few other countries which are even looking at profits, while the world needs to be saved through the collective efforts of the world, Goyal noted. Talking about India's exports, the minister informed that the sector has recorded huge growth and during the April-June quarter, "the exports from India are the highest ever, possibly in India's history". The figures have not yet been released officially. On free trade agreements, he said India has started the dialogue with the European Union on an FTA in goods, services, investment protection agreement and GI (geographical indication) pact. "But given the nature of the EU, 27 odd countries, it will certainly be a much more long-drawn affair. But, we on our part are extremely keen to speed it up," Goyal said. India is working towards a greater engagement with countries with which it has a shared ecosystem, that believes in a transparent rule-based trading mechanism and with which India can trust as a partner, he said, adding "we are working very actively with the UK (on a trade pact).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/european-countries-not-supporting-trips-waiver-move-to-deal-with-covid-19-goyal-1003397.html
01-07-2021||National||Govt panel recommends against allowing SII to conduct trial of Covovax on children aged 2-17 years||An expert panel of the country's central drug authority on Wednesday recommended against granting permission to the Serum Institute of India (SII) to conduct the phase 2/3 trial of Covid-19 vaccine Covovax on children aged two to 17 years, sources said. The SII applied to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on Monday seeking permission for conducting a trial of Covovax on 920 children, 460 each in the 12-17 and 2-11 age groups, at 10 sites. "The Subject Expert Committee (SEC) on Covid-19 of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), which deliberated on the application, noted that the vaccine has not been approved in any country," a source said. "It also recommended that the Pune-based company should submit the safety and immunogenicity data (of Covovax) from the ongoing clinical trial in adults for considering the conduct of a clinical trial in children," the source said. The recommendations are learnt to have been approved by the DCGI. In August 2020, US-based vaccine maker Novavax Inc. had announced a licence agreement with the SII for the development and commercialisation of NVX-CoV2373, its Covid-19 vaccine candidate, in low and middle-income countries and India. The clinical trials of Covovax began in India in March and the SII hopes to launch it by September for adults. In January, the SII had rolled out the Covishield vaccine in the country. It had entered into a collaboration with the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca to manufacture the vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-panel-recommends-against-allowing-sii-to-conduct-trial-of-covovax-on-children-aged-2-17-years-1003423.html
01-07-2021||National||DH Toon | Consult petrol pump guy over fuel price hike!||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-consult-petrol-pump-guy-over-fuel-price-hike-1003447.html
01-07-2021||National||India adds 48,786 Covid-19 infections in last 24 hours, 1,005 deaths||India saw a single day rise of 48,786 coronavirus infections taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to  3,04,11,634, while the national recovery rate improved to 96.97 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The Covid-19 death toll rose to 3,99,459 with 1,005 fresh fatalities. According to the data published at 7 am, cumulatively  33.57 crore vaccine  doses have been administered so far under the Nationwide Vaccination Drive. The active cases have further declined to 5,23,257 comprising 1.72 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 96.97 per cent. As many as 19,21,450 tests were conducted on Wednesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 41,20,21,494. The daily positivity rate  was recorded at 2.54  per cent . It has been less than five per cent for 24 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to  2.64 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 49th consecutive day.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,94,88,918,  while the case fatality rate stands at 1.31 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-adds-48786-covid-19-infections-in-last-24-hours-1005-deaths-1003470.html
01-07-2021||National||PM, Shah greet chartered accountants on CA Day||On the Chartered Accountants' Day on Thursday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeted the community and said it has a vital role in India's progress.  The day is observed to mark the foundation day of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, a statutory body established in 1949 under an act of Parliament.  Modi tweeted, "Greetings to all Chartered Accountants on CA Day. This community has a vital role in India's progress. I call upon all CAs to keep the focus on excellence so that Indian firms emerge as one of the best globally." Greetings to all Chartered Accountants on CA Day. This community has a vital role in India’s progress. I call upon all CAs to keep the focus on excellence so that Indian firms emerge as one of the best globally. Union Home Minister Amit Shah also extended greetings to chartered accountants on the occasion of CA Day. In his greetings to chartered accountants, Shah said their expertise plays a vital role in nation-building. "On CA Day, I extend my greetings to the entire CA fraternity. Chartered Accountants are an important pillar of our country's economic growth, their expertise and vast knowledge play a vital role in nation-building. May they continue to contribute with the same zeal and passion," he said in another tweet. Shah also greeted doctors on the occasion of National Doctor's Day and hailed their heroic efforts to serve humanity irrespective of the odds. On CA Day, I extend my greetings to the entire CA fraternity. Chartered Accountants are an important pillar of our country’s economic growth, their expertise and vast knowledge play a vital role in nation-building. May they continue to contribute with the same zeal and passion. "Being a doctor is a pledge to serve mankind.On National Doctor's Day, we salute the heroic efforts of our courageous doctors who left no stone unturned to serve humanity irrespective of the odds. Time and again, we have witnessed their selfless efforts towards society," he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-shah-greet-chartered-accountants-on-ca-day-1003485.html
01-07-2021||National||India urges Iran to continue to cooperate with IAEA in performance of its verification activities||India has asked Iran to continue to cooperate with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) in the performance of verification activities related to its nuclear programme and addressing all outstanding issues. India’s Permanent Representative to the United Nations Ambassador T S Tirumurti said at a UN Security Council meeting on the Implementation of the Resolution 2231 (2015) on the Iran Nuclear Issue said that India supports the full and effective implementation of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) and resolution 2231. The JCPOA, known commonly as the Iran nuclear deal, is an agreement on the Iranian nuclear programme reached in Vienna on July 14, 2015 between Iran and the P5+1 (China, France, Russia, the United Kingdom, and the United States; plus Germany) together with the European Union. The future of the deal was called in question after the United States’ unilateral pull out in May 2018. “We have always maintained that all JCPOA related issues should be resolved peacefully through dialogue and diplomacy and have extended our support to all such efforts which help in constructively addressing and resolving outstanding issues,” Tirumurti said. He added that all participants should adhere to their respective obligations under the resolution. Expressing hope that the ongoing engagement will result in a positive outcome, Tirumurti added that India urges Iran to "continue to cooperate with the IAEA in the performance of its verification activities and addressing all outstanding issues.” “We count on the full implementation of the JCPOA by all parties, which will serve the shared and long-term interests of all countries,” he said. Under-Secretary-General for Political and Peacebuilding Affairs Rosemary DiCarlo, briefing the Security Council on the Iranian nuclear issue, said that the context for the implementation of the JCPOA and resolution 2231 (2015) has improved considerably since last year. The continued diplomatic efforts in Vienna offer a critical opportunity for both the United States and Iran to return to the full and effective implementation of the plan and the resolution, she said, adding that this would be a welcome and crucial development. DiCarlo said it is essential that all member states promote a conducive environment and avoid any action that may have a negative impact on these ongoing diplomatic efforts, as well as on regional stability. She echoed the Secretary-General’s appeal to the United States to lift or waive its sanctions outlined in the plan, extend the waivers concerning the trade in oil with Iran, and once again facilitate nuclear-related activities consistent with the plan and the resolution. She called on Iran to resume the temporary technical understanding with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) without delay, to refrain from taking further steps to reduce its commitments and to return to full implementation of the plan. US Ambassador Jeffrey DeLaurentis, Senior Advisor for Special Political Affairs said Iran continues to disregard the provision of 2231 that calls upon Iran not to undertake any activity related to ballistic missiles designed to be capable of delivering nuclear weapons, including launches using such ballistic missile technology. “We share the concerns stated by the E3 and Israel in their letters regarding Iran’s ballistic missile activities, and we reject Russia’s and Iran’s assertions that these activities are not covered by 2231. These activities are clearly in defiance of the resolution,” he said, a reference to the E3 nations of France, Germany and the United Kingdom. “The United States is committed to ensuring Iran never acquires a nuclear weapon, and we believe diplomacy, in coordination with our allies and regional partners, is the best path to achieve that goal," DeLaurentis said. The last few rounds of discussions in Vienna have helped to crystallise the choices that need to be made by Iran and by the United States in order achieve a mutual return to compliance with the JCPOA,” DeLaurentis added. US President Joe Biden is seeking to rejoin Britain, France, Germany, Russia and China in the agreement to block Iran from developing a nuclear weapon. Iran maintains its nuclear programme is for peaceful purposes. Iran’s Ambassador and Permanent Representative to the United Nations Majid Takht Ravanchi said “the Council’s message is loud and clear: the JCPOA must be implemented and there is no better alternative. “Despite such encouraging statements, we have recently heard (including in this meeting) discouraging statements from a few Council members pointing their fingers at the victim instead of demanding the culprit to act responsibly.” Ravanchi added that Iran’s decision to negotiate and conclude the JCPOA was based on its principled policy to make the best use of dialogue and diplomacy in advancing its foreign policy objectives. “We have always been steadfast in applying this policy. Iran will remain consistent and resolute in pursuing this approach regarding the JCPOA as long as other parties put an end, completely and without any precondition or further delay, to their bullying policies, violating their obligations and dishonouring their promises,” Ravanchi said. He added that the JCPOA is a deal made to secure the interests of all sides. “While we are sincere and serious in current negotiations, our ultimate goal is only to ensure implementation of the deal as is by all, no more, no less. "Given years of serious violations of the JCPOA by other sides, it is essential to secure enough assurances that all sanctions are removed verifiably; and the U.S. will not, once again, withdraw from the JCPOA or abuse its mechanism to create another implementation crisis to deprive Iran of its benefits from the deal.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-urges-iran-to-continue-to-cooperate-with-iaea-in-performance-of-its-verification-activities-1003489.html
01-07-2021||National||India's strides in medicine have contributed to make planet healthier: PM on Doctors' Day||Greeting all doctors on National Doctors' Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said India's strides in the world of medicine are commendable and have contributed to making the planet healthier.  The Doctors' Day is observed in the honour of noted doctor and former West Bengal chief minister Bidhan Chandra Roy, whose birth and death anniversaries fall on July 1. "On Doctors Day, my greetings to all doctors. India's strides in the world of medicine are commendable and have contributed to making our planet healthier," Modi tweeted. On Doctors Day, my greetings to all doctors. India's strides in the world of medicine are commendable and have contributed to making our planet healthier. He also shared an audio clip from his 'Mann Ki Baat' broadcast last Sunday in which he talked about Doctors' Day. "We are all grateful for the contribution of doctors in the Corona period. Our doctors have served us without caring about their lives. Therefore, this time National Doctors' Day becomes all the more special," Modi had said in his radio broadcast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-strides-in-medicine-have-contributed-to-make-planet-healthier-pm-on-doctors-day-1003492.html
01-07-2021||National||DCGI puts Covovax vaccine trials in children on hold||An expert panel of India's drug regulator has asked Serum Institute of India (SII) to submit the safety and immunogenicity data from the ongoing clinical trials of Novavax's Covid-19 vaccine on adults before applying for conducting trials on children aged 2-17 years. At its meeting on Wednesday, the Subject Expert Committee on Covid-19 of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation noted that the vaccine candidate submitted by SII had not been approved in any country. The SII had sought the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) approval for conducting a trial of Covovax on 920 children, 460 each in the 12-17 and 2-11 age groups, at 10 sites. The Committee also asked SII to submit the safety and immunogenicity data of Covovax from the ongoing clinical trial in adults for considering the conduct of a clinical trial in children. The Committee also told Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, which is manufacturing Sputnik vaccines in India, that it need not conduct a separate Phase 3 trial of the vaccine candidates and the data from trials in Russia would be enough for grant of market authorisation. “After detailed deliberation, the Committee recommended that the firm should present the safety, immunogenicity and efficacy data of Phase 3 clinical trial in Russia for considering the proposal for grant of market authorisation in the country,” according to the minutes of the SEC meeting held on Wednesday. Dr Reddy’s Laboratories had applied for market authorisation for Sputnik Light component 1 along with the interim safety and efficacy data generated from Phase 1 & 2 clinical trials in Russia and had presented the Phase 3 clinical trial protocol before the committee. In August last year, US-based vaccine maker Novavax Inc. had entered into a licence agreement with the SII for the development and commercialisation of NVX-CoV2373, its Covid-19 vaccine candidate, in low and middle-income countries and India. The clinical trials of Covovax began in India in March and the SII hopes to launch it by September for adults.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dcgi-puts-covovax-vaccine-trials-in-children-on-hold-1003493.html
01-07-2021||National||Enhanced GST revenue collections should now be 'new normal': FM Sitharaman||Commending taxmen for the enforcement measures in dealing with GST fraud, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday said the enhanced revenue collection in the recent months should now be the "new normal". In a message to tax officers on the fourth anniversary of historic tax reform GST, she said in the last four years the taxpayer base has almost doubled from 66.25 lakh to 1.28 crore. She said for eight months in a row, GST revenues have crossed Rs 1 lakh crore mark and we have seen record GST revenue collection of Rs 1.41 lakh crore in April 2021. "Commendable work has been done in the year gone by both in the area of facilitation and enforcement with numerous cases of fraudulent dealers and ITC being registered. The enhanced revenue collection in recent months should now be the 'new normal'," Sitharaman said. A nationwide GST, which subsumed 17 local levies like excise duty, service tax and VAT and 13 cesses, was rolled out on July 1, 2017. Expressing satisfaction on overcoming most of the GST implementation challenges, including two waves of the Covid-19 pandemic, the minister also thanked taxpayers for their support in making the goods and services tax (GST) a reality. "Its positive externalities such as unified market, removal of cascading and imp[roved competitiveness of goods and services has helped spur economic growth taking us further on the path to prosperity," she said while commending both the central and state tax officers for making GST a success. Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) will be issuing certificate of appreciation to 54,439 GST payers for timely filing of returns and cash payment of GST in the last four years. More than 88 per cent of these taxpayers are from micro, small and medium enterprises. She said any reform of this scale, in a large and diverse country like India, can be highly challenging. "The GST Council has shown immense sagacity and wisdom in redressing legitimate concerns of taxpayers and citizens by course correction whenever needed. This has manifested itself not just in measures to ease the compliance burden on taxpayers, especially MSMEs, but also reducing the tax burden on the common man," Sitharaman added. Under GST, businesses with an annual turnover of up to Rs 40 lakh are exempt from GST. Additionally, those with a turnover up to Rs 1.5 crore can opt for the Composition Scheme and pay only 1 per cent tax. For services, businesses with turnover up to Rs 20 lakh in a year are GST exempt. A service provider having turnover up to Rs 50 lakh in a year can opt for composition scheme for services and pay only 6 per cent tax. Under GST a four-rate structure that exempts or imposes a low rate of tax 5 per cent on essential items and top rate of 28 per cent on cars is levied. The other slabs of tax are 12 and 18 per cent. In the pre-GST era, the total of VAT, excise, CST and their cascading effect led to 31 per cent as tax payable, on an average, for a consumer. GST also represents an unprecedented exercise in fiscal federalism. The GST Council, that brings together the central and state governments, has met 44 times to thrash out how the tax will work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/enhanced-gst-revenue-collections-should-now-be-new-normal-fm-sitharaman-1003500.html
01-07-2021||National||Isn't framing guidelines for Speaker outside court's purview? SC asks||The Supreme Court on Thursday wondered if it can frame guidelines for the Speaker to take action on disqualification of MPs and MLAs in case of defections in a time-bound manner. "How can we legislate? There is separate institution for that," a bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana asked as a counsel sought laying down a framework for the Speaker to decide disqualification matters. The plea filed by member of the All India Congress Committee (AICC) Ranajit Mukherjee also asked the court to issue directions for guidelines for Speakers to have a uniform process of decision making in cases of defections across the country. The bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy, however, pointed out the prayers sought by the petitioner fell within the domain of the Parliament and the court cannot frame laws. The bench also told the counsel that the same issue was raised in the case relating to disqualification of Karnataka MLAs. “I have already expressed my opinion in the Karnataka MLA case. This issue was raised in this case also and senior advocate Kapil Sibal had advanced same argument," the CJI said. The bench asked the counsel to read the judgment in the matter and then come back to the court. The top court fixed the matter for further hearing after two weeks.   The petitioner claimed rampant and unchecked political defections for personal or political gain, hit at the root of Indian democracy, and violated the fundamental rights of Indian Citizens, under Article 21 of the Constitution. He also asked the court to examine mala-fide delays on the part of the Speakers in deciding defection issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isnt-framing-guidelines-for-speaker-outside-courts-purview-sc-asks-1003524.html
01-07-2021||National||Govt's decision to stay Covovax's trials on children a setback for SII||The central drug authority’s expert panel refused to grant permission to Serum Institute of India (SII) to conduct trials of Covovax on children, a move that has jolted the vaccine maker which expects to launch the jab for adults by September 2021. The decision is sure to jolt Adar Poonawalla, CEO of SII, who had taken to social media to express excitement about the first batch of Covovax and its potential for beneficiaries younger than 18. Currently, Covovax’s trials are in the third phase on adults in India. SII was seeking permission to conduct the trials on 920 children, split in half in the age group of 12-17 and 2-11. If it had been approved, Covovax would become the third vaccine in India to conduct trials on children, after Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Zydus Cadila’s ZyCov-D. Poonawalla is expecting to launch the vaccine by September this year and supply approximately 20 crore doses of Covovax between August and December to the Centre on demand. This nanoparticle protein-based vaccine is by US-based biotechnology firm, Novavax which produced the vaccine NVX-CoV2373. This is manufactured by SII in India and marketed under the name ‘Covovax’.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govts-decision-to-stay-covovaxs-trials-on-children-a-setback-for-sii-1003531.html
01-07-2021||National||SC notice to Centre, EC on post-poll violence in West Bengal||The Supreme Court on Monday sought a response from the Centre and the Election Commission on a plea for a court-monitored SIT probe into post-poll violence in West Bengal. A bench of Justices Vineet Saran and Dinesh Maheshwari issued notice to the Centre, the poll panel and also to the West Bengal government on a petition filed by Lucknow-based advocate, Ranjana Agnihotri and another person. The petition argued by advocate Hari Shankar Jain claimed that as many as 15 BJP workers or sympathisers were murdered and women were abducted and raped in post-poll violence after the ruling TMC retained its power in Assembly elections on May 2. "Thousands of citizens, mostly Hindus, were being targetted by Muslims as a revenge for supporting the BJP," the plea alleged, contending no appropriate action has been taken against the culprits putting the life, liberty and dignity of women and children in peril and future of Hindus to jeopardy. Despite atmosphere of "terror, turmoil, fear, unrest and suppression of Hindus", unfortunately, the Union government observed ritual of summoning report without any follow-up action, the plea said. As a result of violence, loot, killings and terror, Hindus were forced to leave their villages en masse like what had happened in Kashmir in 1990, the petitioner said, also seeking compensation for the victims.  The petition sought a direction to the Centre and State to rehabilitate those who were forced to migrate to Assam, and deploy armed forces or paramilitary to restore normalcy. It also asked the court to direct the Centre to exercise power under Article 355 and 356 in view of "deteriorating conditions, posing a threat to sovereignty and integrity of the country".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-ec-on-post-poll-violence-in-west-bengal-1003541.html
01-07-2021||National||Exercise restraint while showing gender-based violence, BCCC tells TV channels||The Broadcasting Content Complaints Council (BCCC) on Thursday asked non-news TV channels to exercise restraint in depicting content related to crimes against women, children and people from the LGBTQ community. Issuing a detailed advisory for the portrayal of gender-based violence in TV programmes, the council asked the channels to ensure that explicit visualisation of violence against women, children and people from the LGBTQ community is minimised, and the message that such violence is unacceptable and must be abjured is clearly conveyed. "The BCCC will like to re-emphasise that the channels must exercise necessary prudence and caution while scripting, filming and editing such scenes," it said in the advisory. "The council, therefore, advises television channels to exercise self-moderation while framing such plotlines based on social issues engulfing gender-based violence; ensure that their depiction is subtle and nuanced," it added. In addition, the BCCC said, the TV channels should also ensure that any such portrayal of violence on television is accompanied with an on-screen disclaimer in English, Hindi and other regional languages stating: “Gender-based violence is a penal offence. This channel does not support or endorse any form of gender-based violence or abuse of any nature.” “The BCCC asks for sensitivity while portraying such persons as victims of different forms of violence on television and expects channels to strive to use the impact and reach of television for constructive and reformative purposes,” the council said in the advisory. The BCCC advisory comes two weeks after the Union government granted statutory recognition to a self-regulatory complaint-redressal mechanism for television channels. “It is an all-encompassing advisory for broadcasters to exercise restraint on depicting content related to crimes against women, children and persons from the LGBTQ community. Sexual and domestic violence are matters of deep concern for the society and must be addressed with all seriousness,” BCCC chairperson Justice (retd.) Gita Mittal said. The Union government had notified the Cable Television Networks (Amendment) Rules, 2021 on June 17 which provides for a three-layer statutory mechanism for redressal of complaints relating to content aired on TV channels. The BCCC, set up by the Broadcasting Foundation (IBF) in June 2011, is a self-regulatory body that examines content-related grievances against more than 300 non-news channels in the country. “The council has so far issued 15 advisories over various aspects of content aired on television channels. The new advisory covers various dimensions of the portrayal of gender-based violence on television,” the BCCC said. According to the Cable Television Networks (Amendment) Rules, 2021, the self-regulating bodies are required to register themselves with the central government within 30 days from the date of publication of the amended rules, or within 30 days from the date of its constitution, whichever is earlier. “The BCCC, which has redressed thousands of complaints against general entertainment channels over the past 10 years, is set to be registered with the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting,” the council said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/exercise-restraint-while-showing-gender-based-violence-bccc-tells-tv-channels-1003550.html
01-07-2021||National||Indian military developing capabilities to deal with drone threats: Army chief||The easy availability of drones has increased the complexity of security challenges and the Indian military is developing capabilities to effectively deal with the threats, be it from state-sponsored elements or by states themselves, Army Chief Gen M M Naravane said on Thursday. In an address at a think-tank, Gen Naravane said the security establishment is well aware of the challenges and certain measures have already been put in place to deal with them. "We are developing capabilities to deal with the threats whether they are state-sponsored or by states themselves. We are developing capabilities to deal with drone threats both in the kinetic and non-kinetic realm," he said. On the situation along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir, the Army chief said there has been no infiltration along the LoC after a ceasefire understanding was reached between Indian and Pakistani militaries in February. Since there is no infiltration, number of terrorists in Kashmir is lesser and so number of terrorism-related incidents also came down, he said. "There will always be elements who will try to sabotage process of peace and development; we have to cater for that," he said without elaborating. "We have a strong counter-terrorism and counter-infiltration grid in Jammu and Kashmir and our operation to ensure peace and tranquillity will continue," he said. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-military-developing-capabilities-to-deal-with-drone-threats-army-chief-1003563.html
01-07-2021||National||Budget for healthcare sector doubled to Rs 2 lakh crore: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday hailed the contribution of doctors in saving lives in the fight against Covid-19, saying they did not hesitate in sacrificing their own life in serving humanity. He also said the government had turned its focus on strengthening healthcare and doubled the health budget to more than Rs two lakh crore. “It is not without reason that doctors are referred to as another form of god. Today, when the country is waging a war against Covid-19, doctors have worked night and day and saved lakhs of lives,” Modi said addressing a Doctor’s Day function organised by the Indian Medical Association. He said several doctors had sacrificed their lives while performing their virtuous duty. The Prime Minister said that scientists and doctors have found solutions for all the challenges thrown by Corona. “Our doctors are facing this new and fast mutating virus on the basis of their experience and expertise. Despite the limitations of long-neglected medical infrastructure and pressure of population, India’s per lakh population rate of infection and death rate is still manageable compared to even developed countries,” Modi said. “New AIIMS, medical colleges are being established. Work has been initiated on 15 AIIMS as opposed to the total six AIIMS that existed in 2014. Number of Medical colleges have increased,” the prime minister said. Now, the government has come up with a Credit Guarantee Scheme of Rs 50,000 crore to strengthen the health infrastructure in such areas where there is a lack of health facilities, Modi said. “Our government is committed to safeguarding our doctors. Last year, we brought in several provisions against crimes against doctors,” he said, adding that the government was also providing free insurance cover to our Covid warriors. Doctors' Day is observed in the honour of former West Bengal chief minister Bidhan Chandra Roy, whose birth and death anniversaries fall on July 1 Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/budget-for-healthcare-sector-doubled-to-rs-2-lakh-crore-pm-modi-1003574.html
01-07-2021||National||Data, demographic dividend present huge opportunity; this decade to be ‘India's techade’: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said India’s data and demographic dividend, along with its proven technical proficiency, will make this decade the country's “Techade." India is fully conscious of its responsibilities as a "data powerhouse", he said at a virtual event to mark the completion of six years of Digital India, and added that work was under way on all aspects of data protection. The PM spoke via video conference to beneficiaries of various schemes of Digital India programme, including Diksha, eNAM, eSanjeevani solution for telemedicine, DigiBunai and PM SVANidhi scheme. Estimates suggest that dozens of tech companies in India will enter the unicorn club (with $1 billion valuation) in coming years, he said and asserted that data and demographic dividend collectively offers huge potential. The digital India mission had enabled implementation of the One Nation, One Ration Card scheme and helped ease access to services for millions of people during the Covid-19 pandemic, he said. "The digital solutions that India has prepared during this period are a topic of discussion and interest all over the world today. One of the world''s largest digital contact tracing app, Aarogya Setu has played a key role in containing the spread of Covid," he said. Many nations have shown interest in the CoWIN app, and tools like these are proof of India's technical prowess. In the last 6-7 years, leveraging Digital India, around Rs 17 lakh crore has been transferred in the bank accounts of beneficiaries under various schemes, Modi said. During interaction with the Prime Minister, Suhani Sahu (a class 5 student from Balrampur, Uttar Pradesh) shared her experiences about the DIKSHA app and explained how it had helped her in continuing her studies. Launched on July 1, 2015, Digital India builds on the concept of minimum government, maximum governance and faster delivery of government services to people's doorstep.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/data-demographic-dividend-present-huge-opportunity-this-decade-to-be-indias-techade-pm-1003576.html
01-07-2021||National||Over 1.24 crore unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses still with states: Centre||More than 1.24 crore balance and unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs and over 94,66,420 doses are in the pipeline and will be received by them within the next three days, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. Over 32.92 crore vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far through Government of India (free of cost channel) and direct state procurement category. Of this, the total consumption, including wastage is 31,67,50,891 doses, the ministry said. "More than 1.24 crore (1,24,50,909) balance and unutilised Covid vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs to be administered. "Furthermore, more than 94,66,420 vaccine doses are in the pipeline and will be received by the states and UTs within the next 3 days," the ministry said. The Centre is committed to accelerating the pace and expanding the scope of Covid-19 vaccination throughout the country. The new phase of universalisation of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from June 21, 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-124-crore-unutilised-covid-19-vaccine-doses-still-with-states-centre-1003589.html
01-07-2021||National||Kidnapper cannot be sentenced for life if he treats victim well: SC||If an abducted person is not assaulted or threatened to be killed and treated well, then the kidnapper cannot be sentenced to life imprisonment under Section 364A of Indian Penal Code, the Supreme Court has said. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R Subhash Reddy made the observation while setting aside the conviction of an auto driver in Telangana who had kidnapped a minor and demanded a ransom of Rs 2 lakh from his father. The top court said that there are three essential ingredients to convict an accused under Section 364A (kidnapping for ransom) which need to be proved by prosecution. It said the three essential ingredients are -- kidnapping or abduction of any person or keeping him in detention; threatening to cause death or hurt to such person, or the kidnapper's conduct gives rise to a reasonable apprehension that victim may be put to death or hurt in order to compel the Government, foreign State or any Governmental organization or any other person to pay a ransom. Referring to the punishment of life or death sentence provided for convictions under Section 364A, the top court said, "In addition to the first condition either condition (ii) or (iii) has to be proved, failing which conviction under Section 364A cannot be sustained." The top court was hearing an appeal filed by Telangana resident Shaik Ahmed challenging a high court order. The high court had dismissed his plea against conviction and sentence of life imprisonment under section 364 A of the IPC. Ahmed, an auto driver had kidnapped a Class 6 student of St Mary's High School on the pretext of dropping him home. The child was rescued by police when the child's father went to pay the ransom. The child, who was 13 years old at the time of incident in 2011, and his father had told the lower court that Ahmed never threatened to kill or harm the boy. The top court set aside the conviction under section 364 A of the IPC. “From the evidence on record regarding kidnapping, it is proved that accused had kidnapped the victim for ransom, demand of ransom was also proved. Even though offence under Section 364A has not been proved beyond reasonable doubt but the offence of kidnapping has been fully established to which effect the learned Sessions Judge has recorded a categorical finding. “The offence of kidnapping having been proved, the appellant deserves to be convicted under Section 363(Punishment for kidnapping). Section 363 provides for punishment which is imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to fine,” the bench said. The apex court said that it is satisfied that the appellant deserves to be sentenced with imprisonment of seven years and also liable to pay fine of Rs 5,000. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kidnapper-cannot-be-sentenced-for-life-if-he-treats-victim-well-sc-1003593.html
01-07-2021||National||Pan Macmillan to publish Nathuram Godse's biography||A biography of Nathuram Godse, Mahatma Gandhi's infamous assassin, situates the man and his most defining act in the larger context of modern Indian history and contemporary society and politics. "Nathuram Godse: The True Story of Gandhi's Assassin" by Mumbai-based journalist Dhaval Kulkarni will be published by Pan Macmillan India in 2022. The publisher said this investigative account will bring to light hitherto unknown aspects of Godse's life and times, his ideologies and motivations while revealing the complex factors that led to an assassination that would permanently alter the course of India's history. The book was acquired at auction by Teesta Guha Sarkar, editorial head at Pan Macmillan India, from Anish Chandy, founder of Labyrinth literary agency. "The book will be a deep-dive account and delve into the cataclysmic chain of events both before and after Gandhi's murder," Kulkarni says. "It will lay special emphasis on accessing source material and writings in Marathi, which is necessary considering the assassination plot was born and developed in the region that belonged to the erstwhile Bombay Presidency," he adds. Sarkar terms it as a "truly groundbreaking" work. "With Nathuram Godse being hailed as a patriot by specific factions in the politically turbulent India of today, it has become imperative to newly understand the historical events that have brought us here," she says. This biography "not only presents an incisive and revelatory portrait of India's most infamous assassin but also uncovers the far-reaching influence of the murder and the motivations behind it on the nation's political journey," she says. According to Chandy, the book will "cast clear light on a series of personalities who irrevocably changed the trajectory of the nation". Kulkarni has previously authored books like "The Cousins Thackeray: Uddhav, Raj and the Shadow of Their Senas" and "The Bawla Murder Case: Love, Lust and Crime in Colonial India". Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pan-macmillan-to-publish-nathuram-godses-biography-1003598.html
01-07-2021||National||Ahead of Eid, PETA appeals PM Modi to scrap law allowing animal sacrifice||Ahead of the Eid al-Adha festival, during which animals such as goats and sheeps are sacrificed, PETA India has appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to scrap a section of a law which allows killing of an animal as a religious ritual. Section 28 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act (PCA), 1960, should be done away with as it says that “nothing contained in this Act shall render it an offence to kill any animal in a manner required by the religion of any community”, the animal rights body said. “I'm writing to you from the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) India on behalf of our more than two million members and supporters to request that you delete Section 28 of The Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, which allows any animal to be killed in any manner for religion," PETA India chief executive officer Manilal Valliyate said in a letter to the prime minister. “We hope you will agree that Section 28 is an aberration in the land of 'ahimsa', 'karuna', and, increasingly, modern technology and where Article 51A(g) of the Constitution of India requires compassion for all living creatures," Valliyate said. It has been held by the Supreme Court that this Article reflects the rich cultural heritage of the nation, the PETA official said. The letter said that this provision (section 28) goes against the very purpose of the PCA Act, as it causes “unnecessary pain and suffering to animals and is now, in a modern society, outdated”. Just as human sacrifice is treated as murder, similarly, the archaic practice of animal sacrifice, like wringing their neck, beheading them, biting them to death, or slitting their throats while they are fully aware of what is happening to them, should be treated as punishable cruelty, it said. PETA India said that in April it had submitted its recommendations to the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI), which included recommending a ban on animal sacrifice. In its letter, the animal rights body pointed out that many states and Union Territories, including Gujarat, Kerala, Puducherry, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Telangana, have prohibited animal sacrifice in any place of public religious worship or its precincts. This demonstrates that progressive steps are needed towards implementing a similar prohibition throughout India, which could easily be achieved by deleting Section 28 from the PCA Act of 1960, it said. “Compassion and love are universal messages at the core of all religions, and no religion teaches or encourages cruelty to animals or requires meat eating. In order to give animal welfare the scope it deserves and to ensure that our animal protection laws reflect modern society, we beseech your good office to remove the outdated exemption for animal sacrifice under Section 28,” PETA said. It said it has also sent letters director generals of police as well as the AWBI, urging them to take precautionary measures to stop illegal practices in the transport and killing of animals in the lead-up to Eid al-Adha. "Animal sacrifice in the country involves a huge variety of species, including sheep, goats, buffalos, chickens, pigs, deer, foxes, owls, and others," the body said. Even though the PCA Act gives an exemption for animal sacrifice, such practices often stand in contradiction to the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, which protects indigenous wild species from hunting and capture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ahead-of-eid-peta-appeals-pm-modi-to-scrap-law-allowing-animal-sacrifice-1003618.html
01-07-2021||National||Centre may issue e-vouchers to economically weaker sections to get Covid vaccine at private centres||The government is planning to issue non-transferable electronic vouchers to help economically weaker sections get vaccinated at private Covid-19 vaccination centres. Private citizens will be encouraged to financially support vaccination of economically vulnerable sections like domestic helps and security guards among others. They could buy non-transferable electronic vouchers in the names of beneficiaries so that the latter can go to private hospitals and get inoculated by handing over these electronic vouchers. To help the elderly and disabled citizens, it said, Covid-19 vaccination centres closer to homes have also been initiated. The government is aware of the need for facilitating vaccination for all people, and especially the vulnerable groups who may not possess any of the prescribed identity cards, namely, nomads (including sadhu/saints from various religions), prison inmates, inmates in Mental Health Institutions, citizens in Old Age Homes, road side beggars, people residing in rehabilitation centres/camps and any other identified eligible persons, aged 18 years or more. The District Task Force identifies such groups of persons in respective districts with assistance from concerned government departments/organisations like the department of minority affairs, social justice, social welfare etc. Additionally, inter-district or inter-state mapping of workplace CVCs and Private CVCs too is being encouraged to further improve the outreach. Employees above 18 years of age can also get their dependents vaccinated by tagging them with the already existing CVCs for workplace vaccination. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-may-issue-e-vouchers-to-economically-weaker-sections-to-get-covid-vaccine-at-private-centres-1003620.html
01-07-2021||National||Some leaders making irresponsible statements about Covid vaccination drive: Harsh Vardhan||Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday asked opposition-ruled states to stop indulging in “shameless politics” over the Covid-19 vaccination drive and focus on governance after some states piled pressure on the Centre for allocation of larger share of vaccines. Vardhan’s remarks came days after chief ministers of Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Delhi sought a larger allocation of vaccines to keep up the momentum of the vaccination drive. The minister said the vaccination drive had picked up pace after the Centre decided to supply 75 per cent of the available vaccines for free, leading to 11.5 crore beneficiaries getting doses in June. He said the states have already been informed in advance about the availability of vaccines in July – 12 crore doses – with details of the supply shared 15 days beforehand. This info was shared with States 15 days prior, along with details about day wise supply 👉total of 12 cr doses shall be made available in July. Pvt hospital supply will be over & above this 👉If these leaders are aware of these facts and are still giving such statements, I consider it most unfortunate. If they don’t know, they need to focus on governance. Will again request state leaders to spend more energies in planning and not in creating panic. “I request these leaders to desist from their shameless urge to play politics even in the midst of a pandemic,” Vardhan said. He said he considered such statements by leaders as “unfortunate”, particularly if they are aware of the facts about availability of vaccines. “If they don’t know, they need to focus on governance,” Vardhan said. The minister advised the leaders to spend more energies on planning and “not on creating panic”. Rajasthan has been allocated 65 lakh doses of vaccines in July, Chhattisgarh 24 lakh, and Delhi 20 lakh.  Rajasthan had demanded 1.5 crore doses in July, Chhattisgarh one crore doses and Delhi 45 lakh doses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/some-leaders-making-irresponsible-statements-about-covid-vaccination-drive-harsh-vardhan-1003632.html
01-07-2021||National||India asks Pakistan to speed up release and repatriation of Indian civilian prisoners||India on Thursday called on Pakistan to ensure early release and repatriation of Indian civilian prisoners and missing defence personnel languishing in Pakistani jails. The two countries exchanged lists of civilian prisoners and fishermen in each other's custody in line with the provisions of a 2008 agreement. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said India handed over a list of 271 Pakistani civilian prisoners and 74 fishermen who are in Indian custody. Similarly, Pakistan shared a list of 51 civilian prisoners and 558 fishermen in its custody, who are Indians or are believed-to-be Indians, the MEA said. "The government has called for early release and repatriation of civilian prisoners, missing Indian defence personnel and fishermen along with their boats, from Pakistan's custody," it said. "In this context, Pakistan was asked to expedite the release and repatriation of 1 Indian civilian prisoner and 295 Indian fishermen to India whose nationality has been confirmed and conveyed to Pakistan," the MEA said in a statement. In addition, Pakistan has been asked to provide immediate consular access to 194 fishermen and 17 civilian prisoners who are in Pakistan's custody and are believed to be Indians, it added. "The government also requested Pakistan to expedite the grant of visas to the members of the medical experts' team and facilitate their visit to Pakistan to assess the mental condition of believed-to-be Indian prisoners of unsound mind, lodged in different jails of Pakistan," the MEA said. "It was also proposed to organise an early visit of the Joint Judicial Committee to Pakistan," it said. The MEA said India remains committed to addressing, on priority, all humanitarian matters, including those pertaining to prisoners and fishermen in each other's custody. In this context, the MEA said India has also urged Pakistan to expedite necessary action at its end to confirm the nationality status of 78 Pakistani prisoners, including fishermen, whose repatriation is pending for want of confirmation of nationality by Islamabad. "In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, Pakistan has been requested to ensure the safety, security and welfare of all Indian and believed-to-be Indian civil prisoners and fishermen," the MEA said. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-asks-pakistan-to-speed-up-release-and-repatriation-of-indian-civilian-prisoners-1003640.html
01-07-2021||National||Nirav Modi's sister sends Rs 17.25 crore from UK account to Indian govt: ED||Fugitive diamantaire Nirav Modi's sister Purvi has "remitted" Rs 17.25 crore from a bank account in the United Kingdom to that of the Indian government after she was allowed pardon from criminal proceedings for extending help in the multi-crore Punjab National Bank loan fraud case. The Enforcement Directorate said in a statement on Wednesday, "on June 24, Purvi Modi intimated Enforcement Directorate that she had received the knowledge of one bank account in London in her name, which was opened at the behest of her brother Nirav Modi and that the funds did not belong to her." "As Purvi Modi was allowed a tender of pardon on conditions of making full and true disclosure, she remitted an amount of $23,16,889.03 from her UK bank account to the bank account of the government of India, Directorate of Enforcement," it said. The ED said it has been able to recover about Rs 17.25 crore ($ 23,16,889.03) from the proceeds of crime following the cooperation offered by Purvi. Nirav is presently lodged in a UK jail and has lost his extradition plea to India. Last week, the ED had said that around 38% or Rs 9041.5 crore of the Rs 22,585.83 crore defrauded by millionaires Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi has been returned to banks by via sale of shares seized by it under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nirav-modis-sister-sends-rs-1725-crore-from-uk-account-to-indian-govt-ed-1003643.html
01-07-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Anti-CAA activist and Assam MLA Akhil Gogoi cleared of all charges by special NIA court||In your daily news update, Army Chief Gen M M Naravane says the availability of drones has increased the complexity of security challenges; Prime Minister Modi appreciates doctors for their relentless service during the Covid-19 pandemic; Anti-CAA activist and Assam MLA Akhil Gogoi was cleared of all charges by a special NIA court and Supreme Court says if an abducted person is treated well and not assaulted or threatened to be killed, then the kidnapper cannot be sentenced to life imprisonment under Section 364A of the Indian Penal Code.  The Supreme Court said, if an abducted person is treated well and not assaulted or threatened to be killed, then the kidnapper cannot be sentenced to life imprisonment under Section 364A of the Indian Penal Code. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R Subhash Reddy made the observation while setting aside the conviction of an auto driver in Telangana who had kidnapped a minor and demanded a ransom of Rs 2 lakh from his father. Army Chief Gen M M Naravane said today the availability of drones has increased the complexity of security challenges and the Indian military is developing capabilities to effectively deal with the threats, be it from state-sponsored elements or by states themselves. In an address at a think-tank, Gen Naravane said the security establishment is well aware of the challenges and certain measures have already been put in place to deal with them. Prime Minister Modi appreciated doctors today for their relentless service during the Covid-19 pandemic and said that the Budget for the healthcare sector has been doubled to over Rs 2 lakh crore PM Modi, in his address on National Doctors' Day, said, "Service rendered by doctors in the last one and a half years is exemplary; I thank them on behalf of 130 crore Indians.” Anti-CAA activist and Assam MLA Akhil Gogoi was cleared of all charges by a special NIA court today, facilitating his release from jail. He had been in judicial custody since December 2019 when he was arrested during the anti-CAA agitation that turned violent in Assam. Akhil's lawyer Kamal Gogoi told reporters in Guwahati that the NIA court cleared him and three others of all charges under the Unlawful (Activities Prevention) Act and sections of the Indian Penal Code. Kamal Gogoi said, "All have been cleared due to lack of materials to frame charges.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-anti-caa-activist-and-assam-mla-akhil-gogoi-cleared-of-all-charges-by-special-nia-court-1003649.html
01-07-2021||National||Bengaluru CBI officer under scanner for amassing Rs 1.94 crore illegal assets||A Deputy Superintendent of Police posted in the anti-corruption bureau of CBI in Bengaluru has landed in trouble with the investigating agency registering a case of amassing disproportionate assets worth Rs 1.94 crore. The CBI registered the case against CBI official Brajesh Kumar, his father Sheo Yogi Singh and mother Lalita Singh in connection with the case on June 27. The accused could not be contacted for their versions. A native of Bihar's Patna, Kumar joined the CBI in October 2008 as a Sub Inspector and got promoted as Inspector in January 2013. He became a Deputy Superintendent of Police through limited departmental competitive examination and was posted in the wing dealing with bank fraud cases in Bengaluru from April 2017 before being shifted to the anti-corruption bureau in CBI in June last year. During the investigation, the CBI found that Kumar's 78-year-old father had retired as Assistant Registrar of Patna High Court in 2003 and was drawing a pension of Rs 65,000 while his mother and wife Sweety Singh are housewives. The investigators found that he bought a flat in Bengaluru in March last year in the name of his father for Rs 96.38 lakh while another flat was purchased in December last year in the name of his mother for Rs 95.29 lakh. It was also found out that Kumar and his parents in whose name the properties were registered did not avail any financial assistance or loan from financial institutions or banks for purchasing these properties, the CBI FIR claimed. Investigators also were able to identify another property in Bengaluru bought in the name of his wife in October 2014. The CBI investigations found that the estimated income of Kumar's household was Rs 64.16 lakh between September 2018 and May 2021. "His total assets at the beginning of the check period (i.e., 1.9.2018) was Rs 68,85,029 and his assets at the end of the check period (i.e. 31.05.2021) was Rs 2,78,61,45I. Further, expenditure incurred by him during the period was Rs 48,56,316," the FIR said. Investigators found that he amassed assets worth Rs 1.94 crore disproportionate to his known income. His assets jumped 304 per cent between 2018 and 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengaluru-cbi-officer-under-scanner-for-amassing-rs-194-crore-illegal-assets-1003651.html
01-07-2021||National||Centre launches special drive to bring more farmers under PM crop cover scheme||In a major farmer outreach, the government on Thursday launched a special drive to enrol more cultivators under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY).       A week-long drive, starting July 1, will cover all notified areas under the kharif 2021 season with special focus on 75 aspirational districts where crop insurance penetration is low.       PMFBY, launched on January 13, 2016, aims to provide a comprehensive risk solution to farmers at the lowest uniform premium across the country.     Launching the special drive, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said so far 29.16 crore farmers have insured their crops under the PMFBY.     More than Rs 95,000 crore worth of claims have been provided to farmers since the launch of the scheme, against the total premium of Rs 17,000 crore paid by them, he said.     However, there is a need to expand the scheme in the country so that the crop insurance coverage can be increased and more farmers get benefits, an official statement quoted the minister as saying.       Tomar also urged state governments and other stakeholders such as banks and insurance companies to work together and reach out to the farmers in these identified 75 aspirational districts.       He also urged the farmers to come forward and enjoy the benefits of crop insurance and become self-sufficient in times of crisis.     The minister flagged off Information Education Communication (IEC) mobile vans to engage with farmers on PMFBY during the week-long drive.     He also launched a PMFBY e-brochure, FAO booklet and a guidebook to assist farmers and on ground coordinators to understand the scheme, its benefits and the process of crop insurance.       From getting enrolled under the scheme to ways to claim crop insurance under various circumstances to  grievance redressal and reporting crop loss -- all will be explained to farmers through on-ground and digital initiatives.       The campaign will also bring out stories of beneficiary farmers who have not only benefited from the scheme but helped the entire farming community through their thought-leadership. Along with the farmers in tribal areas and aspirational districts, the campaign will engage women farmers as well.       The virtual event was attended by Ministers of State for Agriculture Parshottam Rupala and Kailash Choudhary, Agriculture Secretary Sanjay Agarwal and other senior officers of the ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-launches-special-drive-to-bring-more-farmers-under-pm-crop-cover-scheme-1003676.html
01-07-2021||National||Baghjan oil well fire: Supreme Court 'disappointed' with NGT, stays order on panel to examine damages||The Supreme Court on Thursday said it is disappointed with the National Green Tribunal's order on setting up a 10-member committee, including an Oil India Ltd's Managing Director, to examine the damages caused by fire to the biodiversity at Assam's Baghjan oil well. A bench of Justice D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah noted that the NGT included an Oil India official on the committee, despite holding the corporation responsible for losses. "We are surprised that NGT first holds that Oil India responsible for the damages to the environment and for destroying the wetlands and then its officer is made a member of the committee to go into these issues," the bench said.  The court stayed the NGT's order on February 19 on an appeal filed by Bonani Kakkar, saying the tribunal "must have some alacrity and concerns for the environment". The panel was tasked to assess damage to the environment and develop a remedial restoration plan, including Dibru-Saikhowa National Park, and the Maguri-Motapung Wetland. Well 5 at Baghjan in Tinsukia district had caught fire on June 9, 2021, killing two of OIL's firefighters at the site. Senior advocate Siddharth Mitra, representing petitioner Bonani Kakkar, contended it was a breach of the principal of justice, as somebody having a direct conflict of interest was asked to adjudicate the matter. He pointed out another committee led by former High Court judge B P Katakey has submitted a comprehensive report on the matter, which was followed by a progress report. Setting up new committees would eventually delay the entire process, he said. The bench said it will constitute a new committee, which would examine all the issues and submit a report expeditiously.  "We may monitor this ourselves. We are disappointed by the manner in which the NGT has simply pushed this off its hands," the bench said. On February 19, the NGT bench headed by Chairperson Justice A K Goel said it "prima facie" agreed that there was a failure on the part of the OIL in taking safety precautions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/baghjan-oil-well-fire-supreme-court-disappointed-with-ngt-stays-order-on-panel-to-examine-damages-1003680.html
01-07-2021||National||Pakistan exchanges list of 609 Indian prisoners with India||Pakistan on Thursday exchanged with India a list of 609 Indian prisoners, including 558 fishermen, lodged in the country’s prisons as part of a biannual agreement. It is in accordance with clause (i) of the Agreement on Consular Access between Pakistan and India, signed on May 21, 2008, the Foreign Office here said. “Today, the Government of Pakistan shared with the Indian High Commission in Islamabad a list of 609 Indian prisoners in Pakistan including 51 civilians and 558 fishermen,” said the FO. The Indian government simultaneously shared the list of 345 Pakistani prisoners in India including 271 civilians and 74 fishermen with the High Commission for Pakistan in New Delhi. Under the Agreement on Consular Access, both countries are required to exchange lists of prisoners in each other’s custody twice a year, on January 1 and July 1, respectively. The practice has been going on despite recurring tensions between the two countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-exchanges-list-of-609-indian-prisoners-with-india-1003703.html
01-07-2021||National||Monsoon in a break phase; revival only in July second week; July rainfall to be normal||The southwest monsoon has entered into a break phase, which may continue till the second week of July devoiding large tracts of northern and western India without rainfall. The monsoon is likely to revive in the second half of the second week of July following which rainfall will pick up across the country. "The monthly rainfall for July 2021 over the country as a whole is most likely to be normal. It would be 94-106% of the average rainfall," M Mohapatra, director general of India Meteorological Department said here on Thursday. The monsoon has covered almost the entire country except for Haryana, Delhi, west Uttar Pradesh, west Rajasthan and Punjab. Temperatures have breached the 40 degrees Celsius mark in several regions of north India and a respite from the heatwave seems unlikely anytime soon. Mohapatra said the advancement of the monsoon might not happen before July 7. Asked if the gap in monsoon rains is normal, he said, "Southwest monsoon does take a break and it is normal. But it is not usual for the break to stretch so much." Since June 19, no progress has been observed in the advancement of the monsoon. While June recorded 10% more rainfall than normal, a large part of it came between June 3-19. Last month, the IMD announced that most of the country would receive 101% of its average monsoon rainfall between June and September as only parts of northeast India were expected to experience a “below normal” monsoon. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/monsoon-in-a-break-phase-revival-only-in-july-second-week-july-rainfall-to-be-normal-1003712.html
01-07-2021||National||Curb the urge for publicity: Amit Shah tells probationary IPS officers||Overcome fears of transfers to avoid pressure, stay away from social media, curb the urge for publicity and avoid inaction and extreme action -- this is what Union Home Minister Amit Shah told a group of probationary IPS officers on Thursday.  Shah also advised the officers at level of Superintendent of Police and Deputy Superintendent of Police to visit tehsils and villages to meet people and they should stay overnight to gain confidence of locals so that there would be information flow.  Addressing the Probationary Officers of 72nd Batch of Indian Police Service (IPS) online, he touched upon allegations faced by police.  "There are allegations of no action and extreme action against the police. Police should avoid these and move towards just action. Action means natural action and police should understand the law and do the right thing," he said.  Emphasising that the concept of 'side posting' need to be shunned, he said no such work in the police system which is not of importance.  "Because of this you will remain under stress and many times you will not be able to do your work properly under the fear of being transferred. If you make up your mind to take transfers in their stride, then the pressure and stress on you will be greatly reduced. You will be able to do your duty better once you overcome the fear of transfers," Shah said.  The Home Minister also advised the officers to stay away from publicity as the urge to seek publicity hinders work. He advised police officers to stay away from social media though it is difficult thing to do.  "All of you should take a vow that every day you will make a note in your diary whether the work you have done was done only for the sake of publicity," he said.  He also advised the officers to take better care of Constables, who form the bulk of the force and do crucial work, and show sensitivity to their needs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/curb-the-urge-for-publicity-amit-shah-tells-probationary-ips-officers-1003724.html
01-07-2021||National||Saddening to see attack on doctors, says CJI Ramana||Chief Justice of India N V Ramana on Thursday expressed his unhappiness over incidents of brutal attacks on doctors on duty while highlighting the lack of infrastructure for medical professionals. "It is saddening that our doctors are being brutally attacked while on duty. Why is it that the medical professionals are at the receiving end for someone else’s failure," he asked while delivering his speech on Doctors day in a programme on 'Defeat Diabetes Launch Campaign'. According to ‘The Lancet’, “nearly 75% doctors in India have faced either verbal or physical violence during their lifetime.” As many as 23 States and two Union Territories passed their own legislation with provisions of punishment against those committing violence against healthcare professionals or workers and caused damage to property of its establishment. In his speech, the CJI stressed that issues such as an insufficient number of medical professionals, infrastructure, medicines, outdated technologies, and government not giving priority to the medical sector were matters of immediate concern. Justice Ramana said it is saddening to see good and qualified doctor cannot start a decent hospital of his own and survive. Even after 8 to 9 years of rigorous learning, doctors struggle to get decent salaries, he said. "Why is it that the profiteering by corporates and investors is being blamed on doctors," he asked, adding the medical bodies and concerned agencies in the government have to put their heads together to address these concerns. He offered his prayers for families of 798 doctors and other healthcare workers who have lost their lives during the deadly second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The CJI said a comprehensive policy framework needs to be put in place including an awareness campaign for the ‘diabetes eradication programme’.  Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/saddening-to-see-attack-on-doctors-says-cji-ramana-1003728.html
01-07-2021||National||Fall in daily jabs after a week of high Covid-19 vaccination numbers||In comparison, the last week of June witnessed on an average more than 64 lakh vaccinations daily after the government introduced a new regime in which the Centre procured 75% of the Covid-19 vaccine and distributed it to the states. On June 21, when the new regime kicked in for the first time, nearly 91 lakh doses were administered which was followed by more than 60 lakh doses for four days and 50 lakh plus doses on two days. The Sunday that came in between witnessed 17.15 lakh doses administered. Because of such a high level of vaccination in the last week, the monthly average for June turned out to be 40.35 lakh jabs every day, which is a much-improved performance compared to April (29.96 lakh) and May (19.69 lakh). “But the decreasing pace is not a good sign as only 4.3% of the population has got a single dose so far and it requires at least 90 lakh jabs per day to fully vaccinate all adults by the end of the year,” health economist Rijo John, a visiting professor at the Indian Institute of Management, Kozhikode told DH. “Given the possibility of future waves of the pandemic it is important to increase the pace of vaccination as much as possible.” For July, the Centre has earmarked 12 crore doses – 10 crore doses of Covishield and 2 crore of Covaxin – for the states. While in an affidavit in the Supreme Court, the Union Health Ministry said the 12 crore doses would include the supply of three crore doses to the private sector, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday tweeted that the private sector supply would be “over and above” the 12 crore doses that would be made available in July. The allocation of 12 crore doses, however, would mean a daily vaccination of about 40 lakh, which is significantly lower than the government's target of carrying one one crore vaccination every day to cover the target population of 94.47 crore Indians with two doses. The ministry said the vaccination drive so far covered 45% of the 45 plus population with the first dose whereas half of the senior citizens also received a single dose of the Covid-19. While 87% of healthcare workers and 91% front line staff received the first dose, their second dose coverage remained poor even after six months. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fall-in-daily-jabs-after-a-week-of-high-covid-19-vaccination-numbers-1003731.html
01-07-2021||National||Told CBI the truth: ex-ISRO scientist Nambi Narayanan||Former ISRO scientist Nambi Narayanan said on Thursday that he only told the truth and "nothing but the truth" to the CBI team which recorded his statement in connection with their probe into the conspiracy angle behind the 1994 espionage case. "I only told the truth and nothing but the truth," Narayanan told PTI, but refused to say anything more on what he told the agency. He said the CBI recorded his statement on June 30, but not on July 1 and that he cannot say whether the agency will be recording his statement tomorrow or any date after that. "They took my statement yesterday. Today (July 1) they did not come to me.No idea if they will record my statement tomorrow," he said. The Supreme Court had on April 15 ordered that the report of a high-level committee on the role of erring police officials in the 1994 espionage case relating to Narayanan be given to the CBI and directed the agency to conduct further investigation on the issue. The three-member committee, headed by former apex court judge Justice (retd) D K Jain, was appointed by the top court in 2018 after acquitting Narayanan in the case. The top court had also directed the Kerala government to cough up Rs 50 lakh as compensation for compelling Narayanan to undergo "immense humiliation". It had ordered setting up of the committee to take appropriate steps against the erring officials for causing "tremendous harassment" and "immeasurable anguish" to Narayanan and had directed the Centre and state government to nominate one officer each in the panel. The apex court, in its April 15 order, had said that the CBI may treat the panel's findings as part of preliminary investigation and asked the agency to submit its report to the court within three months. The probe agency has reportedly invoked around 10 sections of the Indian Penal Code pertaining to various crimes, including criminal conspiracy, kidnapping and fabrication of evidence. Former Kerala DGP Siby Mathews, who was then heading the SIT probe team, was on June 25 granted interim bail in the conspiracy case being probed by CBI. Mathews moved the district court after reports that the CBI had listed him among the 18 accused in the FIR filed before a Chief judicial Magistrate court here. Terming the police action against the ex-scientist of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) as a "psycho-pathological treatment", the apex court had in September 2018 said that his "liberty and dignity", basic to his human rights, were jeopardised as he was taken into custody and, eventually, despite all the glory of the past, was compelled to face "cynical abhorrence". The espionage case, which had hit the headlines in 1994, pertained to allegations of transfer of certain confidential documents on India's space programme to foreign countries by two scientists and four others, including two Maldivian women. The scientist was arrested when the Congress was heading the government in Kerala. The CBI, in its probe, had held that the then top police officials in Kerala were responsible for Narayanan's illegal arrest. The case also had a political fallout, with a section in Congress targeting the then Chief Minister late K Karunakaran over the issue, that eventually led to his resignation. The 79-year-old former scientist, who was given a clean chit by the CBI, had earlier said that the Kerala police had "fabricated" the case and the technology he was charged with having stolen and sold in the 1994 case did not even exist at that time. Narayanan had approached the apex court against a Kerala High Court judgement that said no action needed to be taken against Mathews and two retired Superintendents of Police K K Joshua and S Vijayan, who were later held responsible by the CBI for the scientist's illegal arrest. The CBI, while giving a clean chit to the scientist, had said Mathews had left "the entire investigation to IB surrendering his duties" and ordered indiscriminate arrest of the scientist and others without adequate evidence being on record. The case had drawn attention in October 1994 when Maldivian national Rasheeda was arrested in Thiruvananthapuram for allegedly obtaining secret drawings of ISRO rocket engines to sell to Pakistan. Narayanan, the then director of the cryogenic project at ISRO, was arrested along with the then ISRO Deputy Director D Sasikumaran and Fousiya Hasan, a Maldivian friend of Rasheeda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/told-cbi-the-truth-ex-isro-scientist-nambi-narayanan-1003740.html
01-07-2021||National||SC dismisses review plea on judgement depriving states' power to declare OBCs||The Supreme Court has dismissed a plea by the Centre to reconsider the May 5 judgement which deprived states of their power to declare OBCs for the purpose of reservation in jobs and education. The top court had then conferred the President with the sole power to identify a community as backward. While quashing the Maratha quota, a five-judge bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan had on May 5 upheld the validity of 102nd Amendment, giving constitutional rights to National Commission for Backward Classes. The court had also declared that states do not have the power to prepare lists for socially and educationally backward classes. The Union government was aggrieved with the interpretation of 102nd Constitutional Amendment Act, which had granted constitutional status to the NCBC. The Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment filed a review petition against the judgement. After considering the matter in a chamber as per rules, a five-judge bench presided over by Justice Bhushan said, "We do not find any sufficient ground to entertain this review petition." In its order of June 28, the bench also pointed out the grounds taken in the review petition have already been dealt in the judgement of May 5. The other judges on the bench were Justices L Nageswara Rao, S Abdul Nazeer, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat. With this, the Centre is left with the option of filing a curative petition. In its judgement on May 5, the court had struck down the Maharashtra Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act, 2018, for having breached the 50% cap fixed by a nine-judge bench in 1992.  Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-dismisses-review-plea-on-judgement-depriving-states-power-to-declare-obcs-1003742.html
01-07-2021||National||PM Modi chimes in on tweet of Afghan envoy to India||A tweet by Kabul’s envoy to New Delhi, Farid Mamundzay, lauding a doctor in the national capital caught the eyes of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who called it an example of the friendly relations between India and Afghanistan. Mamundzay tweeted in Hindi about his experience with a doctor in New Delhi. The doctor declined to accept fees from him after learning that he was the ambassador of Afghanistan to India. “I cannot take fees from a brother,” Kabul’s envoy to New Delhi quoted the doctor in his tweet and then added: “This is India: Love, Respect, Compassion and Values. For you, my friend, Afghans cry a little less, smile a little more and feel very well.” Modi replied to the tweet from Mamundzay on Thursday as he took to Twitter to greet the medics on the occasion of the National Doctors’ Day. He wrote what Kabul’s envoy to New Delhi shared about his experience with the doctor was the essence of the relations between India and Afghanistan. Mamundzay thanked the Prime Minister for sparing time from his busy schedule to reply to his tweet. “Good friends are like stars. You don’t see them always, but you know they are always there for you. That’s the story of relations between people of India and Afghanistan” A Twitter user Balkaur Singh Dhillon replied to the tweet of Mamundzay and invited him to visit his village Haripura. When Mamundzay asked if he was talking about Haripura in Gujarat, Dhillon clarified that his village was in Rajasthan. Modi took note of the conversation between Mamundzay and Dhillon on Twitter and posted: “You can visit Rajasthan’s Haripura or Gujarat’s Haripura, which too is a historical place”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-chimes-in-on-tweet-of-afghan-envoy-to-india-1003775.html
01-07-2021||National||Kerala to review Covid-19 deaths underreporting complaints as concerns mount after SC's compensation order||A day after the Supreme Court ordered the Centre to provide compensation to families of Covid-19 victims, Kerala Health Minster Veena George said that the government would look into specific allegations of underreporting of deaths in the state. While health experts say that at least 4,000 Covid-19 deaths in the state would have been underreported, state Health Department sources said that there was no chance of a major variation as many cases that were kept in abeyance for want of proper information were later cleared. So far 13,359 Covid-19 deaths were officially recorded in Kerala, while 462 non-Covid-19 deaths were also recorded. Internal medicine specialist Dr N M Arun, who has been campaigning against the alleged underreporting of deaths, said that he had personally collected data of around 1,500 Covid-19 deaths in Kerala that were not recorded by the government. He also cited some recent reports that over 15,000 excess deaths were reported in Kerala till May this year compared to last year. Meanwhile, a Health Department official said that a report of the department in February stated that the total deaths in Kerala in 2020 was 11 per cent less compared to that of 2019. He however said that many Covid-19 deaths could not have been reported owing to incomplete information from the hospital, especially missing of Specimen Referral Form identification number (SRF ID), which is generated when a person has tested Covid-19 positive. This issue was addressed by switching over to a totally online system from last month. Many cases that were kept in abeyance for want of data earlier were also cleared in the due course. Hence the chances of a large number of under-reporting were not there, said the senior official. With the plight of many families who lost a lone breadwinner to Covid-19 but were not considered as Covid-19 death due to 'flimsy' reasons coming to light, the Opposition Congress is also pressing the state government to have a review of the underreported cases. Opposition leader V D Satheesan said that the government should ensure that dependents of all Covid-19 victims received due compensation rather than trying to keep the death rate low for earning appreciations. Health Minister reacted that the state government's aim was also to extend the maximum benefits to all Covid-19-infected and victims' families. Hence it would review all specific complaints of underreporting. The state government has nothing to hide, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-to-review-covid-19-deaths-underreporting-complaints-as-concerns-mount-after-scs-compensation-order-1003783.html
01-07-2021||National||Centre rubbing salt into common man's injury: Congress on LPG price hike||The Congress accused the government on Thursday of rubbing salt into the common man's injury by hiking the price of LPG cylinders and demanded its immediate withdrawal. The opposition party also termed the hike of Rs 25 in the price of LPG cylinders as "immoral, arbitrary and irrational", and asked the government to take corrective steps to revive the economy and be sensitive towards the needs of the people. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took a swipe at the government, saying only the rates of "gimmicks" have fallen during the rule of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "Such was the effect of Modi 'maya' that only the rates of gimmicks have fallen," he said in a tweet in Hindi, using the hashtag "LPGPriceHike". The former Congress chief also shared a graph of the "vikas" of the LPG cylinder price over the last five years. Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate urged the government to reduce the LPG price and be sensitive towards the common people. "We have only one, absolutely one demand that the Centre should be more sensitive to the needs of the people and needs to bring down the prices of LPG," she told reporters. "Since the finance minister sees giving loans as the only way to control the economy, get some special loans disbursed for people to buy petrol, diesel and LPG cylinders. It will be a good exercise," she said. Shrinate said LPG was sold at a lower price when the Saudi Aramco prices were high and there is no reason why the fuel prices should go up when the Saudi Aramco prices are going down. She said the government has decided to rub salt into the injury by hiking the LPG cylinder price by Rs 25. "This is not just immoral, it is arbitrary, it is irrational. The LPG price of Saudi Aramco, on the basis of which our price is decided, was USD 587 per metric tonne in March, when our LPG cylinder price was Rs 819. "Today, the Saudi Aramco prices have gone down to $523 dollar per metric tonne and our gas cylinders should be priced at Rs 552. Instead, our prices are at Rs 834," the Congress leader said. The government of the day needs to be sensitive and should lessen the burden of the people, it needs to take back the price hikes and cannot claim that the oil companies are autonomous and taking their own decisions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-rubbing-salt-into-common-mans-injury-congress-on-lpg-price-hike-1003790.html
01-07-2021||National Politics||A tight-rope walk for BJP's troubleshooter, B L Santhosh||Talent spotter, troubleshooter, organisation builder—senior BJP leader B L Santhosh wears many hats with equal ease. However, for the last one month, his skills in ironing out differences within the party are being put to test. A whiff of trouble in the organisation and BJP leaders would find Santhosh at their doorstep. Lucknow, Panaji, Agartala, Dehradun, Shimla—everywhere, he has been busy keeping the party fit for the next round of elections scheduled for early next year. A tech-savvy chemical engineer, 54-year-old Santhosh has been the most visible BJP General Secretary (Organisation), quite unlike his immediate predecessor Ram Lal who kept a low profile for the 13 years he held the post. Santhosh’s work in Lucknow appears to have paid off with Uttar Pradesh BJP leaders agreeing to bury their hatchet and show unity ahead of the assembly elections next year. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s luncheon meeting at his deputy Keshav Prasad Maurya's residence last week with RSS leaders Dattatreya Hosabale and Krishna Gopal was a result of Santosh’s efforts. Signs of trouble in Tripura, which the BJP wrested from the CPM in 2018, saw Santhosh reach Agartala to hear out grievances of the party leaders and alliance partner Indigenous People’s Front of Tripura and assure them representation in the organisation and the state government. Hailing from the Udupi district of Coastal Karnataka, Santhosh has been the quintessential backroom operator, who quit his engineering career to join the RSS in the late 1980s. Santhosh’s proximity to Hosabale, the current RSS Sarkaryavah, is considered to be a reason for his sharp rise in the RSS and the BJP. He moved to the BJP in 2006 and remained its General Secretary (organisation) in the Karnataka unit till 2014.  In Karnataka, Santhosh built the BJP organisation along with the then state BJP chief Pralhad Joshi when B S Yediyurappa had quit the party to form the Karnataka Janatha Paksha in 2012.  His penchant for focusing on weaker areas of the organisation and turning them into strong points is said to have endeared him to the central leadership. Santhosh had enjoyed a very good opinion in the initial years of his tenure in the state BJP as he preferred to be a 'low profile Pracharak'. “However, once he started observing and understanding the power structure closely, he became more inclined towards political activity,” a BJP functionary said. Though his differences with Yeddiurappa are well known, the two leaders worked closely to topple the JDS-Congress government in 2019 by triggering defections. After a long stint in Karnataka, Santhosh was elevated to his National Joint General Secretary (organisation) in 2014 by the then BJP President Amit Shah and tasked with the expansion of the party in southern states.   Five years later, he was appointed as the General Secretary (organisation), succeeding Ram Lal to serve as a link between the BJP and the RSS. Santosh’s social media activities led to speculation of his perceived interest in the chief minister’s chair in Karnataka. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s penchant for picking up leaders with strong RSS links as chief ministers in Maharashtra and Haryana added to it. Santhosh, however, has dismissed such a possibility and continues to work as an organisation-builder.  Spotting talent and building a cadre through regular phone calls, interactions and inspiring the activists and rewarding them is his specialty. The young leadership in Karnataka—C T Ravi, Nalin Kumar Kateel, Tejasvi Surya, Pratap Simha—are all from Santhosh’s stable. Santhosh’s shift to Delhi as BJP General Secretary (organisation) after Yediyurappa took over as chief minister in 2019, was seen as an attempt to keep him away from the state. The Yediyurappa camp suspects Santhosh's role behind the chief minister’s recent troubles. One BJP leader recalled how Santhosh tried to unseat Yediyurappa as Karnataka BJP chief after the latter's appointment to the post in 2016 by encouraging meetings of a ginger group.  Santhosh’s detractors question his political acumen, contending that he lacked the ability to deal with Yediyurappa when he was planning his exit from the BJP in 2011. "Yediyurappa resigned from BJP due to a conspiracy against him from within the party and formed Karnataka Janata Party. This hurt the BJP badly as it went on to lose the 2013 Assembly elections," a BJP leader said.  Ahead of the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, several senior leaders, including the late Ananth Kumar, were keen on bringing Yediyurappa back to the party, but Santhosh was against it. However, as BJP navigates the Covid-19 crisis and a loss of face in  West Bengal, Santhosh’s organisational skills will be in demand to steer the party to safer shores. (with inputs from Akram Mohammed and Ajith Athrady)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/a-tight-rope-walk-for-bjps-troubleshooter-b-l-santhosh-1003504.html
01-07-2021||National Politics||11 Kargil leaders demand Ladakh statehood, restoration of special status||Eleven political leaders and civil society members from Kargil in Ladakh on Wednesday met Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy during which they demanded the restoration of special status and the power to decide on permanent residents as well full statehood for Ladakh. Earlier, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had hosted leaders from Ladakh following which those from Kargil demanded a separate meeting saying that their concerns are different though they are part of the union territory of Ladakh. After the two-and-hour-long meeting, senior Kargil Democratic Alliance (KDA) Asgar Ali Karbalai (Congress) said they had two clear agendas. "We discussed the restoration of Article 370 and Article 35A of the Constitution as well as full statehood for Ladakh. More meetings are to be followed to discuss this," Karbalai said. Another KDA leader Qamar Ali Akhoon (National Conference) also said their focus was Article 370 and Article 35A. "We also said that we were against the division of Jammu and Kashmir. But were in favour of the state. We are not comfortable with the status of Union Territory. We also discussed development of the region," he added. A senior MHA official said the meeting was in continuation of earlier deliberations with representatives from Ladakh to address their concerns about protection of their culture, land and language. The meeting with representatives from Ladakh with Home Minister Amit Shah on January 6 this year had decided that a committee under Reddy would be set up to find an appropriate solution to the issues related to language of Ladakh, culture of Ladakh and conservation of land in Ladakh. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/11-kargil-leaders-demand-ladakh-statehood-restoration-of-special-status-1003588.html
01-07-2021||National Politics||Delhi civic bodies preparing for Covid third wave, to set up dedicated care facilities for children||The three municipal corporations of Delhi will set up dedicated Covid care facilities for children as part of their preparations to deal with a possible third wave, officials said on Thursday. It is being anticipated that the third wave of the coronavirus pandemic will majorly affect children, so arrangements are being made to avoid any crisis-like situation and provide better care to kids, municipal officials said. According to civic authorities, the North Delhi Municipal Corporation has decided to convert its Mrs Girdhar Lal Maternity Hospital into a dedicated child Covid-19 care facility. The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) is exploring the possibilities of setting up special child care wards at its Tilak Nagar Hospital. The East Delhi civic body will create two dedicated child Covid care wards at its Swami Dayanand Hospital in Dilshad Garden. "We have decided to convert Mrs Girdhari Lal Maternity Hospital into a dedicated Covid-19 facility for children. Initially we will dedicate 70 beds to Covid care of children. All these beds will be equipped with oxygen support. Out of these 70 beds, 10 will be reserved as NICU beds for infants and another 10 will have ICU facilities,” an official of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation said. Mrs Girdhari Lal Maternity Hospital is a 200-bed facility located near Ajmeri Gate in Old Delhi. It is likely to take a month to make the hospital a dedicated child Covid care facility and regular meetings are being held for the purpose, the official said. "We will also set up an oxygen plant there which will cater to the needs of the hospital. Other maternity services which are currently being offered at the hospital will be shifted to Kasturba Hospital near Jama Masjid," he said. A senior official of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) said the civic body would allot two wards at Swami Dayanand Hospital for child Covid care. "Chances of children getting infected in the third wave are high so we are planning to dedicate two wards with a capacity of 30-40 beds to child care. All these beds will have piped oxygen supply. These two wards will come up in the recently renovated building of the hospital,” the official said. A senior SDMC official said that though it is anticipated that the third wave will hit the city after September, preparations have been started in advance to avoid any crisis-like situation.  “To bolster our health infrastructure, we are planning to create dedicate child Covid care facility at our Tilak Nagar Hospital. It will have oxygen-supported beds and NICU beds.... We are yet to decide on the number of beds to be kept for children,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/delhi-civic-bodies-preparing-for-covid-third-wave-to-set-up-dedicated-care-facilities-for-children-1003597.html
01-07-2021||National Politics||Internal crisis in Maharashtra Congress deepens as Sushilkumar Shinde speaks out||The internal crisis within the Congress deepened further with Gandhi-family loyalist Sushilkumar Shinde speaking out and calling for introspection and work towards revival of the grand old party. Shinde (79), a former intelligence officer, who went on to become the Maharashtra chief minister and union minister handling the crucial power and home portfolios in the Dr Manmohan Singh-led UPA dispensation, is one of the most-respected leaders of the party. "The Congress tradition of holding sessions on debates and dialogue has ended today. I feel sad about it. Introspection meetings are required. Our policies may be wrong, but to correct them, such sessions are needed,” said Shinde. Shinde’s statement comes at a time when the Congress is passing through a rough phase over the leadership issue. Though Shinde is not part of G-23, which wrote to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, his dissenting note is a matter of concern for the party. Shinde, a Dalit leader, is a protege of NCP supremo and Maratha strongman Sharad Pawar. A senior leader, Shinde has worked in the government – at the state level, central level and the party. He has been a legislator in Maharashtra and had been a member of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha and had also served as Governor of Andhra Pradesh. The Shiv Sena, the ruling alliance partner of Congress in Maharashtra has reacted to Shinde’s statement. “If Sushilkumar Shinde has said something, the party should discuss the issue as he is one of the seniormost Congress leaders and has contributed to the party,” said Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha member and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut.  “Shinde saheb is one of the oldest soldiers of the Congress and  if he is expressing his pain, then his party should give it some thought. We are outsiders but we want the Congress party to stay,” he added. A senior Congress leader, when contacted by DH, said, “Shinde saheb has spoken out…several of us within the party feel the same way. We have to revive the party….the countdown for the 2024 elections has begun already…other parties have started preparing.” Shinde's outburst comes in the backdrop of recent statements of state-level leaders like Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole and his Mumbai counterpart Bhai Jagtap, who are calling for contesting future local bodies, Vidhan Sabha and Lok Sabha polls in the state on its own strength. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/internal-crisis-in-maharashtra-congress-deepens-as-sushilkumar-shinde-speaks-out-1003687.html
01-07-2021||National Politics||China's 'wolf-warrior diplomacy' in Indian experience has gone beyond sabre-rattling: Shashi Tharoor||China's "wolf-warrior diplomacy" in the Indian experience has gone beyond "sabre-rattling to sabre-thrusting" and India should ensure peace through skillful diplomacy with Beijing as well as by adequately shoring up to defend itself, former minister of state for external affairs Shashi Tharoor said on Thursday. Speaking at an India Global Forum session on 'Global Leadership - The Future of Multilateralism', the senior Congress leader said it is very clear that under President Xi Jinping, China is transitioning from "bide your time approach" that it undertook under Deng Xiaoping who wanted China to grow and become strong and wealthy but "keep its head down". Referring to the incident of 20 Indian Army personnel laying down their lives while thwarting Chinese aggression in eastern Ladakh a year ago, Tharoor said this was not a small matter as the border had been very tranquil for about half a century before the incident took place. "Suddenly the Chinese come out, move into territory that previously both sides have been patrolling and withdrawing from... establish permanent positions there and when our soldiers go to ask them politely to leave, they are killed," the Lok Sabha MP said. "So the wolf-warrior diplomacy in the Indian experience has gone beyond Chinese rhetoric and sabre-rattling to actual sabre-thrusting and that is not something we can afford to take lightly," said Tharoor who was MoS for external affairs between May 2009-April 2010. The 'Wolf Warrior diplomacy' is a term that has been used to describe confrontational rhetoric by Chinese diplomats to ward off criticism on a host of issues. The term was coined from the 2017 Hollywood Rambo-style Chinese action film “Wolf Warrior 2”. Sabre-rattling is display or threat of military force Asked about Xi's recent remarks that the era of China being bullied is gone forever and China's wolf warrior democracy, Tharoor said it is very clear that under Xi there is now a transition from the "bide your time" approach under Deng Xiaoping. "China has transformed itself. Now, President Xi Jinping thinks it's time to no longer keep the head low," Tharoor said. Pointing to numerous examples of China's "wolf warrior behaviour", he said the rest of the world has to sit up and pay attention. "Certainly, in India, we would be foolish to ignore what we have seen happening on our own borders and we would be very foolish to not take China seriously when it starts bristling about one thing or another in its own neighborhood," Tharoor said. Noting that India is a next-door neighbour of China and the country is its biggest trading partner, Tharoor said New Delhi has a lot at stake and has to think carefully while dealing with China. "We need to be strong enough to discourage any adventurism against us because their language suggests that some day they are quite capable of translating some of that belligerence into more military action across our borders. So, we really have to ensure that we bring about peace both through skillful diplomacy and through being adequately shored up to defend ourselves," he said. India and China were locked in a military standoff at multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh since early May last year. However, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong lake in February following a series of military and diplomatic talks. The two sides are now engaged in talks to extend the disengagement process to the remaining friction points. India has been particularly pressing for disengagement of troops in Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang. In his remarks during the session, Tharoor, a former UN under secretary general, also said the importance of multilateral cooperation and global governance can’t be emphasised enough and when this pandemic is finally over, the world must sit down and learn some lessons. He also strongly backed a reformed UN Security Council and also reform of other UN bodies to make them more representative of contemporary realities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/chinas-wolf-warrior-diplomacy-in-indian-experience-has-gone-beyond-sabre-rattling-shashi-tharoor-1003753.html
01-07-2021||North and Central||Heatwave likely in Delhi||Delhiites woke up to a hot morning on Thursday with the minimum temperature settling at 31.7 degrees celsius, four notches above normal, the India Meteorological Department said. The maximum temperature in the city is likely to settle around 42 degrees Celsius, it said. The relative humidity at 8.30 am was recorded at 43 per cent. The weatherman has also forecast 'heatwave' for the day. For the plains, a heatwave is declared when the maximum temperature is over 40 degrees Celsius and at least 4.5 notches above normal. Delhi recorded its first heatwave of this summer on Monday with the mercury settling at 43 degrees Celsius. Meanwhile, Delhi's air quality was in the 'poor' category on Thursday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 8.05 am stood at 266. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/heatwave-likely-in-delhi-1003491.html
01-07-2021||North and Central||All of Madhya Pradesh's Covid-19 cases in June likely due to Delta variant||The National Centre of Disease Control’s (NCDC) genome sequencing report of Madhya Pradesh’s Covid-19 samples from June indicates that the Delta variant may be responsible for almost all the Covid-19 infections of the state for June. In April, 57 per cent of the samples of MP tested positive for the Delta variant. The numbers rose to 69 per cent in May, while in June it has surged to 100 per cent. Every sample from MP sent for genome sequencing in June turned out to be positive for the variant. Based on the severity of the infection or post-vaccination infections or duration of hospital stay, or infection with comorbidities, the government is sending samples for genome sequencing to NCDC in order to detect the Delta variant, according to Tripathi. “We are sending around 300 samples per month from across the state to NCDC for genome sequencing for better surveillance," he said about measures being taken to track the new variant. The commissioner added that 2,000 samples are sent to NCDC from Madhya Pradesh as of now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/all-of-madhya-pradeshs-covid-19-cases-in-june-likely-due-to-delta-variant-1003496.html
01-07-2021||North and Central||Ex-BJP MP Sharad Tripathi dies, PM Modi, Shah offer condolences||Former BJP MP from San Kkabir Nagar Sharad Tripathi died due to prolonged illness at Medanta hospital in Haryana’s Gurgaon, family sources said here. Tripathi (49) died on Wednesday night due to liver-related ailment, they said. He is survived by his wife, two daughters and two sons, his close relative and RSS worker Sanjay Mishra said. Tripathi was elected as MP from Sant Kabir Nagar Lok Sabha seat in 2014. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah condoled his death. "Shri Sharad Tripathi's untimely demise has left me as well as many others saddened. He loved serving society and working for the downtrodden. He made unique efforts to popularise the ideals of Sant Kabir Das Ji. Condolences to his family and supporters. Om Shanti," Modi tweeted. Shah said Tripathi’s demise is a big loss to the party. BJP national president J P Nadda also expressed shock and extended condolences to the deceased's family and supporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ex-bjp-mp-sharad-tripathi-dies-pm-modi-shah-offer-condolences-1003501.html
01-07-2021||North and Central||Ex-bureaucrat now in eye of the storm ahead of Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls||His entry into the BJP in January this year after taking voluntary retirement from IAS had raised eyebrows within the state BJP leaders as they expected him to be given an important role in the party organisation or the government, owing to his close proximity with prime minister Narendra Modi. Born in 1962 at Kajha Khurd village in Uttar Pradesh's Mau district, about 350 kilometres from here, former IAS officer Arvind Kumar Sharma, who was considered to be close to Modi, continues to be an enigma for the Uttar Pradesh BJP leaders. Although he was made the vice-president of the state BJP, none in the BJP state unit is ready to speak about him and his possible role in the state which would be going to the polls early next year. Sharma, a Gujarat cadre ex-bureaucrat, joined the BJP in January this year, days before the state legislative council polls. He was later nominated as a BJP candidate in the poll. There were reports that chief minister Yogi Adityanath was not in favour of inducting Sharma in his Cabinet as there are chances of him emerging as a rival to him after the next year's assembly poll in the event of a BJP victory. Some media reports claimed that Sharma's induction in the ministry had 'strained' the relations between Adityanath and Modi though the BJP rejected it. Adityanath's apprehensions that Sharma might emerge as a possible contender for the top post in the state were primarily based on the latter's close proximity with Modi. Sharma was the secretary in the ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) at the Centre and had taken voluntary retirement before joining the BJP. Sharma served with Modi when he was the chief minister of Gujarat. He was later shifted to the Centre when Modi became prime minister in 2014. Sharma, who was a postgraduate from Allahabad University, also had a doctorate degree. He was associated with Modi's ambitious 'Vibrant Gujarat' scheme while the latter was chief minister of Gujarat, and was credited with bringing top industrialists into the state. Sources in the state BJP said Sharma had been instrumental in facilitating the shifting of the Nano Plant in Gujarat from Bengal following protests there. Sharma was also said to have earned the praise of Modi for his efficient handling of relief and rescue operations after the earthquake at Bhuj in Gujarat in 2001. Soon after Modi became the prime minister, Sharma was shifted to Delhi and became a joint secretary in the PMO. He later became an additional secretary. Many BJP leaders in UP felt that Sharma was the "eyes and ears" of the prime minister. It was also perceived in the BJP circles here that Sharma had been sent to UP to keep an eye on the important developmental projects and ensure that they were implemented properly and also completed on time. The central BJP leadership was reportedly not happy with Adityanath's handling of the Covid-19 pandemic in the state and felt that it might adversely impact its prospects in the next year's assembly poll. There were speculations that Sharma could join the Uttar Pradesh ministry as deputy chief minister. The speculations gained momentum after Modi heaped praise on the former bureaucrat for efficiently managing the Covid 19 situation in Varanasi, the Lok Sabha constituency of the prime minister, during a virtual interaction with health workers a few days ago. "Sharma has a long experience of working in different departments... he has been a very capable officer... whether he is inducted in the cabinet is something which can be decided by the party leadership only," remarked a senior UP BJP leader here. The ex-bureaucrat has also adopted two villages in his home district of Mau. Sharma had also met Adityanath here a few days back but the BJP did not reveal what transpired at the meeting. Sharma was tipped to be inducted into the state cabinet as deputy chief minister. UP already had two deputy CMs, namely Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma. It was, however, not clear if one of the two Dy. CMs would be dropped or UP would have three deputy CMs. Sources said that the Cabinet reshuffle could have been completed by now had it not been for the tussle of inclusion of Sharma. Adityanath had recently visited Delhi and met Modi and union home minister Amit Shah. Sources said that the discussions focussed mainly on the next assembly poll and that the UP CM was asked to undertake a Cabinet reshuffle and rein in the disgruntled party leaders. Now that Sharma has been made UP BJP vice-president, it will be interesting to see if he is inducted into the ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ex-bureaucrat-now-in-eye-of-the-storm-ahead-of-uttar-pradesh-assembly-polls-1003505.html
01-07-2021||North and Central||Debt of doctors who served during Covid pandemic can't be repaid, say Arivnd Kejriwal on Doctors' Day||The debt of doctors who served people day and night during the coronavirus pandemic cannot be repaid, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on the National Doctors' Day on Thursday. The National Doctors' Day is observed in the honour of noted doctor and former West Bengal chief minister Bidhan Chandra Roy, whose birth and death anniversaries fall on July 1. "Our doctors served people day and night during the pandemic. We cannot repay their debt throughout or lives. Salute to all the doctors on National Doctors' Day who saved lives of lakhs of people and prevented their families from crumbling, " Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi. As many as 730 doctors have succumbed to the novel coronavirus infection during the second wave, according to data available by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) in mid June. Bihar saw the maximum number of 115 such deaths, followed by Delhi at 109, Uttar Pradesh 79, West Bengal 62, Rajasthan 43, Jharkhand 39, and Andhra Pradesh 38, the data showed. According to the IMA, 748 doctors died in the first wave of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/debt-of-doctors-who-served-during-covid-pandemic-cant-be-repaid-say-arivnd-kejriwal-on-doctors-day-1003515.html
01-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi Metro's Blue Line services disrupted again||Delhi Metro commuters on Thursday had to wait longer due to slow movement of trains on its Blue Line. "Slow movement of trains between Dwarka Sector 9 and Dwarka Sector 21. Normal service on all other lines," the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said in a tweet. Blue Line Update Slow movement of trains between Dwarka Sector 9 and Dwarka Sector 21. Normal service on all other lines. There was also a brief delay in metro services on DMRC's Blue Line on Wednesday morning due to a signalling issue. The Blue Line of the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation connects Dwarka in Delhi to Electronic City in Noida.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-metros-blue-line-services-disrupted-again-1003526.html
01-07-2021||North and Central||Number of domestic passengers at Delhi airport increased by 3 times since mid-May||The number of domestic passengers at the Delhi international airport has increased by more than three times between mid-May and June-end, its operator DIAL said on Thursday. In June this year, most of those who flew were in 'visiting family and friends' category (48 per cent), which was followed by 'vacation' (25 per cent) and 'business travellers' (19 per cent), it said in a statement. However, in June 2019, around 44 per cent flyers were vacationers, while 41 per cent were of 'visiting family and friends' category, the DIAL added. "Delhi airport has witnessed over three times rise in domestic passenger numbers from around 18,000 per day in mid of May 2021 to over 62,000 per day at the end of June 2021," said the Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL).  Similarly, the number of international travellers grew from around 4,500 per day in mid of May to nearly 7,500 per day in June-end, it noted. India and its aviation sector have been badly hit due to the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, which is receding currently but was in full force in April and May. Currently, the airlines are permitted to operate not more than 50 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/number-of-domestic-passengers-at-delhi-airport-increased-by-3-times-since-mid-may-1003549.html
01-07-2021||North and Central||RSS condemns graft allegations against senior leader Nimbaram||The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) on Thursday condemned allegations against one its senior leaders of demanding Rs 20 crore "commission" from a firm engaged in door-to-door garbage collection here. The allegations levelled against regional pracharak Nimbaram are efforts to present misleading facts to assassinate his character, RSS leaders said. "We refute these false allegations and slanders being made out of ideological malice, and all options are open for us to take legal action," RSS leader Hanuman Singh Rathore said in a statement. An attempt has been made to present distorted facts even though no exchange of money has taken place, he said, likening it to character assassination of a respected person by accusing them of being involved in corruption. Being a responsible person in society, the RSS leader is ready to support any kind of investigation, Rathore said. The statement said BVG company executives had met the RSS leader with a proposal to contribute for the development of the Pratap Gaurav Kendra in Udaipur through CSR funds. The leader had asked them to visit the centre and contribute accordingly. The company officials set a date, but never visited the centre and so, the question of CSR funding or any other assistance doesn't arise, the RSS statement said. The April 20 meeting between the garbage collection company executives and the RSS leader was a courtesy meeting, it added. The state's Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) had on Tuesday arrested suspended Jaipur Greater Municipal Corporation Mayor and BJP leader Somya Gurjar's husband Rajaram Gurjar and a representative of BVG company on corruption charges in the case. A case was registered on the basis of a video clip that surfaced on social media, in which Rajaram Gurjar and the company representative are allegedly seen engaged in conversation related to the Rs 20 crore "commission" from the firm for getting its payment released from the municipal body. RSS regional pracharak Nimbaram was also seen sitting with them in the video on the basis of which the ACB registered a case against him as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rss-condemns-graft-allegations-against-senior-leader-nimbaram-1003564.html
01-07-2021||North and Central||Five-year-old girl abducted, raped in Uttarakhand||A five-year-old girl was allegedly raped and strangled to death after being abducted here by a labourer who lived in the same neighbourhood, police said on Thursday. The 19-year-old accused, a drug addict, has been arrested, Dehradun Senior Superintendent of Police Yogendra Singh Rawat said. The girl's body was recovered from a tea estate at Rangadwala near Premnagar on Wednesday evening, the SSP said, adding that she was abducted on Monday.   The accused allegedly raped and strangled her to death after abducting her and hid the body in the tea estate, the SSP said.  The families of the accused and the victim are from Begusarai in Bihar.  He was arrested on Tuesday on suspicion, but during interrogation he admitted to raping and killing the minor girl by strangulating her.  Later, he also disclosed where he had hid the girl's body, the SSP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/five-year-old-girl-abducted-raped-in-uttarakhand-1003585.html
01-07-2021||North and Central||Naxal killed in encounter in Chhattisgarh's Bastar; weapon seized||A Naxal was killed in a gun battle with security forces at a forest in Chhattisgarh's insurgency-hit Bastar district, police said on Thursday. The gunfight took place on Wednesday night in the forest near Elanganar village under Darbha police station limits, over 300 km from Raipur, when a team of the District Reserve Guard (DRG) was out on an anti-Naxal operation, Inspector General of Police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P told PTI. On June 18, a woman Naxal was gunned down in an encounter between security forces and ultras in Chandameta area of Bastar. Some other ultras had sustained injuries in the face-off, but they managed to escape from the spot and since then, security forces were trying to locate them in the forest, he said. After receiving inputs about the movement of ultras from Kanger Ghati (Bastar) to Katekalyan area (Dantewada) to shift their injured cadres, the DRG team launched the operation on Wednesday, he said. Following the exchange of fire, the body of a male Naxal along and one .303 rifle were recovered from the spot, he said. Bastar Superintendent of Police Dipak Kumar Jha identified the cadre as Madvi Joga, the section commander of platoon no. 26 in the Maoists' Katekalyan Area Committee. Joga was carrying a reward of Rs 3 lakh on his head, Jha added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/naxal-killed-in-encounter-in-chhattisgarhs-bastar-weapon-seized-1003586.html
01-07-2021||North and Central||No death due to Covid-19 in Ladakh in 11 days||The Union Territory of Ladakh did not report any death due to Covid-19 in the past 11 days, officials said on Thursday. According to data shared on Thursday, the Union Territory recorded 35 new coronavirus cases -- 33 in Leh and two in Kargil -- taking the infection tally to 20,073. Ladakh reported a Covid fatality last on June 19. It has a total of 202 deaths due to Covid-19 -- 58 in Kargil and 144 in Leh. Ladakh has discharged 27 patients on Wednesday. Of them, 20 patients were discharged in Leh and seven in Kargil, they said. The active coronavirus cases in the union territory stands at 279 -- 241 in Leh and 38 in Kargil -- they said, adding 19,592 patients have recovered till date.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-death-due-to-covid-19-in-ladakh-in-11-days-1003607.html
01-07-2021||North and Central||Birthday cake helps Indian brothers escape leopard||Two brothers pulled off a sweet escape from a leopard in India by throwing a birthday cake at the animal as it chased them while they rode a motorbike, officials said Thursday. "Your first instinct when you sense danger is to do whatever you can to save yourself. That's what they did," a forest official told AFP. "They had a cake with them and they threw it at the leopard." According to the Times of India, Firoz and Sabir Mansuri were heading at dusk to a birthday party for Firoz's son in Madhya Pradesh state when the leopard burst out of a sugarcane field. They accelerated but the big cat gained on them on the muddy path, leaving Sabir, riding pillion, no other option than to lob the box containing the cake at the predator. Hit by the "weapon of sweet distraction", the flummoxed feline gave up its chase and darted back into the fields -- and without even trying the cake, the paper said. "The leopard followed us for over 500 metres (yards). We narrowly escaped death," it quoted Sabir as saying. Leopard numbers in India grew more than 60 per cent between 2014 and 2018 to almost 13,000, according to the government, with the highest numbers in Madhya Pradesh. They are less scared than tigers of people and often enter villages and even towns. Attacks on adults are rare but children are more at risk. Last month a leopard snatched a four-year-old girl from her garden in Kashmir. Her mutilated body was found the next day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/birthday-cake-helps-indian-brothers-escape-leopard-1003613.html
01-07-2021||North and Central||Train service resumes partially in Kashmir after 7 weeks||The first train chugged on the railway tracks between Banihal and Budgam district on Thursday as train service resumed partially in the Kashmir Valley after remaining suspended for over seven weeks due to the second wave of Covid-19, officials said. However, the train service from Budgam in central Kashmir to Baramulla in north Kashmir would remain suspended till further orders, they said. The Northern Railways has decided to operate two trains daily between Banihal and Budgam with 50 per cent passengers.  “A total of 382 passengers travelled in two trains between the two stations amid strict adherence of Covid-19 protocol,” Kashmir Rail Traffic Inspector Baseer Bali told PTI. The rail service between Banihal and Baramulla was suspended on May 10 in the wake of the second wave of Covid-19. “The passengers are requested to maintain Covid-19-appropriate behaviour and wear face masks all the time during the travel,” Bali said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/train-service-resumes-partially-in-kashmir-after-7-weeks-1003614.html
01-07-2021||North and Central||SC notice to UP govt on plea by 13 convicts in Agra jail despite declared as juvenile||The Supreme Court on Thursday issued notice to the Uttar Pradesh government on a petition highlighting "unfortunate" and "sorry state of affairs" as 13 convicts have been languishing in Agra's jail despite having been declared juvenile at the time of the offence. A bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and V Ramasubramanian sought a response from the state government on the plea which also sought immediate release as the convicts had suffered incarceration ranging from 14 to 22 years. Advocate Rishi Malhotra, arguing on behalf of the convicts, contended despite clear and unchallenged rulings from the Juvenile Justice Board (JJB) that they were all below the age limit of 18 years, yet no steps have been taken to release them forthwith. The top court put the matter for consideration on July 8. According to the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) (Amendment) Act, 2006, the plea of juvenility can be raised at any stage and even after the final disposal of the case. In their case, the JJB, through its orders between February 2017 to March 2021, categorically held that all these petitioners were below 18 years of age on the date of the alleged incident and were thus, declared juvenile, the petition claimed. However, in the instant case, the petitioners languished in jails amongst hardcore criminals thereby completely negating the purpose and objects of the JJ Act, the petition contended. They asked the court to pass necessary orders for releasing them forthwith within the spirit of Article 21 (right to life and liberty) of the Constitution. Though in a majority of the cases their statutory criminal appeal is pending before the High Court against their conviction under various IPC offences, "the necessity and the need of hour is to immediate direct release of these petitioners in view of the fact that not only they are declared juvenile but they have already undergone a maximum period of detention provided under the JJ Act, 2000, i e, three years," their plea stated. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-notice-to-up-govt-on-plea-by-13-convicts-in-agra-jail-despite-declared-as-juvenile-1003629.html
01-07-2021||North and Central||Journalist not expected to dramatise a horrifying incident and make news, says Allahabad High Court||In a significant observation, the Allahabad High Court said that a  journalist was not expected to dramatise a sensational and horrifying incident and make news by putting his actor in a pitiable condition in danger of death. Justice Vikas Kunvar Srivastava made the observation while declining to grant bail to Shamim Ahmed, a journalist, who was accused of inciting a man to die by suicide with the intention of filming the incident. ''The journalist keeps an eye on the anticipated or sudden events happening in the society and brings them to the information of all the people through various news media without any tampering, this is his business,'' the court said in its order. ''The complainant, who is already mentally distressed by her husband's financial condition, who further committed suicide under the influence of the accused...if the accused is set free, she will be in danger. She is the main witness in the case. For a fair trial, the complainant would need a completely fear-free environment as a witness. She has the right to have a fair trial of the matter,'' the court further said. The court said that the investigator had seized the video camera and film from the accused which disclosed that according to the plan, the deceased reached in front of the Legislative Assembly building in front of gate number three, stood in the middle of the road, poured oil on himself and set it on fire, meanwhile, a man identified as the accused was seen recording the film of the deceased even prior to this incident of his self burning. Instead of saving the grievously burning deceased, the accused kept on filming it till he was badly scorched. Policemen were also seen trying to rescue the deceased from burning in the confiscated film. According to the prosecution, the accused and his accomplice, also a journalist, contacted the victim, hailing from West Bengal, who lived as a tenant in Lucknow and had been threatened by his landlord for not vacating the house and asked him to set himself ablaze before the Assembly building. The duo told the victim that they would film the incident and also that the landlord then would not be able to force him to vacate the house. The victim, identified as Surendra Chakraborty, set himself ablaze on October 20 last year and died four days later at the hospital. Shamim and his friend had filmed the incident. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/journalist-not-expected-to-dramatise-a-horrifying-incident-and-make-news-says-allahabad-high-court-1003702.html
01-07-2021||North and Central||Stray dogs have right to food, citizens entitled to feed them: Delhi High Court||The Delhi High Court said that stray or street dogs have the right to food and citizens are entitled to feed them, without causing harm or harassment to others.  The court stressed that people should show compassion towards all living creatures, as animals may be mute but society should speak on their behalf.  "Animals have a right under law to be treated with compassion, respect, and dignity. Animals are sentient creatures with an intrinsic value. Therefore, protection of such beings is the moral responsibility of each and every citizen including the governmental and non-governmental organisations," a single-judge bench of Justice J R Midha said.  The court said community dogs have the right to food and citizens have the right to feed community dogs but in exercising this right, care and caution should be taken to ensure that it does not impinge upon the rights of others or cause any harm, hindrance, harassment and nuisance to other individuals or members of the society. The court issued a number of guidelines including feeding of the community dogs have to be done at areas designated by the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) in consultation with Resident Welfare Associations or Municipal Corporation.  The court noted that every dog is a territorial being, and therefore, the street dogs have to be fed and tended to at places within their territory that are not frequented, or less frequented, and sparingly used by the general public and residents.  “It is the duty of the AWBI and the RWAs to ensure and keep in mind the fact that community dogs live in ‘packs‘ and care should be taken by the AWBI and RWAs to see that each pack ideally has different designated areas for feeding even if that means designating multiple areas in a locality," the bench said in its 86-page judgment.  Acting on a plea by Dr Maya D Chablani, the court noted despite the law prohibiting cruelty to animals, there was an increasing tendency of defiance among citizens and also government officials have taken up a position contrary to the well-settled law. The court said it will be the duty and responsibility of the RWA or Municipal Corporation and all government authorities including enforcement authorities like the police to provide all assistance and ensure that no hindrance is caused to the caregivers or feeders of community dogs.  The court also set up a seven-member committee headed by Director Animal Husbandry Department or his nominee, to implement the court’s guidelines for the welfare of dogs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/stray-dogs-have-right-to-food-citizens-entitled-to-feed-them-delhi-high-court-1003727.html
01-07-2021||North and Central||I-T department sends notice to Atishi, 18 others||AAP MLA Atishi has been issued a tax notice as there is allegedly a mismatch between the assets and liabilities furnished by her in the 2020 election affidavit and what was declared in her I-T returns filed over the last few years, official sources said on Thursday. Rejecting the charge that she has been singled out, the sources said that a total of 19 candidates, including Atishi and three other women, have been sent these verification notices. Those who have been sent these notices also include people from the BJP, they said. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Atishi had told the media on Wednesday that she was issued an Income Tax (I-T) notice and claimed that the action was taken to "scare and intimidate" her. The official sources said the issuance of notices action is part of a procedure followed by the tax department for the verification of election affidavits filed by candidates before the Election Commission (EC). Out of a total 666 affidavits, 19 were selected for verification and the entire process has been undertaken by adhering to a standard operating procedure' (SOP) that was finalised in consultation with the EC, they said. The sources said the assets and liabilities disclosed by the AAP MLA in her 2020 election affidavit allegedly do not match with the "income profile" furnished by her in the income tax returns (ITRs) filed over the last about 10 years time period. They said that the details given in her ITRs are reportedly lesser than what has been furnished in the poll affidavit. The verification process is being conducted on the basis of facts and official figures. Hence, additional information and clarifications have been sought from the 19 candidates and those of their family members who are categorised as politically exposed persons, the sources said. The ruling AAP in Delhi had called the tax notice "ridiculous" saying it exposes the "sexist and chauvinist" face of the BJP. "I want to tell the Modi government -- we are not afraid of your threats! The Modi government has used every agency to harass AAP leaders but could not sustain a single case against the AAP. The income tax notice was sent to scare, intimidate us," Atishi had told a press conference. "I don't have anything to hide. Wherever the Income Tax Department calls me, I will go with all the details of my bank accounts. I want to challenge the BJP if they are ready to make their bank accounts and property details public," she had said. A party leader had said that the notice is based on the 2020 election affidavit of Atishi in which she had declared Rs 59 lakh worth movable assets in the form of FD and mutual funds, which she had said were earned before 2012.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/i-t-department-sends-notice-to-atishi-18-others-1003766.html
01-07-2021||Oasis||A purposeful life||We are living in times of uncertainty now. Earlier, we had heard of people dying far away, then a few of our acquaintances passed away, and now death has come knocking at our doors. So close and so cruel. Our near and dear ones being snatched away without warning. What we possess is not ours anymore. The titles we have, the qualifications we acquire, the caste and religion we belong to, the wealth we accumulate, the dreams we aspire and the life we had imagined is all illusionary. We thought we had more time to do things and to spend time with our families. But life is so frightening and unpredictable. This uncertainty is a time for reflection and introspection. A time to make it purposeful. A purposeful life is a meaningful life. What is a purposeful life? When we create an environment to benefit others and uplift ourselves, we are living this life with a purpose. This is possible when we decide that we need to adhere to supreme virtues and give up on all the vices. To decide on something, we need to make the right choices. And the right choices will give the right results. Even if they do not, we can make changes by learning from our mistakes. When we were kids, our parents decided everything for us. But after a few years, we had to make choices on our own. Our choices should not be made at the cost of harming others. Rather they should be meaningful to us and to the world. We are still reeling from the shock of a vicious pandemic and we need to take a step back and understand what is important to us. Choose to live a life of meaning and purpose. Help create good memories for the people, who you leave behind.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/a-purposeful-life-1003396.html
01-07-2021||Opinion||Signs of BJP central leadership weakening||The waning success of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah as vote-catchers may have contributed to a weakening of their leadership of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). This is suggested by the fratricidal rivalries surfacing in the BJP-ruled states. If they could brush off electoral defeats in Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh (in 2018), those in West Bengal and Kerala proved to be their nemesis. The Modi-Shah duo bet their shirts on the West Bengal elections and lost. Their biggest catch, Mukul Roy, has already done ghar wapsi, and several legislators elected on the BJP ticket are apparently waiting to cross back to the Trinamool Congress (TMC). This to-an-fro between the BJP and TMC may also repeat itself in Tripura. Perhaps the first admission of concern about Modi's ability to swing an adverse election was expressed in the BJP's decision in March 2020 to replace Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat with Lok Sabha MP Tirath Singh Rawat. Now with six months before the Assembly polls, even Tirath Singh Rawat seems to be in trouble. Nowhere is the weakening of the central leadership of the BJP more evident than in Uttar Pradesh. Prime Minister Modi could not effect changes in Yogi Adityanath's cabinet, which would not have been difficult earlier. Instead, Adityanath's denial of a cabinet position to Modi-loyalist Arvind Kumar Sharma pushed the central leadership to save face by appointing him as the seventeenth vice-president of the state BJP. Two other developments reflect the intensity of the internecine party struggle in UP. A local newspaper sent 30 reporters to uncover distress burials due to Covid-19 along a thousand km stretch of the Ganges banks across 27 districts of UP. Their explosive reports and photographs exposed Adityanath's mismanagement of the pandemic. Usually, regional newspapers avoid taking positions that might affect the flow of government advertisement. So while welcoming the news expose against Adityanath, sceptics may be forgiven for wondering whether powerful forces in the BJP establishment backed the reportage. Nor has the uncharacteristic expose invited retaliation from the normally testy Adityanath government.  Following Adityanath's recovery from a challenge to his leadership, details of a land scandal have surfaced. Land for constructing the Ram Temple at Ayodhya is said to have been purchased at more than twelve times its initial price. Accusations of financial mismanagement are directed at the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra, a trust tasked by the Union Home Ministry to construct the Ram Temple. The relevant land registry papers could not have become so widely available to the media and Opposition politicians without a nod and wink from the state administration. How else would it have come into the public domain that part of the land was nazul, or government land, and sold illegally? Doubts are now being cast on the role of the general secretary of the trust and Vishwa Hindu Parishad leader Champat Rai and local BJP bigwigs. Former Principal Secretary to Prime Minister Modi, Nirpendra Mishra, is also a voting member of the trust and chairman of the Temple's Construction Committee. Would it be far-fetched to see the unfolding of this land scandal involving people close to the top leadership of the BJP as a retaliatory shot at Adityanath's detractors? New rallying points are emerging around the challengers in the BJP-ruled states, and this can only happen in a disciplined party like the BJP if the centre is perceived to be weak. The challenge to BS Yediyurappa's chief ministership in Karnataka has been made to stand down for now. But the contenders were perhaps only able to mount a bid to unseat him because they thought the central leadership could be pushed. Rebel activity in Madhya Pradesh has seen Shivraj Singh Chauhan fighting off a challenge from his deputy, Narottam Mishra. He is ostensibly supported by Kailash Vijayvargiya, another ambitious BJP leader in the state. In Rajasthan, the failure of "Operation Sachin Pilot" showcased the collapse of the Modi-Shah duo to cut Vasundhara Raje to size. In neighbouring Gujarat, the differences between Chief Minister Vijay Rupani and the state unit president CR Patil have been out in the open. In Himachal Pradesh, the central leadership had to step in to prevent the differences between Chief Minister Jairam Thakur and Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur from spiralling out of control. Even in Kerala, where the party failed to win a single seat in the recent assembly elections, BJP leaders are levelling charges at each other of political sabotage and misappropriation of election funds. Allegations include involvement in a highway heist of Rs 3.5 crore during the elections. Up to early this year, Prime Minister Modi, who in effect is also the party high command, had seemed invincible. He appointed chief ministers of his choice from Haryana to Himachal Pradesh. He no longer seems to be able to rule the roost. (The writer is a Delhi-based journalist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/signs-of-bjp-central-leadership-weakening-1003528.html
01-07-2021||Opinion||Vismaya dowry murder, gender inclusivity and the road ahead||After Vismaya's brutal dowry murder, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan tweeted that his government will revise Kerala's school textbooks to make them more gender-inclusive. It is a welcome move. However, we need not wait for extreme violence against women to erupt before making such revisions in school textbooks. Most textbook audits in India reveal the deep inequalities in the text and the accompanying visual images. Invariably, women are either absent or depicted as economically inferior, thereby perpetuating stereotypes about women's capacities as workers, and hence, socially inconsequential.  The vital question here is should textbooks function as mirrors of society? Or should they inculcate values, create role models, and build self-confidence? If it were the former, then it wouldn't be entirely misplaced to show women performing jobs that, while essential, are not valued or seen as particularly desirable (at least as jobs that boys or young men should aspire to). So while there is a tiny minority of women who've shattered the glass ceiling, most of them, if formally employed, perform lesser paid jobs and take longer to get promoted. I would suggest that the purpose of textbooks should be both – as a tool to challenge prevailing inequalities even as they provide examples of those who overcame prevailing hierarchies and succeeded. In this way, children can grow up questioning widespread gender-blind or violent assumptions. Here I wish to add a different dimension to the idea of gender inclusivity. Even if somewhat sensitive to societal gender differences, most textbooks assume a certain homogeneity amongst the groups under discussion. Invariably, this ends up replicating other kinds of hierarchies.  For instance, any discussion on a family will assume that it is upper-caste, Hindu, and middle class. It also assumes that the struggles for gender equality amongst different social groups and communities are identical. Such depictions perforce further marginalise, by erasure, minority communities. What is perhaps worse is the inherent assumption that ideas of knowledge or success can only be measured against a single yardstick. Perforce, this eliminates all indigenous forms of skills and knowledge that different groups may possess, ranging from botanical and medicinal to culinary, retained mainly by women who transmitted such knowledge to the next generation. Attentiveness to such detail would also entail that many supposedly 'unproductive' forms of labour, like housework and care-work, would be re-evaluated. Students must be encouraged to ask why domestic work, though monotonous, back-breaking and essential, is neither valued nor paid. The short-lived history of demand by the women's movements for paid household labour should be available to students to be inspired to pose similar questions themselves. Unless they are encouraged to value the work of their mothers, aunts and grandmothers, whether they be formally employed or homemakers, they will not learn to respect them as rights-bearing citizens. That aside, it is urgent that textbooks address questions about the historical construction of institutions such as marriage and family, intending to rethink these as sites of power. In other words, children will not recognise the routine violence they witness in their family unless exposed to the many ways families encode within them histories of violence and inequality. Dowry cannot be understood as a life-destroying problem unless linked to marriage and family structures perpetuating it. Equally, children must know that neither heterosexuality nor heteronormativity is 'natural', even as they are taught that being gay or lesbian is not abnormal. Kerala's recent past has had many instances of lesbian suicides, primarily by schoolgirls or young women. So even as we recognise dowry-related deaths as murder, we must also see the other kinds of violence routinely perpetrated against young girls in schools that drive them to take such desperate measures as taking their own lives. In this light, I wish to highlight a different problem – that of the gender sensitivity of teachers. Personally, I do not think that changing textbooks without conscientising teachers would work. How can one expect someone perpetrating, or being subject to, any form of gender violence to be in a position to teach a text that critiques such violence or exclusion? Would teachers' training institutes undertake classes that address such issues? How can we open up contexts of rethinking for teachers to be more conscientised and bring to the subject forms of critique from their own life experience? Such issues cannot remain restricted to textbooks as parts of chapters but must be enlivened in a manner that genuinely pushes students to appreciate the value of such a lesson. In recent times, frightening cases have surfaced of violence, including sexual violence, by teachers against students. How does one ensure that the inclusivity in textbooks permeates into everyday forms of life? As the exclusion of girls and women from textbooks is but a symptom of a broader culture of gender-based violence, it seems to me that it is essential that a parallel process of educating teachers should also become mandatory. Without that, a valuable exercise such as textbook revision may remain partial and incomplete. (The writer is Professor and Director, Kerala Council for Historical Research Trivandrum, Kerala) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/vismaya-dowry-murder-gender-inclusivity-and-the-road-ahead-1003582.html
01-07-2021||Panorama||Health sector needs funds and manpower||A strong healthcare system has a direct and positive correlation with the economic growth of a country. The unprecedented disruption caused due Covid-19 has made us cherish the crucial services rendered by doctors and paramedical staff in nation building. Every year, India celebrates July 1 as  National Doctors’ Day, honouring Bharath Ratna Dr Bidhan Chandra Roy, who played an important role in establishing many centres of excellence in the health sector including the Indian Institute of Mental Health, the Infectious Disease Hospital and Kolkata's first-ever Postgraduate medical college. The visionary had helped India strengthen its primary health care services in the early 1950’s and 60s. Although, there have been key initiatives by the incumbent governments, there persists issues related to human resources and health finances in the medical sector. The 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda (SDA) emphasises on Health and Well-being in its Goal number 3. The National Health Policy (NHP) 2017 had set a target of government expenditure on health at  2.5 % of the GDP by 2025 and had asked the states to spend at least 8% of their Budget on the health sector by 2020.  There is a long way ahead. But there have been efforts. The Union Department of Health and Family Welfare was allocated Rs 38,343 crore in the FY (Revised Estimates) 2016-17. With a more than 105% CAGR growth rate, in FY 2020-21 (RE) Rs 78,866 crore was allocated— the government had understood the importance of a strong health sector even before pandemic hit the nation. In order to achieve the NHP target, state governments have come forward to provide an adequate budget for healthcare to strengthen the delivery system and reduce the Out of Pocket Expenditure of households.  The World Health Organization (WHO) has promulgated a desirable doctor–population ratio as 1:1,000. According to official figures, as on June 30, 2020, there are 12,55,786 allopathic doctors registered in the country; besides the 7.88 lakh Ayurveda, Unani and Homeopathy (AUH) practitioners. Assuming 80% availability, the doctor-population ratio in India is 1:825. But this ratio alone does not signify a strong health care system, which is influenced by many factors including adequate financial resources for the sector, strong pharmaceutical industry with a favourable R&D ecosystem and sufficient production of medical devices. The Rural Health Statistics 2019-20 highlights the shortfall of specialist doctors in Community Health Centres (CHC). There is a marked shortfall of 78.9% of surgeons, 69.7% of obstetricians and gynecologists, 78.2% of physicians and 78.2% of pediatricians compared to the requirement in the CHCs. At Primary Health Centres (PHC) 24% of the sanctioned posts of doctors were vacant in 2020. These high vacancies underscore the challenges faced in deploying and retaining personnel at PHCs and CHCs. Reduced doctor availability can cause patients to wait for hours for a consultation, leading to delays in treatment— this adds to higher mortality and morbidity issues. Also,  given the size of India, ensuring easy and hassle-free medical services can be a big challenge. Increasing the number of medical seats at undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) levels is a right step in this direction. The number of MBBS seats have been increased by 48% between 2014 and 2020. The numbers of PG seats have also increased by 79% over the same period. Way forward There is a clear requirement to strengthen the health infrastructure. States have to confirm to NHP 2017 goals to build state-of-the-art infrastructure, which optimise the delivery of health services. Also, preventive healthcare should be promoted and programmes to create awareness about healthier lifestyle and wellbeing should be encouraged. The vacancies in PHCs, CHCs and District Health Centres (DHCs) must be systematically filled to ensure that medical graduates are provided an opportunity to work there. A rotational mechanism will not only enhance the expertise of professionals but also provide job opportunities to fresh recruits. Effective utilisation of health professionals can further strengthen the health system. Specialisation of health professionals should be mapped to the demands and requirements of a region and this should be the basis for allocation of resources in different health facilities. Further, health professionals should be incentivised to work in their allocated posts. Apart from financial incentives, professional incentives such as work credits and relocation benefits can be provided to doctors and nurses working in PHCs, CHCs and DHCs. The authorities should also explore the option to deploy digital tools such as Clinical Decision Support Systems to provide better consultation and diagnostic services.  These measures will reinforce our efforts to achieve the SDG 3 targets and increase health worker density and distribution across the country. (Kalal is Deputy Secretary (Health) and Kaur is Associate (Health) at the Niti Aayog)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/health-sector-needs-funds-and-manpower-1003405.html
01-07-2021||Right in the Middle||Of patients and pickles     ||Some patients gradually become good friends. They come in to consult about a health problem but stay a little longer to chat. The birth of a grandchild, a wedding, tension over a family dispute — all become part of the conversation. And to cement the special bond, some of them bring in a token of affection — a few vegetables from the kitchen garden, a slice of freshly baked cake or in this case, a home-made mango pickle. For years now, Krishnamurthy sir would come in every month, with his medical file tucked under his arm and a carefully wrapped plastic container of pickle. He would tell his stories. We would laugh together at the latest political controversy and he would twirl his impressive silver moustache as his warmth and camaraderie brightened up my day. Then ever so predictably, just as he got up to leave, he would stop and say: “Here doctor, I brought you some pickle." And I would accept his little parcel, knowing that this tradition meant a lot more than pickle to both of us. I got my last bottle of pickle recently, from his daughter. She had come all the way to the clinic to tell me that her father had insisted I get my parcel as always. Just about a month ago, my feisty and impeccably dressed friend had succumbed to the virus that the world is talking about. But he had supervised a fresh batch of his traditional pickle before that and had kept away a portion to be brought to me the next time he visited. As Atul Gawande says: "In this work against sickness, we begin not with genetic or cellular interactions, but with human ones. They are what that make medicine so complex and fascinating." Farewell dear friend, I will miss our conversations and your pickle. They both added a special spice to my routine life.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/of-patients-and-pickles-1003400.html
01-07-2021||Second Edit||Draft rules could stifle ecommerce||Even as the controversy over the enforcement of the IT (Intermediaries) Rules, 2021, which seek to regulate the working of Big Tech companies and social media platforms, continues, the Ministry of Consumer Affairs has come out with a set of amendments to the Consumer Protection (ecommerce) Rules, 2020, that will have a similar regulatory impact on the burgeoning ecommerce sector in the country. While it is claimed that the IT rules are meant to protect national interests and the interests of social media users, the aim of the draft ecommerce rules is also stated to be the protection of national interests and those of domestic businesses and consumers. Some of the proposals, however, seek control over the ecommerce space in the name of regulation, just as the IT rules seek to exercise control over social media intermediaries, and thus the ability to control freedom of speech. These may be necessary but can also be used by authorities to put pressure on companies. The platforms will have to display the ‘country of origin’ on every product and ensure a ‘fair opportunity’ to domestically-made goods. Flash sales, which are very popular with customers, especially during the festival season, are sought to be prohibited if they are run back-to-back and prevent a level playing field for all players and limit customer choice. But expressions like limiting customer choice and level playing field can be interpreted freely. Restrictions are also sought to be imposed on “related parties and associated enterprises” and no related entity can sell goods to an online seller operating on the same platform. Some of the rules, like the one that restricts the sharing of consumer data without consent, are needed. But many of the draft rules are open to different interpretations, and this could not be accidental. Subjective interpretation of rules can lead to bureaucratic arbitrariness and intervention by the government. It is true that Amazon and Walmart’s Flipkart, the two largest ecommerce firms operating in the country, have faced complaints about pricing and other issues. These two are also fighting a court battle to prevent the Competition Commission of India (CCI) from reopening its probe into their business practices. There is also a view that the government is bringing in these restrictions to help the domestic retail lobby. Whatever the reasons, the proposed rules seem aimed at gaining control over a fast-growing sector, and the result of that can only be to stifle it, and ultimately consumer interest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/draft-rules-could-stifle-ecommerce-1003410.html
01-07-2021||South||Laptop thief who had a bone to pick with medicos||A thief specialised in stealing laptops is not an unusual thing. But someone robbing laptops of medical students to exact an old revenge on the fraternity for the sake of his lover may sound bizarre. The strange motive of a thief was unravelled when police nabbed Tamil Selvam, a 25-year-old engineering graduate from neighbouring Tamil Nadu, in connection with a recent laptop theft at the Pariyaram Medical College hospital in Kannur on Monday. The man was picked up from Salem based on the complaint of a PG medical student of the hospital. During interrogation, the accused told the police that he had stolen hundreds of laptops of medical students in various states. “As per his statement, he and his lover had an issue with some medical students in his home state in 2015. Some in the medical fraternity had allegedly misbehaved with his girlfriend and since then Selvam had been targeting medical students. That’s what he claimed,” a police official said. It is said that his aim was to cause mental agony to medicos by stealing their valuables and selling them. The accused said he had landed in police custody in other states also in connection with the theft. “We are not sure whether his claims are true. We have to verify things first. We expect more details to be revealed when we get him in our custody,” the official added. The accused was arrested on Sunday and produced before a local court which remanded and sent him to jail, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/laptop-thief-who-had-a-bone-to-pick-with-medicos-1003440.html
01-07-2021||South||Kerala man alleges forcible conversion of wife, son||A 44 year old man in Kerala's Malappuram district has alleged attempts to forcibly convert his wife and son to Islam by offering huge compensation. Based on a petition of Malappuram Thenhipalam resident P T Gilbert, the Kerala High Court on Wednesday directed that his wife and 13 year old son should be produced before the court by next week. The petitioner, who is a Christian hailing from Kannur district, alleged that his wife was lured by some of the neighbours of their rented house at Thenhipalam by offering Rs. 25 lakh and a house.  The two were taken to Kozhikode based Therbiyathul Islam Sabha. He also expressed fears that his wife and children would be trafficked out of India for terrorist activities. Their neighbours who lured his wife were suspected to have connections with SDPI activists. Gilbert, who is managing a taxi agency, said that his wife and son went missing on June 9. He alleged that their neighbours, including panchayat ward member, coerced his wife to convert to Islam against their will and were unlawfully detained at Therbiyathul Islam Sabha. The child in also kept away from him and being forced to convert to Islam. Meanwhile, authorities at the Therbiyathul Islam Sabha told DH that the woman turned up at the centre at her own will along with her son and the allegations of forcible conversion was baseless. Police sources said that a probe was already on to find it the woman was lured by giving any illegal offers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-man-alleges-forcible-conversion-of-wife-son-1003695.html
01-07-2021||South||Zoo keeper dies of king cobra bite in Thiruvananthapuram||A zoo keeper at the Thiruvananthapuram died after being bitten by a king cobra. The tragic incident took place on Monday noon while he was cleaning a cage where reptiles were kept. Harshad A S, a 45-year-old zoo keeper hailing from Kattakada in the district, was earlier in the news for staging a protest inside a snake's cage demanding regularisation of his job. The Thiruvananthapuram zoo's reptile house is known for various varieties of snakes, including Anaconda. According to the zoo authorities, in the CCTV video footage of the reptile house of the zoo, Harshad could be seen cleaning the king cobra's cage after shifting the reptiles to the nearby temporary cage, where snakes are kept while the main cage is being cleaned. Harshad could be also seen coming out of the main cage.  Around 1 pm, other zoo keepers later found Harshad lying unconscious in the reptile house with snake bite mark on his hand. It was suspected that he could have suffered the bite while trying to shift the snakes from the temporary cage to the main cage. CCTV footage was not there at the temporary cage and hence the actual reason could not be ascertained. Though Harshad was rushed to Thiruvananthapuram Medical College hospital, he was pronounced dead. Harshad was working as zoo keeper for over 15 years. Several years back he staged a protest by entering king cobra's cage owing to a delay in regularising his job. His job was later regularised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/zoo-keeper-dies-of-king-cobra-bite-in-thiruvananthapuram-1003730.html
01-07-2021||South||Tourists allegedly molested at Varkala in Kerala||A foreign couple was allegedly molested by a group of local people at the Varkala tourist spot in Thiruvananthapuram. The alleged incident took place on Monday night when the women tourists from UK and France were taking a walk along the beach in the evening. They said in the complaint to the police on Thursday that a group of persons who were under the influence of alcohol grabbed them. Some of the accused also allegedly indulged in exhibitionism. The Varkala police registered a case under various sections of IPC including 354 and started an investigation. The statements of the women were also recorded. The tourists have been staying at a homestay at Varkala, about 45 kilometres from Thiruvananthapuram city, over the last couple of months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tourists-allegedly-molested-at-varkala-in-kerala-1003765.html
01-07-2021||South||Telangana wasting precious water for power generation: Andhra Pradesh CM Jagan complains to PM Modi||In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday, Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy has complained that Telangana is unilaterally drawing Krishna waters at Srisailam, Nagarjuna Sagar and Pulichintala projects for production of electricity, “in violation Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) instructions, Standard Operating Procedures and agreements.” The withdrawals by the K Chandrasekhar Rao government, Reddy said, are resulting in a wastage of precious waters as there is no irrigation requirement downstream at present. Telangana has further issued orders on Monday to generate hydropower to 100 % installed capacities, “which means Telangana can utilise 4 TMC, 3 TMC and 1.8 TMC per day from Srisailam, Nagarjuna Sagar and Pulichintala projects respectively in utter disregard of KRMB orders to stop power generation,” Reddy stated while seeking the PM's intervention to resolve the issue. The Andhra Pradesh CM has pleaded the PM for necessary immediate action by the centre “to notify the jurisdiction of KRMB and to take over all off takes of common reservoirs with CISF protection and safeguard the interests of Andhra Pradesh state.” The two Telugu states are back to sparring over the Krishna waters following the Reddy government move last year to construct a project intended to draw three TMC per day of Srisailam reservoir waters from the Pothireddypadu Head Regulator. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-wasting-precious-water-for-power-generation-andhra-pradesh-cm-jagan-complains-to-pm-modi-1003769.html
01-07-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh, Telangana back to sparring over Krishna waters; police deployed amid tense situation||A tense situation is prevailing at the Krishna basin projects – Srisailam, Nagarjuna Sagar and Pulichintala – amid a row over sharing of the river waters and hydel power generation between Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Police forces were deployed on both sides of the projects straddling the two Telugu states, which are under the shared management of the Jaganmohan Reddy and K Chandrasekhar Rao governments. The position is reminiscent of the scenes from 2015 when the irrigation, project officials of two sides were engaged in heated arguments and policemen from the two states came to blows on the Nagarjuna Sagar dam because of the stiff stand taken by the then chief ministers – Chandrababu Naidu and Rao - over sharing of the waters and almost everything else of the united state bifurcated a year before. In 2019, after Reddy stormed to power in Andhra Pradesh, the two governments engaged in discussions to arrive at amicable settlements. But the bonhomie disappeared within a year as Reddy, in May 2020, initiated the Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme to draw three TMC per day of Srisailam reservoir waters from the Pothireddypadu Head Regulator. The Rao government, which has been objecting to the project and has complained to the Centre, National Green Tribunal, Krishna River Management Board, etc., to stop “the illegal construction activity,” had last month decided to construct a few projects on its side, drawing the Krishna waters. Some of the TRS ministers even accused Reddy and his father late CM YSR Reddy of stealing the Telangana's share of waters. What precipitated the dispute now is Telangana CM Rao's decision to augment the state's hydel power generation from the Krishna river's left bank projects. On Wednesday, the Andhra Pradesh Cabinet chaired by Reddy reportedly condemned Telangana's move to draw waters from dead storage levels to produce electricity and decided to take the matter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-telangana-back-to-sparring-over-krishna-waters-police-deployed-amid-tense-situation-1003771.html
01-07-2021||South||Kerala seeks Centre's intervention to address woes of expats||The Kerala government on Thursday sought the urgent intervention of the Centre to address problems faced by expatriates, who are hoping to return to their workplace in gulf nations. Chief Secretary V P Joy shot off a letter to Foreign Secretary, Harsh Vardhan Shringla, in which he pointed out that the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) states, except Qatar and Bahrain have denied entry to Indian workers citing Covid-19 pandemic. "Keralites are reaching Qatar and Bahrain through other nations, including Nepal and Sri Lanka. If they want to travel to Saudi Arabia, they need to undergo a quarantine of two weeks," the letter said. The top official also claimed that the members of GCC were not allowing Keralites to return and resume work despite having received two doses of Covaxin as it does not have the approval of World Health Organisation. "Those who have received one shot of Pfizer or Sinopharm vaccine from abroad are unable to get the second dose of those resulting in ban of entry to GCC countries," it said. The CPI(M)-led government urged the central government to take up the matter with the gulf nations in order to facilitate the return of Indian workers||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-seeks-centres-intervention-to-address-woes-of-expats-1003779.html
01-07-2021||South||Kerala HC intervenes after frequent cases of animal cruelty||With incidents of cruelty towards pets being reported frequently in Kerala, the Kerala High Court has initiated a suo motu public interest litigation on cruelty to animals. In a latest instance, a pet dog was beaten to death by three persons, including a minor boy, after hanging it using a fish bait hook at Adimalathura on the coastal areas of Thiruvananthapuram. The labrador, named Bruno, was even thrown into the sea. The minor among them was learnt to have recorded it using mobile phone camera and shared with some friends hence it had gone viral. The incident happened on Monday. The youths, who were held by the police, tried to justify their act by stating that the dog, belonging to a family in the locality, was regularly causing nuisance to them by sleeping under their fishing boat. The dog's master Christuraj said that the dog used to rest under the boats after playing in the beach. He alleged that the accused even threatened him. Over the last few months Kerala witnessed several incidents of cruelty towards pets like dragging dogs by tying to speeding vehicles. Justice A K Jayasankaran Nambiar of the Kerala High Court wrote to the Chief Justice urging that a suo motu case may be registered on the basis of the reports of cruelty to animals. The petition is likely to be considered tomorrow. Meanwhile, animal rights activists said that the feeble punishments warranted by the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act (PCA) and lack of awareness among police personnel about the need to initiate action against cruelty to animals were the key reasons for cruelty to animals becoming frequent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-intervenes-after-frequent-cases-of-animal-cruelty-1003782.html
01-07-2021||State||NLSIU Bengaluru offers 25% quota for locals||The National Law School of India University (NLSIU), Bengaluru, has reserved 25% of its seats for students from Karnataka for courses beginning in 2021-22, nearly a year after the high court struck down the state government’s domicile reservation law. After the amendment to the NLSIU Act in the state Assembly and Council in 2020 was struck down by the Karnataka High Court in September 2020, the state government had approached the Supreme Court in this regard. A release by the university cited ‘NLSIU Inclusion and Expansion Plan 2021-24’ as the basis for the reservation. It said the governing bodies of the university have reviewed and adopted the Plan that aims to increase student diversity by admitting students from marginalised and disadvantaged backgrounds and expanding the student intake in phases. An official said a special leave petition has been submitted before the Supreme Court, which is hearing Karnataka’s appeal, to notify the court regarding the Plan and the decision on reservation.  According to the revised notification for 2021-22, “candidates who have studied for not less than 10 years in a recognised educational institution in Karnataka shall be eligible to be considered as Karnataka students”. The 25% reservation is applicable for BA, LLB (Hons) and LLM programmes. The varsity’s notification states that eligible candidates from Karnataka interested in availing the reservation must update the same in their CLAT 2021 application against the NLSIU, Bangalore reservation tab. It has also advised the students to keep their study certificates issued by their schools ready which should be submitted at the time of counselling/admission process to claim the 25% reservation. As many as 30 of the 120 seats for the BA, LLB (Hons) and 13 out of 50 seats under for LLM are reserved for Karnataka students. Separate seats have been reserved under this category for students of SC, ST and General Merit categories. According to the information shared by the university in a press release, it currently has 660 students on its on-campus programme. In the next four academic years, the varsity aims to provide 30% reservation for women and 10% reservation for Economically Weaker Sections. The varsity has identified five research clusters that are currently being developed: Law, Technology and Society, Labour and Work, State Capacity and Reform, Justice and Legal System Reform and Climate Justice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/nlsiu-bengaluru-offers-25-quota-for-locals-1003395.html
01-07-2021||State||Karnataka govt to recruit 1,242 assistant professors for degree colleges||The higher education department has decided to recruit 1,242 assistant professors for 430 government degree colleges, and the process for the same will begin in the next 20 days. The department will also set the process in motion for appointing 310 principals to government degree colleges, which has been pending since 2009.   The recruitment will purely be based on the merit and written test conducted by the department, and the process will be completed in next six months. “The written examination for assistant professors will be for 500 marks consisting of objective type questions - Kannada (100 marks), English (100), GK (50) and optional subject (250). For principals’ posts, the written test will be objective type for 100 marks.” explained the minister. Cut-off marks The minister said that the department would soon fix cut-off marks for engineering courses admissions through Common Entrance Test (KCET). “We will fix the minimum eligibility marks for engineering admissions through KCET. We will soon make an official announcement after consulting experts,” said the minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-to-recruit-1242-assistant-professors-for-degree-colleges-1003432.html
01-07-2021||State||Karnataka govt amended KTPP Act amid objections, RTI query reveals||The controversial amendment to the Karnataka Transparency in Public Procurement (KTPP) Act, which exempted the state-run Karnataka Rural Infrastructure Development Ltd (KRIDL) from a tender process for works up to Rs 2 crore, was pushed by the Cabinet despite objections from the Advocate General (AG), Law and Finance Departments. Cabinet documents accessed under RTI shows that Advocate General Prabhuling K Navadgi had observed that such an amendment would set a bad precedent. “If an exemption was made out to an organisation like KRIDL, (other) similar entity would also come up seeking such exemption, thereby defeating the very object and purpose for which KTPP Act was formed,” Navadagi had written. “Looking from any angle, in my opinion, there are no relevant and overwhelming materials placed to show that KRIDL should be exempted from the Act,” the AG had written to the state government on January 18. The amendment was proposed in January this year and was cleared by the Cabinet in March. The views of the Navadagi was based on a note put by ISN Prasad, Additional Chief Secretary, Finance department. Prasad, subsequently wrote to the government, seconding the AG’s view. “In view of the opinion of the AG, it is not advisable to carryout the amendment to KTPP Act....” The issue of relaxing norms to KRIDL surfaced in 2019-20, when the government granted an exemption to the agency from KTPP Act for tenders below two crores through a notification. This was challenged in the High Court, which was observed by the Law Department in its note to the government. “When the exemption granted in respect to a particular year itself is questioned before the High Court, it is not proper to proceed with the Amendment. That apart, even on merit, the amendment proposed by the Administrative department may not stand the test of law,” the Law department had said. Yet, the government bulldozed through the controversial amendment despite objections from anti-graft activists and small contractors. Apart from allowing for corruption, there were allegations that small contractors in rural areas would be left jobless as the amendment allowed KRIDL to cherry pick sub-contractors for projects. “The only purpose of the amendment, despite objections from key departments, was to facilitate corruption,” said Anil Kumar G R, who accessed the documents under RTI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-amended-ktpp-act-amid-objections-rti-query-reveals-1003433.html
01-07-2021||State||Youth Congress power tussle gets murkier||The row over the post of the Karnataka Pradesh Youth Congress Committee (KPYCC) president has become murkier with the party high command deciding to step in to sort out differences between incumbent Raksha Ramaiah and his rival Mohammed Haris Nalapad.  Raksha became the KPYCC president in February in a controversial election in which Nalapad came first, but was disqualified at the last minute. The two were at loggerheads following the result.  A late Tuesday night truce meeting involving Raksha, Nalapad, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar and Indian Youth Congress (IYC) president B V Srinivas discussed a power-sharing pact: Raksha will hold the president's post for 18 months and Nalapad for the remaining 18 months.  Multiple sources told DH that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is upset with this 'compromise' formula. "Rahul is the one who introduced the concept of internal elections. This 'compromise' formula defeats the system. He is upset and doesn’t want Raksha or Nalapad in the fray," a source said.  Ramaiah is the son of former minister M R Seetharam. In the February polls, he secured 57,271 votes. Nalapad bagged 64,203 votes, but was disqualified owing to the infamous 2018 assault case. The result created controversy within the party. According to party sources, Raksha has Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah’s backing, whereas Nalapad is supported by Shivakumar. "It was discussed that both of us will hold the position for 18 months each, but nothing was finalised," Raksha told DH. "Now, the matter has gone beyond the KPCC or the IYC. We are awaiting confirmation from the high command. They will depute someone from Delhi on July 4 to take a call," he said.  Speculation is that AICC general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala, who is in charge of the party's affairs in Karnataka, will visit Bengaluru next week to take stock of this.  According to a source close to Shivakumar, the high command might choose to appoint "a third person" as the state Youth Congress president. "What angered the high command, especially Rahul, is that this has turned into an ego issue," the source said.  Shivakumar declined to comment whereas Siddaramaiah said he was not aware of the proposed 'compromise' formula.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/youth-congress-power-tussle-gets-murkier-1003436.html
01-07-2021||State||Compulsory rural service: Interim relief to 2021 batch of MBBS grads||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday granted interim relief to a batch of petitioner-MBBS doctors directing the state government not to precipitate the compulsory rural service scheme. The petitioners, who have completed MBBS and aspire to join for post graduation courses, have challenged the notification pertaining to online registration for compulsory rural service. “State government is directed not to precipitate the matter pursuant to the impugned notification for a period of two weeks only in respect of the petitioners who are before this court. It is needless to state that this interim arrangement is confined to the petitioners who are before this court. However, the respondent-state is at liberty to proceed with implementation of the notification,” Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum stated in the order. The ad-interim order was passed on Tuesday. The bench heard both the petitioners and the state government on Wednesday and posted the matter for passing interim directions. The notification was issued on June 8, 2021, calling upon those undergraduates who have secured government seats and completed their MBBS exams in the academic year 2021 to register for rural posting. A corrigendum in this regard was issued on June 17. As per the notification the rural service is to commence from June 30. According to the petitioners, the notification is discriminatory and arbitrary as it excludes other undergraduates of the same batch (management quota) and also contrary to Karnataka Compulsory Service by Candidates Completed Medical Courses Act 2012, and the Karnataka Compulsory Service by Candidates Completed Medical Courses Act Rules, 2015.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/compulsory-rural-service-interim-relief-to-2021-batch-of-mbbs-grads-1003437.html
01-07-2021||State||Karnataka govt to sell sand in sacks to avoid wastage, overpricing||In an effort to minimise loss in transportation and increase accessibility of sand for construction activities, the state government will henceforth sell sand in pre-packed sacks, Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh R Nirani said on Wednesday. Each sack will carry 50 kg sand. This is a similar model to that of beverages sold by the government through the Karnataka State Beverages Corporation Ltd (KSBCL), the minister explained. Consumers can now buy any quantity of sand in this system. The sacks will be categorised into grade A, B and C at the stockyards. “Supplying sand in sacks will reduce transport cost, shortage and will put an end to overpricing. The sand can be stored and sold anytime after packing it," the minister said. Sand sales units will be set up at five places in the state on a pilot basis. Those involved in the business will be provided the requisite training to make the transition, Nirani added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-to-sell-sand-in-sacks-to-avoid-wastage-overpricing-1003438.html
01-07-2021||State||You'll need Covid-19 negative report to enter Karnataka from Kerala||The Karnataka government on Thursday ordered that all people entering the state from Kerala will need to produce a negative RT-PCR report.  This measure is to keep a check on the dreaded Delta Plus variant of Covid-19 that has been reported in some Kerala districts.  “Negative RT-PCR certificate not older than 72 hours shall be compulsorily produced by the passengers coming to Karnataka by flight, bus, train, taxi, personal transport, etc,” Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar stated in his order.   The surveillance measure comes days after the government imposed a similar instruction for people coming into Karnataka from Maharashtra.  Deputy Commissioners of Dakshina Kannada, Kodagu, Mysuru and Chamarajanagar that border Kerala have been asked to deploy necessary staff at checkposts to ensure that all vehicles entering Karnataka are checked for compliance, the order said. Those visiting Karnataka from Kerala daily for education, business and other reasons, including students, should undergo the RT-PCR test once in 15 days and “possess the negative test report,” the order said.  Those who have received both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, constitutional functionaries, healthcare professionals and children below two years of age are exempted from producing the negative RT-PCR report. In dire emergency situations such as death in a family or medical treatment, the passenger’s swab will be collected on arrival and further action will be taken based on the RT-PCR test report, the order said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/youll-need-covid-19-negative-report-to-enter-karnataka-from-kerala-1003736.html
01-07-2021||State||Karnataka Teachers' Eligibility Test on August 22||The Teachers' Eligibility Test (TET) to get eligibility to teach classes 1 to 8 (KARTET-2021) will be conducted on August 22. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said this in a press statement. Those, who have completed PUC, DEd can apply for grades 1 to 5 and for grade 8, one should have completed any degree with DEd or BEd. July 20 is the last date to submit the applications.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-teachers-eligibility-test-on-august-22-1003762.html
01-07-2021||State||Karnataka CM Yediyurappa receives CSR donations||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday received 40 ICU beds and medical equipment donated by various companies under their corporate social responsibility initiatives to the Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health. According to the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO), the donation was made by CII, Embassy Group, 3M, Swiss Re, Capitaland Hope Foundation, Axa and iCEMA.  Also, a 500 litres per minute oxygen plant would also come up contributed by Lowe’s India through Sambhav Foundation, the CMO said. “Yooil Infrastructure has donated 50 oxygen concentrators and Indian American Donors has contributed 50 ventilators to Karnataka,” the CMO added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-receives-csr-donations-1003777.html
01-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Vaccines not mandatory for students: Karnataka minister||Even though the higher education department had planned to administer the Covid-19 vaccines to the eligible students in July and resume classes in August, it is not mandatory for students to get vaccines. As per the data available from the department as of June 28, 2021 (Monday), 94,000 students were jabbed and the aim was to vaccinate all the students in the next 10 days. According to officials of the department, the students will have options to attend either online or offline classes as it is not mandatory for students to attend offline classes after vaccination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/vaccines-not-mandatory-for-students-karnataka-minister-1003434.html
01-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Syndicate, senate members can’t be treated like chattel: Karnataka HC||The Karnataka High Court has expressed anguish for the manner in which the members of the syndicate and senate are treated like ‘chattels’. Reinstating members of syndicate and senate of Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS), who were replaced by a new set of members in October 2020, Justice G Narendar said if institutions of excellence are being run in such a manner, where appointments are changed to suit political considerations, it only speaks of volumes about the state of affairs in such institutions and also a reflection of the civil society. The petitions were filed by Dr Deepthi Bhava and others. They were appointed as members of the syndicate and senate on October 16, 2018, and removed and replaced by a new set of members on October 23, 2020. “It is sorry to see that the appointment of such persons has resulted in litigation only because such people are sought to be painted with a political brush irrespective of their academic excellence. It can be safely presumed that ‘eminent people’, as mandated in the provisions, would remain eminent and their eminence would not be diminished by their political affiliations or by the fact that they have been identified as members of any political dispensation or party,” the court said. The government advocate submitted that the removal was in the interest of the administration. The court termed it as “a lame duck excuse to get rid of persons who probably are not of the same feather but are appointed by a dispensation bearing different colours.” The bench also observed that nothing was placed to demonstrate that the persons who have replaced the petitioners are of pre-eminence or more eminent than the petitioners.   “If the appointment is for a definite tenure that is till the reconstitution the members could not have been removed by the competent authority or by the State Government without recording valid reasons. It is not pointed out by the respondents, either by the University or the State Government as to how the administration suffered on account of the appointment of these petitioners,” the court said. When the university pleaded that a short term remains to the petitioners, the court directed to it ensure reinstatement so that the petitioners can be allowed to leave with their heads held high.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/syndicate-senate-members-can-t-be-treated-like-chattel-karnataka-hc-1003435.html
01-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to build memorial for martyred Covid-19 warriors||A first-of-its-kind grand Covid Warrior Memorial in honour of doctors and paramedical staff who 'martyred' themselves in the fight against coronavirus would be built in Bengaluru, Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar said on Thursday. "We will build a memorial to pay homage to those doctors who laid down their lives due to Covid while rendering their services on our Arogya Soudha premises. I believe this is the first memorial in the country," Sudhakar said during a function to celebrate National Doctors' Day. The Minister said his department has decided to build it in a unique way in memory of doctors and paramedics, which will be on par with the War Memorial in New Delhi where anyone can go and pay their respects. The memorial will be a place where everyone can come and pay tribute, he added. Stating that about 800 doctors died due to Covid in the country during the second wave of Covid, Sudhakar said many of them left behind their families including children in the line of duty. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi had called the doctors Covid warriors. We call only those soldiers martyrs who died for the nation during the fight but we are announcing today that the doctors and paramedics who died due to Covid are martyrs and we will build a memorial for them," Sudhakar explained. He also said in the next few weeks the sketch of the structure would be ready. After the structure is ready, the family members of the martyrs will be invited to pay their tributes. Sudhakar said his department will fix a date to observe the martyrs' day of doctors. The Minister also paid his homage to late Dr Bidhan Chandra Roy, former Chief Minister of West Bengal, who was also a noted physician, for his contribution to the medical field and in whose memory his birthday is celebrated across India as National Doctors' Day on July 1||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-build-memorial-for-martyred-covid-19-warriors-1003543.html
01-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Vaccinate all college students against Covid-19 by July 7: Karnataka DyCM to Vice-Chancellors||The vice-chancellors of Karnataka govt-run universities have been directed to complete the vaccination process of students by July 7. He also informed the vice-chancellors that the reopening of offline classes depends on the success rate of the vaccination drive for students. "If needed, the deadline can be extended for 2 to 3 days more. But the vice-chancellors should ensure that all students are vaccinated," the minister said. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/vaccinate-all-college-students-against-covid-19-by-july-7-karnataka-dycm-to-vice-chancellors-1003605.html
01-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||11 camels rescued in Karnataka, sent back to Rajasthan||Eleven camels were rescued and sent back to Rajasthan as per the court's order in Mandya on Wednesday. It is said that the camels were brought from Rajasthan recently to be sold as meat during Bakrid festival. The members of Vishwa Prani Kalayana Mandali, led by its president Dayananda Swami, stopped the lorries transporting the camels at Chintamani, near Chikkaballpur and handed it to the police. A case was registered. Later, the camels were looked after at a goshala in Doddabyadarahalli, in Pandavapura taluk, in Mandya district. The court heard the case and directed the authorities to send back the camels. Accordingly, the camels were sent in two lorries to Rajasthan, from the SP's office premises, on Wednesday evening||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/11-camels-rescued-in-karnataka-sent-back-to-rajasthan-1003641.html
01-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Siddaramaiah calls for cancellation of SSLC exams||Opposition party leader Siddaramaiah urged the state government to cancel the SSLC examination scheduled for July third week. Speaking to reporters, here, Siddaramaiah said, it is not right to conduct the examination amidst the Covid-19 pandemic. The state government must not conduct SSLC examinations at this point in time. The government has cancelled the PUC examination and there is no meaning in conducting SSLC exams amidst Covid-19. “I have explained to the Minister but it is of no use,'' he lamented.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/siddaramaiah-calls-for-cancellation-of-sslc-exams-1003660.html
01-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 200 new Delta cases, no increase in Delta Plus cases||Karnataka on Thursday confirmed 200 cases of Delta Covid-19 variant (B.1.617.2), taking the total number to 518 cases and 33 new cases of the Kappa variant (B.1.617.1), while cases of Delta Plus, the variant of concern, remained the same. Members of the State genomic surveillance committee told DH that though the Delta variant was more infectious than the SARS-CoV-2, whether it caused more morbidity or mortality was yet to be investigated. Prof Satyajit Mayor, Director, National Centre for Biological Sciences, and member of the State Genomic Surveillance Committee, told DH, "These cases may mostly be a backlog. What needs to be investigated is whether these cases have caused more harm in the state. It seems to be more infectious. Mortality data in this country is very sketchy. We don't have data on virulence and case fatality rate. Data from the UK says the Delta variant spreads faster. Covid cases seem to be on the decline and the Delta variant is replacing the variant of SARS-CoV-2, previously in circulation. If Delta variant reflects in the overall Covid surge, then it may be a cause of worry." Dr Vishal Rao, Dean, Centre for Academic Research, HCG, another member of the State Genomic Surveillance Committee, told DH, "These cases seem to be at least three to four weeks old. Delta variant has been a predominant contributor to the second wave but it is showing up in numbers only now. This gives us a reaffirmation that it is a 'variant of concern'. The Kappa variant continues to be a variant of interest. But in the coming days, anything related to the sub-lineages of the B.1.617 are something we need to closely watch for." Experts said there is a need to reduce the time lag in genomic sequencing. It takes about four weeks for completing the procedure on a batch, starting from sample collection, transportation of specimen and sequencing to the bio-informatic analysis. Rao said if results are a month old, it is difficult to ascertain patient zero (index patient). "There is a need to trace back to patient zero and prospectively look at primary and secondary contacts. This is very essential to keep a track of the new variants. We're trying to create a heat map, if possible, district-wise, to get representation of cases. "It's in discussion-stage but we need to move towards real-time monitoring rather than look at cases retrospectively. This data will now go to various districts and will be correlated with patient codes. Meta data analysis is yet to be done by the BBMP and other districts," Rao said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-200-new-delta-cases-no-increase-in-delta-plus-cases-1003673.html
01-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Siddaramaiah expresses displeasure over Rohini Sindhuri||Opposition party leader Siddaramaiah on Thursday said that the state government should have suspended IAS officer Rohini Sindhuri, the previous deputy commissioner, if she had violated Heritage norms for the construction of a swimming pool at the official residence of Deputy Commissioner. Siddaramaiah expressed displeasure against Sindhuri in front of Suttur Mutt seer Sri Shivarathri Deshikendra, at the Suttur mutt branch in the city. He asked whether the swimming pool was necessary at the heritage structure. The government is not there to listen to the officer, he said, adding that the government has no capacity to control the officials, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/siddaramaiah-expresses-displeasure-over-rohini-sindhuri-1003690.html
01-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Over 3 lakh people died, Karnataka govt fudging Covid-19 death figures: DK Shivakumar||According to Shivakumar, more than three lakh people have died this year alone due to the pandemic as against the government’s death toll of 35,000. “Death audit is compulsory. Even if the government doesn’t do it, we will go to every house and draw up a list of people who died last year and this year. We will work towards getting them compensation,” Shivakumar said, referring to the party’s massive month-long outreach programme that started Thursday. To claim compensation  “We have made our own application form for households that have not received Covid-19 death certificates. Our party workers will mount pressure on officials to issue certificates, which will be used to claim compensation from the government,” he said. Shivakumar cited death figures from the eJanMa website of the Office of the Chief Registrar of Births and Deaths. “Between January 1 and June 13, there have been 3.27 lakh deaths in the state,” he said. As on June 30, this figure stood at 3.60 lakh. But soon after Shivakumar’s claim, these details on the website became inaccessible. Earlier this month, senior Congress leader HK Patil had flagged the disparity. “Have we had so many natural deaths? It’s not possible,” Patil wondered. Congress working president Eshwar Khandre cited figures from the Bidar district government hospital that has 500 beds, 250 for non-Covid patients. “Between April 15 and May 15, the hospital provided us a list of 557 people who died. But the government’s bulletin shows just 141 deaths. Clearly, they are fudging the numbers,” he said. Shivakumar said the government should be “liberal” during times like these. “Those who come forward seeking compensation, with or without a doctor’s certificate, should be considered,” he said. “Many people have died at home as they were unable to go to the hospital. How can they claim compensation? They can’t.” The Congress leader also lashed out at the BJP government, saying it had “no heart, eyes and ears” after the Chamarajanagar tragedy. “The government has compensated only 24 families out of 36 deceased,” he said. “They haven’t been given death certificates,” he said, demanding an FIR against ministers and officials responsible for the deaths. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/over-3-lakh-people-died-karnataka-govt-fudging-covid-19-death-figures-dk-shivakumar-1003699.html
01-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||US-based battery firm to invest Rs 4,000 crore in Karnataka||The state government on Thursday inked an agreement with New York-based Charge CCCV LLC (C4V) that has offered to invest Rs 4,000 crore in Karnataka's electric battery manufacturing sector and generate over 4,000 jobs. C4V is a lithium-ion battery manufacturing company, Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar said. These batteries are used in electronics, electric vehicles and have found a growing use in the aerospace sector, too. The construction work for a 5 GWh capacity plant will commence later this year, the minister said. "The company's investment of Rs 4,015 crore in the state will create more than 4,000 jobs," Shettar said. The company has already begun signing various MoUs with Indian companies for supply of batteries, according to a release. “We have pioneered the future of green with the recent changes in the Electronic System Design and Manufacturing Policy (ESDM) policy and the Electric Vehicle Policy. The cell manufacturing sector will play an important role in reducing environmental pollution," Shettar said, promising "all cooperation" for industries to set up shop in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/us-based-battery-firm-to-invest-rs-4000-crore-in-karnataka-1003717.html
01-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||3,203 new Covid-19 cases, 94 deaths in Karnataka||The day also saw 14,302 discharges,taking the total recoveries to 27,46,544. Out of 3,203 new cases recorded today, 676 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 10,840 discharges and 18 deaths. Active cases were at 65,312. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 2.05 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 2.93 per cent. Dakshina Kannada reported 14 deaths, Dharwad (7), Ballari and Belagavi (6), followed by others. After Bengaluru Urban, the highest number of fresh cases were recorded in Mysuru (366), Hassan 281 and Shivamogga 194. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,14,235, followed by Mysuru 1,66,940 and Tumakuru 1,15,116. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 11,65,074, followed by Mysuru 1,60,274 and Tumakuru 1,12,706. Cumulatively a total of 3,44,25,805 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,56,078 were tested on Thursday alone. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/3203-new-covid-19-cases-94-deaths-in-karnataka-1003723.html
01-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Muslims should know BJP came to power in Karnataka due to Congress: HDK||Former Karnataka Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy on Thursday asked Muslims to "realise" that the BJP came to power in Karnataka due to the Congress. He claimed that the Congress will never come to power again and "the future is of regional parties", citing the "decline" of national parties in the recently concluded assembly elections in five states including West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. "If the BJP is in power in Karnataka at present, it's because of the Congress. My Muslim brethren should understand this. If BJP came to power in the state, it is not because of JD(S)," Kumaraswamy, the JD(S) second-in-command, said. He was speaking at the party office JP Bhavan here at an event to welcome political workers led by a local leader Kadar Sheikh from Hanagal in north Karnataka into his party fold. Hanagal assembly constituency is vacant following the death of six-time BJP MLA and former minister C M Udasi. The JD(S) leader said, "Congress does not have strength to come to power independently.Our Muslim brethren in the state should understand this fact, or else you will continue to receive blows throughout." He claimed that the Congress got majority in 2013 because the BJP split into three -- One was the BJP, the other two were the breakaway groups led by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and minister B Sriramulu. He ridiculed the alleged internal strife in the Congress over who should be the next Chief Minister in the event of the party coming to power. "There is an internal fight going on in the Congress over who should be the next Chief Minister when the elections are two years away.They are so desperate to come to power that they can't even wait for two years. They have begun stitching their suits thinking that they have already come to power," Kumaraswamy said. Welcoming Kadar Sheikh, he said people from Hanagal joining JD(S) is an indication that the constituency will become "our gateway" to victory in north karnataka in 2023 Assembly elections. The former Chief Minister underlined that every constituency is important for the JD(S) in Karnataka and his party intended to expand its reach and become a strong regional party by making its presence felt across the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/muslims-should-know-bjp-came-to-power-in-karnataka-due-to-congress-hdk-1003725.html
01-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Kumaraswamy is a liar, claims Siddaramaiah||Opposition party leader Siddaramaiah on Thursday alleged that JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy is a liar and denied reacting to his comments. Speaking to reporters, Siddaramaiah refused to comment over Kumaraswamy's statement that the Congress leader prevented people from Scheduled Caste communities from becoming CM. "Kumaraswamy is a liar and I will not react to him," he said. On a query about allegations of milk adulteration at Mandya Milk Union Limited (Manmul), Siddaramaiah said, he suggested for CID probe. The government should take measures to punish the offenders, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kumaraswamy-is-a-liar-claims-siddaramaiah-1003734.html
01-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid relief fund: Karnataka to modify guidelines for registration||The Labour Department on Thursday informed the Karnataka High Court that it will modify the guidelines to register domestic workers for availing the one-time Covid-19 relief fund of Rs 2,000. The Secretary of the Labour Department, who appeared before the court through video conferencing, submitted that stringent action has been taken against all involved in collecting ‘commission fee’ from unorganised sector workers to register the details online. The Karnataka State Legal Services Authority had filed a report on these instances of collection of ‘commission fee’, ranging between Rs 150 and Rs 250, before the court in a PIL on the issue of domestic workers. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka was hearing an application moved in the PIL seeking directions to ensure that the compensation is paid to all those domestic workers who are registered or whose applications for registration are pending. During the hearing, the bench pointed out that with required documents listed by the Labour Department it is too cumbersome a process for domestic workers to register the details.  The secretary submitted that the guidelines /procedure will be modified and it will be ensured that those who are entitled to benefit will get the same if they have an Aadhar card, a certificate signed by the employer and particulars of their bank account.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-relief-fund-karnataka-to-modify-guidelines-for-registration-1003757.html
01-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||New cashless treatment facility for govt staff soon: B S Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday said that a new cashless treatment facility for government employees and their dependents will be rolled out soon, more than a year after he announced it in the budget.  “Action will be taken on the new cashless treatment facility for all government employees and dependents, which was announced in the last year’s budget,” Yediyurappa said at the inauguration of the centenary building of the Karnataka State Government Employees’ Association (KSGEA) at Cubbon Park here.  The new cashless treatment facility for surgical procedures will benefit 22.5 lakh employees and their dependents. For this, the government plans to modify the existing Jyothi Sanjivini scheme that currently provides cashless treatment for cardiac surgery, cancer, neuro surgery, urology, burns polytrauma cases, paediatric and neonatal surgeries. The government has estimated this to cost Rs 50 crore every year.  Yediyurappa also pointed out that the government had issued an order last week granting six months' child care leave for women employees along with maternity leave already in existence. “About four lakh women employees will benefit with this as they will get time to focus on their family, education and health of children,” Yediyurappa said.  The state government has already ordered that anonymous complaints against employees will not be entertained. “This will allow employees to work in a free, fearless atmosphere,” Yediyurappa said. He also told the KSGEA that the government was paying out Rs 15,000 towards the final rites of every deceased employee.  “For the annual sports event organized by the KSGEA, the government’s grant has been increased from Rs 40 lakh to Rs 2.5 crore this year,” the CM pointed out, adding that the government gave Rs 13 crore to the KSGEA for its centenary celebrations.   Yediyurappa said his government was supportive towards the welfare of all employees. “Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the government has not been able to collect taxes and take up development in the last 1.5 years, making it a difficult situation,” he said. “In the coming days, I will try honestly to address all your problems.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/new-cashless-treatment-facility-for-govt-staff-soon-b-s-yediyurappa-1003758.html
01-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Labour Dept to wean away from Seva Sindhu||The Labour Department has decided to break away from the Karnataka government’s flagship Seva Sindhu portal and start its own website for all its services in the future. Through the new portal, workers will be able to apply for all benefits and schemes, including the government’s Covid-19 financial package. The department’s decision comes amid several complaints that unorganised sector workers are finding it difficult to apply for the government’s financial package through the Seva Sindhu portal. According to Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar, the existing portal has several glitches, delaying benefits to beneficiaries.  Speaking to DH, Hebbar said the Seva Sindhu portal was burdened with hundreds of services across various departments. “As a result of this, the server is always busy and slow. With the new portal dedicated exclusively for labour services, we intend to speed up the applications. These include services for workers concerning their pension, health, marriage assistance and education among others,” he explained. These services will still also be available on Seva Sindhu.  Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has already given his consent and the portal is expected to be up within two months, Hebbar said.  Elaborating further, Hebbar said workers approaching citizen service centres for government schemes and benefits often have to forego a day’s wage and there are middlemen taking advantage of this situation. “This paves way for corruption as some staff demand money to upload applications,” he said.  While the state government recently announced a Rs 2,000 Covid-19 financial package for domestic workers, activists have alleged that the process is cumbersome and that middlemen are demanding money to process the applications. A petition has been filed in the High Court in this regard. Activist Geeta Menon, joint secretary, Domestic Workers’ Rights Union pointed out that in most of the Seva Sindhu Kendras, meant to help beneficiaries upload their applications, money up to Rs 250 is charged unofficially. Uploading the documents from home is not easy as there are too many forms to be filled. Domestic workers also have to get an authorisation from a gazetted officer, making the process cumbersome, she said, urging the government to make the process easier for workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-labour-dept-to-wean-away-from-seva-sindhu-1003759.html
01-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Man claiming to be Sriramulu's PA held for cheating people by using Karnataka CM's son's name||The Cyber Crime officials of the Central Crime Branch (CCB) arrested a man who allegedly claimed to be the personal assistant of Social Welfare minister B Sriramulu and cheated many people by promising to get their works done in the government.  The accused has been identified as Rajanna alias Raju (40), a resident of Ballari. According to an investigating officer, Chief Minister B S Yeddyurappa's son B Y Vijayendra had filed a complaint with the Cyber Crime police on June 28 stating that the accused Rajanna and others misused his name to get a job done by receiving illegal gratification. Vijayendra also stated that he does not know the accused and had nothing to do with him. He requested the police to take necessary action against all the persons involved. Rajanna was detained near Chalukya hotel in Basaveshwara circle on Thursday evening. He will be taken into police custody and will be interrogated thoroughly. "We are yet to get confirmation whether Rajanna is really PA of Sriramulu. But, we have got few photos of him with Sriramulu", an investigating officer said. Vijayendra had two-three audio files of the call conversation between Rajanna and the people who paid him money. Rajanna had used the name of Vijayendra In all the audio files. The same was handed over to the police by Vijayendra. Police have found 20 such audio files which were circulated on WhatsApp and social media.  The investigating officer ruled out that Rajanna was detained from the residence of Sriramulu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/man-claiming-to-be-sriramulus-pa-held-for-cheating-people-by-using-karnataka-cms-sons-name-1003788.html
01-07-2021||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Panic ensues as leopard spotted in Belagavi ||A leopard was spotted near the Race Course ground in Belagavi on Thursday morning creating panic among the people, especially the morning walkers. Race Course ground had been closed for morning walkers since the commencement of lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The lack of movement of humans during morning hours could have resulted in the leopard straying near the ground in search of prey, it is feared.  The gates of Race Course ground were opened on Thursday for the first time. People from the northern part of the city and the old city area come to the ground in large numbers for their morning walk. The ground has forests bordering Belagavi taluk.  Morning walkers, on spotting the leopard, panicked and left the place. Some of them informed the Forest Department officials who later reached the spot and had been collecting information||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/panic-ensues-as-leopard-spotted-in-belagavi-1003539.html
01-07-2021||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Crocodile enters Karnataka's Dandeli village||People of a village in Karnataka had a surprise visitor on Thursday--an crocodile on spotted roaming around-, giving them a scare before being caught by forest officials. The crocodile had come out of Kali river and entered Kogilabana village under Dandeli, forest officials said. As the crocodile creeped along the bylanes of the village, frightened people alerted the forest officials who rushed to the spot. After removing it safely, the officials released it back into the river. They said the creature did no harm to anyone so long as it was in the midst of a human settlement. According to the officials, the river has a sizable number of crocodiles. Keeping that in mind, a crocodile park has been set up in Dandeli.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/crocodile-enters-karnatakas-dandeli-village-1003636.html
01-07-2021||West||1 child dead, 2 hospitalised after father gives ice-cream laced with rat poison||A six year-old boy died while his two siblings were hospitalised after their father allegedly gave them rat poison in ice cream following a dispute with his wife in Mumbai, a police official said. The incident took place on June 25, but came to light on Tuesday when the boy died at the government-run Sion Hospital and doctors informed the Mankhurd police, the official said on Wednesday. The children's mother, Nazia Begum, told the police that she and her husband, Ali Naushad Ansari (27), a daily wage worker, often fought over money-related issues. On June 25, she left their home at Sathe Nagar in Mankhurd and went to stay with her sister after yet another quarrel, the woman said. Ansari took the three children -- two boys and one girl -- out, promising them ice cream and allegedly gave them poison, she told the police. Later, when the kids started complaining of stomach pain, Nazia Begum, who had returned home in the meanwhile, took them to Sion Hospital, the woman said. Initially, she lied to doctors that the children had eaten rat poison accidentally, but when her son died, she decided to tell the truth to police, she said. The police have also recorded the statements of the two surviving kids, who are recovering in the hospital, the official said. A case has been registered against Ansari, who is absconding, under sections for murder and attempt to murder, he added||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/1-child-dead-2-hospitalised-after-father-gives-ice-cream-laced-with-rat-poison-1003484.html
01-07-2021||West||Pune is now Maharashtra's largest city; surpasses Mumbai||The historic Pune is now Maharashtra’s geographically-largest city, surpassing the financial capital of Mumbai. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) now commands an area over 518 sq kms as against the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) which is spread over 434 sq km. The Maharashtra govenrment’s Urban Development Department on Wednesday evening issued the notification including 23 adjoining villages – this increasing the limits from the existing 331 sq km to 518 sq km. However, if one considers the budget and population, Pune is behind Mumbai. The PMC has an estimated budget of Rs 8,370 crore for 2021-22, as compared to the Rs 39,038 crore budget of the BMC. Similarly, Pune’s population is 34 lakh as against Mumbai’s whooping 1.2 crore. According to the notification, the 23 villages added to PMC limits are Mhalunge, Sus, Bavdhan Budruk, Kirkatwadi, Pisoli, Kondhwe-Dhawade, Kopre, Nanded, Khadakwasla, Manjari Budhruk, Narhe, Holkarwadi, Autade-Handewadi, Wadachiwadi, Shewalewadi, Nandoshi, Sanasnagar, Mangdewadi, Bhilarewadi, Gujar Nimbalkarwadi, Jambhulwadi, Kolewadi and Wagholi. A decision to merge 34 fringe villages in the civic areas was taken in 2013-14, however, in 2017 only 11 villages were included and now the remaining 23 were merged with the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pune-is-now-maharashtras-largest-city-surpasses-mumbai-1003495.html
01-07-2021||West||Mumbai suspends Covid-19 vaccine drive due to shortage, citizens irked||Mumbaikars expressed unhappiness over the suspension of the Covid-19 vaccination drive at civic and government-run centres on Thursday due to shortage of vaccines doses, and raised questions over the management of the inoculation programme. Some residents also wondered if this was a bid to "divert people to private hospitals" for paid jabs rather than getting free vaccine doses at government centres. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday informed about the suspension of the inoculation drive for a day. The repeated suspension of the vaccination drive due to shortage of vaccine doses has irked local residents. Last month also, the inoculation drive was suspended once due to unavailability of sufficient number of vaccine doses. "Private hospitals have got thrice their normal quota for tmrw whereas the free vaccination centres are shut. Scam to divert people to private hospitals,"citizen Azmina Kotadiya tweeted. Some people, who had booked their appointments for jabs on Thursday, were confused whether they would receive their doses or not. "Our appointment is already scheduled on Cowin at a govt center tomorrow morning for Covaxin 2nd dose. So does it stand canceled now?" Payal Mukherjee asked in her tweet. The BMC in a tweet on Wednesday said, "Dear Mumbaikars, Please note that all BMC and Government vaccination centers will remain closed tomorrow (July 1, 2021). We apologize for the inconvenience. Please watch this space for updates regarding vaccination centres and schedules." Dear Mumbaikars, Please note that all BMC and Government vaccination centers will remain closed tomorrow (July 1, 2021). We apologize for the inconvenience. The civic body in a statement said the vaccination drive will resume once it receives the fresh stock of vaccines. It said citizens of Mumbai are continuously informed about the vaccination, depending upon the stock of vaccines received, and an appropriate decision is taken. So far, 54,35,731 citizens have been inoculated in the metropolis. Out of them, 10,72,578 beneficiaries have received the second dose as well, as per the BMC. On Wednesday, 63,579 people received the jabs, including 20,259 who got the second dose. Currently, there are 399 Covid-19 vaccination centres in Mumbai - 281 operated by the BMC, 20 government-run and 98 private facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-suspends-covid-19-vaccine-drive-due-to-shortage-citizens-irked-1003511.html
01-07-2021||West||Gulshan Kumar murder case: HC upholds acquittal of producer Ramesh Taurani, confirms conviction of one accused||Twenty-four years after ‘Cassette King’ Gulshan Kumar was gunned down, the Bombay High Court on Thursday upheld the conviction of prime accused Abdul Rauf Merchant and maintained the acquittal of music label owner Ramesh Taurani. Gulshan Kumar Dua, son of a fruit juice vendor, was the founder of Super Cassettes Industries Ltd and creator of the T-Series music label. Taurani, On the other hand, was the founder of Tips Industries Ltd, the music label and film production company. Kumar (41) was gunned down on August 12, 1997 when assailants pumped in 16 bullets outside the Jeeteshwar Mahadev Mandir at Jeet Nagar in Andheri West. A division bench of Bombay High Court comprising Justice Sadhana Jadhav and Justice N R Borkar maintained the acquittal of Taurani and dismissed an appeal of the Maharashtra government. The court confirmed the conviction of Abdul Rauf Merchant alias Dawood Merchant, who was associated with the gang of underworld don Dawood Ibrahim. The bench also quashed the acquittal of another accused in the case and Rauf’s brother Abdul Rashid Merchant and convicted him to life imprisonment. Rashid has been asked to surrender and if he fails, a non-bailable warrant can be issued against him. The Mumbai Sessions Court on April 29, 2002, had acquitted 18 of the 19 accused. The trial court convicted Rauf under Sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 120(b) (criminal conspiracy), 392 (robbery) and 397 (causing grievous hurt in robbery) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 27 (possession of arms) of the Indian Arms Act. Music composer Nadeem Akhtar Saifee of Nadeem-Shravan fame was also a 'wanted' accused in the case but the Indian government’s attempt to extradite him from the United Kingdom failed in the British court.  Rauf subsequently appealed against the conviction, while the state government filed an appeal against the acquittal of Taurani. On Thursday, the high court dismissed the state government's appeal and upheld the acquittal of Taurani. The bench, however, upheld the conviction of Rauf and also the life sentence imposed on him, but quashed and set aside his conviction under sections 392 and 397. "The acquittal of another accused Abdul Rashid Merchant is quashed. Rashid is convicted under sections 302, 120(b) of the IPC and section 27 of the Indian Arms Act. The accused is sentenced to life imprisonment. He is directed to surrender forthwith to the trial court or the D N Nagar police station," the high court said in its order. The bench also said Abdul Rauf Merchant would not be entitled to remission, considering his conduct during the trial. "The appellant (Rauf) shall not be entitled to remission considering his criminal antecedents and in the interest of justice and public at large, he is not entitled to any leniency,” the court said. The court noted that after the killing, Rauf had absconded and was arrested only in 2001. "In 2009, he (Rauf) was granted furlough, but he did not surrender and had to be arrested in 2016 again,” the bench said. The court said if Rashid fails to surrender, then the sessions court can issue a non-bailable warrant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gulshan-kumar-murder-case-hc-upholds-acquittal-of-producer-ramesh-taurani-confirms-conviction-of-one-accused-1003527.html
01-07-2021||West||Leading ophthalmologist Dr TP Lahane retires||India’s leading ophthalmologist Dr Tatyarao Lahane, who has set a world record with 1.62 lakh-plus cataract surgeries, has retired from government service. Dr Lahane retired on Wednesday as Director of the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) of Maharashtra after being in government service for 36 years. In the past, he had also served as the Dean of Grant Medical College and Sir JJ Group of Hospitals. Dr TP Lahane holds the world record of conducting 1.62-lakh cataract surgeries. In 2007, he completed the one-lakh mark of cataract surgeries and in 2008 was awarded the Padma Shri. “I will continue to serve the people…I am not stopping as far as work is concerned,” Dr Lahane told DH on Thursday which coincides with National Doctors’ Day. He said that he would work with the ophthalmology department of the Sir JJ Hospital at Byculla. Dr Lahane was born in a small village named Makegaon in Renapur in Latur district of Maharashtra in a farmer's family on February 12, 1957, to Pundlikrao and Anjanabai. Dr Lahane started his career at the Ambejogai Hospital. At a young age, both of his kidneys failed and his mother donated one of her kidneys to him. He underwent a kidney transplant surgery on February 22, 1995, in Mumbai. It is Dr Lahane who gave India the advanced phacoemulsification technology. He has also reached all remote places — by way of thousands of camps — within Maharashtra through surgical camps to treat patients who are unable to travel to the hospital for their ailment. Despite the kidney transplant and being on medicines, Dr Lahane works for over 14 hours daily. During the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, he played a key role as a part of the core team that is advising Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/leading-ophthalmologist-dr-tp-lahane-retires-1003545.html
01-07-2021||West||Forest department rescues injured Sambar deer on Pune highway||A Sambar deer had a close brush with death after getting hit by a speeding vehicle on the Kalyan Nirmal Highway in Pune district. Wildlife SOS and the Maharashtra Forest Department rushed to provide on-site treatment and the Sambar was later released back into the wild. The female Sambar deer was hit by a speeding vehicle while crossing the Kalyan Nirmal Highway (NH-222) near Vadkhal village, located in the Otur forest range of Pune district. Wounded and in severe shock, the Sambar was found sitting on the side of the road by concerned passers-by. They immediately alerted the Forest Department who contacted Wildlife SOS for medical assistance. By the time a three-member team from Wildlife SOS joined the Forest Department, a huge crowd had gathered on the highway to catch a glimpse of the animal and take pictures of it on their cell phones. The forest officers immediately stepped up to control the crowd while Wildlife SOS veterinarian Dr Nikhil Bangar provided on-site treatment to the injured deer. The Sambar was identified as a female, around four years old. Dr Nikhil Bangar, Wildlife Veterinary Officer, Wildlife SOS, said, “The Sambar was in a state of shock and was unable to move, so we administered fluid therapy to help her regain strength. Fortunately, the deer had not sustained any severe injuries and we provided topical treatment for minor abrasions on the body. On recovering from the stressful ordeal, we diverted her towards the green patch on the side of the road.” Kartick Satyanarayan, Co-founder and CEO, Wildlife SOS, said, “It is not uncommon for us to receive rescue calls where an unsuspecting animal has been injured due to negligent or rash driving. Such callousness not only puts the life of the animal at risk but also poses a threat to the safety of humans. However, we are glad to see that more and more people are making a conscious decision to help out animals in distress.” Yogesh Ghodake, Range Forest Officer, Otur, said, “Due to the quick intervention of the Forest Department and Wildlife SOS, the Sambar deer was able to receive timely help and safely return to the wild.” The Sambar (Rusa unicolor) is a large deer native to the Indian Subcontinent, southern China and Southeast Asia. The male Sambar has a unique stout and rugged antlers that are typically up to 110-cm long in adult individuals. Over the years, the Sambar population in the wild has been threatened due to loss of habitat and poaching, making them a vulnerable species under the IUCN Red Data List. This species is also protected under Schedule III of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/forest-department-rescues-injured-sambar-deer-on-pune-highway-1003546.html
01-07-2021||West||Money laundering case: Court extends ED custody of Anil Deshmukh's aides till July 6||A special PMLA court here on Thursday extended till July 6 the ED custody of two aides of former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh in connection with a money laundering case against the politician related to charges of bribery of Rs 100 crore. Deshmukh's personal secretary Sanjeev Palande and personal assistant Kundan Shinde were arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on June 26, after it carried out raids against them and the NCP leader in Mumbai and Nagpur. The two were booked under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). They were produced before the special PMLA court here on Thursday after the end of their earlier remand. The court extended their remand to the ED till July 6 for further probe into the case. The central agency had earlier told the court that the duo was allegedly instrumental in assisting Deshmukh in money laundering. The ED's case against Deshmukh and others was made out after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) first carried out a preliminary enquiry followed by a regular case being filed on the orders of the Bombay High Court. The court had asked the CBI to look into the allegations of bribery made against Deshmukh by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Deshmukh, who resigned as the state home minister in April this year following the allegations, has denied any wrongdoing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/money-laundering-case-court-extends-ed-custody-of-anil-deshmukhs-aides-till-july-6-1003569.html
01-07-2021||West||After Covid-19, 'black fungus' robs some of their eyesight||Saheb Rao Shinde's family thought the worst was over when the 65-year-old recovered from Covid-19 last month at his home in Marathwada. But a few weeks later, the revenue-stamp vendor lost sight in one eye. After a catastrophic second wave of Covid-19 in India since April, which has seen its overall death toll climb to almost 4 lakh, thousands who contracted the virus also suffered from a rare fungal disease called mucormycosis, or 'black fungus'.  The country -- which has more than 3 crore confirmed Covid-19 infections, second only to the United States -- has so far reported more than 40,845 cases of mucormycosis. Many like Shinde may never be able to regain their sight after the fungal disease, which causes blackening or discoloration over the nose, blurred or double vision, chest pain, breathing difficulties and coughing blood. "Father was fit and healthy, now he doesn't feel like eating ..." said his daughter, who did not want to be named. "His teeth have also been removed, it's very sad." Shinde, from the arid region of Marathwada, will resume work after he recovers from this, his daughter told Reuters in Mumbai.  Reuters spoke to several other sufferers of mucormycosis across India. Adesh Kumar, a 39-year-old farmer in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh, lost sight in his left eye. He had to borrow money to pay for medicine, secured against some of his land. India ordered tighter surveillance of mucormycosis in May as it compounded the challenge for Covid-19 patients, especially those on steroid therapy and with diabetes. Experts say an overuse of certain drugs which suppress the immune system could be causing the surge of the fungal infection. "We are seeing a lot of mucormycosis cases post-Covid infections since Covid-19 itself is known to decrease the immunity," said Charuta Mandke of the ophthalmology department at Dr R N Cooper Municipal General Hospital in Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/after-covid-19-black-fungus-robs-some-of-their-eyesight-1003634.html
01-07-2021||West||Prithviraj Chavan among frontrunners for Maharashtra Speaker post||Former Chief Minister Prithviraj Chavan, five-term legislator Suresh Warpudkar and two three-term MLAs Sangram Thopte and Amin Patel have emerged as frontrunners for the post of Speaker of Maharashtra Legislative Assembly. If all goes well politically, the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government would go in for Speaker’s election on June 6, the last day of the two-day session. The post of Speaker has been necessitated following the resignation of Nana Patole, who has taken over as the state Congress President. Because of its internal differences within the MVA and fierce attack from the opposition BJP in the wake of cases involving Anil Deshmukh and Sanjay Rathod – decided to go slow on it, during the brief Budget Session. However, with Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari reminding Thackeray again in the wake of a letter by Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis – the MVA leaders feel it is unavoidable. Over the last few days, back to back meetings have been held among top leaders of Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress – including a meeting of Thackeray with NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, the chief architect of MVA. During the trust vote in December 2019, the MVA secured 169 votes. The BJP has 105 MLAs and has the support of 10 to 12 others. “The MVA would like to maintain that number and would not take any chances,” Congress sources said. However, the main concern is that the NCP has to agree on the names of Chavan, a former Chief Minister and ex-Minister of State in the PMO or Thopte, a three-time MLA from Bhor. Patel, an MLA from Mumbaidevi in Mumbai, could be a strong contender.  Warpudkar is from the Parbhani district. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/prithviraj-chavan-among-frontrunners-for-maharashtra-speaker-post-1003658.html
01-07-2021||West||Gujarat govt asks Gandhi Ashram trusts to pass resolution in favour of redevelopment||The Gujarat government has asked all five trusts, associated with Mahatma Gandhi-founded Sabarmati Ashram, to pass a resolution giving in-principle approval to "Gandhi Ashram Memorial and Precinct Development Project" that aims to convert the ashram into a "world-class memorial". The government has also asked the trusts to submit all documents and relevant records of their properties, activities, occupants, among others within a week. According to sources, taken aback by the government order, which came in a letter written by K Kailashnathan, Principal Chief Secretary to the Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, who is also the Chairman of Executive Council formed to implement the project, the trustees held an "emergency meeting" at Gujarat Vidyapith on Thursday evening to discuss how to revert to the government. In the meeting, the trustees arrived at a conclusion that they will be writing back, seeking the official plan that the government has for the redevelopment. "We discussed in the meeting to approach the government and seek an official plan that they have for the ashram. We have seen the presentations on redevelopment but there is no official document. We have decided to write to the government and ask for the final plan," said one of the trustees who attended the meeting. Kailashnathan's letter, accessed by DH, 'thanks' the trustees for "positive response" to the redevelopment project during the executive council's meeting, which has been held only once. The letter says, "the project needs to be taken ahead, for which records and documents of land, houses and activities are required to be handed over to Ahmedabad collector, who has been authorised for the same." The letter "requests" to hand over "documents of land owned by the trusts, maps, area table, tax records, list of activities in the houses, occupants and records of any court or any legal cases information in seven days." The "Gandhi Ashram Memorial and Precinct Development Project" has been planned by city-based firm HCP Design, Planning and Management Pvt Ltd, headed by Bimal Patel, who is also involved in the Central Vista project in Delhi. The plan for the memorial is said to be based on a 1949-aerial photo when the ashram was spread in about 18 acres of land. Over the years, the ashram was divided and is being managed by five different trusts including Sabarmati Ashram Preservation and Memorial Trust (SAPMT), Sabarmati Ashram Gaushala Trust, Harijan Ashram Trust, Harijan Sevak Sangh and Khadi Gramodyog Prayog Samiti. SAPMT manages Sabarmati Ashram, popular among tourists, which is spread in about five acres of land. The plan is to consolidate the Ashram precinct once again as seen in the 1949 photo. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-govt-asks-gandhi-ashram-trusts-to-pass-resolution-in-favour-of-redevelopment-1003767.html
01-07-2021||West||Difficult to predict footfalls in casinos after they reopen: Official||It would be difficult to predict footfalls in casinos once entry restrictions are lifted by respective state governments, a spokesperson for a top pan-Indian casino group said on Thursday.  Speaking to IANS, Anil Malani, chief executive officer of the Deltin Group, which runs casino operations in Goa, Daman, Sikkim and Nepal, said that the casino group had already completed 100 per cent coverage of vaccination of its 2,500 workforce.  On being asked the estimation of footfalls once casino operations are allowed by the authorities, Malani said, “(It is) difficult to predict at the moment. It depends on many things like travel, capacity restrictions, and overall public sentiment. But we are hopeful that with mass vaccinations in full swing, we can keep the third wave at bay and things will be normalised soon.”   “While we are ready with all safety norms to start the operations, we are awaiting further clarification from the government to make any further announcements,” he also said.  Malani's company is one of the two leading casino operators in Goa. “As of now, all the employees have successfully received their first dose of vaccination in the month of May-June and are expected to complete their second dose soon as per the government stipulated time frame,” he said.  “During these difficult times, despite being non-operational for around two months since the second wave hit us in April 2021, we have taken many critical measures in this regard, with first and foremost being vaccinating all our staff,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/difficult-to-predict-footfalls-in-casinos-after-they-reopen-official-1003791.html
