02-07-2021||First Edit||Modi govt can’t say it is too poor to pay ex gratia to Covid victims||The Supreme Court has taken the case for payment of ex gratia to the families of those who died due to Covid-19 a definitive step forward by directing the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) to frame guidelines within six weeks to fix the amount to be paid. It is now certain that the payment will have to be made, despite the government’s opposition to making any payment. The court pulled up the NDMA for failing in its duty to recommend payment, and this censure applies to the government because the Prime Minister himself heads the NDMA. The direction was issued by a three-member bench while considering a PIL for payment of ex gratia. The court did not accept the plea of the petitioner to fix the ex gratia amount at Rs 4 lakh, and left it to the NDMA to decide on it. The court underlined some basic principles of public policy and institutional conduct with its order and its observations. It found the government’s refusal to pay compensation unjustifiable and the reasons it cited unacceptable. The Disaster Relief Act provides for relief to victims of various disasters and the government could not simply refuse to pay it after it had declared Covid-19 a disaster that came within the purview of the Act. The court made it clear that “The State may have its financial constraints and its priorities in expenditure, but the law does not permit any government to deprive its citizens of constitutional rights on plea of poverty.’’ This is an important assertion of the rights of citizens and a guideline on the policies to be followed by governments. The court also justified its decision in the matter as it was more an issue of citizens’ rights than one of its intervention in the executive’s domain. It has done well to push the government into a decision in the matter as it had earlier done in the case of issues like its vaccination policy and relief for migrant labourers. The government’s policies should at once be legal, just and humane.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/modi-govt-can-t-say-it-is-too-poor-to-pay-ex-gratia-to-covid-victims-1003811.html
02-07-2021||In Perspective||Higher education for today’s India||“Higher education plays an extremely important role in promoting human as well as societal well-being and in developing India as envisioned in its Constitution— a democratic, just, socially-conscious, cultured and humane nation”- National Education Policy, 2020- Section II, Higher Education The Policy goes on to say that the purpose of higher education is more than the creation of opportunities for individual employment. While at one end, the objective of higher education is represented as key to more vibrant, socially engaged, cooperative communities and a prosperous nation, the individual choices that we see today perceives higher education as a private good and pathway for economic emancipation only. In fact, some of the premier management institutions established in the seventies to prepare young people to occupy important positions in the public sector are now mostly focused on preparing leaders for the corporate world. This shift of higher education as a preparation to work at or lead private-run corporations gathered momentum with liberalisation, technology boom, a globally connected world and various other factors. It is now time to bring back the focus of India’s higher education to the issues and challenges of the nation. It is clear that the problems that India (and the connected world) faces today have no easy technological or scientific solutions readily available. The path ahead for jobs and careers is definitely going to be one that can help the professional to make connections and develop an understanding of people, their cultures and public institutions that impact our lives. One cannot be learning four years of computer science or mechanical engineering without any understanding of the real-world problems and societal needs. As a nation, at one end we have invested heavily to prepare engineers, lawyers and managers (what is broadly referred to as professional programmes), but at the other end we have not equally strengthened the options of preparing public-service professionals. It is now the right time to focus on natural sciences, social sciences, humanities and more importantly the inter disciplinary domains of education, development, sustainability and prepare the youth for meaningful careers that await them in the 21st century. Learning biology, economics, mathematics, philosophy or physics at a university in isolation without the context of the nation or the challenges of the nation is not only futile but also an inefficient use of their time. We should provide the young learner the opportunity to combine their interest in a discipline with an interdisciplinary area of their choice and open up the possibility of working in varied domains. For eg: A science or technology student who is exposed to the human development challenges can come up with solutions that will improve the livelihood of farmers or solutions to help reduce infant mortality rate in India. Someone who will learn biology with sustainability may want to study or work further in the area of environmental science, wildlife science or conservation biology. We can think about many such areas of work where the higher education curriculum is clearly focused on solving problems of the here and now of the country. Skills for 21st century The world is evolving now at a faster pace than we can imagine. Jobs of today will vanish and new jobs will evolve and will need trained professionals with problem-solving skills. The university education should provide them with transferable skills irrespective of their sector or nature of work. To quote what contemporary Historian Yuval Noah Harari says, the four Cs required in the 21st century are Critical thinking, Communication, Collaboration and Creativity. A well-designed university curriculum should have courses that will initiate students into the process of acquiring critical thinking abilities and effective communication skills (reading and writing). It should also have courses that engage with logic, argumentation and ethics. These are the courses that will help students acquire the much required fundamental capacities necessary for their continuous learning and will help them navigate their professional, personal and social challenges. Careers in public services The higher education curriculum should be designed in such a manner that it should open up multiple possibilities for employment, further education and not restrict them to an industry or a narrow sector. Some of the career opportunities that await in public services are that of a biologist, ecologist, scientist, teacher, teacher educator, curriculum specialist, economist, historian, development journalist, policy analyst, civil service officer and social entrepreneur. The country also needs experts in the field of public health, climate change, water, waste management, renewable energy, agriculture and other allied public services. India’s development challenges are huge and to be relevant, we need to revamp higher education that will lead to meaningful work opportunities and be a direct contributor to building a society that we have envisaged in the Constitution. (The writer is Head of Student Affairs, Azim Premji University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/higher-education-for-today-s-india-1003813.html
02-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Wanderers from wild scare morning walkers in Uttara Kannada||It was a rude morning shock for residents of Kogilabana on the banks of River Kali at Dandeli in Uttara Kannada district on Thursday.  A giant crocodile took a stroll on the streets of the village for half an hour, scaring the daylights out of the residents.   The crocodile harmed no one, even as residents feared the worst if the crocodile were to enter homes. Some bravehearts among morning walkers captured it on their mobile phones and the pictures and videos went viral.   Forest department personnel caught the crocodile and released it back into the river.  People said reptiles are a common sight in the village at night since there is a crocodile park nearby. But being greeted by them in the morning was unusual.  Elsewhere, a leopard was spotted near the Race Course ground in Belagavi, creating panic among morning walkers. It is said that the big cat may have strayed into the ground in search of prey from a thick plantation adjacent to a forest.  The walkers informed forest officials who begun searching for the animal.  In Maddur, three elephants were seen in Shimsha river in front of the Vaidyanatheshwara temple on Wednesday night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/wanderers-from-wild-scare-morning-walkers-in-uttara-kannada-1003844.html
02-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah calls Vijayendra 'real CM of Karnataka'||Reacting to the arrest of a close aide of Minister of Social Welfare B Sriramulu by the Bengaluru CCB police in connection with a cheating case, Congress legislature party leader and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah stated that State BJP Vice-President B Y Vijayendra is the real chief minister of Karnataka. Speaking to media persons on Friday, he said the chief minister's son Vijayendra has lodged a complaint with the Cyber Crime police alleging that Rajanna had misused his name to get a job done and had received illegal gratification. Based on his complaint, the police had booked Rajanna and others for cheating and under the provisions of the IT Act. "To know who the real culprit is, the government must order for a high-level probe," he demanded.  Slamming the state government, he said that no work is done without a bribe. "The family members of Yediyurappa are indulged in bribe." On compensation for Covid-19 victims, he said, "Congress had demanded the government to provide compensation of Rs 5 lakh to each family that lost a member due to Covid-19. The Supreme Court too has directed the government to do so." On the discussion of the next chief minister within the Congress party, he said that the party high command would take a call on it. "There is a system in the party and nobody can violate it," he said. He exuded confidence that Congress would win the highest seats in the next state Assembly polls and made it clear that there is no dissidence within the party. On JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy's statement on dissidence in Congress, Siddaramaiah said, "Is he from Congress to speak of affairs related to our party?" and added that Kumaraswamy is deliberately making false statements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiah-calls-vijayendra-real-cm-of-karnataka-1004013.html
02-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||I am not a CM aspirant, says Zameer Ahmed Khan||Congress’ Chamarajpet legislator B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan on Friday ruled himself out from the chief ministerial race under the Muslim quota. He said the next Congress chief minister will be picked by the people. “And you already know who people want to see as the CM,” he said, suggesting that he still supported Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah to get a second term if the Congress were to win the 2023 assembly elections. “There's nothing wrong with everybody asking for the CM’s post - Dalits, Muslims, Lingayats, Vokkaligas...but people's opinion is most important. The person who has people's support will have to become CM,” he said. “I’m not a CM aspirant. I haven’t grown that big.” Khan and a few other party MLAs had openly projected Siddaramaiah as the next chief minister, much to the dismay of Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar and other leaders. “Our leader Siddaramaiah has said nobody should talk about the next CM. So, we’ve put a fullstop on that,” Khan said. He also said that people still remember the welfare programmes that Siddaramaiah implemented when he was the CM from 2013 to 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/i-am-not-a-cm-aspirant-says-zameer-ahmed-khan-1004155.html
02-07-2021||Main Article||Protect small entrepreneurs||The pandemic and its devastation impel me to narrate these two stories, both heart-wrenching.  Dinesh, a Nepali Gorkha, was a cook in our house a few years ago. He must have been 18 then. He was a bundle of energy like a gazelle.  Dinesh had two traits that stood out. An iron will and discipline. At 5 every evening, on the dot, come rain or sunshine, he would jump into his track pants and bolt from the house for his karate classes. He would return home by 7 pm, drenched in sweat, shower in a jiffy and with a glowing smile be ready to cook the evening meal. On occasion, he would return beaten black and blue but plunge into his chores joyfully and narrate tales of his exploits during dinner— of how he was thrashed by a much bigger fighter.  Then one day, after five or six years, he came to us to say he had earned his Karate black-belt and wished to venture out on his own and set up a martial arts school. I was thrilled, though also sad that he was leaving us.  Years passed. Dinesh kept in touch. His start-up expanded to two locations. He had tiny tots, youngsters from schools and colleges, and professionals from Tatas and Toyota and others training under him. He had married a young girl from Nepal. With the great reversal of his social status and financial standing, he beamed with pride.  And last month, suddenly, he came home to see me. The light from his eyes was dim, the lustre on his face had lost its sheen, the spring in his step was absent. The pandemic had taken its toll. His martial arts school was shut. He was unschooled but had braved on by taking online classes. The number of students had shrunk. His income had plummeted. He had bank debts and private loans to discharge. Added to it, he had to pay monthly rents for the karate school and house and had now a family to care for. He had three assistants whom he had to let go. He was now staring at an uncertain future. The coronavirus had upended his business and life.  Col Vaidyanathan (Vaidy) had retired after 20 years from the Army Engineers. A common friend directed him to me. He always had this fire in the belly to become an entrepreneur. So, he decided to set up a gourmet restaurant in Bengaluru. The Colonel loved authentic rural Punjabi cuisine. He recruited two Sikh chefs from Amritsar who specialised in kulchas and brought them to Bengaluru and launched the restaurant Kulcha di Hatti in an upscale locality. The venture took off to roaring success. Then Covid happened and the March 2020 national lockdown. His restaurant ground to a halt. He held on and kept his chefs and staff on his payroll. He had trained them with Army rigour. After three months, there were relaxations. On a wing and a prayer, he re-opened the restaurant. But the virus hovered about. The business never picked up. His losses and debts mounted. His retirement savings evaporated. Unable to sustain, he shut shop. It was gut-wrenching. He retrenched his staff of fifteen. The ground beneath him suddenly collapsed. He is undaunted, picking up the pieces, and now looking at new opportunities to start over again. Such stories are legion. The pandemic has laid waste to the unorganised sector and wreaked havoc on families. The real engine that keeps the Indian economy running is made up of the millions of small entrepreneurs in a myriad of enterprises. The majority of jobs is generated by tiny corner groceries, Udupi hotels, bakeries and dhabas, fruit and vegetable vendors, restaurants, spas and salons, lodges and home-stays, and countless self-employed drivers, mechanics, weavers, handicrafts artisans, pavement and pushcart sellers, etc. And, of course, in addition there are lakhs of small and medium-sized producers of goods and services, the very breath of economic activity.  The hard numbers tell the story. Government (states and Centre put together) and corporate employees add up to some 50 million people. Public sector enterprises, including the Railways, and the armed forces together account for another five million jobs. That means, out of an employable 750 million of our 1.3 billion population, just about 55 million are in the organised sector. About 350 million (farmers and rural labour) are employed in agriculture activities. That leaves the rest, nearly 350 million (which includes urban labour) — nearly 50% of the employable population— engaged in various small occupations, enterprises and services. These unknown entrepreneurs are fired more by their imagination and entrepreneurial drive than seed capital. They overcome obstacles at every step with stoic courage, and somehow survive the ‘inspector raj’ that preys on them. They create new and different markets, jobs and wealth where none existed before. The solutions to bail them out are not easy. Authentic and reliable data of these self-employed are hard to come by. But the government must find ways to come to their aid. The slightly larger SMEs, about whom data is available, are in dire straits. A mandatory moratorium of two years on principle and interest payments, with waiver of penalties, on bank loans to all SMEs may be one way of giving them succour. The government can advance matching amounts as loans to banks for two years to shore up their liquidity. Along with it, a moratorium on GST without penalties for two years from March 2020 can also be offered. These measures could, to an extent, help them pay salaries and avoid retrenchment of staff. The present directive by the government instructing banks to restructure loans of SMEs is not achieving the desired objectives. Banks are risk-averse, especially with the self-employed and SMEs. Wide consultations by the prime minister with the representatives of the SME sector and with economists may throw up more innovative and prudent ways to help the invisible backbone of the economy to recoup. If the government protects small entrepreneurs and their enterprises, they will in turn protect jobs and create new ones. PM Modi must enable them to “live to fight another day” because once slain, they can never rise to fight again. (The writer is a farmer, soldier and entrepreneur)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/protect-small-entrepreneurs-1003814.html
02-07-2021||National||India's medical infrastructure well prepared to deal with third Covid wave: FM Sitharaman||India has ramped up its medical infrastructure and is well prepared to deal with the situation if there is a third wave of Covid-19, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Thursday, adding that enhanced revenue collection would help in meeting the challenges. Speaking at the India Global Forum, she also said with economic activity picking up, the government's planned CPSE privatisation drive is on course. "... No one wishes a third wave but on the infrastructure, medical infrastructure, I think we have given that kind of attention... we have announced different measures to improve on the medical infrastructure, in tier II, tier III cities and not just those in metropolitan towns. "The ramping up of medical infrastructure, looking at different segments of the population, looking at children, is happening at good speed. God forbid, if there is a third wave, we are medical infrastructure wise well prepared," she said. Announcing fresh stimulus measures earlier this week, Sitharaman had said additional funding of Rs 23,220 crore would be given to states for setting up of paediatric care and beds in hospitals. A Rs 50,000 crore credit guarantee scheme for setting up of medical or health infrastructure by private hospitals in cities other than 8 metropolitan cities was also announced as part of measures for reviving the economy battered by a severe second wave of Covid-19. The minister further said 45-50 lakh people per day are getting vaccinated and a total of 33 crore people have received vaccination. "The way in which we are moving towards greater coverage  in vaccination, I hope we would able to keep most of the vulnerable population from the attack of the virus," Sitharaman said. She also said GST revenues have kept up pace in the last eight months and crossed Rs 1 lakh crore. "I hope that will be sustaining because now there is no national level lockdown, economic activity is happening and its picking pace. So revenue generation, I think, will give us a bit more leeway to be able to keep some resources for meeting up with the challenge." The minister also said in dealing with both waves of the pandemic, the government has used the "maximum possible leverage" that it had in terms of access to common people. With regard to privatisation, Sitharaman said it helps bring in private sector efficiency. Due to the pandemic, there were not many share sale offers in 2020, she pointed out. "... this year when the economy is about to open up and hopefully without much of worry, with vaccinations happening, I expect to go ahead with the (privatisation) programme ... We are on course," she said. The government aims to mop up Rs 1.75 lakh crore in the current fiscal from minority stake sale and privatisation. Of the Rs 1.75 lakh crore, Rs 1 lakh crore is to come from selling government stake in public sector banks and financial institutions, and Rs 75,000 crore would come as CPSE disinvestment receipts. In her Budget speech, Sitharaman had said that strategic disinvestment of BPCL, Air India, Shipping Corporation of India, Container Corporation of India, IDBI Bank, BEML, Pawan Hans, Neelachal Ispat Nigam Ltd, among others, and IPO of LIC would be completed in 2021-22. Also, the process of privatisation of IDBI Bank is slated to be completed in the current fiscal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-medical-infrastructure-well-prepared-to-deal-with-third-covid-wave-fm-sitharaman-1003818.html
02-07-2021||National||Data leak? Bengaluru Covid-19 patients flooded with ads||Some recently diagnosed Covid-19 patients are not only having to contend with the mental and physical problems of the infection but also a barrage of advertisements marketing everything from hospital beds to home sanitising services. Anil K S, a tech entrepreneur who tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, June 27, said he started getting SMS ads from a pest control company offering to sanitise his home. Even when a subsequent retest showed that his initial result was a false positive report, the advertisements continued. “This raises questions about the extent of the data which is being leaked,” he said. “Who is leaking our data? Were our Aadhaar details leaked?” Others who tested positive for Covid told DH of getting advertisements from hospitals offering beds, insurance companies offering schemes and pharmacies advertising medicine. When DH called a pest control company identified by several complainants, a company representative claimed that the calls “are completely random and the firm has no connection to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP)”. However, this is something that a member of the BBMP War Room, speaking on condition of anonymity, disputes it. “There is definitely a data leak, either in the BBMP or from the many private vendors working with the BBMP on Covid-management,” the source said. The source added that the problem had been noticed by the War Room during the first wave, before it tapered off from January. It subsequently resumed when the second wave began. A Covid-19 patient support coordinator, who interacts with hundreds of home isolation cases daily, confirmed that there have been myriad complaints about targeted advertisements. “When a person has Covid-19, their mindset is one of vulnerability. To hit them with this kind of marketing is insensitive,” the coordinator said, adding that he suspects the leak is originating from the BBMP War Room. However, D Randeep, BBMP Special Commissioner (Health) said a series of security protocols revamped in the War Room since May have made data theft difficult. “All our staff log into the system using specific usernames. Their activity is tracked. It would be very difficult for someone to download patients’ details and for us to not know about it,” he said.  There is concern that the data leak could also be originating in test labs, telemedicine consultant firms and ambulance services. An expert on data integrity and privacy, Pallavi Bedi, of the Centre for Internet and Society (CIS), concurred that several sources could be responsible for the data leaks. “The matter of data privacy and integrity is in flux. This is due to the fact that we do not have a data privacy law. Respect for health data is low,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/data-leak-bengaluru-covid-19-patients-flooded-with-ads-1003842.html
02-07-2021||National||DH Deciphers | Friendly vs rogue drone: How are they differentiated and tackled?||The drone attack on the Indian Air Force (IAF) station in Jammu on June 27 has brought into focus the security threat from the skies. Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently chaired a meeting to recast India’s policy for unmanned aerial systems, promising to tighten the rules and frame response strategies to tackle rogue drones. Here are the details:  What rules govern the use of drones in India?  The Unmanned Aerial System (UAS) Rules, 2021, notified in March this year, govern the operation of drones in India. These rules replaced the Civil Aviation Requirements (CAR) on Remotely Piloted Aircraft System (RPAS), which had regulated the space since 2018.  The drones are categorised into nano, micro, small, medium and large unmanned aircraft based on the maximum all-up weight, including its payload ranging from less than 250 grams to 150 kilograms. (All-up weight is the total weight of an aircraft with passengers, cargo and fuel.)  Can drones be purchased off the shelf for private use?  Yes. But the weight of such drones has to be less than 250 grams and the speed lower than 15 metres per second. Such drones are classified as micro drones and are not allowed to fly at an altitude of more than 60 metres.  Heavier drones require approval from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation and must also submit their flight path on the DigitalSky website for prior approval. DigitalSky is an initiative of the DGCA to manage the operations and traffic of unmanned aircraft.  All drones, including the nano ones, should be equipped with the Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS), the Autonomous Flight Termination System or the Return To Home (RTH) option, geo-fencing capability and flight controller among others.  Are there any restrictions on flying drones?  According to the UAS Rules, a drone cannot be operated within five kilometres of international airports at Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai, Kolkata, Bengaluru and Hyderabad, and at a distance of three kilometres from the perimeter of any civil, private or defence airport.  What about rogue drones?  The National Counter Rogue Drone Guidelines, 2019, state that conventional air defence systems are "generally ineffective against drones", particularly smaller drones. The military establishment has radars designed to detect large drones used for warfare, besides aircraft and helicopters.  How do counter-drone operations work?  The guidelines suggest three broad models – full-scale, mid-segment and basic – for counter-drone operations. The full-scale model is used for protecting places of national importance such as Rashtrapati Bhavan and Parliament House, nuclear installations and major airports. It involves primary and passive detection means such as radars, radio frequency detectors and electro-optical/infrared cameras. In addition, it may use soft kill measures such as radio frequency jammers and GPS spoofers, and hard kill measures such as high-power electromagnetic weapons, lasers and drone catching nets.  Security agencies may also consider mobile systems to cater to event-based deployment. Such systems may consist of vehicle-mounted and rooftop-deployable configurations.  The mid-scale model is used for metro airports, oil refineries and power plants. The basic model is for state government secretariats, monuments of national importance and important official premises. Both these models have lower capabilities than the full-scale model.  What are the challenges in counter-drone operations?  Counter-drone systems need to be capable enough to detect and neutralise a growing variety of targets, ranging from large unmanned aircraft to low-flying micro-surveillance drones. As drone operations increase, it will be a challenge to differentiate between friendly and hostile drones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-deciphers-friendly-vs-rogue-drone-how-are-they-differentiated-and-tackled-1003845.html
02-07-2021||National||Work done by Centre amid Covid pandemic exemplary: Anurag Thakur||The work done by the Centre amid the Covid-19 pandemic has been exemplary and it is the duty of everyone to expose the "false claims and doubts" created by the Opposition, Union minister Anurag Thakur said on Wednesday. The minister, who inaugurated a daylong virtual executive committee meeting of the Delhi BJP here, said at a time when there were "neither medicines nor a better healthcare system", Prime Minister Narendra Modi, with his resolve of "Aatmanirbhar Bharat" (self-reliant India), made arrangements to deal with the pandemic. "India, which did not have PPE kits, masks or medicines, is in the number one position in the world now in every field. Besides health products, the government ensured sufficient production of vaccines in the country," he said. "Whatever progress we have made, it is our duty to tell people about this development journey. We have to say with pride what we have achieved and expose the false claims and doubts created by the Opposition," Thakur added. Be it improving the healthcare system, increasing the oxygen supply or the bed capacity in hospitals on a war-footing, the government "controlled the epidemic to a great extent", he noted. The senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader also criticised the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi and said it was a "double whammy" for Delhiites, who on one hand were grappling with the pandemic and on the other, an "indifferent (Arvind) Kejriwal government". He accused the AAP and the Kejriwal government of practising "falsehood", being "intoxicated with power" and indulging in "corrupt practices". "The Kejriwal government was missing from the scene during the pandemic. It was only the workers of our party who were helping the needy under 'Seva hi Sangathan'," Thakur said. As part of the party's "Seva hi Sangathan" campaign, BJP workers reached out to those affected by Covid and made people aware of vaccination, he added. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta, who was present at the meeting, also criticised the AAP government for its handling of the pandemic and "mismanagement" as regards oxygen and healthcare facilities. "The Kejriwal government does everything with political motives. It is based only on advertisements and publicity, and is responsible for criminal negligence," he said. The meeting was also attended by the BJP's national vice-president and Delhi in-charge Baijayant Jai Panda, Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, former Union minister Vijay Goel, MPs Manoj Tiwari, Meenakshi Lekhi and Gautam Gambhir, among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/work-done-by-centre-amid-covid-pandemic-exemplary-anurag-thakur-1003865.html
02-07-2021||National||DH Toon | Inspired by PM's conspiracy theory!||Ahead of an imminent Cabinet reshuffle, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday had a five-hour-long meeting with his Council of Ministers, the second in three months, which focussed at length on the Covid-19 pandemic, the first major challenge before Narendra Modi-led NDA government in the last seven years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-inspired-by-pms-conspiracy-theory-1003867.html
02-07-2021||National||As 853 more succumb to Covid-19, India crosses 4 lakh coronavirus deaths||India's death toll due to coronavirus crossed 4 lakh on Friday as 853 more succumbed to the virus in the past 24 hours. The country's death toll is now 4,00,312, the third-highest in the world after United States and Brazil The country added 46,617 single-day Covid-19 cases while 59,384 recovered from the deadly virus in the same time period. The country's active caseload is at 5,09,637 and the total caseload is at 3,04,58,251. Under the national immunisation drive, 34,00,76,232 have been vaccinated so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-853-more-succumb-to-covid-19-india-crosses-4-lakh-coronavirus-deaths-1003901.html
02-07-2021||National||Kerala, Maharashtra Covid cases not going down; Central team in 6 states with fresh rise in daily cases||The number of new Covid-19 cases in Kerala and Maharashtra, the two worst-affected states, is not dipping further after reaching a plateau about two weeks ago while five other states have shown an early sign of a fresh rise in the daily Covid count, prompting the Centre to act. For over a fortnight’s time, Maharashtra is reporting 8,000 to 10,000 daily cases, which has emerged as a worrying factor for the state administration. “It is a matter of concern that the cases are not dropping below 8,000,” said Rajesh Tope, Maharashtra’s public health and family welfare minister. Down south in Kerala, which currently reports India’s maximum fresh Covid-19 cases every day, the trend is similar since June 16. On June 30 and July 1, Kerala reported more than 13,000 new cases in the past 24 hours – the highest in two weeks – after which the number dropped marginally on July 2 (12,868). The state test positivity rate has also hovered around 10% for the last two weeks. During the peak of the second surge, Kerala’s test positivity went up to 30% by mid-May following which it declined steadily to reach between 10-11% by mid-June, because of which the state government lifted several curbs easing people’s life. But since then the positivity rate has been stagnant. In a new worrying development, the Union Health Ministry on Friday sent teams to Kerala, Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura, Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Manipur for an inspection “in view of the increased number of Covid-19 cases being reported by these states.” In absolute terms, the numbers are not high either in the northeastern states or in Chhattisgarh but there is a clear increasing trend seen in the last four days. In Odisha, the daily cases are in the range of above 3,000 while it shoots up to 11,000-13,000 in Kerala. Kerala Health department nodal officer Amar Fettle said people could be seen flouting social distance norms at shops and other public places, which could be the reason behind such a positivity rate and new cases. The virus mutation could also be a factor. While health department officials blame it on people’s behaviour in the Malabar state, other experts said prolonging the restrictions would obviously lead to people defying the restrictions. “The lockdown restrictions in Kerala are illogical. Restricting the timings of shops and imposing total shut down on Saturday and Sunday led to a rush at the shops. Delaying the peak also led to mental stress among the people. Maximising vaccination is the way out,” said S S Lal, a former technical officer at the World Health Organization. In Maharashtra half a dozen districts – Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg in the Konkan region and Pune, Sangli, Satara and Kolhapur – are the new problem zones. Many of them are among the districts reporting more than 100 cases daily. An infectious diseases expert, wishing anonymity said, “We are comparing the spread with the West. These six districts together are as good as a European country. You also have to see that when Mumbai metropolitan region and Pune were at its peak, these districts were stable. The peak here is late and subsequently, in a few weeks it will be down.” (With Inputs from Mrityunjay Bose and Arjun Raghunath)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-maharashtra-covid-cases-not-going-down-central-team-in-6-states-with-fresh-rise-in-daily-cases-1003932.html
02-07-2021||National||WB post-poll violence: HC orders registering of all cases, extends NHRC investigation till July 13||The Calcutta High Court on Friday instructed the state police to register cases in all matters of post-poll violence which have either been reported to it or placed before the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) or any other authority or commission. The order issued by a five-judge bench led by acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal also instructed the State Government to make “all arrangements” of medical treatment of those who sustained injuries in violence after the Assembly elections. It asked the State Government to ensure the supply of rations to the affected persons, even if they have lost their ration cards. “The police is directed to register cases in all matters which have either been reported to it or have been placed before the NHRC or any other authority/ commission. Steps be taken to get the statements of the victims recorded under section 164 CrPC immediately, as per law,” stated the order. The bench instructed the State Government to provide the NHRC committee “complete details” of the cases where the accused were arrested and were granted bail by the courts to ensure that the committee can place the same before the High Court. The High Court issued a show-cause notice to Rashid Munir Khan, Deputy Commissioner of Kolkata Police, South Suburban Division as to why proceedings for contempt will not be initiated against him for violation of the High Court’s order on June 18, 2021. The order stated that it was mentioned in the interim report filed by the NHRC committee that a committee member Atif Rasheed was obstructed from discharging his duties in the Jadavpur area where he and his team members were attacked by “certain goons” in Jadavpur on June 29, 2021, and no police protection was provided to them. Jadavpur comes under the South Suburban Division. “No police protection was given to them even though prior notice was given to the District Magistrate and local police,” stated the order. “From a perusal of the report prima facie stand taken by the petitioners is established that there had been post-poll violence and the state was found on a wrong foot, where throughout it was on a denial mode,” stated the order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wb-post-poll-violence-hc-orders-registering-of-all-cases-extends-nhrc-investigation-till-july-13-1003937.html
02-07-2021||National||Covid-19: Delta Plus variant unlikely to cause third wave, says expert||As the Delta Plus variant of Covid-19 worries health officials across India shortly after a deadly second wave of the virus ravaged the country, epidemiologist and health expert Dr Chandrakant Lahariya said the variant is very similar to the Delta variant and is unlikely to cause a possible third wave. He also said that due to the similarities in the variants, there is not much difference in how it infects people.  He said factors like waning immunity over a period of time are more likely to cause a new wave of infections in the country. Speeding up the vaccination drive, Lahariya said, is the way to delay that wave. Saying that even a single shot of vaccine will be beneficial in fighting the variant, Lahariya said Covishield was going to be a single-shot vaccine in the initial trials. He quoted research saying that protection is better with a longer gap between the doses. Echoing other experts, Lahariya said genome sequencing is a long and expensive process and the capacity in India currently is low. “The approach of sequencing must not be a proportionate method but a smart way. We have to identify the pockets of Delta Plus cases and more samples must be collected from such places,” he is quoted as saying. The health expert called for Covid-appropriate behaviour to be stepped up and asked to avoid all social gatherings for now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-delta-plus-variant-unlikely-to-cause-third-wave-says-expert-1003944.html
02-07-2021||National||India's Covid-19 death toll crosses 4 lakh-mark, vaccination drive falters||India's official death toll from the coronavirus reached 4,00,000 on Friday, though experts say the actual number of dead could have reached 10 lakh or even higher, with a possible third wave approaching. India added 1,00,000 deaths in 39 days, a Reuters tally showed, as a brutal second wave of infections swept across cities and into the vast countryside where millions remain vulnerable without a single shot of vaccine. Overnight, the country recorded 853 deaths, taking the toll past the 4,00,000-mark, health ministry data showed. India's death toll is the third-highest globally. "Undercounting of deaths is something that has happened across states, mostly because of lags in the system, so that means we will never have a true idea of how many people we lost in this second wave," said Rijo M John, a professor at the Rajagiri College of Social Sciences in the southern city of Kochi. While still elevated, the number of new infections has eased to two-month lows since hitting a peak of 4,00,000 a day in May. The government has shifted its focus to mass immunisations amid warnings from disease experts of a looming third wave as the country slowly re-opens and a new variant, locally called the Delta Plus, emerges. Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government began a nationwide campaign last week to inoculate all of the country's adults for free, and aims to reach 95 crore people by the end of the year. But, the pace of vaccinations has floundered, official data showed. India administered an average of 35 lakh doses a day this week, as against 66 lakh doses last week. Experts have attributed the peak of 90 lakh doses on June 21 to states stockpiling for a burst of inoculations to fire up Modi's campaign. Just 6 per cent of all eligible adults in the country were inoculated with the two mandatory doses, official data from the government's Co-WIN portal showed. Stampedes In two of the country's biggest states governed by Modi's Bharatiya Janata Party, police were ordered in to control large crowds outside some vaccination centres, as panic spread over shortages of doses. In Modi's home state of Gujarat, several vaccination centres shut down in Ahmedabad, the main industrial city. In BJP-governed Madhya Pradesh, the pace of vaccinations fell over 40 per cent. In one district, police were called in to control a stampede that broke out after crowds broke through a shuttered gate at a local vaccination camp, NDTV news channel reported. In India's financial capital of Mumbai, vaccination centres were only open for three hours on Friday and the number of doses available was limited, the city's civic body said. India has recorded 3.045 crore cases of Covid-19 since the outbreak of the pandemic last year, and is the second-most affected country behind the United States, which has 3.3 crore cases. The United States has over 6,04,000 deaths, while about 5,18,000 people have died in Brazil.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-death-toll-crosses-4-lakh-mark-vaccination-drive-falters-1003949.html
02-07-2021||National||Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal reviews critical infrastructure projects, issues timeline for work completion||Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal has reviewed 59 issues in 20 critical infrastructure projects, with anticipated investment value of nearly Rs 2.7 lakh crore, an official statement said on Friday. The minister issued directions and timelines to ensure expeditious resolution of pending issues for timely commissioning of projects, it said. Among the projects that were reviewed include dedicated freight corridors along eastern and western routes, and Amritsar Kolkata Industrial Corridor (AKIC), it said. The minister also emphasized the importance of regular multi-level monitoring of infrastructure projects that are critical to the economic growth and employment generation in the country, the statement added. "The minister reviewed 59 issues in 20 critical infrastructure projects with anticipated investment value of nearly Rs 2.7 lakh crore," it said. Senior officials of key central ministries including Railways, Petroleum and Natural Gas, Road Transport and Highways, Environment, Forest and Climate Change were also present in the meeting. The meeting was held on June 29. AKIC traverses through seven states and would facilitate development of industrial manufacturing in the region of eastern dedicated freight corridor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/commerce-minister-piyush-goyal-reviews-critical-infrastructure-projects-issues-timeline-for-work-completion-1003954.html
02-07-2021||National||Covid-19 first wave led to increase in antibiotic misuse in India: Study||Antibiotic sales soared during the first Covid-19 wave in India last year, according to a study which suggests that the drugs were used to treat mild and moderate cases of the viral disease. The researchers at Washington University in the US estimated that Covid-19 likely contributed to 216.4 million excess doses of antibiotics and 38 million more doses of azithromycin in adults from June 2020 through September 2020, a period of peak Covid-19 activity in India. Such misuse of drugs is considered inappropriate because antibiotics are only effective against bacterial infections, not viral infections such as Covid-19, the researchers said. Overuse of antibiotics increases the risk for drug-resistant infections, they said. "Antibiotic resistance is one of the greatest threats to global public health," said the study's senior author, Sumanth Gandra, an associate hospital epidemiologist at Barnes-Jewish Hospital in the US. "Overuse of antibiotics lessens their ability to effectively treat minor injuries and common infections such as pneumonia, which means that these conditions can become serious and deadly," Gandra said. The study, published in the journal PLOS Medicine, analysed monthly sales of all antibiotics in India's private health sector from January 2018 through December 2020. The data came from an Indian branch of IQVIA, a US-based health information technology company. The study, conducted in collaboration with McGill University in Canada, examined the total sales volume of all antibiotics as well as the individual sales for azithromycin, a vital drug for treating typhoid fever, non-typhoidal Salmonella and traveller’s diarrhoea. Azithromycin was studied because some countries experienced a spike in its sales early in the pandemic after observational studies suggested the antibiotic could help treat Covid-19. However, such a claim was disputed by subsequent studies. The researchers determined that a total of 16.29 billion doses of antibiotics were sold in India in 2020, which is slightly less than the amounts sold in 2018 and in 2019. However, when researchers focused on adult doses, usage increased from 72.6 per cent in 2018 and 72.5 per cent in 2019 to 76.8 per cent in 2020. Additionally, sales of azithromycin for adults in India increased from 4 per cent in 2018 and 4.5 per cent in 2019 to 5.9 per cent in 2020. The study also showed notable increases in the sales of doxycycline and faropenem, two antibiotics commonly used to treat respiratory infections. The researchers used previously published studies to compare India's antibiotic use with that in the US and other high-income countries. In those countries, they found that adult antibiotic use decreased drastically during the pandemic compared with such use in 2018 and 2019. "It's critical to acknowledge that antibiotic use in high-income countries plummeted in 2020," Gandra said. "People isolated, schools and offices closed, and fewer people got the flu and, overall, stayed healthier compared with the pre-pandemic years. This reduced the overall need for antibiotics, as did cancelling dental procedures and outpatient surgeries," he said. The researchers noted that India also had restrictions and experienced dramatic decreases in malaria, dengue, chikungunya and other infections typically treated with antibiotics. "Antibiotic use should have gone down, but it didn't. Not only that but antibiotic use increased along with the rise of Covid cases," Gandra added. The researchers statistically adjusted antibiotic use for seasonality and mandatory lockdown periods. They estimated that Covid-19 likely contributed to 216.4 million excess doses of antibiotics for adults and 38 million excess doses of azithromycin for adults from June 2020 through September 2020, a four-month period of peak Covid-19 activity in India. "Our results indicate that almost everybody who was diagnosed with Covid-19 received an antibiotic in India," Gandra added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-first-wave-led-to-increase-in-antibiotic-misuse-in-india-study-1003956.html
02-07-2021||National||Indians committed to religious tolerance but prefer segregated communities: Report||Indians’ commitment to tolerance is accompanied by a strong preference for keeping religious communities segregated, a survey by US-based think-tank Pew said. According to the report, Indians generally say they don't have much in common with members of other religious groups, and in most cases, their close friends come mainly or entirely from the same religious groups as them. The survey collated information from 29,999 Indians via face-to-face interviews, in 17 languages, with adults living in 26 states and three union territories. The sample size included interviews with 22,975 Hindus, 3,336 Muslims, 1,782 Sikhs, 1,011 Christians, 719 Buddhists and 109 Jains. An additional 67 respondents belong to other religions or are religiously unaffiliated. Interviews for this nationally representative survey were conducted from November 2019 to March 2020. According to the report, 84 per cent of the people said that to be “truly Indian,” it is very important to respect all religions. Indians also are united in the view that respecting other religions is a very important part of what it means to be a member of their own religious community. Another key revelation from the survey was that Hindus closely associated their religious and linguistic identity with national identity, with two-thirds of respondents saying it is very important to be Hindu to be truly Indian, and a majority of those saying it is very important to speak Hindi to be truly Indian. Hindus who strongly link Hindu and Indian identities also expressed a keen desire for religious segregation. For instance, 76 per cent of Hindus who say being Hindu is very important to being truly Indian felt it is very important to stop Hindu women from marrying into another religion. By comparison, 52 per cent of Hindus who place less importance on Hinduism’s role in Indian identity hold this view about inter-religious marriage, the report said. The report also said that among Hindus, their national identity goes hand-in-hand with politics, with the ruling party at the Centre, the BJP, enjoying greater support among Hindus who closely associated their religious identity and the Hindi language with being truly Indian. According to the report, in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, 60 per cent of Hindu voters who think it is very important to be Hindu and to speak Hindi to be truly Indian cast their vote for the BJP, compared with 33 per cent among Hindu voters who feel less strongly about both these aspects of national identity. The report also said that Muslims are more likely than Hindus to say the 1947 partition establishing the separate nations of India and Pakistan harmed Hindu-Muslim relations, with the predominant view among Indian Muslims being that the partition of the subcontinent was a bad thing for Hindu-Muslim relations, and only three-in-ten Muslims said it was a good thing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indians-committed-to-religious-tolerance-but-prefer-segregated-communities-report-1003963.html
02-07-2021||National||Supreme Court takes exception to verdict mentioning victim’s name in rape case||The Supreme Court has taken exception to a judgement delivered by a sessions court in Chhattisgarh in which the rape victim’s name was mentioned and said that all subordinate courts should be careful while dealing with such matters. A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said it is well established that in such cases, the name of victim is not to be mentioned in any proceeding. “However, we take exception to the judgment of the sessions judge where the name of victim is mentioned,” said the bench, also comprising Justices Vineet Saran and M R Shah. “We are of the view that all the subordinate courts shall be careful in future while dealing with such cases,” the bench said in its June 30 order. The apex court said this in the order by which it rejected the plea filed by a convict who was challenging the Chhattisgarh High Court verdict dismissing his appeal against conviction in a rape case. “In the facts of the case, we are not inclined to entertain this special leave petition. The special leave petition is accordingly dismissed,” the bench said. The high court, in its December 2019 judgement, had dismissed the convict’s plea against a trial court verdict awarding him 10 years jail after holding him guilty in the case. The sessions court in Mahasamund had convicted the man in the case lodged in 2001. The high court had upheld the trial court’s order saying the victim’s statement inspired confidence and as per the evidence, it cannot be said to be a case of consensual physical relation. The apex court, in a verdict delivered in December 2018, had said that name and identity of victims of rape and sexual assault, including those who have died, cannot be disclosed "even in a remote manner".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-takes-exception-to-verdict-mentioning-victim-s-name-in-rape-case-1003974.html
02-07-2021||National||India starts probe into alleged dumping of electrogalvanised steel from Korea, Japan, Singapore||India has initiated a probe into alleged dumping of electrogalvanised steel, used in auto and electronics industries, from Korea, Japan, Singapore following a complaint by a domestic company. American Precoat Speciality Pvt Ltd has filed an application before the Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR) for investigation of anti-dumping duty concerning the imports of electrogalvanised steel from the three countries. The directorate, under the Commerce Ministry, will see whether the product is being dumped by firms of these nations in India and if it is impacting the domestic industry. If it is established in the probe that the dumping is denting margins of the domestic firm, the DGTR would recommend anti-dumping duty with a view to guard local industry from cheap imports. "The authority, hereby, initiates an investigation to determine the existence, degree and effect of any alleged dumping in respect of the subject goods originating in or exported from the subject countries and to recommend the amount of anti-dumping duty, which if levied, would be adequate to remove the injury to the domestic industry," it has said. The DGTR is also probing a similar case on imports of Clear Float Glass from Bangladesh and Thailand.  Asahi India Glass Ltd, Gold Plus Glass Industry, Sisecam Flat Glass India, and Saint-Gobain India have filed the application for the probe and imposition of the duty. The product finds major uses in construction, refrigeration, mirror and solar energy industries etc. It is a superior quality of glass. Further the directorate has initiated a sunset-review investigation concerning imports of jute products from Bangladesh and Nepal. Indian Jute Mills Association has alleged likelihood of continuation or recurrence of dumping of the goods from these two neighbouring countries if the existing duty would be ended. "The authority hereby initiates sunset review investigation to review the need for continued imposition of the duties in force in respect of subject goods (jute products), originating in or exported from the subject countries and to determine whether expiry of existing anti-dumping duty is likely to lead to continuation or recurrence of dumping and consequent injury to the domestic industry," it added. Countries carry out anti-dumping probes to determine if their domestic industries have been hurt because of a surge in below-cost imports. As a counter-measure, they impose duties under the multilateral regime of the World Trade Organization. The duty is also aimed at ensuring fair trading practises and creating a level-playing field for domestic producers with regard to foreign producers and exporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-starts-probe-into-alleged-dumping-of-electrogalvanised-steel-from-korea-japan-singapore-1003989.html
02-07-2021||National||Many members of PVTG administered Covid-19 vaccine in Andaman & Nicobar Islands||Many members of the particularly vulnerable tribal groups (PVTG) in the union territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands have been administered Covid-19 vaccine, a senior Health department official said. Secretary Health and Civil Supplies, R N Sharma on Thursday said that the Andaman and Nicobar administration is fully committed to protecting the members of the PVTG in the archipelago and they are properly examined before they are administered the Covid-19 vaccines. The PVTG in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands are the Great Andamanese, Jarawas, Onges, Sentinelese, Shom Pens. He said 247 out of the 564 members of Jarawa tribe, 54 out of 56 members of the Great Andamanese tribe and 63 out of 126 members of the Onges tribes have been administered the first dose of Covid-19. The Health secretary said that 12 out of 237 members of the Shom Pens have also received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. A total of 1,79,963 people have been inoculated in the union territory so far, of which 1,56,289 people have received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine and 23,674 have received both doses of the vaccine. Sharma all measures have been put in place to restrict the entry of the virus to these islands from mainland. Under the fivefold strategy of Testing, Tracking, Treating, Covid Appropriate Behavior and Vaccination, testing has been given utmost priority and around two-third of tests are conducted through RT-PCR while one-third is conducted using RAT. However, cooperation of all citizens is required to achieve Zero Covid status again and people should follow Covid Appropriate Behavior in letter and spirit, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/many-members-of-pvtg-administered-covid-19-vaccine-in-andaman-nicobar-islands-1003994.html
02-07-2021||National||Covid-19 Vaccine Matters: India's vaccination programme falters after record highs||Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-matters-indias-vaccination-programme-falters-after-record-highs-1003998.html
02-07-2021||National||Supreme Court issues notice to Centre on plea seeking early counselling for admissions in MDS course||The Supreme Court on Friday sought responses from the Centre and others on a plea filed by nine BDS doctors seeking a direction to the Medical Counselling Committee (MCC) to release counselling dates at the earliest for the NEET-MDS admissions for which exams were held on December 16 last year. The dental doctors, having Bachelor in Dental Surgery (BDS) degree, had appeared in the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET)-MDS conducted on December 16 last year by the National Board of Examination (NBE) for admission to the Master in Dental Surgery (MDS) course. The plea came up for hearing before a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah which agreed to hear it and issued notices to the Centre and others, including Dental Council of India. The apex court has posted the plea for hearing on July 12. Senior advocate Vikas Singh appeared for the petitioners in the matter and said there is no update on counselling. The plea, filed through lawyer Tanvi Dubey, said that these doctors are challenging the “unjust and infinite delay” caused by the MCC in announcing the counselling schedule for NEET-MDS, 2021. “Issue an appropriate writ, order or direction...to direct the Respondent No.1 (MCC) to release the counselling date at the earliest, but in any event, not later than three weeks,” the plea said. The plea also sought a direction to the MCC to conduct a separate counselling for the NEET-MDS 2021. The results for admissions in PG courses for BDS candidates were also declared on the scheduled date, that is on December 31, 2020. “However, after the declaration of the result, i.e., on 31.12.2020 until today i.e. 23.06.2021, there is no update regarding the counselling. It is most respectfully submitted that umpteen efforts were made by the Petitioners to get in touch with the Respondents in order to get an idea about the schedule of the counselling. However, there has been no update about the date of the commencement of the counselling,” the plea said. It said the dentists, who are also registered with state Dental Council, have obtained provisional or permanent registration and have also undergone compulsory rotatory internship of a year in an approved or recognised dental college. “That around 30,000 BDS (dental) graduates appeared for the NEET-MDS conducted for admission to over 6,500 seats in the country and till date there has been no update for admissions in PG courses,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-issues-notice-to-centre-on-plea-seeking-early-counselling-for-admissions-in-mds-course-1004007.html
02-07-2021||National||Post-retirement retention of officers demoralises cadre: IRS officers association to PM||The Indian Revenue Service (Customs and Indirect Taxes) officers association has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him not to entertain proposals for extension, after superannuation, from any member of Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) as it demoralises the cadre. In a letter to the prime minister, the association said that its officers are “highly agitated” that seeking an extension of tenure beyond superannuation promotes vested interests and lobbying which is detrimental to professional conduct of revenue collection and prevention of tax evasion. “Moreover serving officers are experiencing humongous strain in seamless flow of tax policy models initiated by such retired officers no longer in the civil list,” the association said. The letter, written by president of the association Naresh Penumaka, mentioned extension given by the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet (ACC) to a CBIC member last year. The ACC is headed by the prime minister. "It is to bring to your kind notice that many serving IRS (C&IT) officers have brought to my notice that some more members, CBIC are likely to be given extension/reappointment after retirement and proposals are at an active consideration stage,” it said in the letter dated June 30. “In this regard, I humbly submit that extension of tenure beyond superannuation demoralises the cadre as the entire chain of promotion gets blocked that too when sufficient eligible officers are available for promotion,” said Penumaka, Principal Chief Commissioner, Visakhapatnam zone. He said that members' tenure should be co-terminus with superannuation. “As your honour is aware that CBIC & Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) members don't have fixed tenure, hence their tenure should be co-terminus with superannuation. They do not figure in the civil list after retirement,” the letter said. Speaking to PTI, Penumaka said a CBIC member was last year given extension of one year which will be completing in August 2021 and "we found no value addition by him". He said due to such extension of tenure, officers are retiring without getting elevation in rank. “Revenue department is very professionally managed and any post retirement retention will affect impartiality in dealing with tax evasion cases,” Penumaka said. As many as 6,400 officers of Indian Revenue Service (Customs & Indirect Taxes) and 98,000 employees of the department are worried about their career, he said. “The association with 150 office-bearers across India has discussed the resolution (to write the letter) and there was not a single office-bearer who opposed it in writing. So it's a unanimous decision to write the letter,” he said. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/post-retirement-retention-of-officers-demoralises-cadre-irs-officers-association-to-pm-1004021.html
02-07-2021||National||States to receive 44.9 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses in the next three days: Centre||The Union Health Ministry on Friday said that 44.9 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses will be received by the states and UTs within the next three days. More than 33.63 crore vaccine doses have been provided by the Centre and UTs so far through the Government of India (free of cost channel) and direct state procurement category. Of this, the total consumption, including wastage is 33,73,22,514 doses, the ministry said in a statement. The Union Government is committed to accelerating the pace and expanding the scope of Covid-19 vaccination throughout the country, it said. The new phase of universalisation of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from June 21.  The vaccination drive has been ramped up through availability of more vaccines, advance visibility of vaccine availability to states and UTs for enabling better planning by them, and streamlining the vaccine supply chain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-to-receive-449-lakh-covid-19-vaccine-doses-in-the-next-three-days-centre-1004022.html
02-07-2021||National||NPPA approves price rise of 50% for carbamazepine, ranitidine, ibuprofen||The national drug pricing regulator NPPA on Friday said it has allowed a one-time increase of 50 per cent in the ceiling prices of nine scheduled formulations of three drugs – carbamazepine, ranitidine and ibuprofen – to ensure their availability. These drugs are used as the first line of treatment and are important to the public health programme of the country, the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) said in its order. NPPA, in its meeting on June 28, deliberated upon the case of upward price revision of the formulations of these drugs under Para 19 of DPCO 2013 and noted that the scheduled formulations being considered for upward price revision are low-priced drugs and have been under repeated price controls, it added. DPCO 2013 is the Drugs (Prices Control) Order, 2013. While carbamazepine is a anti-epileptic drug, ranitidine is used for the treatment of ulcers of the stomach and intestines and to prevent intestinal ulcers from coming back after they have healed. Ibuprofen is used to relieve pain from various conditions such as headache, dental pain, menstrual cramps, muscle aches, or arthritis. The National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) said it is of the considered view that unviability of these formulations should not lead to a situation, where these drugs become unavailable in the market and the public is forced to switch to costly alternatives. To address the situation arising due to repeated price control, a one-time price increase of 50 per cent from the current ceiling price is being considered in public interest as an exceptional measure as advised by the Standing Committee on Affordable Medicines and Health Products (SCAMHP), NPPA said. Accordingly, "NPPA invokes extraordinary powers in public interest under Para 19 of DPCO 2013 for upward revision of the ceiling prices of the nine scheduled formulations of 3 drugs by giving one time increase of 50 percent from the present ceiling price," it added. The regulator was constituted as an independent regulator for pricing of drugs and to ensure availability and accessibility of medicines at affordable prices. NPPA provides ceiling price to all drugs notified under Schedule-1 of the DPCO 2013, and monitors annual price increase for these and the non-scheduled drugs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nppa-approves-price-rise-of-50-for-carbamazepine-ranitidine-ibuprofen-1004035.html
02-07-2021||National||My case proves gross misuse of UAPA, NIA Act: Akhil Gogoi||Describing the Special NIA Court's verdict clearing him of all charges pressed by the investigating agency as "historic", Assam MLA Akhil Gogoi on Friday said his case proved the gross misuse of UAPA and NIA Act. Labelling the National Investigation Agency (NIA) as a "mere political tool" of the BJP government at the Centre, the Independent legislator from Sibsagar constituency said the judgment will be a landmark for those arrested through the misuse of the two anti-terror laws. "My case proves the gross misuse of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the NIA Act. The verdict will be a milestone for those arrested through the misuse of the two legislations," the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act activist told PTI in an interview after 567 days of imprisonment. Gogoi, who walked free on Thursday after being arrested on December 12, 2019 for his alleged role in violent anti-CAA stir in the state, said that the Special NIA Court's verdict is historic because it exposed the NIA, which has become a "political agency" like the CBI and the ED. "Even on Thursday, the NIA wanted to slap a fresh case but by the time they reached the court with the appeal, the verdict was already out," he said. In an additional chargesheet filed by the NIA on June 29, Gogoi alleged that "false charges of honey trapping, cow smuggling and training at a Maoist camp" were brought against him. The Raijor Dal chief alleged that the NIA had offered him instant bail if he agreed to join the RSS or BJP, a charge levelled earlier by him in a letter written from the prison in May. "When they took me into custody, their only question was whether I would join the RSS. Not once had they asked anything about my alleged links with Maoists. My CIO D R Singh never spoke about red rebels before me. He said that if I joined the RSS, I would be released in 10 days. "When I replied in negative, he offered me to join the BJP and become a minister. I refused that too. He then said that I would be jailed for 10 years," Gogoi said. He said the Special NIA Court's judgement is a "turning point" in the judiciary as it shows that the "pressure of the executive" is not permanent. The court of Special NIA Judge Pranjal Das observed that there was nothing to indicate that the "talk of blockade" threatened the country's economic security or was "a terrorist act." In a strongly worded judgement, the court said that in the interest of justice, it has found the conduct and approach of the investigating authority in this case to be "discouraging", to say the least. "The court has high expectations from a premier investigating agency like the NIA, entrusted with the profoundly important task of protecting our country and us, citizens from the menace of terrorism. "The court hopes and expects that, such high standards will be upheld, for sake of the country and this one will be just an exception," Special NIA Judge Pranjal Das said in his order copy. Gogoi became the first person in Assam to win an assembly election from behind the bars in the recently concluded polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/my-case-proves-gross-misuse-of-uapa-nia-act-akhil-gogoi-1004042.html
02-07-2021||National||India has 56 cases of Delta Plus Covid-19 variant in 12 states||India currently has 56 cases of Delta Plus variant of coronavirus in 12 states, NITI Aayog Member (Health) Dr V K Paul said.  The Union government on Friday stressed on vaccination and following Covid-19 protocols as it noted that the second wave of the pandemic is not over yet and people should not lower their guard. Though daily new Covid-19 cases continue to show a declining trend, 71 districts reported a case positivity rate of more than 10 per cent from June 23 to 29, Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said at a press conference. "The second wave of Covid-19 is not over yet," he said. Dr V K Paul said, "We are not safe till the entire nation is safe. There cannot be a lowering of guard. Virus keeps evolving." He said multi-disciplinary teams of the Central government have been sent to Kerala, Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura, Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Manipur in view of high number of Covid-19 cases being reported daily by these states. About tackling a possible third wave of Covid-19 infection, Paul said, "We will be prepared for the third wave in rural areas and for children with testing facilities, ventilators, medicines and containment measures." "At the same time, if we are disciplined then the third wave will not come." Responding to criticism over the pace of the vaccination drive, Agarwal stressed that on average India is vaccinating 50 lakh individuals daily since June 21, and it is equivalent to inoculating the entire population of Norway every day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-56-cases-of-delta-plus-covid-19-variant-in-12-states-1004055.html
02-07-2021||National||Petrol crosses Rs 100 in Chennai; at Rs 99 in Delhi, Kolkata||Petrol price on Friday crossed the Rs 100- per-litre mark in Chennai as well as in some places in Punjab and Kerala after fuel prices were hiked yet again. Petrol is priced at over Rs 99 a litre in Delhi and Kolkata -- the only metro cities which haven't seen the Rs 100 mark yet. Petrol price was hiked by 35 paise per litre on Friday but there was no change in diesel rates, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. On Thursday, the price of domestic cooking gas (LPG) was hiked by Rs 25.50 per 14.2-kg cylinder. A subsidised and non-subsidised cylinder now costs Rs 834.50 in Delhi. The increase in petrol price -- 33rd in two months -- took rates across the country to fresh highs. In Chennai, the petrol price rose to Rs 100.13 a litre. Diesel price in the city was unchanged at Rs 93.72 per litre. Petrol in Delhi now comes for Rs 99.16 a litre and the same in Kolkata is priced at Rs 99.04. Other metro cities - Mumbai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Pune - had last month crossed the Rs 100-a-litre price. Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as value-added tax (VAT) and freight charges. For this reason, petrol has crossed the Rs 100-a-litre mark in some places in Punjab and all over Kerala. Jalandhar in Punjab has the fuel priced at Rs 100.22 a litre while it costs Rs 101.14 in Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala. With this, petrol has crossed the Rs 100-a-litre mark in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Jammu and Kashmir, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Bihar, Punjab and Ladakh. It is over Rs 99 a litre in Puducherry as well as Gangtok. Rates of diesel, the most used fuel in the country, have crossed the Rs 100-a-litre mark in Sri Ganganagar and Hanumangarh in Rajasthan as well in some places in Odisha. The hike on Friday is the 33rd increase in prices since May 4, when state-owned oil firms ended a 18-day hiatus in rate revision they observed during assembly elections in states like West Bengal. In 33 hikes, the price of petrol has risen by Rs 8.76 per litre. Diesel rates have soared by Rs 8.45 a litre in 32 instances of price increase. Oil companies revise rates of petrol and diesel daily based on the average price of benchmark fuel in the international market in the preceding 15 days, and foreign exchange rates. International oil prices have climbed in recent weeks on optimism of a quick recovery in fuel demand. Brent crude touched the USD 75 per barrel mark, the first time since April 2019. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-crosses-rs-100-in-chennai-at-rs-99-in-delhi-kolkata-1004056.html
02-07-2021||National||Lakshadweep administration orders shifting of Education Dept officials from Kochi||In a controversial move, the Lakshadweep administration on Friday ordered shifting of officials in the Education department in Kochi to the islands. In its order, the Directorate of Education of Lakshadweep administration also directed its Education Officer, Kochi to shift all the office materials like electronic equipment, furniture and files dealt by five of its staff here to the Education Directorate in the islands. The Lakshadweep administration has an office in Kochi in which several departments are functioning. Crying foul, Lakshadweep MP Mohammed Faizal P P said the administration's decision will adversely affect around 4,000 students from the islands who are pursuing higher education at various educational institutions in Kerala. He said the decision will be challenged in the court. According to the order, the officials including an accountant, a stenographer, two clerical staff and a MSE are being shifted "consequent upon the decision to rationalise the staff of the Education Office, Kochi", the order said. The Education Officer, Kochi has been directed to relieve the officials with the direction to report before Director of Education Rakesh Singhal Danics in seven days. Talking to PTI, Faizal said the administration's Education Office has been functioning at its Kochi office for the past three decades and it was set for the easy access for the needs of students studying in educational institutions in the mainland. This includes their scholarships, mess fee, hostel fees and tuition fees. "With the new decision, the students studying in Thiruvananthapuram or other parts of India now need to travel to Lakshadweep to solve their problems. Otherwise, they would only need to travel to Kochi to meet their education and resolve their issues and go back," he said. The Lok Sabha MP said this was an "unwanted action" from the side of administration which will disturb the students studying in Kerala and other parts of the country. Faizal alleged that island administrator Praful Khoda Patel took the "unilateral" decision without any discussion with representatives of the people in the islands or the standing committee on education of the Lakshadweep district panchayat. Lakshadweep has been witnessing a series of protests by residents for the past few weeks against Administrator Praful Khoda Patel's decision to implement reform measures in the islands. The Save Lakshadweep Forum (SLF), a platform of protesters, has alleged that the measures were being implemented without taking people of the islands into confidence. Accusing the administration of going ahead with the "anti-people reform measures" in the islands, the SLF has said they would continue their protest till the administration withdraws such measures in the archipelago. On Monday, residents of Lakshadweep had staged "coconut leaves and palm" protests across inhabited islands against the administration's order to levy a fine if coconut palm leaves, shells or trunks were found in and around their dwelling places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lakshadweep-administration-orders-shifting-of-education-dept-officials-from-kochi-1004062.html
02-07-2021||National||Second wave of Covid-19 not over yet, cannot lower guard, says Centre||Addressing a press conference on the pandemic situation, an official said people cannot and should not lower their guard. Seventy-one districts reported Covid case positivity rate of more than 10 per cent in the week from June 23 to 29, the government said, adding that the second wave of Covid-19 is not over. On the ongoing vaccination drive, the government said India is vaccinating on an average 50 lakh individuals daily since June 21, which is equivalent to inoculating the entire population of Norway every day. Till date 34 crore people -- the equivalent of the entire population of the US -- have been vaccinated with at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine since the drive began on January 16, the government said. Nearly 80 per cent healthcare workers and 90 per cent frontline workers have been administered both doses of Covid-19 vaccine in the country, it said. India saw a single-day rise of 46,617 new coronavirus infections, taking the tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,04,58,251, while the national recovery rate has crossed 97 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll due to Covid-19 rose to 4,00,312 with 853 daily fatalities. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/second-wave-of-covid-19-not-over-yet-cannot-lower-guard-says-centre-1004064.html
02-07-2021||National||Pregnant women can now register on Co-WIN, walk in for Covid-19 vaccine: Health Ministry||The Health Ministry on Friday approved vaccination of pregnant women for Covid-19 as recommended by the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI). “In case of pregnant women, it involves the safety of two lives – the mother and the child in her womb. Hence, we have decided to vaccinate pregnant women,” N K Arora, Chairperson of the NTAGI said in an official statement. The decision empowers pregnant women to make an informed choice on taking the Covid vaccination, the ministry said, adding these women can now register on Co-WIN or walk-in to the nearest Covid vaccination centre to get themselves inoculated. Arora said vaccination of pregnant women was required as mortality rates in this group had increased two to three times during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in comparison with the first wave. “All pregnant women who will be vaccinated will be tracked by means of a network to monitor signs of discomfort. Foetal outcomes, that is, growth of the child in the mother's womb, will also be monitored,” Arora said. According to the guidelines, a pregnant woman should be made aware of the benefits of vaccination, its potential side-effects and the precautions that need to be taken. The guidelines also spell out in clear terms the need for systematic reporting of adverse events following immunization (AEFI) and such instances should be reported to the vaccinator or the nearest health facility. The guidelines also stress the need to train all medical officers, private practitioners and frontline health workers on their role in AEFI surveillance related to the Covid-19 vaccination of pregnant women. The decision has been communicated to all the states and union territories to implement it under the ongoing National Covid Vaccination Program, the health ministry said in a statement. Studies have shown that Covid infection during pregnancy may result in rapid deterioration of health of pregnant women and they are at an increased risk of severe diseases and it might affect the foetus too, it said. The matter has been examined by domain knowledge experts based on the evidence that indicates that pregnant women are at an increased risk for severe illness from Covid compared to non-pregnant women in case they get infected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pregnant-women-can-now-register-on-co-win-walk-in-for-covid-19-vaccine-health-ministry-1004071.html
02-07-2021||National||SC seeks Centre response on delay in declaring counselling schedule for NEET-MDS 2021||The Supreme Court on Friday sought response from the Centre on a plea against the "unjust and infinite delay" by the Medical Counselling Committee (MCC) in declaring the schedule for counselling for National Eligibility cum Entrance Test and Masters of Dental Surgery courses (NEET-MDS) 2021. A bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud issued notice to the Centre, National Board of Examination and Dental Council of India on a petition filed by some NEET-MDS aspirants. The petition filed through advocates Tanvi Dubey and Charu Mathur said that umpteen efforts were made by the petitioners to get in touch with the authorities in connection with the schedule of the counselling. However, so far there was no update on the same. The plea contended that the entrance exam was held on December 16, 2020 and the results were declared on December 31, 2020. But, months have elapsed, and there is not update on the schedule of counselling.   The petition sought directions to the MCC to release the counselling date at the earliest, and not later than three weeks. The plea also cited the concerns associated with holding counselling together for NEET-PG and NEET-MDS, as the former has been postponed till August 31. The plea asked the court to issue direction to MCC to conduct a separate counselling for the NEET-MDS 2021 and not wait for the counselling of NEET-PG. “From the past years records, it is clear that the time duration between the NEET-PG examination and announcement of result is at least one month. Further, the counselling schedule for NEET-PG is released three months after the results. Therefore, it will be unrealistic to organise the counselling for both the examinations together, as it would infinitely delay the counselling for the NEET-MDS candidates and would cause undue hardship to the NEET-MDS aspirants," it claimed. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-seeks-centre-response-on-delay-in-declaring-counselling-schedule-for-neet-mds-2021-1004078.html
02-07-2021||National||Stone crushers cause huge pollution, degrade environment: NGT||The NGT on Friday observed that stone crushers cause huge pollution and such unscientific mining degrades the environment and authorities concerned must take steps to prevent the destruction of the environment. The NGT Principal Bench headed by Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel made this observation while hearing a plea village sarpanch Arti Sharma about pollution caused due to the operation of stone crushers in the Saranoo Tehsil of Rajouri district in Jammu and Kashmir. "It is well known that stone crushers have the potential for huge pollution and unscientific mining for such stone crushers further degrades the environment. Statutory safeguards under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 and Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 need to be followed and monitored by the statutory regulators," the Bench said. "Violations, being criminal offence under the law, there is need to take preventive and remedial action, including recovery of compensation on ''Polluter Pays'' principle for the past violations till illegal activities are stopped," the Green Bench observed.  The Bench constituted a joint Committee comprising Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and state PCB officials and asked them to look into the grievances. If any damage is caused to the environment, the compensation may cover not only the cost of mined material but also the cost of restoration and ecological services forgone forever, with an element of deterrence, the Bench said. According to the applicant, the said stone crushers are located close to the residential area and the Tawi river. The applicant also alleged that crushers were not following norms while operating.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stone-crushers-cause-huge-pollution-degrade-environment-ngt-1004080.html
02-07-2021||National||Drone strikes in Jammu airbase was an act of terror: Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria||The drone strikes in the Jammu airbase was an act of terror that was aimed at targeting key military assets, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria said on Friday asserting that the Indian Air Force is in the process of bolstering its capabilities to deal with such security challenges. The Chief of Air Staff said the IAF has carried out a detailed analysis in terms of implications of drones and other similar capabilities falling into the hands of non-state actors, and taking a series of measures to counter them. "What happened at Jammu was essentially a terrorist act which attempted to target our assets there. The attempt failed of course. The assets were not damaged. Two explosives were used," he said in an interactive session at a think tank. Explosives-laden drones were used to carry out an attack on the Jammu Air Force station on Sunday in the first such instance of suspected Pakistan-based terrorists deploying unmanned aerial vehicles to strike at vital military installations in India. The Chief of Air Staff said a detailed investigation into the attacks was underway and that all sets of measures would be on the table based on the findings of the probe. "We have gone over the subject in terms of the implications of this kind of capabilities in the hands of non-state actors and the kind of effect the armed drone capabilities would have in future conflicts," Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria said. He said the IAF analysed a large extent the requirements in terms of planning and required systems and infrastructure to enhance its abilities to go for "soft kill" and to have a counter-drone system. "It should be possible to react in the short notice; detect, quickly react and be able to target it and that targeting is essentially directed energy kind of targeting in terror attack kind of a situation," the IAF Chief said. "All these issues have been looked at and many of the projects have already been undertaken and some of the systems were already fielded," he said. He said the Jammu Air Force station did not have critical assets and systems to detect drones were not fielded there Referring to the attacks, he said there was no visibility when the incident took place. "Very soon we will have enough systems and we will target.. we will find ways to tackle this threat," the Air Chief Marshal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drone-strikes-in-jammu-airbase-was-an-act-of-terror-air-chief-marshal-bhadauria-1004093.html
02-07-2021||National||Court defers order on whether to put Shashi Tharoor on trial in his wife Sunanda's death case||A Delhi court on Friday adjourned for nearly a month the order on whether to put Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on trial in a case related to his wife Sunanda Pushkar's death in a luxury hotel here. Special Judge Geetanjli Goel, who was scheduled to pronounce order today on framing of charges against Tharoor, adjourned the matter for July 27 after the prosecution sought a week's time to file written submissions. “An application has been received on behalf of prosecution seeking one week's time to file written submissions. Copy be supplied to the counsels of the accused. The application is allowed. Put up for orders/ arguments if any, on July 27,” the judge said in the order. The court had earlier adjourned the matter for July 2 in view of the ongoing pandemic due to coronavirus. The court had reserved order after hearing arguments from the counsel appearing for Delhi Police as well as Tharoor. During the arguments, while police had sought framing of various charges, including 306 (abetment of suicide), Senior advocate Vikas Pahwa, appearing for Tharoor, told the court that the investigation conducted by the SIT completely exonerated the politician of all the charges levelled against him. Pahwa sought Tharoor's discharge in the case, saying there was no evidence against him to prove the offence punishable under either section 498A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) or 306 (abetment of suicide) of IPC. Pushkar was found dead in a suite of a luxury hotel in the city on the night of January 17, 2014. The couple was staying in the hotel, as the official bungalow of Tharoor was being renovated at that time. Tharoor was charged under sections 498A and 306 of the Indian Penal Code by Delhi police, but was not arrested in the case. He was granted bail on July 5, 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/court-defers-order-on-whether-to-put-shashi-tharoor-on-trial-in-his-wife-sunandas-death-case-1004098.html
02-07-2021||National||Assets of Ahmed Patel's son-in-law, Dino Morea, DJ Aqeel attached under PMLA||The Enforcement Directorate on Friday said it has attached assets of late Congress leader Ahmed Patel's son-in-law, actors Dino Morea and Sanjay Khan and DJ Aqeel in a money laundering case involving Gujarat-based pharmaceutical company Sterling Biotech group. It said a provisional order was issued under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) to attach the assets of the four people which are worth Rs 8.79 crore. Out of this, the value of attachment of assets for Khan is Rs 3 crore, for Dino Morea it is Rs 1.4 crore, for Aqeel Abdulkhalil Bachooali, popularly known as DJ Aqeel, it is Rs 1.98 crore and for Irfan Ahmed Siddiqui, who is Patel’s son-in-law, it is Rs 2.41 crore, the central probe agency said in a statement. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) said that Nitin Sandesara and Chetan Sandesara, absconding promoters of the Sterling Biotech group, have "diverted" proceeds of crime to the four people. The promoter brothers Nitin Sandesara, Chetan Sandesara, Chetan's wife Dipti Sandesara and Hitesh Patel have been declared fugitive economic offenders by a special court, it said. The money-laundering case pertains to the alleged Rs 14,500-crore bank-loan fraud said to have been perpetrated by Sterling Biotech and its main promoters and directors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/assets-of-ahmed-patels-son-in-law-dino-morea-dj-aqeel-attached-under-pmla-1004101.html
02-07-2021||National||Vaccines almost eliminate chances of Covid deaths: Study||Two doses of Covid-19 vaccine reduced the occurrence of death by 98% among the Punjab Police staff, NITI Ayog member Vinod Paul said, quoting a study carried out by PGI, Chandigarh and Punjab government. The incidence of death reduces by 92% among those who have received a single shot, Paul said, underscoring the importance of vaccination. Addressing a press conference here, Paul said the study found that 15 persons of the 4,868 personnel of the Punjab Police who had not received any vaccine, had died due to Covid-19. Nine policemen, among the 35,856 who had received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccines, had died because of the infectious disease, while the number of deaths trickled down to two among the 42,720 police personnel who had received both the doses of the vaccine. “This is a high-risk group. They are at the forefront in the war against Covid-19. The study shows that deaths in the group that has not received any vaccine was three per thousand, among those having received one dose of vaccine it was 0.25 per thousand,” Paul said. He said the possibility of death due to Covid-19 was almost eliminated in the group that had taken both the doses of vaccines as it reported only two deaths which comes to 0.05 per thousand. “This study shows that in real life, vaccines reduce the possibility of serious disease and death due to Covid-19 is almost eliminated,” Paul said. However, the study did not cover the number of persons infected by Covid-19 post-vaccination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaccines-almost-eliminate-chances-of-covid-deaths-study-1004103.html
02-07-2021||National||SC declines stay on NLSIU decision on 25% students through Karnataka domicile reservation||The Supreme Court on Friday declined a stay on a decision by the National Law School of India University (NLSIU) Bangalore to horizontally reserve 25% of seats for students domiciled in Karnataka. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Ravindra Bhat refused to suspend the NLSIU's decision and posted the matter for further hearing on August 2. Karnataka government has earlier moved the top court challenging the High Court judgment which had struck down the 25% domicile reservation introduced at the university. Senior Advocate Gopal Sankaranarayanan, appearing of a candidate, sought a stay on the NLSIU notification giving effect to the reservation policy. After hearing arguments in the matter, the bench refused to stay the notification. Senior advocate Sajan Poovayya represented NLSIU in the matter. The university, earlier this week, announced the implementation of the domicile reservation from the academic year 2021-22, as part of its inclusion and expansion plan approved in April/May this year. The Karnataka High Court, in September last year, had quashed the NLSIU Amendment Act, 2020, through which 25% reservation was introduced for students domiciled in the state. The High Court had held that the NLSIU Amendment Act was ultra vires and contrary to the provisions of the parent NLSIU Act. The court had said that state government did not have the power to introduce domicile reservation at the university. The state government has challenged this High Court judgment in the top court, claiming that the High Court erred in observing that NLSIU is not a state institution and that it is not within its control. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-declines-stay-on-nlsiu-decision-on-25-students-through-karnataka-domicile-reservation-1004105.html
02-07-2021||National||Monsoon Session of Parliament to begin from July 19||The Monsoon Session of Parliament will commence from July 19 and will continue till August 13, an official communication said on Friday. Both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha issued official orders about the convening of the Monsoon Session from July 19. "The Sixth Session of the 17th Lok Sabha will commence on Monday, the 19th July, 2021. Subject to exigencies of government business, the Session is likely to conclude on Friday, the 13th August, 2021," a Lok Sabha communication said. "The President has summoned the Rajya Sabha to meet on Monday, 19 July 2021, at New Delhi. Subject to exigencies of business, the Session is scheduled to conclude on Friday, 13 August 2021," a Rajya Sabha official order said. Officials said the Monsoon Session is expected to follow Covid-19 protocols which include maintaining social distancing, though both houses will sit simultaneously. According to the latest data, 444 members from Lok Sabha and 218 from Rajya Sabha have been vaccinated with at least one dose. The Session in total will have about 19 sittings, Rajya Sabha said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/monsoon-session-of-parliament-to-begin-from-july-19-1004112.html
02-07-2021||National||Justice must be tempered with mercy, can't be substituted by it: Justice Ashok Bhushan||Justice must be tempered with mercy but cannot be substituted by it, Justice Ashok Bhushan said here on Friday. In a farewell function organised by SC Bar Association, the outgoing judge said he was proud to be part of the court which upheld democracy and rule of law. Justice Bhushan is set to retire on July 4. "I have been true to my oath and discharged my duty without fear and favour. Protection and enforcement of constitutional rights is both power and duty of the court. Justice must be tempered with mercy but justice cannot be substituted by mercy," Justice Bhushan said. Speaking in the virtual programme from his home at Prayagraj, Justice Bhushan said he always endeavoured to enhance reputation the top court. "No man could have asked for more. I thank the members of the Bar for always being kind and respectful inside and outside the court. The relationship I had with the Bar was not that of judge and advocate but an easy one," he said. In his address, Chief Justice of India N V Ramana cited a very famous German saying: "Man's feelings are always the purest at the time of meeting and bidding farewell". Justice Bhushan, apart from being a great judge, also has the distinction of being a fine gentleman, CJI said, adding that he was respected equally by both the Bar and the Bench, for the humility with which he conducted himself. "Deciding cases is not an easy task, we not only have to focus on the law and precedents surrounding the issue before us, as well as the facts of the case, but also the repercussions of what we decide and the precedent we may be setting. This makes it necessary for us judges to be logical and objective and theoretically sound. However, we should not lose sight of the people and their difficulties behind the cases. The little discretion that is given to us, is the area in which a judge has flexibility to display his philosophy," CJI said. Justice Bhushan, with his remarkable judgements, has not only left an indelible mark in the history of the Indian Judiciary, but by virtue of being a "humanist judge" has also left a mark in the minds and hearts of the people of India, he added. Attorney General K K Venugopal said one doesn't have to look far and wide to find Justice Bhushan's good qualities. He said Justice Bhushan took suo motu cognizance of the migrant workers issue directing for distribution of food grains. "I remember long lines of children walking, with mothers carrying their children, they were migrants and tears would come to one's eye. Justice Bhushan and Supreme Court came to the rescue regarding the distribution of dry ration and run community kitchens," the A-G said. Ayodhya, Aadhaar case, permitting passive euthanasia, are among Justice Bhushan's best judgments, said Venugopal. His recent judgment about granting ex-gratia compensation to families affected due to Covid-19 will help so many people, we are loosing an excellent judge and we feel sad about it, he added. Senior Advocate Vikas Singh and President SCBA, said today is an emotional moment since we are not only losing a great judge but also a great human being. Singh said Justice Bhushan was part of the Aadhaar and Martha reservation judgements. He increased the number of attempts that a physically handicapped candidate can take at UPSC exams, which again showed his empathy. Justice Bhushan had deep interest in poetry and religious literature, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/justice-must-be-tempered-with-mercy-cant-be-substituted-by-it-justice-ashok-bhushan-1004118.html
02-07-2021||National||Boeing 737 makes emergency landing on water in Hawaii||A Boeing 737 cargo aircraft with two crew on board was forced to make an emergency landing on the water off Honolulu early Friday after the pilots reported engine trouble, the Federal Aviation Administration said. Transair Flight 810 had been expected to go from Honolulu to Kahului, the main airport on Maui, according to aviation data from FlightAware. The plane was "attempting to return to Honolulu when they were forced to land the aircraft in the water" at about 1:30 am local time, an FAA spokeswoman said in a statement. "According to preliminary information, the US Coast Guard rescued both crew members. The FAA and National Transportation Safety Board will investigate," the statement said. A spokesman for the Coast Guard, Petty Officer Third Class Matthew West, told CNN that a Coast Guard helicopter rescued one of the crew, while "a fire department helicopter rescued the other." A Coast Guard cutter was also dispatched to the scene. Both crew members were taken to a Honolulu hospital for treatment, West said, adding he did not have additional information about their condition. A source with knowledge of the incident told AFP that the plane appears to be a 737 Classic that was likely at least 33 years old. A Boeing spokeswoman said the company is "aware of the reports out of Honolulu" and "closely monitoring the situation." The aviation giant said it was in contact with the NTSB, which investigates civil air accidents, and was "working to gather more information." Both the FAA and the NTSB will probe the incident. Landings on water are rare. In January 2009, an Airbus A320 passenger jet made an emergency landing on the Hudson River in New York shortly after takeoff, after flying into a flock of geese, severely damaging both engines. The pilot, Chesley "Sully" Sullenberger, believed he could not make it back to LaGuardia Airport and landed the plane in the river, with 150 passengers and five crew on board. No one was killed in the incident. Boeing's safety record was called into question after the fatal crashes of two 737 MAX passenger planes in 2018 and 2019, leaving nearly 350 people dead. The plane was grounded for 20 months after the crashes. Investigators said a main cause of both crashes was a faulty flight handling system known as the Maneuvering Characteristics Augmentation System, or MCAS. Boeing shares dipped slightly Friday after the announcement of the Hawaii incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/boeing-737-makes-emergency-landing-on-water-in-hawaii-1004119.html
02-07-2021||National||Expect vaccinated Indians to be treated at par with those inoculated in EU: India||India on Friday said it expects that its Co-WIN vaccination certificate would be recognised by the European Union on a reciprocal basis for travel and it is in touch with member states of the bloc over this issue. Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the European Union has now instituted what is called an EU digital Covid certificate for exempting restrictions on the movement of vaccinated people.  "Our expectation is that Indians who have been vaccinated through our domestic vaccination programme would be treated at par with those vaccinated in the EU and the Co-WIN vaccination certificate would be recognized by the EU on a reciprocal basis," he said at an online media briefing. "As you are aware, such Co-WIN vaccination certificates can be authenticated on the Co-WIN website itself. We are in touch with the EU member states in this regard for reciprocal acceptance," Bagchi said, noting that a number of EU countries have already taken  "positive steps" in this direction.  His remarks came a day after sources said nine European nations are accepting Covishield vaccines for travel to their countries. Austria, Germany, Slovenia, Greece, Iceland, Ireland and Spain are among the countries allowing travel by people who have taken Covishield vaccines, the sources said. They said Switzerland is also accepting Covishield as a Schengen state. Separately, Estonia has confirmed that it will recognise all vaccines authorised by the government of India for the travel of Indians to that country, the sources said. India has already asked the EU member countries to individually consider allowing Indians who have taken Covishield and Covaxin vaccines and want to travel to Europe. The European Union's Digital Covid certificate or "Green Pass" came into effect on Thursday with an aim to facilitate free movement during the Covid-19 pandemic.  Under this framework, persons who have taken vaccines authorised by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) will be exempted from travel restrictions within the EU region. The individual member states have the flexibility to also accept vaccines that have been authorised at the national level or those recognised by the World Health Organisation (WHO). There have been apprehensions in India that people who took Covishield and Covaxin jabs are unlikely to be eligible to travel to the European Union member states under its 'Green Pass' scheme. The 'Green Pass' will be mandatory to travel to European countries and the document will serve as proof that a person is vaccinated against Covid-19. Asked about the issue of vaccination norms in various countries and seeking of re-vaccination by some of them, Bagchi said this would depend on the country concerned. To queries on imports and exports of vaccines, he said the government is making all efforts to augment vaccine availability in the country, be it through domestic production or imports.  "As regards the specific vaccines and the status of their imports into India, this is a matter for the concerned regulatory authorities," the MEA spokesperson said. On supply of vaccines abroad, Bagchi reiterated that India's current priority remains purposing domestic production for its domestic vaccination programme which he said is progressing rapidly.  To a question on travel into India, he said such issues are being dealt with by the Health Ministry and the Ministry of Home Affairs. Asked how many countries have recognised made in India vaccines in Latin America, Bagchi said a large number of countries in that region are already using made in India vaccines. On a proposal of India and South Africa for a temporary waiver of certain intellectual property rights provisions in the TRIPS Agreement to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic, he said India is continuing to pursue its proposal for Covid-related TRIPS waiver. "We are happy with the large support for text-based negotiations. However, I would refer you to the Ministry of Commerce for the latest updates," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/expect-vaccinated-indians-to-be-treated-at-par-with-those-inoculated-in-eu-india-1004127.html
02-07-2021||National||Uttarakhand CM Tirath Singh Rawat meets Nadda, speculation rife over leadership change||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat met BJP president J P Nadda on Friday amid increasing buzz that the party may again go in for a change in the leadership in the state as the prospect of the Election Commission holding an Assembly bypolls there looks uncertain. Without commenting on the speculation about his fate, Rawat told reporters the party will take a call about its political strategy in the state, and noted that holding or not holding the bypolls is the EC's prerogative. If Rawat quits to pave the way for another person, an MLA most probably, then he would have held the post for less than four months after the party brought him to replace Trivendra Singh Rawat. Uttarakhand remained abuzz with speculation that the BJP could pick a new leader as CM Tirath Singh Rawat needs to be elected as an MLA by September 10 to continue in the post. What has made matters more complicated for him is that the EC had recently deferred holding some Lok Sabha and assembly bypolls due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The poll panel had said it would not be appropriate to hold the electoral exercise till the pandemic situation improves significantly. Rawat, currently a Lok Sabha member, had arrived in Delhi on Wednesday and had met Nadda on that night as well. He had also met Home Minister Amit Shah, sources said, adding that he had to postpone his departure to the state as the party leadership asked him to stay put. The BJP has not made any comments regarding these developments. Observers added that with the term of the assembly, in any case, coming to an end in less than a year, the EC is under no compulsion to order bypolls for the vacant seats in Uttarakhand. Scathing criticism by the courts of the string of elections held during the coronavirus pandemic may also contribute to the EC decision on Uttarakhand bypolls, it is felt. Section 151A of the Representation of People Act, 1951 mandates the Election Commission to fill vacancies in Parliament and the state legislatures through bypolls within six months from the date of their occurrence, provided that the remainder of the term of the new member is one year or more. The term of the Uttarakhand Assembly is scheduled to come to an end in March, only about nine months away. Going by some Uttarakhand BJP leaders' interpretation, however, the law neither prevents nor makes it mandatory for the EC to hold bye-elections in such circumstances. "It is within the scope and ambit of the Election Commission to take a call on whether or not to hold bypolls in the state. Everything depends on the Election Commission of India," said Munna Singh Chauhan, BJP MLA from Vikasnagar and former spokesperson of the party's state unit. Rawat has little to worry if bypolls are held but doubts are being cast on its constitutional feasibility as the current Assembly completes its tenure in less than a year. There are two vacant assembly seats in Uttarakhand -- Gangotri and Haldwani. Gangotri fell vacant after the death of BJP MLA Gopal Singh Rawat and Haldwani after the death of Leader of Opposition Indira Hridayesh. Even if there are no constitutional hurdles, the Election Commission may not find it easy to go for bypolls in Uttarakhand, observers here said, recalling court observations against the EC for "risking" people's lives through elections amid a pandemic. Political observers said the Centre may also not press for bypolls in Uttarakhand as bye-elections are also due in other parts of the country and the hill state cannot be made an exception. If bypolls are not held then the only option left for the BJP's central leadership would be to replace Rawat with someone who is already an MLA, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttarakhand-cm-tirath-singh-rawat-meets-nadda-speculation-rife-over-leadership-change-1004128.html
02-07-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccination drive a marathon, not a sprint: Centre||India’s vaccination drive is a marathon and not a 100-metre sprint, the government said on Friday, rejecting criticism over the pace of administering Covid-19 vaccines. The government also said its projections about the availability of 213 crore doses of vaccines between June and December 2021 was an “optimistic and aspirational estimate” based on the inputs from vaccine manufacturers. The Centre had revised the figure to 135 crore in a submission to the Supreme Court last week. “We are in a marathon and not a 100-metre sprint,” V K Paul, Member, Niti Aayog, said when asked about the decline in the rate of vaccination from over 85 lakhs on June 21 to 42 lakhs on July 1. Addressing a press conference here, Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary in the Union Health Ministry said the average daily vaccination rate has increased steadily from 2.35 lakh in January to almost 40 lakh in June. He said since the vaccination drive began on January 16 this year, India has administered over 34 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines, which was almost equivalent to the population of the US. Agarwal welcomed demands from states for greater allocation of vaccines as a positive sign about the eagerness to get inoculated. “However, we can give vaccines only when they are available,” he said, adding that states have to schedule vaccination based on the daily availability of doses shared with them regularly. Opposition leaders have been criticising the government for triggering an artificial bump in the vaccination numbers on June 21 when over 85 lakh doses were administered in a single day. The Opposition claimed that the BJP-ruled states had slowed down the vaccination in the run-up to June 21, when the new phase of the immunisation drive was launched.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccination-drive-a-marathon-not-a-sprint-centre-1004134.html
02-07-2021||National||Pakistan rejects India’s claims on drone flying over Indian High Commission in Islamabad||Pakistan on Friday rejected India's claims that a drone was spotted over the Indian High Commission complex here last week and said no proof has been shared with it to substantiate the charge. The external affairs ministry in New Delhi on Friday said that a drone was spotted over the Indian High Commission complex in Islamabad last week and Pakistan has been asked to investigate the incident and prevent recurrence of such "breach of security". The Indian mission has also lodged a strong protest with Pakistan over the incident through a note verbale which is a diplomatic communique, people familiar with the development said in New Delhi. The incident came to light amid growing concerns in the security establishment in India after explosives-laden drones were used to carry out an attack on the Jammu Air Force station on June 27. Foreign Office spokesperson Zahid Hafeez Chaudhri, in response to media queries here, termed the claims as “Indian propaganda”. “We have seen the Indian MEA’s statement and reports in certain sections of the Indian media alleging a drone flying over the premises of the Indian High Commission in Islamabad. “These preposterous claims have no basis in facts and no proof whatsoever has been shared with Pakistan to substantiate these allegations,” he said. The incident came to light amid growing concerns in the security establishment in India after explosives-laden drones were used to carry out an attack on the Jammu Air Force station on June 27.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-rejects-india-s-claims-on-drone-flying-over-indian-high-commission-in-islamabad-1004145.html
02-07-2021||National||Justice Bhushan has been part of several landmark verdicts including Ayodhya, Aadhaar||Supreme Court judge Justice Ashok Bhushan who is set to retire on July 4, has been a part of several landmark verdicts ranging from the historic Ayodhya land dispute case to upholding the validity of biometric ID Aadhaar as also the one which held that the Chief Justice of India is the "master of the roster" and has the prerogative to allocate cases. Elevated as an apex court judge on May 13, 2016, Justice Bhushan was part of benches delivering path-breaking verdicts including the one which recognised that a terminally-ill patient or a person in persistent vegetative state can execute an "advance medical directive" or a "living will" to refuse medical treatment. He was part of the five-judge Constitution bench which had in November 2019 cleared the way for construction of Ram Temple at the disputed site at Ayodhya and directed the Centre to allot a five-acre plot to the Sunni Waqf Board for building a mosque. He was also part of a five-judge bench that had in September 2018 declared the Centre's flagship Aadhaar scheme as constitutionally valid but struck down some of its provisions including its linking with bank accounts, mobile phones and school admissions. Justice Bhushan was a part of the July 2018 verdict in which the apex court had held that Delhi cannot be accorded the status of a state but clipped the powers of Lieutenant Governor, saying he has no "independent decision-making power" and has to act on the aid and advice of the elected government. He was part of a nine-judge Constitution bench of the top court which had in February last year held that its five-judge bench can refer questions of law to a larger bench while exercising its limited power under review jurisdiction in the Sabarimala temple case. The nine-judge bench had also framed seven questions on the scope of religious freedom in various religions. Justice Bhushan was heading the bench which had this week termed as “unpardonable” the Centre's “apathy and lackadaisical attitude” towards creating National Database for Unorganised Workers and ordered its commencement by July 31 so that all migrant workers are registered this year and welfare measures extended to them during Covid-19 distress. Justice Bhushan headed the bench on June 30 had directed the National Disaster Management Authority to issue fresh guidelines for providing minimum standards of financial help to families of those who lost their lives to Covid-19. The bench headed by him has passed several orders to alleviate the plight of migrant workers during the Covid-19 induced lockdown in the country. A five-judge bench headed by Justice Bhushan had in May this year refused to refer to a larger bench the issue whether to revisit its 29-year-old Mandal verdict putting cap on quotas at 50 per cent and quashed a Maharashtra law granting reservations to Marathas in admissions and government jobs in the state, saying it violated the principle of right to equality. Recently, a five-judge bench headed by him dismissed the Centre's plea seeking review of the May 5 majority verdict which held that 102nd Constitution amendment took away states' power to declare Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) for grant of quota in jobs and admissions. The 102nd Constitution amendment Act of 2018 inserted Articles 338B, which deals with the structure, duties and powers of the NCBC, while 342A deals with power of the President to notify a particular caste as SEBC and power of Parliament to change the list. A two-judge bench, which also comprised Justice Bhushan, had in July 2018 held that the CJI is the "master of the roster" and there is no dispute that he has the ultimate authority to allocate cases. In November 2017, a five-judge bench of the apex court had said that the CJI is the master of the roster. Justice Bhushan, born in 1956 at Jaunpur district in Uttar Pradesh, had obtained law degree from Allahabad University in 1979 and was enrolled as an advocate with the Bar Council of Uttar Pradesh on April 6, 1979. He was elevated as permanent judge of the Allahabad High Court on April 24, 2001. He was sworn in as a judge of the Kerala High Court on July 10, 2014. Justice Bhushan was sworn in as the chief justice of Kerala High Court in March 2015. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/justice-bhushan-has-been-part-of-several-landmark-verdicts-including-ayodhya-aadhaar-1004148.html
02-07-2021||National||Centre seeks nominations for Sardar Patel National Unity Award||The Centre has sought nominations or recommendations for the Sardar Patel National Unity Award, which is conferred to people or institutions who have been contributing to the unity and integrity of India. A Home Ministry statement said the online nominations or recommendations process for the Sardar Patel National Unity award is on and the last date for nominations or recommendations is August 15, 2021.  The nominations or recommendations are being received online on the home ministry website nationalunityawards.mha.gov.in, the statement said. The central government has instituted the highest civilian award in the field of contribution to the unity and integrity of India, in the name of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. The award seeks to recognise notable and inspiring contributions to promote the cause of national unity and integrity and to reinforce the value of a strong and united India. Any citizen of India without distinction of religion, race, caste, gender, place of birth, age or occupation, and any institution or organisation would be eligible for the award, the statement said. Any Indian national or institution or organisation based in India may nominate an individual or institution or organisation for consideration for this award. Individuals, institutions, organisations may also nominate themselves. State governments, Union Territory administrations and ministries of the Government of India may also send nominations for the award, according to the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-seeks-nominations-for-sardar-patel-national-unity-award-1004156.html
02-07-2021||National||Tamil Nadu extends Covid-19 lockdown till July 12, relaxes curbs||Tamil Nadu has extended Covid-19 lockdown in the state for one more week, till July 12, with further relaxations. Shops and activities which were allowed till 7 pm shall be operated till 8 pm. Hotels and tea shops can now function with 50 per cent of customers. Intra-district and inter-district public transport will be allowed with 50 per cent seating capacity, as per the order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamil-nadu-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-july-12-relaxes-curbs-1004161.html
02-07-2021||National||NIA arrests 2 more LeT terrorists in Darbhanga railway station blast case||The NIA on Friday claimed to have arrested two terrorists of the Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba for their alleged involvement in the Darbhanga railway station blast case. Mohammad Salim Ahmed and Kafil, both residents of Kairana in Shamli district of Uttar Pradesh, would be produced before a special NIA court in Patna after obtaining a transit remand from the competent court of UP, an official of the premier investigation agency said. The case was originally registered last month at Bihar's Darbhanga relating to an explosion in a parcel on platform number one of Darbhanga railway station. The parcel had arrived in Darbhanga aboard Secunderabad-Darbhanga express. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) re-registered the case and arrested two accused -- Mohammad Nasir Khan and Imran Malik -- on June 30. Salim and Kafil are key conspirators in the case. They met at the residence of Salim in February and finalised the plan of planting an IED in a moving train so that casualties and extensive damage to property could be caused, the NIA official said. Salim, a close associate of Pakistan-based LeT operative Iqbal Kana, was acting as a key intermediary between Kana and all the arrested accused. He was also involved in channelling funds sent by Kana that were used in executing the terror act, the official said, adding that further investigation to unearth the complete conspiracy is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-arrests-2-more-let-terrorists-in-darbhanga-railway-station-blast-case-1004164.html
02-07-2021||National||Bring perpetrators of 26/11 Mumbai and Pathankot attacks to justice: India to Pakistan||India on Friday once again asked Pakistan to take credible, verifiable and irreversible action against terrorist networks and proxies operating from its soil and bring the perpetrators of the 26/11 Mumbai strikes and Pathankot attack to justice. The comments by External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi came when asked about the decision by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) to retain Pakistan on its "grey list" or list of countries that require increased monitoring. "As far as terrorism and terror financing is concerned, we have a zero-tolerance policy. We condemn terrorism in all its forms and manifestations," Bagchi said. He said all countries must take credible action against terrorism including by putting an end to cross border movement of terrorists, ending terrorists safe havens, infrastructure and financing channels. "In this regard, we call upon Pakistan to take credible, verifiable and irreversible against terrorist networks and proxies operating from territories under its control and to bring the perpetrators of terrorist attacks including the 26/11 Mumbai attack and Pathankot attack to justice," he said. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bring-perpetrators-of-26/11-mumbai-and-pathankot-attacks-to-justice-india-to-pakistan-1004168.html
02-07-2021||National||Cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India exceed 34.41 crore: Health ministry||The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has exceeded 34.41 crore according to the 7 pm provisional report, the Union health ministry said on Friday. More than 38.88 lakh (38,88,643) doses were administered on Friday, it said. The ministry said 20,08,217 vaccine doses were administered as first dose and 97,458 vaccine doses were given as second dose, in the age group of 18-44 years, on Friday. Cumulatively, 9,61,89,940 people in the age group of 18-44 years across states/UTs have received their first dose and a total of 23,73,507 people have received their second dose, since the start of phase-3 of the vaccination drive. Eight states, namely Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra have administered more than 50 lakh first doses of Covid-19 vaccine in the age group of 18-44 years. Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 10 lakh beneficiaries of the age group of 18-44 years for the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, the ministry added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cumulative-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-exceed-3441-crore-health-ministry-1004173.html
02-07-2021||National||Social media posts, articles targeting Indian diplomats trigger strong reaction in Maldives||Certain social media posts and articles in the local media targeting Indian diplomats triggered a storm in the Maldives with the country's foreign ministry as well as a leading political party denouncing such reports saying levelling false accusations and publication of such content affect decades-long relations with friendly nations. A media report in a Maldivian news portal said the country's Parliament has requested Maldivian Media Council (MMC) to look into the "hostile" articles on the Indian High Commission and its diplomatic staff. India had taken up the matter with the Maldivian government and sought action against those tarnishing the dignity of Indian diplomats posted in Male. In a communication, the Indian High Commission in Male requested the Maldivian foreign ministry to take steps to ensure the security of its diplomats and mentioned that motivated attacks were a violation of the principles of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations. In its statement, the Maldivian foreign ministry said it has taken note of articles published repeatedly on local media, levelling false accusations at foreign ambassadors, missions and diplomats in the Maldives. It said these actions affect the decades-long friendly relations Maldives has maintained with friendly nations, and create hatred among the local population towards these countries. The ministry said such actions also put the diplomats' lives in danger and hinder their work, adding the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations stipulates immunities and privileges bestowed upon diplomats. It said it requests local media to respect international conventions and to report in a manner that does not affect the relations between the Maldives and other countries. In a statement, the Maldivian Democratic Party (MDP) said it is deeply concerned over the recent reports containing "disparaging and ill-founded" remarks about Indian diplomats in the Maldives. The MDP urged the media outlet to refrain from dragging in the diplomatic partners and allies of Maldives into their own "political petty vendetta". "The website and its co-founder's continuous barrage of anti-India vitriol appear to be a well-funded, well-orchestrated and pre-meditated political campaign with the express purpose of whipping up hatred against the Maldives' closest ally, India," the party said. "Such campaigns of hatred carry real security concerns for the safety and security of diplomats in our country," it said. "While the MDP always respects freedom of expression and welcomes robust debate on foreign policy, and the national interests, MDP condemns such defamatory propaganda which is only motivated by the desire to sow discord and animosity," it said. When asked about the issue at a media briefing, External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi only mentioned the statements by the Maldivian foreign ministry and the MDP. The ties between India and Maldives came under strain during the Abdulla Yameen regime. Yameen was perceived to be close to China. Some decisions by President Yameen including the imposition of restrictions on work visas for Indians and the signing of a new Free Trade Agreement with Beijing also did not go down well with New Delhi. However, the relations were back on track after Ibrahim Solih took charge of the country in November 2018 as its president.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/social-media-posts-articles-targeting-indian-diplomats-trigger-strong-reaction-in-maldives-1004174.html
02-07-2021||National||Looking at further simplification of SEZ ecosystem: Goyal||Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal on Friday said the ministry is looking at ways to further simplify the ecosystem of special economic zones (SEZs) to make them more attractive for investors and push exports. He also said that the department of commerce and revenue are discussing to see if SEZ units can be allowed to do business outside these zones. SEZs have urged the government to permit them to sell their products in the domestic market without payment of customs duties. "We are also looking at further simplification of the SEZ ecosystem...We have to see that whatever advantages SEZs units have, DTA (domestic tariff area) units should not have unfair disadvantages...Soon we will find a solution in this regard," the minister told reporters here. On $400 billion export target for this fiscal, Commerce Secretary BVR Subrahmanyam said a comprehensive work plan is under preparation for that. Speaking at the briefing, Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) Secretary Armane Giridhar expressed hope that the soft launch of the national single window system would happen in the next few weeks. Already 43 departments, ministries are onboarded and 14 states have also come into the system. "Our target is to ensure that all central ministries, departments, states, UTs come into the system so that one application at one place will ensure that the industry starts functioning," he said. On reducing the compliance burden for the industry, he said in phase-II of this plan, "we are taking up simplification and rationalisation of all the processes in the government". By August 15 this year, "we will ensure" that more than 10,000 compliances to be adhered to by the industry are reduced", the secretary said. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/looking-at-further-simplification-of-sez-ecosystem-goyal-1004179.html
02-07-2021||National||India, China to maintain dialogue to reach mutually acceptable solution for complete disengagement: MEA||India and China in their talks last week agreed to maintain dialogue through diplomatic and military mechanisms to reach a mutually acceptable solution for complete disengagement from all friction points so as to enable progress in bilateral ties, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said on Friday. MEA Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the 22nd meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on India-China border affairs was held on June 25.  "Both sides agreed to maintain dialogue and communication through the diplomatic and military mechanisms to reach a mutually acceptable solution for complete disengagement from all friction points so as to enable full restoration of peace and tranquillity and enable progress in the bilateral relations," he said at an online briefing. The two sides also agreed that in the interim, they will continue to ensure stability on the ground and prevent any untoward incident, Bagchi said.  India and China have also agreed to hold the next round of senior commanders meeting at an early date, he said, adding that the date for that meeting is yet to be fixed. India and China were locked in a military standoff at multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh since early May last year. However, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong lake in February following a series of military and diplomatic talks. The two sides are now engaged in talks to extend the disengagement process to the remaining friction points. India has been particularly pressing for disengagement of troops in Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang. To another question on the ongoing visit of Secretary, Economic Relations, Rahul Chhabra, to some African nations, Bagchi said he is on a tour of a few countries in Africa including Ghana where he is leading the Indian side at the foreign office consultations. Asked about extradition of Mehul Choksi and Nirav Modi from Dominica and the UK respectively, the MEA Spokesperson said he does not have any update on either of those cases but the ministry was "closely monitoring the ongoing legal proceedings".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-to-maintain-dialogue-to-reach-mutually-acceptable-solution-for-complete-disengagement-mea-1004181.html
02-07-2021||National||Army inducts 12 short span bridging systems designed by DRDO||The Army on Friday inducted 12 short span bridging systems designed and developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation, an official statement said. The systems called ‘SSBS-10 m’ play a crucial role in bridging the gaps of up to 9.5 metre length and 4 metre width to ensure faster movement of troops, the defence ministry's statement said. The 12 systems were inducted by Army Chief Gen M M Naravane during a ceremony held at Cariappa Parade Ground here. L&T is the company that has manufactured these systems in association with the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), it said. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh congratulated DRDO, the Indian Army and the industry on the successful development and induction of the systems, the statement added. He said the induction will give a boost to the fast-growing Indian defence industrial ecosystem and help the industry to contribute towards 'Atmanirbhar Bharat'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-inducts-12-short-span-bridging-systems-designed-by-drdo-1004183.html
02-07-2021||National||India inoculating population size of Norway everyday, drive a marathon, not 100m sprint: Centre||India is vaccinating on an average 50 lakh individuals daily since June 21, equivalent to inoculating the entire population of Norway every day, the Centre said on Friday and asserted that the process is like a “marathon and not a 100-metre race”. Addressing a press briefing, Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, health ministry, said till date, 34 crore people--equivalent to the entire population of the US--have been vaccinated with at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine since the nationwide inoculation drive began on January 16. "We are in a marathon and not a 100-metre sprint," Agarwal said responding to a question on why the rate of vaccination had come down after India administered over 86 lakh doses on June 21. The government had on May 13 shared a roadmap of vaccine manufacturing in the country from August to December. It said there should be 75 crore doses of Covishield and 55 crore jabs of Covaxin. These are two main vaccine suppliers to the government. Besides 30 crore vaccines by Biological E, 5 crore by Zydus Cadila, 20 crore by Novavax to be manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII), 10 crore nasal vaccines of Bharat Biotech, 6 crore vaccines of Gennova and 15.6 crore Sputnik V vaccines would be available between August to December, it had said. On the availability of Covid vaccines between August to December, NITI Aayog Member (Health) V K Paul said this should be viewed in a context. "When we said that we were looking at 216 crore doses, the companies and manufacturers shared the optimistic estimates. We banked on their reputation to make that announcement. We thought it was apt to share it with the country because there was a feeling at that time whether vaccines were available or not,” he said. “The visibility of two manufacturers is 90 crore and it looks achievable. They can produce more,” he said, alluding to the Serum Institute of India (Covishield) and Bharat Biotech (Covaxin). Talking about Biological E's vaccine, Paul noted, “We have so much faith that we gave advance orders. In the case of Zydus vaccine, they said they plan to manufacture 50 million doses from August-December. "Why will India (government) not think that they are getting 1 crore doses every month (from Zydus)? We share the numbers with the same honesty,” he said. The senior official also said that the “dynamic situation” should be seen in a context. "When we present a dynamic situation before you in a context.... the first number is aspirational. We are not even counting two vaccines which are coming in the later part in October or November. The estimate is at its own place. Please see these two things in context,” he said. Paul expressed confidence that the “scene will become more liberal” in coming days. “Even if we depend on our main suppliers, we think the situation is satisfactory,” he asserted. Asked about the Moderna vaccine which has been given an Emergency Use Authorisation, Paul said discussion on this is on to see in what form will the country get the vaccine. In the case of Johnson and Johnson (J&J), he said the government is in touch with the US pharma giant. “We have interactions with them to understand their expectations, contractual arrangements and specific terms. J&J is also producing vaccines in other countries and according to the plan, Biological E is also manufacturing it. We hope that this single dose vaccine is available in India,” Paul said. The new revised guidelines of Covid-19 vaccination came into effect from June 21 according to which the Centre will now procure 75 per cent of the vaccines being produced by the manufacturers in the country. In order to incentivise production by vaccine manufacturers and encourage new vaccines, domestic vaccine manufacturers are given the option to also provide vaccines directly to private hospitals. This would be restricted to 25 per cent of their monthly production, the new guidelines stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-inoculating-population-size-of-norway-everyday-drive-a-marathon-not-100m-sprint-centre-1004195.html
02-07-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccination a service requirement and not an option for Armed Forces: IAF||The Indian Air Force (IAF) has said that "to ward off the ill-effects of the biological weapons" and to control the spread of coronavirus infection, vaccination is a "service requirement and not an individual option" for armed forces and it can't be compared with civilians. The statement has been made in an affidavit filed in Gujarat High Court in response to a petition moved by a corporal, who is facing dismissal for his unwillingness to be vaccinated against Covid-19. He has challenged the mandatory vaccination drive at his unit in Jamnagar, where he is posted, on the ground that it is voluntary and not mandatory to be vaccinated.   The petitioner Yogendra Kumar is a corporal, weapon fitter, of Squadron, Air Force, currently posted in Jamnagar. He has moved court stating that he had shown his "unwillingness for vaccination" because of which a show-cause notice was issued to him, asking him "as to why no action should be taken against for his unwillingness to immunization" in accordance with Indian Air Force regulations. Kumar has said that he responded that the vaccine is not "fully approved by administration and has been given Emergency Use Authorization (EUA). Hence, it should not be considered as an only option in order to get prevention against Covid-19." In May, he received another show-cause notice for his dismissal under Air Force Act, 1950 read with Air Force Rules, 1969 for unwillingness to get vaccinated against Covid-19. A division bench of the high court had issued a notice and sought IAF's response while directing it not to take any coercive action against Kumar. Following the order, Air Commodore Vineet Jindal, holding the charge of Air Officer Commanding, 47 Signals Unit, Air Force, Vadsar in Ahmedabad filed an affidavit in the court. He has said that the petition is "premature and without jurisdiction." He has said that no decision has been taken till now to dismiss the petitioner and only a notice has been served. It says that termination of service falls within the definition of terms of "service matter" as laid down in section 3 (0) (ii) of the Armed Forces Tribunal Act, 2007, and therefore, it falls under the jurisdiction of the Armed Forces Tribunal under section 14 of Armed Forces Tribunal Act, 2007. The affidavit states that the petitioner is a "combatant air warrior" and considering the nature of his duties, he cannot be allowed "to compare himself with civilian counterparts...such unwillingness on the part of the petitioner has a strong potential to adversely impact the operational capability of his unit/formation.." It says that the petition should be dismissed with a heavy cost. "It is pertinent to highlight that a close-knit community living in Air Force campuses refusal on the part of the petitioner to get himself vaccinated is not only likely to expose the petitioner to highly contagious covid-19 infection but also endanger the lives of fellow air warriors and other Air Force civilians. Therefore, it is highlighted that the instant case is fit for consideration wherein the individual good must merge with the larger good," the affidavit mentions. "Apart from the above, it is also highlighted that, to ward off the ill-effects of the Biological weapons used by potential adversaries in their military strategies in the modern warfare, a combatant is mandatorily vaccinated/inoculated against the same...Therefore, getting vaccinated is a "service requirement" and not an individual option," it adds. The affidavit mentions the Air Force Act, 1950 which provides for "administration of oath/affirmation to the Air Force personnel to obey the commands of any officer set over him even to the peril of his life. It says that the enrolment form under Rule 7 (2) of the Air Force Rules, 1969 also prescribes that "the willingness to get himself inoculated/vaccinated by a person aspiring himself to be enrolled in the Indian Air Force as a combatant, is to be considered before enrolling him in the Indian Air Force. Considering the nature of duties performed by him, a combatant air warrior cannot be allowed to compare himself with civilian counterparts. Such a comparison is totally misplaced and unjustified." Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccination-a-service-requirement-and-not-an-option-for-armed-forces-iaf-1004197.html
02-07-2021||National||How India could have averted 1.3 crore Covid-19 cases, 1.1 lakh deaths||Imposing even a moderate lockdown by mid-March would have helped India avert nearly 1.3 crore Covid-19 cases and 1.1 lakh deaths over the next two months during the second surge of the epidemic, says a new study. Carried out by epidemiologist Bhramar Mukherjee at the University of Michigan and her collaborators, the study analyses the Covid-19 second surge in India and the possible role of government interventions using sophisticated computer models. After a steady decline for about four months in the later parts of last year and early 2021, an uptick in cases was noted in three Indian states - Maharashtra, Punjab and Chhattisgarh - in February 2021 with the national effective reproduction number crossing the threshold of one on February 14. Reproduction number or R measures a virus's ability to infect others. An R value of 1.9 would mean 10 Covid-19 affected persons would spread the infections to 19 others. For an epidemic to shrink, the R value would have to drop below one. But despite the R value crossing the threshold, no strict control measures were reintroduced in the two months following the initial indications of a resurgence in transmission. Instead, there were large political rallies and religious gatherings, while social interactions continued unabated. The first comprehensive lockdown started only on April 14 in Maharashtra when India was already witnessing a staggering growth in infections. “Had a lockdown been instituted in mid-to late-March of 2021, the case counts would have almost immediately started to decline, with the daily case count peaking around 20,000-49,000 respectively instead of the observed 414,280,” the researchers reported. The study is not yet peer-reviewed and appeared in a preprint. It shows that under either of the two conditions – (a) a strict lockdown as imposed by the Centre last year or (b) a moderate lockdown as implemented by the Maharashtra government – nearly 13 million infections could have been averted had it began around March 15. An end-of-April national lockdown would have been too late for any marked benefit because the second wave outbreak had already run its course. “This suggests that the timing of the intervention matters, and March 15-30 would have been the optimal time window for intervening,” they reported. Similarly, a March 15 lockdown would have led to a 98.5% drop in Covid-19 deaths by May 15 in case of a strong lockdown. “Under the moderate intervention effect, our estimates show roughly 97K-109K deaths could have been avoided by May 15,” they said. Until there is a sufficient supply of vaccines to inoculate most of the Indian population, non-pharmaceutical public health interventions will be key for India as the country designs its current lockdown exit strategy. “Such measures are crucial for curbing deaths, infections, and subsequent viral mutation. Our analysis demonstrates that the earlier an intervention takes place, the better – timing matters,” the researchers concluded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-india-could-have-averted-13-crore-covid-19-cases-11-lakh-deaths-1004199.html
02-07-2021||National Politics||'Does he not read?': Health Minister Harsh Vardhan slams Rahul Gandhi over vaccine tweet||“What is Rahul Gandhi Ji’s problem? Does he not read? Does he not understand,” Vardhan said, adding that only on Thursday he had shared facts on the availability of vaccines for the month of July. Just yesterday, I put out facts on vaccine availability for the month of July. “It is July, vaccines have not reached,” Rahul said amid reports of vaccination drive being put off in Mumbai on Thursday due to lack of doses. “There is no vaccine for the virus of arrogance and ignorance !! Congress must think of a leadership overhaul,” the health minister said, referring to Gandhi’s remarks. He said 12 crore vaccine doses will be made available to the states in July and the private sector would procure more vaccines for the vaccination drive. Union Ministers Pralhad Joshi, Piyush Goyal and Anurag Thakur also lashed out at Gandhi. “He has grown old, but not wise. The prince of Congress continues to wail over vaccines. The vaccination drive is creating new records everyday, but there is no end to Rahul Gandhi cursing the government over lack of vaccines,” Joshi said. “At least wake up now, prince of Congress,” Joshi said. Thakur said Gandhi should speak to chief ministers of Congress-ruled states as the Centre had shared full details about availability of vaccines for July a fortnight ago. “Perhaps Congress governments, who are busy profiteering over vaccines, did not inform him. One never knows when he will wake up from his slumber,” said Textiles Minister Smriti Irani, who defeated Gandhi from Amethi Lok Sabha seat in the 2019 elections. Goyal advised Gandhi that display of petty politics was not advisable during the serious fight against Covid-19. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/does-he-not-read-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-slams-rahul-gandhi-over-vaccine-tweet-1003924.html
02-07-2021||National Politics||TMC seeks removal of Solicitor General over meeting with Suvendu Adhikari, writes to PM||Three TMC MPs on Friday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take necessary steps to remove Solicitor General Tushar Mehta from his post, questioning his alleged meeting with Leader of Opposition in West Bengal Assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, who faced a probe in Naradha case and Saradha chit fund scam. Mehta, for his part, denied any meeting with him, although he admitted Adhikari did come to his office-cum-residence unannounced at 3pm on Thursday. "Since I was already in a pre-scheduled meeting in my chamber, my staff requested him to sit in the waiting room of my office. When my meeting was over, my PPS informed me about his arrival. I requested my PPS to convey to Mr Adhikari my inability to meet him and apologise as he had to wait. Adhikari left without insisting to meet me. Question of my meeting with Adhikari therefore did not arise," Mehta said. In a joint letter, TMC MPs Derek O Brien, Sukhendu Sekhar Roy and Mahua Moitra claimed that Adhikari is an accused in various criminal cases of cheating, illegal gratification and bribery etc. "Such a meeting between an accused in grave offences and with the Solicitor General, who is advising such investigating agencies by whom the accused is investigated, is in direct conflict of interest with the statutory duties of Solicitor General of India," their letter stated. The MPs alleged that the act of Solicitor General to provide an opportunity of audience to Adhikari "not only reeks of impropriety, but also raises the question of integrity and taints the post occupied by the Solicitor General".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmc-seeks-removal-of-solicitor-general-over-meeting-with-suvendu-adhikari-writes-to-pm-1004010.html
02-07-2021||National Politics||CBI probe against me illegal, even Kasab got benefit of rule of law: Anil Deshmukh to Bombay HC||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh told the Bombay High Court on Friday that the ongoing CBI inquiry against him over corruption charges was illegal and in breach of legal procedures, and said even 26/11 terrorist Ajmal Kasab got the benefit of the rule of law. Deshmukh's counsel, senior advocate Amit Desai, told the HC that though the CBI inquiry was initiated following a high court order in April, the central agency did not seek prior sanction from the Maharashtra government to prosecute the NCP leader, who was at the time a public servant. This absence of sanction made the inquiry against Deshmukh, on the charges of corruption and misconduct, "illegal," Desai said. "Can you bypass the requirement of law? The State could have been approached (for sanction). Therefore, the entire enquiry is illegal," Desai said. "We may be carried away by emotion but we cannot bypass the procedure and the rule of law. Even a person like Kasab got the benefit of the rule of law in this country. Everyone in this country gets the benefit of the process of law," he said.  Desai was arguing before a bench of Justices SS Shinde and NM Jamadar that was presiding over a plea filed by Deshmukh challenging the FIR registered by the CBI against him in the aftermath of corruption allegations made against him by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. In April this year, a bench led by HC chief justice Dipankar Datta had directed the CBI to conduct a preliminary inquiry against Deshmukh, who resigned from the state cabinet after the order. This inquiry was to be based upon a complaint lodged at the Malabar Hill police station in Mumbai by a lawyer, Jaishri Patil. In her complaint seeking a probe against both Deshmukh and Singh, Patil had also attached a copy of the letter written by the IPS officer to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray making allegations against the NCP leader. The CBI subsequently lodged an FIR against Deshmukh on charges of corruption and misconduct. The agency said in its FIR that Deshmukh had knowledge of the reinstatement of former assistant police inspector Sachin Waze (who is in jail in a criminal case), and that as the home minister he used to exercise undue interference in transfers and postings of state police officers. On Friday, advocate Desai told the HC that though the preliminary inquiry was in accordance with the HC order, the CBI breached the process of law in registering the FIR against Deshmukh. Desai said section 17A of the Prevention of Corruption Act mandated that the police or any other investigating agency procure a prior sanction to prosecute a public servant. The bench, however, pointed out that section 17A protected an officer's conduct that was in discharge of his or her official duties. It said the CBI had said in its affidavit filed in the case that by allegedly indulging in corruption, and interfering in transfers, Deshmukh had not been discharging his official duties. Desai, however, argued that according to the CBI's FIR, all of Deshmukh's acts, including his knowledge of Waze's reinstatement, were in discharge of his public duty. "According to your (CBI's) own FIR, I was acting in my official position. Then wouldn't the bar of 17A apply?" Desai said. He further said at mere knowledge did not constitute an offence. Desai said the FIR was based merely on "whispers" and allegations. "Allegations are made against anybody and everybody. If every allegation is to be believed then there will be total anarchy," Desai stated. The HC will continue hearing the plea on July 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cbi-probe-against-me-illegal-even-kasab-got-benefit-of-rule-of-law-anil-deshmukh-to-bombay-hc-1004050.html
02-07-2021||National Politics||19 Haryana Congress MLAs seek leadership change, key role for Bhupinder Singh Hooda||Nineteen Congress MLAs from Haryana sought a "strong leadership" for the party in the state, favouring a key role for former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda. The suggestion was made by the opposition legislators at a meeting with the party’s Haryana incharge at the All-India Congress Committee (AICC) in New Delhi on Thursday, according to a participant. The Congress has 31 MLAs in the state. The MLAs also raised the issue that the party does not have district unit chiefs for the past eight years. After the meeting, Bansal told reporters in Delhi that as the MLAs had not met due to the Covid pandemic for a long time, it was decided to take their feedback about the political situation in the state and seek suggestions about the party's organisational structure and upcoming panchayat polls. A senior Haryana Congress leader, who attended the meeting, said the MLAs said there should be a "change of leadership at the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC)-level" to strengthen the party. "It was conveyed that we need a strong leadership in the state and a powerful leader who will swing the prevailing political circumstances in the state to the party's advantage. For this, a key role for Mr Hooda was suggested," the leader said on Friday. He said more MLAs would have attended the meeting but could not do so as they were unavailable, including one of them taking an anti-Covid vaccine on Thursday. Reacting to the meeting of the legislators with Bansal, Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja on Friday sought to play it down, saying, "The MLAs can meet their party in-charge." "I don't see any indiscipline if party legislators go and meet the party's state unit incharge and say something. It is their right. Bansal sahab has later clarified what the meeting was all about," she said. "I never felt that the 19 MLAs were meeting the state unit incharge against the state unit president, nor has any such statement or indication come from anyone,” she said. The developments in the Haryana Congress have come amid infighting in the Punjab unit of the party, where senior leader Navjot Singh Sidhu is at loggerheads with Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. In Haryana, the Congress is out of power since 2014.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/19-haryana-congress-mlas-seek-leadership-change-key-role-for-bhupinder-singh-hooda-1004087.html
02-07-2021||National Politics||Assam CM Himanta Biswa Sarma calls on President Kovind, Ministers Smriti Irani, Pralhad Joshi||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma called on President Ram Nath Kovind, Union Textiles Minister Smriti Irani and Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi on Friday, and discussed with them various issues concerning the state, officials said. It was Sarma's first meeting with the President since he took charge as the chief minister of Assam on May 10. The meeting with the President was a courtesy call, an official said. Sarma held a discussion with Irani on the textile sector and issues related to women and child development, according to an official statement. Irani is also the Union Minister for Women and Child Development. Sarma said his government is exploring different projects like the Emergency Support Response System under the Nirbhaya fund and others for providing a round-the-clock safety net for the women of the state. The chief minister informed the union minister about various initiatives that the Assam government has taken to curb human trafficking. Sarma told Irani about the steps his government has taken under the Supplementary Nutrition Programme, under which children aged six months to six years, pregnant and lactating mothers are given nutritious food under the integrated child development scheme. He requested the union minister for adequate and timely release of central share under SNP to Assam according to beneficiary number to cover 300 days. Responding to Sarma's request for the development of the textile sector in the state, Irani said special stress would be given for the total implementation of textile schemes in Assam, the statement said. During his meeting with the coal minister, Sarma discussed issues related to the state, another official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/assam-cm-himanta-biswa-sarma-calls-on-president-kovind-ministers-smriti-irani-pralhad-joshi-1004131.html
02-07-2021||National Politics||Pogonotrophy: Tharoor drops another 'head-scratcher', refers to PM while explaining meaning||Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, known for his penchant for rarely used English words, sent the Twitterati running for their dictionaries on Friday with another head scratcher -- pogonotrophy. Tharoor said he learnt of the new word pogonotrophy, which means the growing or cultivation of a beard, from a friend. He also used the word to take an apparent dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi. A Twitter user reached out to Tharoor, saying she was waiting to learn a new word and the former Union minister was quick to oblige. "My friend Rathin Roy, the economist, taught me a new word today: pogonotrophy, which means 'the cultivation of a beard'. As in, the PM's pogonotrophy has been a pandemic preoccupation…," he said in a tweet. Tharoor's tweet left many bemused with a Twitter user saying, "If the world has Oxford dictionary Why not India has Tharur Dictionary (sic)?" "Thanks for sharing this one from Tharoorictionary," said another user. This is not the first time Tharoor has sent Twitterati scurrying for their dictionaries. In May, Tharoor engaged in a friendly banter with TRS working president K T Rama Rao over Covid-19 medicine names and threw in another head scratcher -- floccinaucinihilipilification. Oxford dictionary describes floccinaucinihilipilification as the action or habit of estimating something as worthless. Tharoor has been a man of many words earlier too. In the past, he has stumped people with rarely used English words such as "farrago" and "troglodyte". While farrago means a confused mixture, a troglodyte means a person regarded as being deliberately ignorant or old-fashioned. Tharoor has also started a new weekly column on words in the Weekend Magazine of the Khaleej Times of Dubai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pogonotrophy-tharoor-drops-another-head-scratcher-refers-to-pm-while-explaining-meaning-1004144.html
02-07-2021||National Politics||Congress seeks probe into Covaxin supply deal with Brazil||The Congress on Friday raised several questions over a deal for the supply of coronavirus vaccine Covaxin to Brazil, and demanded that the prime minister and the government order a probe into charges of graft. The opposition party also questioned the government over the "slow pace" of vaccination in the country. Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said the government needs to clear the air over the deal with Brazil as Covaxin was developed by Bharat Biotech in partnership with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and taxpayers' money was used for it. Shrinate said there are serious allegations raised by another country that don't drag into controversy just Bharat Biotech but also its co-developer and co-partners, and the conspicuous silence by the Indian government raises far more questions. "We would want to raise some very important questions because this brings disrepute and taint to the entire pharma industry which has brought much repute and pride to India. "Why is the Indian government and the prime minister silent on allegation of inflated prices by Bharat Biotech's partner -- Singapore's Madison Biotech -- which is at the heart of the criminal conspiracy and alleged allegations," she asked. Sha said the allegations, now in the public domain, do call for a serious probe by the Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) as this seemingly involves fund diversion and money laundering. "Why is the government quiet, when the status of an entity to which profits could have been diverted is not known, should the government not do anything about it? I think the government needs to wake up and answer questions. "The government needs to answer some very serious questions, they need to order some very serious probes and they need to come clean, because tax payers' money was involved in developing COVAXIN and we have a right to know what is happening with that money," she said. The Congress leader alleged that as per charges being probed by Brazil, Bharat Biotech quoted a lower price for the vaccine but later jacked up the rate after it diverted the jabs at lower price to its Singapore subsidiary Madison Biotech. Bharat Biotech was in an agreement with Precisa Medicamentos of Brazil for supply of 20 million doses of Covaxin. This, Shrinate alleged, leads to fund diversions and makes for a money laundering case. There was no reaction available either from Bharat Biotech or the government on the charges. "Why aren't those probes being ordered? Isn't this a case of tax diversion and fund diversion, even after a criminal investigation and a parliamentary probe has been initiated by Brazil Government into the contract. "Why is the Indian government conspicuously silent, because this talks about tax payers money, this talks about public investments and profiteering from this," she asked. Expressing concern over the current pace of vaccination, she said just a little over six crore Indians have been fully vaccinated so far. She said Indians have the first right on vaccines being made and manufactured here and the government needs to answer the question of how some export deals still continue. She also hit out at some ministers for trolling those who ask questions on the slow pace of vaccination instead of answering questions on the Covaxin deal with Brazil.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-seeks-probe-into-covaxin-supply-deal-with-brazil-1004166.html
02-07-2021||National Politics||Two candidates exceeded expenditure limit in 2019 Lok Sabha polls, three spent least: ADR report||Fifty-six Lok Sabha members elected in 2019 have declared election expenses less than 50 per cent of the prescribed limit, an organisation working in the field of electoral reforms said on Friday. According to the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR), it analysed the election expenditure statements of 538 out of 543 MPs who won the Lok Sabha elections in 2019. There are two MPs who have exceeded the expense limit, the ADR said in a statement. National Conference's Hasnain Masoodi from Anantnag constituency in Jammu and Kashmir exceeded the expense limit by Rs 9, 27,920. BJP's Ravindra Shyamnarayan Shukla alias Ravi Kishan from Gorakhpur constituency in Uttar Pradesh exceeded the expense limit by Rs.7,95,916, it said. The election expenditure limit per candidate for the general election is Rs 70 lakh for big states and Rs 54 lakh for smaller states. These election expense documents include details of expenses on public meetings and processions, campaigning through electronic and print media, expense on campaign workers, expense on vehicles used and expense on campaign materials. It also noted that three MPs -- BJP's Kiren Rijiju, YSRCP's Goddeti Madhavi and Sikkim Krantikari Morcha's Indra Hang Subba -- had the lowest election expenditure. Rijiju spent over Rs 14 lakh, while his expenditure limit was Rs 54 lakh. Madhavi too spent over Rs 14 in campaigning while the expenditure limit for candidates in Andhra Pradesh is Rs 70 lakh. Subba spent over Rs 7 lakh while his expenditure limit was Rs 54 lakh. Based on the election expense declarations of 538 MPs, the average amount of money spent by them in the elections is Rs 50.84 lakh, which is 73 per cent of the expense limit, the statement noted. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/two-candidates-exceeded-expenditure-limit-in-2019-lok-sabha-polls-three-spent-least-adr-report-1004175.html
02-07-2021||North and Central||Pakistani drone spotted again along border in Jammu||Sources said the drone was detected by the signal BSF staff in the Arnia sector in the Jammu district at about 4:25 am. “It was a quadcopter trying to cross the border to carry out surveillance. As soon as BSF personnel started shooting at it, the drone returned,” they said. A BSF spokesperson while confirming the incident said alert troops fired at a small quadcopter belonging to Pakistan as it was trying to cross the IB in the Arnia sector. “Due to firing by the BSF troops, it returned immediately,” he added. The latest intrusion comes days after the country witnessed the first-ever drone attack on its territory when two small UAVs dropped explosive devices on an Indian Air Force (IAF) base in Jammu causing damage to the roof of a building and minor injuries to two personnel. A day after the explosives-laden drones crashed into the IAF station at Jammu airport, two unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) were spotted at Kaluchak military station in Jammu during the intervening night of Sunday and Monday. Since then, drones have been spotted in different areas along the border almost daily. Sources told DH that a security high alert sounded across Jammu and Kashmir to thwart any possible attacks, has so far failed the strategy of militant outfits, “who at the behest of Pakistan army are trying to target security installations on Indian territory, with drones.”   The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has already taken over the probe into Sunday’s Jammu airport attack triggered by drones. The case was handed over to the elite counter-terrorism unit by the Union Home Ministry on Tuesday. J&K police chief Dilbagh Singh on Friday said that the initial investigation suggests that Lashkar-e-Taiba outfit was involved in the drone blast at Jammu Air Force Station and “it seems that RDX was used for the blast.” Terming the drone attacks as a big challenge, he said, “The drone used for the blast at the Air Force Station is likely to have operated from across the border.” “The probe agencies are also looking into these aspects whether there was any local support. The explosion was very powerful,” the police chief added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistani-drone-spotted-again-along-border-in-jammu-1003905.html
02-07-2021||North and Central||5 LeT terrorists, Army jawan killed in encounter in J&K's Pulwama||Five militants affiliated with the Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) outfit, including a commander, and a soldier of the Indian Army were killed in an overnight gunfight between security forces and ultras in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Friday. The gunfight erupted after the Army and J&K police launched a cordon-and-search-operation (CASO) in Hanjan village of Rajpora in Pulwama late Thursday based on a ‘tip-off’ on Thursday evening. The hiding militants opened fire on the security forces thereby triggering off a gunfight, reports said. In the ensuing firefight, five militants, including LeT commander Nishaz Lone and a Pakistani ultra, were killed. The identities of the three other slain militants were not revealed by the police till late in the evening. One Army soldier was also injured during the encounter and later succumbed to his injuries at a hospital. Kashmir police chief Vijay Kumar while terming the operation a ‘big success’ said Nishaz Lone was district commander of the LeT. Pertinently 66 militants and 18 security forces and J&K police personnel have been killed in Kashmir since the beginning of this year. Last year 203 militants, including 166 locals were killed by security forces across the Valley. As many as 157 militants were killed in Kashmir in 2019 while the number was 257 in 2018 which was the highest in a decade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-let-terrorists-army-jawan-killed-in-encounter-in-jks-pulwama-1003911.html
02-07-2021||North and Central||Navjot Singh Sidhu in line to be Punjab Congress chief?||Senior Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu may share the post of Punjab Congress chief with another leader as party high command seeks to get its affairs in order ahead of the Punjab polls. The former cricketer, who joined Congress after a stint in BJP where he was MP, is not inclined to work under Singh and has expressed his wish to be at least party chief before Assembly polls. Sources said the party's central leadership is working on a formula to present a united face ahead of Assembly polls early next year. Congress had set up a three-member committee headed by senior leader Mallikarjun Kharge to resolve the infighting. Both Sidhu and Singh had appeared before the committee. (With DHNS inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/navjot-singh-sidhu-in-line-to-be-punjab-congress-chief-1003915.html
02-07-2021||North and Central||Samajwadi Party contesting UP polls with smaller parties as it is helpless: Mayawati||BSP chief Mayawati on Friday said the Samajwadi Party's decision to contest the next Uttar Pradesh assembly polls with the help of smaller parties reflects its "helplessness" as major parties have been avoiding it due to their "bitter" experience. Samajwadi Party supremo Akhilesh Yadav has ruled out an alliance with any major political party in the 2022 assembly polls and has openly said his party will go with smaller parties. Taking a swipe at the SP, Mayawati said in a tweet in Hindi that, "In view of the bitter experiences with the Samajwadi Party due to its very selfish, narrow and especially anti-Dalit thinking and working style, all prominent and major parties avoid it (SP). This is well known". "That is why in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly election, this party will not fight with any major party but only with the help of an alliance with smaller parties. If saying this is not the helplessness of SP, then what is it," she asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/samajwadi-party-contesting-up-polls-with-smaller-parties-as-it-is-helpless-mayawati-1003930.html
02-07-2021||North and Central||SC junks plea for action against MoS V K Singh||The Supreme Court on Friday declined to consider a plea for action against Union Minister of State for Road Transport and Highways, Gen (retd) V K Singh for allegedly breaching oath of office by making certain comments on the India-China LAC issue. A bench presided over by Chief Justice Ramana said if Singh he has done something, it is for the PM to act and the top court can't pass any order. The bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy, rejected the plea filed by social activist, Chandrasekaran Ramaswamy, who cited various events where Singh made controversial statements. The PIL contended the retired general had claimed that India transgressed (the LAC) many times as per its perception. The statement was used by Chinese to its advantage and to blame India for encroaching upon its perceived territory. "If you don’t like a statement by a minister, you file a plea and ask him to be removed,” the court asked the counsel, who insisted that Singh had made statements against the army. "If he is not good, the prime minister will look into it,” the bench said. The plea contended Singh's comments that India transgressed more frequently across the Line of Actual Control than the People's Liberation Army has not only given China a rare opportunity but also has contradicted India's long-held official position on the subject.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-junks-plea-for-action-against-mos-v-k-singh-1003940.html
02-07-2021||North and Central||Former Haryana CM O P Chautala released from Tihar Jail||INLD chief Om Prakash Chautala walked free from the Delhi’s Tihar Jail Friday after serving a 10-year sentence in a recruitment scam, his party workers welcoming him with flower petals and drum beats at the capital’s border with Haryana. The former Haryana chief minister told party workers that he will continue to fight for farmers and the poor. Chautala (86), who was already out on parole, reached the Tihar Jail on Friday to complete formalities after which he was released, prison officials said. Director General (Delhi Prisons), Sandeep Goel, said, "After necessary formalities, he (Chautala) has been released". Last month, the Delhi government had passed an order granting a six-month special remission to those who have served nine-and-half years of their 10-year prison sentence to decongest jails in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. According to officials, since Chautala has already served nine years and nine months of his sentence, he was eligible to get out of prison. Chautala was jailed in 2013 in connection with a teacher recruitment scam . He was on emergency parole since March 26, 2020 due to the Covid pandemic and was scheduled to surrender on February 21, 2021. However, his parole had been extended by the high court, a senior jail official had said earlier. As on February 21, he had two months and 27 days of jail time left which has been counted as remitted. O P Chautala, his son Ajay Chautala, and 53 others, including IAS officer Sanjiv Kumar, were convicted and sentenced in the case of illegal recruitment of 3,206 junior basic teachers in 2000. They all were sentenced to varying jail terms in the case by a special CBI court in January 2013. After his release from the jail, Chautala was taken to his Gurgaon residence by his grandson Karan Chautala. As his car reached the Delhi-Gurgaon border, Indian National Lok Dal workers welcomed him, showering flower petals and dancing to the beats of a “dhol” and distributed sweets. There were reports of INLD workers celebrating the party supremo's release across Haryana. In a brief conversation with workers, Chautala said he will continue to fight for farmers and the poor. Party leaders who had assembled to welcome Chautala said he will soon be visiting the farmers protest against the Centre’s farm laws near the Delhi borders. The party’s state chief, Nafe Singh Rathi, said his release has infused new energy in workers. Karan Chautala too expressed happiness over his grandfather’s release. “Not just me, people of Haryana are also very happy,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-haryana-cm-o-p-chautala-released-from-tihar-jail-1003986.html
02-07-2021||North and Central||Millions sizzle in North India's severe heatwave; power consumption soars||Tens of millions of people in India were suffering Friday under a severe heatwave that has pushed the temperature to a nine-year high in Delhi as monsoon rains run behind schedule. Heatwaves have killed over 6,500 people in the world's second-most populous nation since 2010, and scientists say climate change is making them harsher and more frequent. Daytime temperatures were above 40 degrees Celsius for the fourth consecutive day Friday across the states of Rajasthan, Haryana and New Delhi. Large parts of Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh in central India were also wilting. New Delhi saw 43.1 degrees Celsius on Thursday, the hottest July day in the city since 2012 when the capital sweltered under 43.5 degrees Celsius. On Friday, the temperature again shot up to 41 degree Celsius in the city of 2 crore. Temperatures have remained more than seven degrees Celsius above normal for this time of the year, prompting India's weather office to classify it as "severe extreme heat". India Meteorological Department said the mercury will stay above 40 degrees for the coming week because of the late arrival of the southwest monsoon and a hot wind known as the Loo blowing in from the desert state of Rajasthan and Pakistan. The weather department has issued a heatwave alert for the region, with forecasters also saying some isolated places will witness thunderstorms. The intense heat has driven up power consumption as more and more people turned to air-conditioners and air coolers. Delhi's power consumption peaked to nearly 7,000 megawatts (MW) this week, 10 to 15 percent higher than the average demand at this time of the year. In Punjab in the north, authorities announced a two-day weekly closure of industrial units and reduced office hours for its employees after electricity demand topped 15,000 megawatts due. Forecasters predict that the annual rains will not hit New Delhi before July 7, making it the most delayed monsoon in the national capital since 2006. The deadliest year for India was 2015 when over 2,000 were killed by intense heat. Currently just five per cent of Indian households have air conditioning compared to 90 per cent in the United States and 60 per cent in China. But the market is forecast to boom in the coming years, driving up energy consumption in what is already the world's third-largest emitter of carbon dioxide. The refrigerants inside AC units also exacerbate global warming, while the heat that the machines generate make cities even hotter. The country of 130 crore people also suffers from severe water shortages with tens of millions lacking running water. Parts of Delhi and elsewhere regularly see scuffles when tankers arrive to deliver water. In 2019 Chennai made international headlines when the southern city ran out of water entirely.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/millions-sizzle-in-north-indias-severe-heatwave-power-consumption-soars-1004003.html
02-07-2021||North and Central||Sidhu calls for new law to revoke PPAs approved by former SAD-BJP govt in Punjab||As Punjab reels under an unprecedented power shortage, Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday batted for a law to nullify the power purchase agreements (PPAs) signed during the tenure of previous SAD-BJP government. In a veiled attack on Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, Sidhu said there would be no need for him to go for power cuts or to regulate the office timings if the state acts “in the right direction”. Posting a series of tweets on the power issue, the former minister said the PPAs were against the state's public interest and called for bringing in a law to nullify it. Sidhu has been at loggerheads with the Chief Minister and has attacked him over a host of issues in the past. “Truth of Power Costs, Cuts, Power Purchase Agreements & How to give Free & 24 hour Power to the People of Punjab:- 1. There is No need for Power-Cuts in Punjab or for the Chief Minister to regulate office timings or AC use of the Common People ... If we Act in the right direction,” said Sidhu, who earlier this week met Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra amid continued infighting in the Punjab Congress.  The state government on Thursday ordered reduction in timings of state government offices from Friday and cut down on power supply to high energy consuming industries. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had also appealed to all government offices to make judicious use of electricity in government offices, adding that the situation was dire as the peak demand in the state had touched a whopping 14,500 MW. Regarding the PPAs approved by the former government, Sidhu said, “Punjab can purchase power from National Grid at much cheaper rates, but these [during SAD-BJP government] Badal-signed PPAs are acting against Punjab's Public Interest. Punjab may not be able to re-negotiate these PPAs due to them having legal protection from Hon'ble Courts, But there is a way forward”. He said the Punjab Assembly can bring in a new legislation with retrospective effect to cap power purchase costs to prices available on the National Power Exchange at any given time. “... Thus, By amending the Law, these Agreements will become Null & Void, saving People of Punjab's Money,” he said in another tweet. Notably, Punjab's main opposition party AAP had on Monday also alleged that "faulty" PPAs signed during the previous government's tenure were adversely affecting the state's power utility. Sidhu batted for an “original Punjab model” while mentioning that the state's potential from solar and biomass energy remains unutilised. He said renewable energy is becoming cheaper along with being environmental-friendly, but Punjab's potential from solar and biomass energy remains underutilised even though the Centre's financial schemes can be availed for these projects. “PEDA (Punjab Energy Development Agency) spends its time just on energy efficiency awareness. Punjab already gives 9000 Crore Power Subsidy but Delhi gives only 1699 Crore as Power Subsidy. “If Punjab copies Delhi Model, we will get merely 1600-2000 Crore as Subsidy. To better serve the People of Punjab - Punjab needs an Orignal Punjab Model, Not a copied Model !!,” he tweeted. Giving a “Punjab Model for Power”, he said “money spent on giving unreasonable & exuberant profits to Private Thermal Plants should be utilized for welfare of People, that is Giving Power Subsidy for Free Power for Domestic use (Upto 300 Units), 24 hours supply & to invest in Education & Healthcare !” Meanwhile, Sidhu gave a lowdown on power purchase costs by pointing out that Punjab is buying power at an average cost of Rs 4.54 per unit, which is much higher than the national average of Rs 3.85 per unit, while adding that the state's “over-dependence on 3 Private Thermal Plants at Rs 5-8 per unit makes Punjab pay more than other states”. On the PPAs with the three private thermal power plants in Punjab, the cricketer-turned-politician said, “Till 2020, Punjab has already paid 5400 Crore due to faulty clauses in these Agreements and is expected to pay 65,000 Crore of Punjab People's Money just as fixed charges”. “Punjab's revenue per unit of consumption is one of the lowest in India, due to gross mismanagement of the complete power purchase & supply system ... PSPCL (Punjab State Power Corporation Ltd) pays Rs. 0.18 per unit “Extra” on every unit supplied, even after receiving over 9000 Crore in Subsidy from the State,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sidhu-calls-for-new-law-to-revoke-ppas-approved-by-former-sad-bjp-govt-in-punjab-1004014.html
02-07-2021||North and Central||UP lawyers appear for virtual hearings in vests, with face packs on; Allahabad HC issues warning||Making a mockery of virtual court hearings, being conducted due to the pandemic, Uttar Pradesh lawyers were found arguing while wearing T-shirts, from marketplaces, while riding their scooters and even wearing face packs. This triggered a sharp rebuke from the Allahabad High Court. A single bench comprising Justice S S Shamsheri said many advocates had adopted a very casual approach while appearing through the virtual mode. ''Many appeared wearing vests, T-shirts or coloured shirts, in puja attire, while driving scooter, while taking a leisurely walk, sitting inside a stationed vehicle, from market places, places with noisy surrounding, places with unpleasant backgrounds. Some kept talking on the phone while some did not even pay attention to the court proceedings,'' the court said, while hearing a matter concerning grant of bail. ''One advocate appeared while lounging on the bed; a lady advocate appeared with a face pack on,'' the bench further said. Taking a grim view of the matter, the court said appearance of advocates in casual attire was very inappropriate and unacceptable in any circumstance. ''Advocates should understand that their appearance for hearing of cases through virtual mode from their house or office or chamber is like an extended courtroom and it is as serious as attending proceedings inside a court,'' it said. The court said they were required to wear 'Plain White Shirt/White Salwar- Kameez/White Saree With Plain White Neck Band' while appearing through virtual mode from a premise where while addressing the court, they had decent and presentable background with peaceful surroundings. ''It would be appreciated if they wear black coats also,'' the court remarked. ''This court has earlier ignored many such casual appearances, however it is constrained to observe the aforesaid as today while hearing the present case through virtual mode, an advocate, appearing on behalf of one of the parties, appeared wearing a coloured shirt and has not shown any remorse despite his conduct being objected to. The Court has shown leniency in not imposing any cost on the erring advocate,'' Justice Shamsheri said. It said office-bearers of the Bar Association of the high court should advise its members not to adopt a casual approach while appearing before this court through virtual mode, which may cause hurdles in the administration of justice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-lawyers-appear-for-virtual-hearings-in-vests-with-face-packs-on-allahabad-hc-issues-warning-1004017.html
02-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi resident stages own abduction to to pay off debts||A 28-year-old Delhi resident staged his own abduction to extort Rs 25 lakh from his parents to pay off his debts and went into hiding in Uttarakhand's Rishikesh, police said on Friday. The man works as a supervisor at a Panipat-based company and is in a relationship with a colleague's wife, who is also part of the conspiracy, they said. On June 29, the Aman Vihar police station was informed by the man's father that he had gone to attend a party in Rohini on June 25 and was missing since then, a senior officer said. During preliminary enquiry, it came out that the man was last seen in Rohini sector 22 at an Oyo hotel. A case was registered under section 365 (kidnapping or abducting with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine person) of the Indian Penal Code, said Pranav Tayal, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Rohini). "During the investigation, it was learnt that a woman contacted the victim's parents on June 28 and stated that their son was in a debt trap and he needs Rs 25 lakh immediately to settle his debts. She also gave five account numbers of different persons in which the amount was to be deposited," he said. The woman was tracked down in a village near Tundala, Agra, and during questioning, she disclosed that the man was in Rishikesh and she was in constant touch with him, the officer said. A three-member team comprising Sub Inspector Manish and ASI Naveen was rushed to Rishikesh from where the man was brought to Delhi on Thursday, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-resident-stages-own-abduction-to-to-pay-off-debts-1004045.html
02-07-2021||North and Central||Involvement of Pakistan in drone attack on IAF station cannot be ruled out: J&K DGP||The involvement of Pakistan in the drone attack on an Air Force station here cannot be ruled out as the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), a terrorist group based out of that country, is strongly suspected to be behind it, Jammu and Kashmir Police chief Dilbag Singh said on Friday. Singh said the use of armed drones by Pakistan-based terrorists is a “very serious threat” to the security system and there was a need to have a relook at the security of vital places and persons. "We have got very serious and strong suspicion that LeT is involved in this case.... Since LeT is involved and the outfit is run from Pakistan, so in a way Pakistan's involvement cannot be ruled out," the police chief told reporters on the sidelines of a function in Kathua district. To what extent Pakistani agencies are involved would be known only when the investigation proceeds further, he added. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has taken over the investigation into the first-of-its-kind drone attack on the Indian Air Force (IAF) station at Jammu airport on June 27. Two bombs were dropped from drones, causing minor injuries to two airmen. The first blast ripped off the roof of a single-storey building at the technical area of the Jammu airport manned by the IAF. The second one was on the ground. A cocktail of explosive material, including RDX, is believed to have been used. Referring to the seizure of a 5.5-kg improvised explosive device (IED) in Jammu hours after the twin blasts at the IAF station, Singh said, "They were planning to trigger an explosion at a crowded place with the aim to cause the largest possible casualties. But luckily we were able to intercept and capture the fellow (terrorist) who gave certain leads and we were able to recover the IED and avert a major terror attack." The Director General of Police (DGP) said over a dozen incidents had taken place earlier wherein the LeT was involved in dropping weapons, ready-made IEDs and narcotics using drones. Asked whether the recovery of the IED and the IAF bombing are linked, he said, “I would not be able to say at this point of time that the two are connected. But we are trying to prove if there is any linkage.” The DGP said it is very much possible that the drones came from across the border. "In the earlier drone droppings, the drones covered a distance of 10 to 15 km and the aerial distance of the Jammu airport (from the international border) is not more than that. The particular route which is suspected to have been taken by the drone if it had come from across also comes within the range of 15 km,” he said. Singh said there have been incidents of drone droppings in Akhnoor and Arnia on the outskirts of Jammu and Samba and the initial indications and questioning of people who have been caught pointed towards it. "It is very much possible that it (drone) has come from across but other angles would also not be ruled out at this stage,” he said. In response to a question about the threat posed by the use of armed drones, Singh said it is a very serious threat to the security system. “Under the international protocol, this kind of activity is not supposed to be taking place but if it has started and some terrorist outfits are involved in this, it poses a serious threat. We have a relook of the security of the vital places and important persons. The threat does not respect the parameters of the security,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/involvement-of-pakistan-in-drone-attack-on-iaf-station-cannot-be-ruled-out-jk-dgp-1004047.html
02-07-2021||North and Central||SC dismisses PIL on norms for Maharashtra Legislative Council nominations to avoid political intervention||The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed a PIL for issuing specific directions to prepare norms for nominations of Maharashtra Legislative council by the Governor. The plea contended that the Governor must have discretion to choose people from specified fields to avoid party in power to make recommendations for it. It said the Maharashtra's Maha Vikas Aghadi government, led by Uddhav Thackeray, may be directed not to intervene in the process of nomination so as to avoid the practice of nomination under political considerations. A bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana, however, declined to entertain the plea. "The Governor is bound by the advice of Council of Ministers. We are not here to advise the Governor," the bench said. The court rejected contention of a Latur-based Head Master, Dr Jagannath Shamrao Patil, that due to lack of specific norms or criteria, several eligible and deserving personalities were deprived from consideration of names for the purpose of their nominations as members of Maharashtra Legislative Council. The petitioner sought a direction defer the nominations till the specific norms or the criteria were framed and approved by the office of the Governor. In the alternative, it may be directed to make such nominations under sole discretion of the Governor without any influence of the recommendation of the minister of councils of Maharashtra government. He claimed there were 12 vacancies, to be fulfilled by the Governor in its discretion in consonance with Article 171 of the Constitution. Clause 5 of the Article 171 of the Constitution has given mandate to the Governor that the nomination shall consist of "persons having special knowledge or practical experience in respect of such matters as literature, science, art, co-operative movement and social service". The petitioner said his limited grievance was that no norms have yet been framed or finalised for the purpose of the making the nominations from five prescribed categories. "Thus, the political parties who are in governance are taking the undue advantage of this loophole and are making the recommendations of the names of the persons who are not from the prescribed category but who are either powerful in politics or to whom the political parties want to make powerful by way of such nomination," the plea filed on behalf of advocate R R Deshpande and Associates stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-dismisses-pil-on-norms-for-maharashtra-legislative-council-nominations-to-avoid-political-intervention-1004051.html
02-07-2021||North and Central||Otherwise wheelchair-bound, Pragya Thakur playing basketball leaves Congress surprised||A purported video of Bhopal’s BJP MP Pragya Singh Thakur, who usually moves in a wheelchair citing health issues, walking and dribbling a ball before netting it in a basketball hoop on a ground, has gone viral on social media. Her act has left many surprised, with the Madhya Pradesh Congress saying that it was delighted to see Thakur trying her hands at the basketball game, given that it was so far under the impression that she cannot even stand or walk. Thakur had gone to attend a sapling plantation event at Saket Nagar in Bhopal on Thursday, where she spotted some players practising on a basketball ground, sources said. The saffron-robed BJP leader then went to the basketball court and showcased her skills. She dribbled the ball with right hand and netted it with perfection amid cheers and clapping as seen in the video. Congress spokesman Narendra Saluja said, “I have seen MP Sadhvi Thakur wheelchair-bound so far. But today I am delighted to see her hands at basketball at the stadium. “So far, it was known that she couldn't even stand up or walk due to an injury…May God keep her healthy always,” he said in a release. The Congress has also shared the video of her playing basketball on the social media. However, efforts to establish contact with Thakur failed. When contacted, Thakur’s elder sister Upama Singh described the incident as a “small thing”. "Many of you might not know that she has done a certificate course in physical education (CPEd) and bachelor of physical education (BPEd). “She was fit and fine before her going to jail, where she was tortured and tormented,” her sister told PTI. Pragya Singh Thakur is an accused in the 2008 Malegaon blast case. In January this year, the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court in Mumbai had granted exemption from physical appearance to her till further orders. She had appeared before the special court on January 4 and filed an application seeking permanent exemption on medical and other grounds. Six people were killed and 100 injured when an explosive device strapped to a motorcycle went off near a mosque in Malegaon in north Maharashtra on September 29, 2008. Thakur had contested and won the 2019 Lok Sabha election as a BJP candidate from Bhopal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/video-shows-wheelchair-bound-pragya-thakur-playing-basketball-congress-surprised-1004054.html
02-07-2021||North and Central||Water pollution severely affects health of citizens, says NGT||Noting that water pollution is severely affecting the health of citizens, the National Green Tribunal has directed the Haryana Chief Secretary to "take remedial measures" against the discharge of industrial effluents at Hamidi village in Yamunanagar district. Clean environment is part of fundamental rights and inalienable Constitutional obligation of the State, and the law of the land makes discharge of pollution in water sources punishable criminal offence, the NGT said. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said it is high time that the authorities at all levels, particularly that of the Chief Secretary, accord high priority to the matter. “Accordingly, we direct the Chief Secretary, Haryana to review the situation and take remedial measures in the matter to uphold the rule of law and for protection of public health. “A report of status of compliance on the subject may be furnished by the Chief Secretary, Haryana before the next by e-mail,” the bench said. The NGT said that the authorities should come out with a comprehensive plan covering the entire State to ensure bridging of gap between the waste generation and waste treatment. “It is well acknowledged that water pollution severely affects the health of the citizens, affects the food chain and water availability, apart from other consequences. “Having regard to the fact that large number of deaths and diseases take place on account of water pollution, the offence of water pollution in practical terms is as serious as causing homicide or grievous hurt,” the bench said. The NGT said that Laws have been enacted to give effect to the international obligations to uphold the principle of 'Sustainable Development' which includes 'Precautionary' principle as well as 'Polluter Pays' principle which this Tribunal is also mandated to implement under Section 20 read with Section 15 of the National Green Tribunal Act, 2010. “Sources of funding have been identified Supreme Court judgment, however, in spite of all statutory framework, the public authorities unfortunately continue to fail in discharge of their constitutional and statutory duties. “Under the directions of this Tribunal, different Departments have been required to be coordinated by the Chief Secretary at the State level and by the District Magistrates at the District level. There has also been National level coordination by the Ministry of Jal Shakti to share the best practices,” the bench said. The tribunal said that ways and means are available for bridging the gap of waste generation and treatment including hybrid annuity models and other models for septage management, discussed in above orders of this Tribunal. It is a matter of regret that inspite of repeated directions, the problem remains unattended to the detriment of public health and public interest, the NGT said. The matter is posted for next hearing on October 7. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Haryana resident Chaudhary Ompal and others against discharge of untreated industrial effluents at Village Hamidi, District Yamunanagar. The drain carrying the effluent is connected to Dhanaura Escape, Village Dabkoli, Indri, which finally joins Yamuna. “The said discharge is contaminating the ground water. The foul smell is affecting the inhabitants and the public health. The chemical discharge is also affecting the cattle and the agriculture fields,” the plea said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/water-pollution-severely-affects-health-of-citizens-says-ngt-1004060.html
02-07-2021||North and Central||Drones dropping bombs very serious, very dangerous threat: BSF DG||The recent incident of drones dropping bombs on the Indian Air Force base in Jammu is "very serious and very dangerous", and there is an urgent need to develop technology to counter this challenge, Border Security Force chief Rakesh Asthana said on Friday. He said the force, which guards over 6,300 kms of India's land border with Pakistan in the west and Bangladesh on the east, is faced by four main challenges on the security front. These are detection of underground tunnels along the international border with Pakistan, presence of electronic devices used by anti-national elements in the frontier areas, emergence of drones and issues of poor mobile connectivity in remote areas. These scenarios "directly impact" the efficacy of operations and border domination activities of the Border Security Force (BSF), Asthana said. "There is an urgent requirement to develop anti-drone technology to stop the menace of drones, being used for narco-terrorism and attacks on vital installations," he said during a webinar. The BSF director general (DG) was speaking at the launch of a hackathon on finding cost-effective innovative technology solutions by startups and premier institutions for the force. It has been organised under the banner of the BSF High-tech Undertaking for Maximising Innovation (BHUMI) in collaboration with the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY). "The drones have been used by the enemy country and by the criminal elements for bringing in not only weapons, ammunition and narcotics, but now since they are used for carrying payloads that is being used to drop bombs also which is something very serious and very dangerous," Asthana said. On June 27, two drones dropped explosives inside the IAF station in Jammu, injuring two airmen and causing damage on the roof of a building. The BSF had shot down a hexacopter drone carrying arms and ammunition in June last year in Jammu apart from thwarting many such flight reconnaissance bids majorly in the Punjab and Jammu areas along the India-Pakistan international border (IB). The DG said drones posed a challenge "not only on the western borders but are being used off late by naxalites also in left wing extremism affected areas." "That area also deserves a lot of attention as far as security operations are concerned," he said, adding that anti-drone technology is a "key area" of work for the largest border guarding force of the country with about 2.65 lakh personnel. The BSF chief admitted that it has not been able to find solutions to detect tunnels. "One of the main challenges the BSF presently faces is the detection of cross-border underground tunnels along the western borders that brings serious implications on our national security," Asthana said. "These tunnels are not only being used for pushing in infiltrators from across the border but also being used to transport or smuggle in narcotics into our country," he said. It is high time, Asthana said, that concerted result-oriented efforts are made to address the subject of detection of underground tunnels with innovative technological solutions. "So far, after a lot of efforts, we have not been able to find a solution to identify and detect tunnels from above the ground. So, this is one challenging area where we have to work," the DG said. According to data, 17 such structures have been detected by the BSF along the Pakistan border area in the last two decades. Asthana said another vital area of operational significance for the BSF is the need to develop technological solutions in detecting presence of "electronic devices" in its operational areas. These are being utilised by anti-national elements for perpetrating crimes and activities that have a direct bearing on the country's national security, he said. "Terrorists who are operating within our territory or the criminals, organised gangs who are indulging in smuggling activities particularly in narcotics are using various technological devices which has a bearing on our security scenario," Asthana said. The BSF chief asked technology innovators to provide automated communication systems and mobile telephony solutions for its troops who are deployed in remote areas "characterised by difficult and undulating terrain that include long stretches of shadow area where there is no communication." "There are so many areas in the west and east particularly in the north-east where we feel difficult to communicate particularly the troops cannot communicate with their family members through mobiles or any other technology," he said. Asthana shared a personal experience of staying at a BSF post located in a shifting sand dunes desert area of Rajasthan where there "was no mobile communication for full 24 hours but had only wireless communication." The BSF chief assured the participants of the hackathon that it will provide them all logistical support when their analysts and engineers visit a forward area and said "any product found suitable will be explored for procurement on trial basis...". Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/drones-dropping-bombs-very-serious-very-dangerous-threat-bsf-dg-1004074.html
02-07-2021||North and Central||From the Newsroom: Pak involvement in Jammu drone attack can't be ruled out, say police||In your evening news update, Jammu and Kashmir Director General of Police Dilbag Singh says the involvement of Pakistan in the drone attack on an Air Force station here cannot be ruled out; Epidemiologist and health expert Dr Chandrakant Lahariya says the Delta Plus variant is very similar to the Delta variant and is unlikely to cause a possible third wave, and West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar was forced to cut short his inaugural address to the newly constituted state assembly amid ruckus by opposition BJP over post-poll violence in the state.  Jammu and Kashmir Director General of Police Dilbag Singh said today, the involvement of Pakistan in the drone attack on an Air Force station here cannot be ruled out as the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), a terrorist group based out of that country, is strongly suspected to be behind it. Singh said the use of armed drones by Pakistan-based terrorists is a “very serious threat” to the security system and there was a need to have a relook at the security of vital places and persons. Sources said today, a drone was spotted over the Indian High Commission complex in Islamabad late last week, prompting India to lodge a strong protest with Pakistan over the incident. They said India considered the incident as a breach of security that triggered concerns in the mission. The Indian mission has already taken up the issue strongly with the Pakistani authorities through a note verbale.   Epidemiologist and health expert Dr Chandrakant Lahariya said today the Delta Plus variant is very similar to the Delta variant and is unlikely to cause a possible third wave. Lahariya said, in an interview with The New Indian Express, the plus variant has a mutation called K417N. He said, “India faced a second wave due to the Delta variant and the majority of people were infected by it. They must have developed immunity against it, and since these variants are similar, they are likely to be protected against the Delta Plus variant."   West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar was forced to cut short his inaugural address to the newly constituted state assembly amid ruckus by opposition BJP over post-poll violence in the state. Dhankhar, who arrived in the afternoon to deliver the inaugural address, could speak only for 3-4 minutes as BJP MLAs staged a protest carrying posters and pictures of alleged victims of post-poll violence.   Source: DHNS/PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/from-the-newsroom-pak-involvement-in-jammu-drone-attack-cant-be-ruled-out-say-police-1004084.html
02-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi records 93 Covid-19 cases, 2 deaths||The national capital had recorded four Covid-19-related deaths and 91 cases on Thursday with a positivity rate of 0.12 per cent. As many as 407 patients recovered in the last 24 hours as the recoveries again outnumbered the new cases. With the fresh cases on Friday, Delhi's Covid-19 caseload has increased to 14,34,374. The death toll stands at 24,983, it said, adding that the case fatality rate is 1.74 per cent. The national capital had recorded 94 Covid cases at a positivity rate of 0.12 per cent and six fatalities on Wednesday. Delhi had recorded 101 fresh Covid-19 cases at a positivity rate of 0.15 per cent and four more deaths on Tuesday. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-93-covid-19-cases-2-deaths-1004115.html
02-07-2021||North and Central||Inoculate teachers, eligible students before reopening schools, colleges in J&K: Kashmir health department||The health department in Kashmir on Friday advised education authorities to vaccinate teachers and eligible students before taking any decision on the reopening of educational institutes amid the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic. Director Health Services, Kashmir, Dr Mushtaq Rather, in communication to directors of Higher Education and School Education urged them not to think of reopening schools and colleges before inoculating teaching/non-teaching staff and students. “…before any decision is taken by the government in future regarding re-opening of educational institutions in UT of J&K, it becomes imperative to get all the teaching/non-teaching staff and eligible students fully vaccinated to prevent a potential resurgence of Covid-19 cases,” the letter reads. “In the backdrop of above, it is, therefore, requested that the dates for vaccination of all the teaching/non-teaching staff and eligible students (batch-wise) may kindly be conveyed at the earliest so that the vaccination sites are created at the places to be identified by you,” it adds. Educational institutions in Kashmir have almost remained closed for the last 23 months, first on account of lockdown imposed after revocation of J&K’s special status in August 2019 and subsequently due to the Covid-19 pandemic in March 2020. Schools had reopened only in a phased manner from March 1 this year but had to be closed again in early April after the second wave of Covid-19. Students in Kashmir, like most of the other places in India, have been pursuing education online, though the success of remote learning has been patchy. Previously the schools had remained closed continuously for eight months from July to March in 2016 when summer unrest broke out in Kashmir following the killing of Hizb-ul-Mujahideen commander Burhan Wani. When militancy erupted in Kashmir, schools remained shut for five months from December 1989 to May 1990. Back then, the schools couldn’t reopen on March 1 after winter break as the insurgency was at its peak. The schools opened on 15 May 1990 and again in September that year, the schools had to be shut as the government employees went on a strike for 72 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/inoculate-teachers-eligible-students-before-reopening-schools-colleges-in-jk-kashmir-health-department-1004126.html
02-07-2021||North and Central||Priyanka Gandhi exhorts Congress works to start preparing for 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday said views of party workers will be given due consideration while deciding on the issues to be raised ahead of the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls next year. Exhorting the workers to start preparations for the assembly polls, Gandhi said their views regarding strengthening the Congress will be heard and their inputs will be considered while setting the party manifesto. She was addressing the party training programmes at Sultanpur and Allahabad districts through video conferencing. The Congress leader also stressed that continuous efforts are an important step towards success and active steps towards strengthening the booth-level of the party have started showing good results, according to UPCC media coordinator Lalan Kumar. Underlining the importance of social media, she said besides strengthening the booth-level organisation, remaining active on social media was also important, a party statement said. “The manner in which Congressmen worked during the coronavirus pandemic for delivering oxygen cylinders, oxygen concentrators, medical kits, ration kits, among others, from village to village, to migrant workers and others, shows the party's concern for the public. “This shows that Congress can never leave the people when they need help and this is the basic mantra of the party's inspiration,” Gandhi said during the training programmes. Interacting with the party workers, the Congress general secretary said rising inflation is a burning issue for the public. Strategies for the party's struggles on the issues relating to inflation, farming and farmers were also worked out during the meeting, the statement said. The Congress leader told party workers that they will have to stand with the people and share their problems related to inflation, unemployment, steep price rise of petroleum products, and also expose the “anti-people” policies of both the central and state governments. She told the workers that the BJP government is responsible for the problems faced by the people and raising voice against the government's wrong policies is the democratic right of her party. The Congress is holding zone-wise training programmes wherein block-level party presidents, district and city unit chiefs, and state-level party office bearers are also taking part, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/priyanka-gandhi-exhorts-congress-works-to-start-preparing-for-2022-uttar-pradesh-assembly-polls-1004160.html
02-07-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand CM Tirath Singh Rawat set to resign, successor to be chosen on July 3||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat is likely to step down from his post, barely four months after his appointment amid uncertainty over his election to the state Assembly within six months. Rawat, a Lok Sabha member from Pauri Garhwal, was sounded out about the legal difficulties in getting him elected to the state Assembly within the stipulated six month period from his appointment as chief minister, during a series of meetings with the top BJP leadership, including Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP President J P Nadda, during his three-day stay in the national capital. Rawat was expected to make the announcement at a press conference in Dehradun on Friday night, but instead chose to list out his plans to fill over 50,000 government posts soon without mentioning a word on stepping down. A Uttarakhand BJP spokesperson said a meeting of the BJP Legislature Party has been called on Saturday evening at the party office in Dehradun. BJP leaders Dhan Singh Rawat, Bansidhar Bhagat, Pushkar Dhami and Ritu Khanduri were being talked about as possible successors to Rawat. The continuance of Rawat as chief minister could have led to a constitutional crisis as there was uncertainty over holding of bypolls to the state assembly within six months of his assuming office. According to the Section 151A of the Representation of Peoples’ Act the Election Commission need not hold bye-elections if the vacancies in assembly seats occurred less than a year before the end of the term of the assembly. Two seats in the Uttarakhand Assembly – Gangotri and Haldwani – are vacant. Rawat’s exit has brought under spotlight the BJP’s inability to provide a stable government in Uttarakhand where it had won a thumping majority in 2017. Since the formation of the state in 2000, the BJP has formed government thrice – 2000, 2007 and 2017. During the interim government from 2000-02, BJP had two chief ministers Nityanand Swami and Bhagat Singh Koshyari. In 2007 Bhuwan Chandra Khanduri took office but was replaced with Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank in 2009. However, Khanduri made a comeback in 2011. In 2017, Trivendra Singh Rawat was sworn-in as the chief minister, but he had to quit in March due to the controversy over organising the Kumbh Mela amid the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-cm-tirath-singh-rawat-set-to-resign-successor-to-be-chosen-on-july-3-1004190.html
02-07-2021||North and Central||Final report on ‘mock drill’ at hospital not out yet: Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma||After the final report on the investigation into the alleged “oxygen mock drill” is out, action would be taken against those found guilty, Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma said on Friday. An enquiry was ordered by the Agra administration last month after a video clip surfaced on social media in which the owner of the city's Shri Paras Hospital was purportedly heard saying that he conducted a 'mock drill' in which oxygen supply was cut off for Covid-19 patients for five minutes. However, a team of doctors gave a clean chit to the facility, saying it found no proof of an exercise during which oxygen supply was cut off and 22 patients reportedly died. Sharma said the final report was not out yet and those found guilty would be punished on its basis. “No one will be spared” in the case, the deputy CM said during a presser at the Circuit House here. While talking about UP’s preparation on the expected third wave, Sharma said: “We are ready and are setting up oxygen plants in every district and PICU beds in CHC and medical colleges and others.” “We have worked on TTT (Trace, Test and Treat) strategy to tackle the second wave and (have) distributed medical kits village to village,” he said. In Uttar Pradesh, positivity rate is less than 1 percent with the number of cases decreasing day by day, he added. Asked about the protest by CRPF Jawan Kaushal Kumar Rawat’s family regarding government’s unfulfilled promises, the Deputy CM said: “We have fulfilled almost all the promises of the family. We will also try to complete those demands as raised by the family members and resolve their issue.” Rawat was killed in the Pulwama terror attack on February 14, 2019. The Deputy CM was in Agra since Thursday. He inaugurated the oxygen plant at Khandoli and also inspected health centers in Agra. He also took part in the celebrations of Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar University’s 95th foundation day. He said the government was in the process of completing exams at universities so new sessions begin in the by September.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/final-report-on-mock-drill-at-hospital-not-out-yet-uttar-pradesh-deputy-chief-minister-dinesh-sharma-1004191.html
02-07-2021||North and Central||Over 18 lakh fully vaccinated against Covid-19 in Delhi: Government||As many as 18,36 644 people in the national capital have been administered both doses of Covid vaccine, according to the Delhi government's vaccination bulletin issued on Friday. The city has administered a total of 80,51,352 vaccine jabs so far, of which 62,14,708 are first doses. Over 1,57,719 people were vaccinated on Thursday, including 1,25,761 beneficiaries who received the first dose and 31,958 the second dose, the bulletin stated. On Thursday, 1,08,586 people in the 18-44 group received their first dose while 2,657 received their final dose of the Covid vaccine. In the 45-plus age group, 16,790 beneficiaries received their first dose and 27,733 were given the second dose. The city has a stock of 5,79,000 vaccines, which include 2,23,000 shots of Covaxin and 3,56,000 of Covishield. The stock may last for another three days. According to official data, the vaccination programme is running at 1374 centres with a capacity of administering 2,26,552 vaccine doses daily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-18-lakh-fully-vaccinated-against-covid-19-in-delhi-government-1004196.html
02-07-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand CM Tirath Singh Rawat resigns||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat quit late Friday night, barely four months after a controversial tenure, and amid uncertainty over his election to the state assembly within stipulated six months. Rawat, a Lok Sabha member from Pauri Garhwal, drove down to the Raj Bhawan and handed over his resignation to Governor Baby Rani Maurya after a series of meetings in Delhi with the top party leadership including Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP President J P Nadda. Rawat, who was sworn in as the chief minister on March 10, has had one of the shortest tenures – 114 days – in office. “I thank Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Amit Shah and J P Nadda for the opportunity they gave me,” Rawat told reporters outside the Raj Bhawan in Dehradun. Uttarakhand BJP chief Madan Kaushik announced that the chief minister had resigned due to a Constitutional tangle and the BJP Legislature Party is scheduled to meet at 3:00 pm on Saturday to elect Rawat’s successor. BJP leaders Dhan Singh Rawat, Bansidhar Bhagat, Pushkar Dhami and Ritu Khanduri were being talked about as possible successors to Rawat. Rawat was sounded out about the legal difficulties in getting him elected to the state assembly within the stipulated six month period from his appointment as chief minister. The Election Commission had deferred conduct of bypolls due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. According to Section 151A of the Representation of Peoples’ Act, the Election Commission need not hold bye-elections if the vacancies in assembly seats occurred less than a year before the end of the term of the assembly. Two seats in the Uttarakhand Assembly – Gangotri and Haldwani – are vacant. Rawat’s exit has brought under the spotlight the BJP’s inability to provide a stable government in Uttarakhand where it had won a thumping majority in 2017. Since the formation of the state in 2000, the BJP has formed government thrice – 2000, 2007 and 2017. During the interim government from 2000-02, BJP had two chief ministers Nityanand Swami and Bhagat Singh Koshiyari. In 2007 Bhuwan Chandra Khanduri took office but was replaced with Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank in 2009. However, Khanduri made a comeback in 2011. In 2017, Trivendra Singh Rawat was sworn in as the chief minister but he had to quit in March due to the controversy over organising the Kumbh Mela amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-cm-tirath-singh-rawat-resigns-1004221.html
02-07-2021||Oasis||The future promises good||Good times are ahead. This belief is based on history and trust in divinity. Past has to repeat itself. History is witness to the fact that after some major world event, days of calm and prosperity follow and the current dark days will not be an exception. The womb of the depressing and gloomy present necessarily contain seeds of the elevating and bright future. Suppression of the emerging good things cannot be indefinite and the pressure must sprout into promising good features. The laws of nature and the compassion of God must play up sooner or later. Events occurring in nature are cyclical. Night necessarily dissolves to give place to the day. Life is not different. It is nothing but birth, life, death and rebirth chasing each other. Pandemics that appear must disappear. So, we have to remember the good times and face the bad ones, neither getting exuberated in the former nor scared of the latter. Adversity hides prosperity and prosperity conceals adversity. Most of these cyclical events are neither in our control nor everything is within our knowledge province. They all happen, regardless of our likes and dislikes, and follow some natural and spiritual laws set into motion by some invisible but powerful force which we call God or Universe and they are not haphazard or accidental. A deeper study will reveal a pattern in it all. Divinity is the embodiment of love and kindness. The current pandemic is not to be viewed as a curse or punishment. Man had forgotten the value of the freedom and pleasures that he was enjoying and had taken them for granted. Divinity intervened to alert and wake him up and so it is temporary in the scheme of divine plans. Sooner or later, natural and spiritual laws are bound to restore normalcy. Meanwhile, we must learn to see and enjoy rainbows in thunderstorms. The basis of this optimism is apparent in the zeal and enthusiasm of our youngsters and entrepreneurs supported by philanthropic leaders. Compassionate and capable seniors and hardworking youngsters are joining hands with intelligent nationalists to bring about innovative products and services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/the-future-promises-good-1003801.html
02-07-2021||Opinion||What will the Delta Covid-19 variant do to Israel's herd immunity?||By Zev Chafets In his inaugural speech to the Israeli parliament, Prime Minister Naftali Bennett addressed an impressively detailed list of the challenges his ruling coalition faces. Only one issue went unmentioned: the fight against Covid 19. As far as the prime minister and the public were concerned, the pandemic was over, the virus vanquished by Israel’s world-leading vaccination campaign. That belief lasted a week. In mid-June, new and alarming cases of the virus began to sprout up. The Delta variant of the virus was responsible, experts said. It was being imported by Israelis returning from abroad. A large percentage of those infected were children. Ever since Israel began its remarkable vaccine roll-out, its progress has been a focus of international interest. Many Israeli experts now believe that the country has reached herd immunity; and yet that hasn’t dispensed with the need for a policy response to the surge in Delta variant cases. While expert opinion was split on how to respond, Bennett decided against imposing stringent measures. “Vaccinations instead of lockdowns,” he ordered. “We know the vaccine works.” Indeed, there are hundreds of new cases daily but no rise in the most important statistics – the rates of hospitalization and mortality. But there are two significant holes in Israel’s protective umbrella: unvaccinated adolescents and international travelers. Until June, children between the ages of 12 and 15 years were not eligible for vaccination. When that ban was lifted, a significant number of parents, who themselves had been vaccinated, were unwilling to allow their kids to get the jab. Their hesitancy would appear to be unfounded; upwards of 2 million kids in the US have been vaccinated without significant problems. While the children mostly experience Covid as a mild flu, leaving children unvaccinated poses a broader problem. “The fact that Israel has achieved herd immunity is not relevant to children,” says Sigal Regev Rosenberg, the head Kupat Holim Meuhedet, one of Israel’s highly efficient HMOs. “Kids interact mostly with other kids. They are a herd of their own.” As long as this herd goes unvaccinated, it will be almost impossible to resume normal schooling since teachers and school personnel (some of whom are themselves not vaccinated) do not want to be exposed to unvaccinated children. To deal with this problem, Israel’s health maintenance organisations have launched a national campaign whose goal is to reach at least 60 per cent adolescent vaccinations before the start of the school year. Bennett, a parent of four young children, has made himself the focus of his effort. “I know how much you want to relax this summer,” he is saying to teenagers. “We don’t want to impose restrictions on parties, trips or anything. Talk to your parents and go get vaccinated.” It is a carrot and a stick and it appears to be working. Since Bennett's appeal, the HMOs are now meeting and exceeding their goals for adolescent vaccination.   The situation at Ben Gurion Airport — Israel’s main point of international exit and entry — is a harder problem. Almost all incoming tourism has been halted for at least a month. Israelis are not permitted to visit highly contagious countries (currently including Argentina, Brazil, Russia, South Africa, India and Brazil) and face a hefty fine if they are caught cheating. All Israeli travellers, regardless of where they arrive from, have to take multiple Covid tests and must isolate for two weeks if they test positive. Many complain this is overkill.  The problem is enforcing these rules. Bennett has appointed an airport czar to restore law and order, though many Israelis are determined to crawl through all available loopholes. There is a limit to how much Israel can enforce the rules in a chaotic, understaffed airport, especially when international tourists begin to arrive. To deal with the influx, a small terminal has now been designated for arrivals from especially infectious countries, special testing areas outside the terminals will relieve crowd pressure at peak hours; and the government has announced an emergency effort to establish an efficient in-house laboratory that can provide on-the-spot testing results. But this is not just a technical issue. Both the US and Europe have struggled with porous borders for years. Even countries with a zero-Covid policy such as Australia have found the toughest border controls are not foolproof. For all its success in the vaccination rollout, and for all the efficiency and security of Ben Gurion, Israel will likely encounter the same issues.  Bennett’s approach of expanding vaccinations to younger members of the population while continuing with vigorous testing and border restrictions will no doubt be watched closely by other countries. If his vaccination push and border strictures succeed, Bennett’s speeches can remain largely virus free.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/what-will-the-delta-covid-19-variant-do-to-israels-herd-immunity-1003897.html
02-07-2021||Panorama||A pioneer to remember||Dhanvanthi Rama Rau, the brain behind family planning programmes in India, has remained quite unknown in the Kannada speaking world; a world of her roots. Born in 1893 in a Kashmiri Brahmin family in Hubballi, Dhanvanthi Rama Rau was the first Indian woman to teach at a higher education platform, when she joined Queen Mary’s College. After having completed her primary education in Hubballi, she did her higher education at Madras Presidency College, where she met her future husband Benegal Rama Rau. A Kannadiga from Benegal, a village in Udupi district, Rau was the long-serving Governor of the Reserve Bank of India. Later, Dhanvanthi travelled to England with her husband, who was part of the visiting Simon Commission. In England, on instructions from Sarojini Naidu, she worked for several organisations campaigning for India’s freedom. As a member of the Indian delegation to the International Women’s forum, she fought for voting rights and equal citizenship for women. She went on to found an association for Indian women with an objective to connect Indian and British women on empowerment issues. As India inched towards its freedom, Dhanvanthi moved back to the country. She wanted to contribute to nation-building and soon identified her space. The Great Bengal Famine showed her the growing economic inequality and high reproduction rate among the poor. Population growth leads to a lack of resources and this negatively affects the development of women. There was a connection between birth control and women empowerment and Dhanvanthi, who knew this, came to conclude that birth control is the solution to most of the problems that people face. She believed that the decision on the number of children and on when to conceive should be with women. If the right to reproduction lies with women, she understood, birth control would be easier. Dhanvanthi was up against a big challenge which included educating the ignorant people who belonged to a society that believed that birth control was against God’s wish. Moreover, Mahatma Gandhi, who was aware of the need for population control, was against contraceptives and stressed celibacy, which didn’t yield any positive change— her efforts went against tradition, religion and also the Father of the Nation. She came up with her own module for the birth control programme and in 1949, founded the Family Planning Association of India, the largest non-governmental organisation working in the field of population control in the country then. With her strenuous awareness efforts, India’s family planning programmes received global recognition and many countries adopted it as a part of their national agenda for development. Interestingly, men were the target of her awareness programmes. This was because birth control treatments could be more easily performed on men than women. Moreover, if men realised the value of a small family, either they would get the treatment done or encourage their wives to go for it. The result: Half a million Indian men voluntarily underwent hysterectomy. Due to her exceptional efforts, India became the first country to launch a nationwide family planning programme in 1952. Although the world recognises Margaret Sanger as a pioneer of birth control awareness programmes, Dhanvanthi’s efforts in setting up the International Planned Parenthood Federation, of which she was the founding member and president, cannot be brushed aside. This effort of hers has almost been erased from public memory. It is sad that Dhanvanthi, a woman achiever; a pioneer, has been forgotten by Indians in general and the people of Karnataka in particular. (The writer is an assistant professor of English, Tumkur University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/a-pioneer-to-remember-1003803.html
02-07-2021||Panorama||Punjab has serious issues but parties are happy to keep political pot boiling||Punjab finds itself at a rather peculiar crossroads of partisan electoral politics even as Assembly elections loom and myriad issues of governance hit the headlines. While there is much talk that the coming election could decide whether Punjab will turn into a two-party contest zone in the long term or whether a third party will also find space on its turf, it is emerging as a study in contradictions. In a state that has so far refused to fall for the ‘Hindutva-Vikas Purush’ narrative of the BJP, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has positioned himself rather uniquely. He consistently spews a nationalist line on Pakistan, secessionism and sundry issues of national security, thus ensuring that any section that feels attracted to the Modi-Shah duo’s claims will not find him wanting either in taking a hard line. Though Singh’s government has left much to be desired, there is little talk of anti-incumbency. Internecine wars are a feature of all three parties in contention: The Akali Dal has seen splinter factions chipping away at its vote bank and vote-catching leaders; the Congress’ factions have been swashbuckling in full public glare, dragging their fights all the way to Delhi. The AAP has never been able to decide its Punjab leader. As if this mix was not interesting enough, some of the colourful political personalities with their own charisma, vote banks or idiosyncrasies have also made the scenario curious. Cricketer-turned-comedian- turned rabble-rousing politician Navjot Singh Sidhu is one such. Currently still in the Congress, but with a litany of complaints against Amarinder Singh, Sidhu is an unpredictable player. After a long stint in the BJP, he sauntered into Congress, then threatened to become the face of AAP, and even now triggers wild guessing games about which party he could be part of, come elections. His recent pot-shots at Amarinder Singh and photo-ops with the Gandhis testify to his solo power at garnering headlines, but could he be a serious team player in any party? The Akali Dal has remained active, with Sukhbir Singh Badal leading the charge, but the Akalis continue to bear the brunt of identity politics, which they milked well in the past. A number of incidents of sacrilege of Sikh holy scriptures that happened during the previous regime of the Badals still haunt them, and both Amarinder Singh and the AAP have gleefully kept the pot boiling, leaving the SAD to stew in its own panthic juices. The Congress, which had made much of the sacrilege incidents, failed to pursue the cases methodically and its much-hyped probe came to nought in judicial scrutiny. At one stage, this failure to address the concerns of the Sikhs even prompted some young turks in the Congress to raise a banner of revolt against Amarinder Singh’s leadership. The BJP, not much of a power in Punjab and now out of its quarter century-old alliance with SAD, is working on its party structure and is more focussed on doing the ground-level work, in keeping with the RSS tradition of striking roots where numbers, history and politics do not favour it. Meanwhile, the ‘panthic issues’ have given Amarinder Singh a much-needed handle against the Akali Dal, particularly important because the latter has now shored up its strength and acceptability by forging an alliance with Mayawati’s Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP). With 31% of Punjab’s population coming from Dalit ranks, the demographic could be politically significant, though the BSP’s vote share has remained very low in the recent past. Interestingly, the Akalis have also been wooing some Left parties, and if they succeed, it will hardly bring the party many additional votes but it will certainly bring it some much-needed respect. From its initial promise of being a graft-busting outfit that emerged from the ranks of common citizenry and drew support from do-gooders, intellectuals, students and professionals who felt disappointed with the mainstream political parties, the AAP in Punjab is now fighting exactly to become a mainstream traditional power player. Its politicians come from other parties, its internal squabbles mirror those in the other parties and its election-winning strategy is a page taken from the SAD or Congress’ book. It promises freebies and sells AAP’s Delhi success in Punjab. The Akalis have a long history of engagement with some of the glorious struggles that Punjab has seen, and the Congress has a massive legacy in Punjab. The AAP’s broad idea — that a people equally frustrated with both those parties will opt for a new alternative if it also promises populist steps— has yet to be tested with majority electoral success. Amidst all this talk, Punjab has seen little serious debate about its financial position, the core issue of Centre-state relations, and the rank unemployment that has seen Punjabi youth make a run for Canada, Australia or any place on earth not called India, by means fair or foul. Even more shockingly, at a time when the state is arguably witnessing a renaissance in its political culture and a broad spectrum of society is deeply, emotionally, politically and socially involved with a long-drawn struggle against the central legislation on agriculture issues, not one among Punjab’s political parties have seriously engaged with the debate about the future of its agrarian economy. Scholars and social scientists have grappled with issues of intellectual bankruptcy; the state of higher education has hit an all-time nadir; high-charging and poorly- equipped private universities have mushroomed across Punjab; the state has gone largely missing from any research and development in the agro-economy; and state-run universities have been making news for being rendered almost bankrupt, but none of this has impacted the political narrative of the Congress or the Akali Dal or of the AAP. What will be the political-electoral message from the Singhu-Tikri agitation to Punjab’s villages? Will farmers emerge as a distinct vote bank? Will there be a signal to vote for a specific party or some specific candidates? Will the farmers’ movement harm a particular political outfit? With a few months still for the electoral contest, an ongoing Punjab-led agitation on the doorsteps of Delhi is a very different element in the political equation than the hordes returning home with some kind of victory. It’s safe to say that the political hinterland of Punjab is still wide open and a good slogan, an incident, or a move by any of the key players can upset any political forecasts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/punjab-has-serious-issues-but-parties-are-happy-to-keep-political-pot-boiling-1003815.html
02-07-2021||Right in the Middle||The 'Tiktikis' of Kolkata||After spending over 3 years in Hyderabad, a move to Kolkata came as an option. When my husband told me of it, my immediate answer was a no. Anyway, we decided to move. I was excited to see the famed Durga Puja celebrations and finally taste Kolkata’s Rosogollas and Jhal Muri. When we broke the news, my mother-in-law burst the bubble for me. She said, “You are going to a place with big lizards.” Until then, it hadn’t struck me. I said, “Oh Mummy. What am I going to do?” There was nothing I could do but face it. We moved into a new flat which was freshly painted and I thought that lizards will leave me in peace for a while. Of course, we moved right at the beginning of summer. Day 2 in our house, we still had our boxes and wall hangings lying around, I picked something up and saw the biggest lizard I had ever seen and jumped. Luckily, there was a lady who had come in to clean the house and she shooed it out, and then one more. I thought the worst was over. But in the next couple of days, I would spot one every day in some room and I would seal it off until someone came to shoo it out. The worst was having it in the kitchen. Reena, who worked at my home, was a godsend. She drove a couple of them away on her second and third day working for me. I knew I could never let her go. Every day, I would tell her that a ‘chipkali’ has entered the house and she would give me a blank look. I used to wiggle my fingers moving them in an upward fashion to make her understand. That’s when I googled the Bengali name for a lizard— ‘Tiktiki’. My neighbour too was terrified of lizards. We were of no help to each other in this regard. But we do have a fantastic friendship to cherish. I was getting tired of always keeping a wary eye out for lizards on ceilings, floors, doors, bathrooms and even furniture. Whenever I used to visit Bangalore, my mind and body would relax. The home-grown lizards seemed baby-ish after seeing the crocodile-sized ones in Kolkata. A dear Kolkata friend said that the Bengaluru ones are not brought up on Rosogollas and Sandesh. I was really happy to be in Kolkata during winter— the lizards go into hiding. When the news came that we have to move from Kolkata, the relief I felt was immense. I do miss my friends and their wonderful conversations, but definitely not the ones with a misleading musical-sounding name, the ‘Tiktikis’.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-tiktikis-of-kolkata-1003802.html
02-07-2021||Second Edit||China’s CCP needs a new Deng Xiaoping||The Chinese Communist Party (CCP) is marking the hundredth anniversary of its founding. At its birth or during the chaotic decades that followed, few would have predicted that the CCP would one day preside over a global economic, and increasingly military and technological, powerhouse. It can claim credit to having made China such a power and for having pulled hundreds of millions out of poverty. The reason for this success was the CCP’s willingness, post-Mao, to fundamentally change its economic ideology. From a State-run communist economy, it morphed into a State-directed capitalist machine. This shift has enabled rapid economic growth at home even as State-owned enterprises have made major inroads into economies in distant countries. Under the CCP, China has not hesitated to dream or achieve big, whether it is with regard to its Belt and Road Initiative or its ambitious forays into space. All of this has, however, come at great cost to the Chinese people. For politically, the CCP has been a dinosaur, unwilling to evolve with the times. The CCP has over the decades maintained its grip over power through a vast and intimidating organisation and at the cost of the individual liberties and rights of the people. It has arrogated to itself the position of China’s sole ruling party, and its leadership controls the government and all organs and instruments of State. It is the sole dispenser of power and privilege, and of justice, too. No ideas or thoughts other than those of the party are allowed to exist or be expressed. In this lie its failure and the seeds of its perennial insecurity. No wonder that in the run up to the centenary, China’s cyber chief removed two million Chinese social media posts that challenged the official version of the party’s history. The CCP today aspires to project China as the next global Superpower and role model for political systems around the world. That was indeed the thrust of the party’s publicity in the run up to Xi Jinping’s centenary speech. But China cannot be a role model, precisely because of the CCP. Its model can appeal to a few authoritarian regimes and leaders in other countries, it cannot appeal to the peoples of the world. The idea that one man who controls the party, the government and the military, and a small clique of men surrounding him, none of whom have been elected by the people, should be able to determine the daily lives and destinies of 1.4 billion people is so out of place in the 21st Century. The CCP needs a new Deng Xiaoping who believes that being rich is glorious for the nation, but even more glorious is the freedom and fulfilment of individuals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/china-s-ccp-needs-a-new-deng-xiaoping-1003810.html
02-07-2021||South||Assistant Professor alleges 'caste discrimination' at IIT-Madras||An assistant professor of the IIT-Madras on Thursday said he was quitting the institute and alleged caste discrimination as one of the primary reasons for his move. In an e-mail, purportedly from the assistant professor of economics, he apprises members of the faculty that one of the primary reasons for "my leaving the institute is the caste discrimination I have faced at the HSS (Humanities and Social Sciences) department since my joining in March 2019." Asked if the professor has formally resigned and if he has made allegations of such discrimination in his letter of "resignation" to the institute, IIT-M did not respond immediately. However, the premier institute said in a statement, "The institute has no comments on this email. Any complaint received by the institute from employees and students is attended to promptly through the established process of redressing grievances." The professor could not be contacted immediately. The e-mail that was widely circulated on social media was also retweeted by the Ambedkar Periyar Study Circle, an initiative of the IIT-M students. "The discrimination came from individuals in position of power irrespective of their claimed political affiliations and gender. There were multiple specific instances of discrimination and I shall be pursuing appropriate actions to address the matter," the mail claimed. The institute should set up a panel to study the experiences of the Scheduled Caste and OBC faculty members, the mail added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/assistant-professor-alleges-caste-discrimination-at-iit-madras-1003800.html
02-07-2021||South||Charred body of project staff found on IIT Madras campus||The charred body of a project staff of the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, was found on the premises last night, police and the management said on Friday. The deceased was identified as Unni Krishnan from Ernakulam, Kerala. According to sources, the charred body was recovered from a hockey stadium at the premier technical institute by the police on Thursday night after some hockey players alerted them. "From the scene of crime it appears to be a case of suicide. The police have registered a case of suspicious death," a senior official told PTI. The IIT management said the police is investigating the incident and that the institute was fully cooperating with the authorities. "An unfortunate and tragic incident occurred yesterday at IIT Madras Campus, involving a temporary project staff. The project staff whose body was found had joined the Institute in April 2021 and was living outside the campus," it said in a statement. "We are shocked and deeply grieved, and convey our heartfelt condolences to the family, friends and colleagues of the departed soul," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/charred-body-of-project-staff-found-on-iit-madras-campus-1003941.html
02-07-2021||South||Kerala HC refuses to stay further proceedings in sedition case against Aisha Sultana||Considering a plea filed by Sultana seeking to quash the FIR registered against her by the Kavaratti police, the High Court said investigation in the case was in a preliminary stage and more time may be required for completing the probe. Refusing to stay further proceedings in the case, the court directed the Lakshadweep administration to provide details of the investigation. When the matter was taken up, the counsel for the administration opposed the plea, submitting that the investigation in the case was in a preliminary stage. A case was registered on June 9 under Section 124-A (sedition) and 153 B (hate speech) of IPC on the basis of a petition lodged by a political leader hailing from Kavaratti. Last week, the High Court had granted anticipatory bail to Sultana in the sedition case. Granting bail, Justice Ashok Menon had said there was no apparent indication in her statement, which amounts to imputations or assertions prejudicial to the national interest, nor does it propagate any class of persons against another group of persons. Sultana was interrogated by the Kavaratti police thrice last week in connection with the case. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-refuses-to-stay-further-proceedings-in-sedition-case-against-aisha-sultana-1003961.html
02-07-2021||South||Health workers to be trained in child care in view of third Covid wave, says Kerala Health Minister||An expert 'baby care' training programme has been started in Kerala to prepare health workers for providing intensive care to children and newborn babies in view of the apprehensions of a third wave of Covid, state Health Minister Veena George said on Friday. In a post on her Facebook page, the Minister said the training would be imparted on-site to paediatricians and nurses in all the medical colleges in the state and the three-day long first phase of the programme has commenced at Thiruvananthapuram Medical College S A T hospital.  Subsequently, such training programmes would be held in other districts of the state under the supervisionof experts in the paediatric department of the medical colleges. The minister said in her post that the government has come up with a programme to prepare health workers to provide emergency and intensive care to children. She said the training programme would help health workers to gain the necessaryskills required to work in the fields of emergency, intensive care and neonatal care. George said hospitals are also being prepared to deal with Covid and post-Covid complications in children and steps are underway to get child beds, oxygen systems, ventilators and other monitoring equipment which would be required for providing any additional treatment or care to minors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/health-workers-to-be-trained-in-child-care-in-view-of-third-covid-wave-says-kerala-health-minister-1003967.html
02-07-2021||South||Kerala, the gateway of monsoon, receives deficient rainfall||Though it has almost been a month after the South West Monsoon made its footfall, Kerala, the gateway of monsoon into the mainland of the country, has received deficient rainfall so far, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). Thirteen of the total 14 districts of the southern state received deficient rainfall while only one district received normal rains during the period from June 1-30, it said. The neighbouring union territory Lakshadweep and Mahe, part of union territory of Puducherry, also received deficient rainfall during the period. However, the monsoon is likely to be normal in the country in July, the weather agency said. "Out of 14 districts in Kerala, 1 district received normal rainfall and the other 13 districts received deficient rainfall (during this year's monsoon season from June 1 to 30). Lakshadweep and Mahe received deficient rainfall," K Santhosh, Head, IMD unit here, said in a bulletin. Based on the present synoptic features, fairly widespread rainfall is likely over Kerala, Mahe and Lakshadweep during the first week of July. "Cumulatively, normal rainfall is likely over Kerala and Mahe and above normal rainfall is likely over Lakshadweep during the first week," he said. Though the normal onset date for the monsoon in Kerala, which marks the commencement of the four-month rainfall season in the country, was June 1, it arrived two days late this year. IMD Director General Mrutunjay Mohapatra had said on Thursday that though the rainfall is not expected to be good in the first week of July, the precipitation activity is likely to pick up in the second half of the second week of the month. The advancement of the monsoon is unlikely to happen before July 7, he said, adding that since June 19, no progress has been observed in the advancement of the monsoon. June recorded 10 per cent more rainfall than normal and a large part of it was received between June 3 and 19, he said. Mid-latitude westerly winds, an unfavourable Madden Julian Oscillation (MJO) and the absence of formation of a low pressure system over the north Bay of Bengal are some of the reasons for a break in the monsoon, Mohapatra added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-the-gateway-of-monsoon-receives-deficient-rainfall-1003969.html
02-07-2021||South||TN CM Stalin gives Rs 5 lakh assistance to yesteryear Tamil top star M K Thyagaraja Bhagavatar's kin||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Friday handed over a cheque for Rs five lakh, a one-time financial assistance, to the great grandson of M K Thyagaraja Bhagavatar, yesteryear superstar of Tamil cinema. Also, Stalin gave an order allotting a Tamil Nadu Housing Board apartment on lower rent to Sairam and his family, the beneficiaries. Sairam, along with his family members received the financial assistance and the order at the Secretariat. Bhagavatar is the first superstar of Tamil cinema and the colossus of Tamil tinsel world during the pre-independence days. 'Haridas' was among his most successful films and is known for its non-stop run for three years from 1944 to 1946 in two cinemas here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-cm-stalin-gives-rs-5-lakh-assistance-to-yesteryear-tamil-top-star-m-k-thyagaraja-bhagavatars-kin-1004020.html
02-07-2021||South||Drone research lab to be set up with help of Cyberdome, says Kerala DGP Anil Kant||Kant, who met the media online for the first time after taking charge as the state police chief, said the state police would also consider collaborating with the Union government in the research sector to address the security threats posed by drones. "We will set up a drone research laboratory to address the security threats. The research lab will be developed with the help of Cyberdome of the Kerala police. We will also consider collaborating with the Union government in the research sector," Kant told the media. Cyberdome is a technological research and development Centre of the Kerala Police Department conceived as a Cyber Centre of excellence in cyber security as well as technology augmentation for effective policing. Kant said the welfare of the police force was his priority and a medical health insurance for policemen would be introduced soon. "We are exploring the option and will bring forward the best option for the force," he said. The state police chief said a special team would be formed to combat the gold-smuggling gang in the state and to deal with organised crime, a Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA)-like law would be enacted. "We have already submitted a similar proposal to the government," Kant said. He said the Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) in the state would be strengthened along with increasing the social media presence of the force to counter the cyber security threat. Kant said he always believed that policing is not one- man-show but team work that would gather intelligence on the police-mafia nexus if any. Senior IPS officer Kant succeeded Loknath Behera who had retired on Wednesday. A 1988 batch officer, Kant was serving as the Road Safety Commissioner in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/drone-research-lab-to-be-set-up-with-help-of-cyberdome-says-kerala-dgp-anil-kant-1004032.html
02-07-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh's Covid-19 tally inches towards 19-lakh mark||Andhra Pradesh's Covid-19 tally inched closer to the 19-lakh mark, reaching 18,96,818 on Friday with the addition of 3,464 in the last 24 hours. As 4,284 more patients got cured, the total recoveries climbed to 18,46,716. With 35 fresh fatalities, the gross toll touched 12,779, the latest bulletin said. The number of active cases came down to 37,323, it said. East Godavari reported 667, Chittoor 597, West Godavari 397, Prakasam 349 and SPS Nellore 262 fresh cases in the 24 hours. The remaining eight districts added less than 250 each, with Kurnool registering the lowest 78. Chittoor and Prakasam districts reported five fresh fatalities each, East Godavari and Guntur four each, Krishna and Srikakulam three each, Anantapuramu, SPS Nellore, Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram two each, Kadapa, Kurnool and West Godavari one each in a day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradeshs-covid-19-tally-inches-towards-19-lakh-mark-1004057.html
02-07-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh extends special officers rule in mandal, zilla parishads by up to 6 months||With the election process stuck in court litigation, the Andhra Pradesh government on Friday issued an order extending the special officers rule in the mandal parishads and zilla parishads in the state up to six months. Though elections to the mandal and zilla parishads were completed on April 8, counting of votes was not taken up due to an order of the High Court. The High Court posted the case to July 27 for further hearing. As the elected bodies could not be in place, the government had no option but to extend the rule by special officers and persons-in charge. "The special officers and persons-in charge will discharge the duties and perform the functions of the Zilla Praja Parishad for a period of six months or till the date of assumption of office of the members and office bearers elected in accordance with due process, whichever is earlier," Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Principal Secretary Gopal Krishna Dwivedi said in an order. The extension would come into force from July 5, he said. He issued a similar order in respect of mandal parishads as well, which would come into force from July 4.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-extends-special-officers-rule-in-mandal-zilla-parishads-by-up-to-6-months-1004079.html
02-07-2021||South||Covid-19: Is Kerala's delaying strategy causing stress?||Delaying the pandemic has been the justification offered by the Kerala health authorities for the comparatively higher number of Covid-19 cases in the state even as most states have almost come out the second wave. But experts are raising concern over the impact of this strategy on the mental and fiscal health of the society. While the comparatively low death rate is being highlighted as the key outcome of delaying the pandemic, experts in the health and commerce sectors are pointing out that prolonging of the pandemic situation and the restrictions were leading to mental stress as well as economic crisis, leading to job losses. Hence, they suggest that the state needs to strike a balance between delaying the pandemic and reviving the economy. Kerala Social Security Mission executive director Dr Mohammed Asheel said while Covid patients in many states struggled to get medical care, the situation in Kerala was managed well by the state's health infrastructure. While the maximum Covid patients that the state could handle at a time was six lakh, the state could keep the maximum active patients at a time below 4.5 lakh. He also said studies indicated that the Covid detection rate in Kerala was very high. While one out of three of those infected were detected in Kerala, in some states only one out of 30 were detected. These factors are keeping the Kerala's fresh Covid numbers still high. Kerala managed to delay the Covid peak by initiating control measures, like restrictions at public places, right from the initial stages of the pandemic, health department sources said. Meanwhile, public health expert Dr V Ramankutty said even as the delaying strategy helped in avoiding the state health infrastructure getting choked due to rush of patients, prolonging the pandemic was leading to frustration among people. A major chunk of the society was surviving on informal sectors, which are hit by the pandemic. These factors could lead to mental stress and depression-related deaths. Thiruvananthapuram Chamber of Commerce and Industry president S Raghuchandran Nair said while commercial activities in many states had already resumed, the private sector in Kerala continued to be in bad shape with companies bound to pay salaries without revenue. Experts are also critical about the restrictions still being enforced on the working hours of shops and weekend lockdowns in Kerala. It was not only leading to rush at shops and triggering further spread of the disease, but also keeping the markets dull. It is high time that the strategy need to be reworked by opening up the economy and strictly enforcing social distancing norms. All-out efforts should be made to vaccinate the maximum number of people at the earliest, they suggest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-is-keralas-delaying-strategy-causing-stress-1004083.html
02-07-2021||South||Video-calling facility brings relief to Covid-19 patients in Kerala||A video-calling facility introduced for Covid-19 patients at the Thiruvananthapuram Medical College Hospital is turning out to be a relief for patients, as well as their relatives. Health Minister Veena George launched the initiative after she came across the plight of relatives of Covid-infected patients, who are keen to know their exact health status, as well as the mental stress being suffered by many patients who are staying away from family members for a long time. As a solution to this issue, the video-calling facility was introduced at Thiruvananthapuram Medical College with the support of the Alumni Association. The project, titled 'Veettukare Vilikkam' (Can call the relatives), facilitates patients to make video calls to their relatives. Volunteers and nurses engaged by the association for the project also provide exact information to the relatives about the health condition of the patients. Thiruvananthapuram Medical College Alumni Association president Dr John Panicker said at least 100 people enquire about patients' health status and over 50 video calls are being arranged daily. The initiative was also easing the work pressure of the hospital staff. The health minister said the response to the project had been overwhelming and, hence, it would be extended to other hospitals as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/video-calling-facility-brings-relief-to-covid-19-patients-in-kerala-1004094.html
02-07-2021||South||Kerala HC takes up suo moto PIL in dog killing case, gives it the dog's name||The Kerala High Court on Friday took up a suo moto public interest litigation in the case of the cruel killing of Bruno, a dog. The court also sought a report from the state government on the incident. Considering the petition on Friday, the court said that the petition is being renamed as “In Re: Bruno (Suo Moto Public Interest Litigation Proceedings initiated by the High Court in the matter of executive and legislative inaction of the State Government in the matter of Protection of Animal Rights)”. The bench comprising justices A K Jayasankaran Nambiar and Gopinath P observed that it would be a befitting tribute to the hapless dog that succumbed to human cruelty. Bruno, a labrador, was beaten to death by three persons, including a minor boy, after hanging it using a fish bait hook at Adimalathura on the coastal areas of Thiruvananthapuram. It was also thrown into the sea. The video of the act went viral. The three accused, including a minor, stated that the dog was causing nuisance by sleeping under their fishing boat and this provoked them to kill it. Though the police nabbed them, animal rights activists lamented over the feeble punishment warranted by the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act. Justice Jayasankaran Nambiar wrote to the Chief Justice urging that a suo motu case may be registered on the basis of the reports of cruelty to animals. The court directed that awareness campaigns on animal rights and the obligations of the citizen should be initiated. The state government was also also directed to promote animal adoption as well as to improve infrastructure of veterinary hospitals. The court also appointed two advocates as Amici Curiae in the matter. The case will be considered again on July 13. A social media campaign (#Justice for Bruno) seeking justice for the hapless dog has also gone viral with many celebrities joining the campaign.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-takes-up-suo-moto-pil-in-dog-killing-case-gives-it-the-dogs-name-1004132.html
02-07-2021||South||BJP Kerala president K Surendran to be quizzed in hawala fund case||BJP Kerala state president K Surendran has been issued a notice by the Kerala police in connection with a hawala fund robbery case. Surendran was directed to appear on Tuesday at Thrissur. The case pertained to robbery of Rs 3.5 crore hawala money, suspected to be meant for illegal electioneering. The highway robbery took place at Kodakara on the suburbs of Thrissur district on April 3, just ahead of the April 6 state assembly polls. A Kozhikode native had complained to the police that Rs 25 lakh was robbed from his car by a gang. Later it was found that Rs 3.5 crore was stolen from the car. Earlier some BJP local leaders as well as Surendran's close aides were quizzed in this connection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-kerala-president-k-surendran-to-be-quizzed-in-hawala-fund-case-1004147.html
02-07-2021||South||When right to life is threatened, right to practice religion can take a backseat: Madras HC||The right to practice religion can take a backseat when the right to life is under threat, the Madras High Court said on Friday. "The right to practice religion is certainly subservient to the right to life and when the right to life is threatened, the right to practice religion can only take a backseat", the first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said. The court cannot interfere in such matters unless it finds that the state's action is utterly arbitrary or completely without basis, the bench added. The court was disposing of a PIL petition praying for a direction to the Tamil Nadu government to reopen all places of worship in the state, without any restriction, which had been originally closed due to the lockdown arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic. The state government, however, had ordered the reopening of temples from June 28, subject to certain Covid-19 safety restrictions. The court pointed out that the State had obtained the advice of experts and considered various factors including crowding at places of worship and hence, continued with the restrictions. The bench also disposed of another PIL petition seeking to resume regular bus services after holding that it is for the state government and not the court to take a call on the issue. The second wave of the pandemic is not yet over and there is also a risk of a third wave, the judges pointed out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/when-right-to-life-is-threatened-right-to-practice-religion-can-take-a-backseat-madras-hc-1004151.html
02-07-2021||South||Facing Congress, BJP flak, Kerala decides to publish names of Covid-19 victims||Facing flak from the BJP and Congress over alleged mismatch in the Covid-19 deaths reported in Kerala, Health Minister Veena George on Friday said the government has decided to publish the names and other details of those who succumbed to the virus in the state. The minister said she has directed that the name, age and place of each Covid patient, who succumbs to the infection, be published on the website of the Health Department from Saturday. Till now, only the the district, age and date of death of each Covid patient were being published on the department's website, she said. Earlier in the day, opposition Congress and BJP continued to allege mismatch in the Covid-19 deaths reported in Kerala and accused the state government of projecting a 'fabricated' figure to save its face in the fight against the pandemic. The opposition reiterated the charges a day after George had said the state government has nothing to hide with regard to pandemic-related casualties. She reiterated the same on Friday at a press meet. The opposition leader in the state Assembly V D Satheesan, at a press conference in Kozhikode during the day, claimed there has been a mismatch in the death toll. The Health Minister was trying to save the government from getting exposed on the deceptive numbers of Covid deaths, he alleged. "I wonder why the government should hide the facts.There is no need for the Government to think that revelation of real figures would taint its image," Satheesan said. Stating that tens of thousands had died due to the pandemic across the globe, he accused the state government of conspiring to project a fabricated figure hiding factual numbers. The Congress leader also said the opposition would not accuse the government for Covid deaths, which is part of the pandemic. Meanwhile, BJP state president K Surendran alleged that only one-third of the actual Covid-19 deaths was reflected in the government records and even the Health Minister had admitted that the state authorities had covered up the toll. Alleging that the Pinarayi Vijayan government had excluded Covid-19 deaths from the official records in order to stage a campaign that "Kerala is Number One", he said the state was violating ICMR norms and the central policy in this regard since the beginning. The BJP leader also said that more people are succumbing to the disease in the state due to false negative reports and delayed medical examination. "The state government has reduced the weekly averagetest to one-fifth. This is the reason why the death rate inthe state is yet to decrease," he said. Without understanding this, the government has triedto save its face by reducing the death toll, the BJP leaderadded. These allegations were refuted by George in her press conference on Friday where she said the deaths were being reported by doctors according to the guidelines laid down by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). On Thursday, she had said the state government had nothing to hide with regard todeaths due to Covid-19. A new transparent and decentralised online system hasbeen put in place to report deaths due to the virus, George had said, a day after the Supreme Court directed the National Disaster Management Authority to issue guidelines in six weeksfor ex-gratia compensation to families of those who died of Covid. Kerala is a state where 100 per cent births and deathsare reported, she had said and added that it is not as if the state decides on which death to be categorised as due to Covid or not. As per government figures, 13,505 people have losttheir lives to the virus, while Congress and BJP have claimed that the actual number might be double that.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/facing-congress-bjp-flak-kerala-decides-to-publish-names-of-covid-19-victims-1004180.html
02-07-2021||State||GST Council to decide on compensation extension||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday said a special GST Council session will be held to decide on extending the GST compensation regime beyond 2022. She was responding to media queries on demands by various state governments to extend compensation to states beyond July 22. "There will be a special GST session convened to discuss the extension - if any - after July 2022," she said. Recently, the Karnataka government had decided to write to the Centre seeking an extension of the compensation scheme. To a question on rising fuel prices, Sitharaman said that excise duty was levied both by the Centre and state governments. "Oil barrel prices have spiked in the international market, contributing to the increase here," she said. She said that prices of edible oil and pulses were expected to go down in the coming days. "We are definitely taking every measure to ensure that the money is returned," Sitharaman said about the steps taken to return the amount defaulted by fugitives such as Vijay Mallya and Nirav Modi. However, it is a long drawn process ranging from attaching the properties by investigating agencies till the final order by the Debt Recovery Tribunal, she said. She also addressed a group of depositors from the scam-hit Sri Guru Raghavendra Cooperative Bank, asking them to stay put until the administrator submits his report. "After the administrator submits the report, the Reserve Bank has to see. After that it can allow you to take your money, after some buyer is found. Some solution is to be arrived (at)," she told a group of petitioners who met her. "I am clearly standing before you and telling the truth, the facts. So, kindly wait for the administrator to submit a report," she said. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/gst-council-to-decide-on-compensation-extension-1004163.html
02-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Minister's 'PA' cheats in the name of Karnataka CM's son||A Ballari native claiming to be the personal assistant of Social Welfare Minister B Sriramulu was arrested in a dramatic fashion in central Bengaluru on Thursday, days after Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s son B Y Vijayendra went to the police saying the man had misused his name to cheat people.  Rajanna alias Raju, 40, was initially speculated to have been arrested from Sriramulu’s residence or as he walked out of it. But police clarified that he was arrested near Chalukya Hotel, Basaveshwara Circle. The arrest was made by the cybercrime sleuths of the Central Crime Branch (CCB).  In a police complaint on June 28, Vijayendra accused Rajanna and a few other individuals of misusing his name to cheat people in return for illegal gratification. Rajanna allegedly promised to lobby with government officials for a commission.  Vijayendra told the police that neither did he know Rajanna nor had anything to do with him. He requested the police to take necessary action against all the people involved.  A police officer investigating the case said that Rajanna would be taken into custody for questioning, and maintained that they were yet to confirm that he was indeed Sriramulu’s PA. The police do have some photographs of him with Sriramulu though, the officer added.  Vijayendra has submitted to the police three audio recordings of Rajanna’s telephone conversation with the individuals who had allegedly paid him up for lobbying. In all the audio recordings, he used Vijayendra’s name, police said.  Police have found 20 such audio recordings being shared on WhatsApp and social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ministers-pa-cheats-in-the-name-of-karnataka-cms-son-1003833.html
02-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka revises daily vaccination target as supplies dwindle||Karnataka on Thursday administered about 1.88 lakh vaccine doses till 8 pm, a far cry from its record 11.52 lakh doses on June 21. The top five districts with the highest vaccination coverage in the state -- BBMP, Mysuru, Belagavi, Tumakuru and Ballari -- have all received dwindling vaccine supplies since the day Karnataka vaccinated the second-highest number of people in the country. Ballari district, which vaccinated 64,406 people on June 21, received vaccines only five times since then. Its lowest supply was on June 25, when it was supplied only 1,500 doses. Tumakuru district that vaccinated 51,552 people on June 21, received supplies only six times after that, the lowest on June 29, when it received a mere 6,500 doses. Data from the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) which has administered more than 54.51 lakh doses till date (the highest among all districts in the state), revealed that it has received 45,000 vaccine doses on an average every day from June 21, forcing it to revise its daily target to 50,000 doses from its previous one lakh doses per day. The BBMP on June 21 had vaccinated a record 1,73,045 people which was the highest in the country among metropolitan cities on that day. According to the June 30 bulletin of the Palike, Bengaluru (including Bangalore Urban district), has administered 61,43,356 doses and is second only to New Delhi, which has administered 78,91,204 doses. D Randeep, Special Commissioner, Health, BBMP, said, “We are planning to administer 50,000 doses daily. But since we get the vaccine stock only the previous evening, we dispatch it late in the night and sometimes, the vaccine stocks reach primary health centres only the next day.” KC General Hospital, for example, has put out a public notice on its website and on its premises saying it has no stock of Covishield. Its website says: ‘400 doses only for walk-in and 50 doses only for online registration’. Whereas the hospital’s per day capacity is to administer 1,100 doses. Hospital medical superintendent Dr B R Venkateshaiah told DH, “We ran out of Covishield two days ago and are administering leftover Covaxin doses. We asked for Covishield today too but they (BBMP) said they don’t have any, and that they will get the supply on Friday afternoon. We get vaccines supplied every alternate day.” “If we are supplied 5,000 doses weekly, it will be convenient. If we indent 1,000-2,000 doses, we get only 960 doses. We administered 1,125 doses on Saturday. The footfall on weekends is high but without adequate supply, we cannot cater to them,” he said. Sources said the state received eight lakh to nine lakh doses on July 1 and that the BBMP was allocated one lakh doses. The state health department did not reveal the exact amount of remaining vaccine stock with it despite repeated requests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-revises-daily-vaccination-target-as-supplies-dwindle-1003843.html
02-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Travellers from Kerala to Karnataka won't need RT-PCR report if they have vaccine certificate||The Karnataka government on Friday tweaked its rules for those travelling from Kerala to the state, scrapping mandatory negative RT-PCR reports for people who are not fully vaccinated. According to the new rules, those who have received even the first dose of the vaccine are now exempt from producing a negative RT-PCR report, and can show just the vaccine certificate to enter the state.   With the Delta Plus variant being reported in some districts of Kerala, the Karnataka state government on Thursday ordered all those travelling from Kerala to produce a negative RT-PCR report.  The order had stated that the negative report should not be older than 72 hours, and those who have received both vaccine doses do not need a negative Covid-19 test.   In dire emergency situations such as death in a family or medical treatment, the passenger’s swab would be collected on arrival and further action will be taken based on the RT-PCR test report, Thursday's order said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/travellers-from-kerala-to-karnataka-wont-need-rt-pcr-report-if-they-have-vaccine-certificate-1003892.html
02-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 200 new Delta variant cases, 33 new Kappa cases||Karnataka on Thursday revealed 200 new cases of Delta variant (B.1.617.2), taking the total to 518 cases, and 33 new cases of the Kappa variant (B.1.617.1) taking its tally to 145. Members of the State Genomic Surveillance Committee told DH that though the Delta variant was more infectious than the SARS-CoV-2 that is currently in circulation in the population, it was yet to be investigated whether it caused more morbidity or mortality. Prof Satyajit Mayor, Director, National Centre for Biological Sciences, and member of the committee, told DH, "These cases may mostly be a backlog. What needs to be investigated is whether these cases have caused more harm in the State. It seems to be more infectious. Mortality data in this country is very sketchy. We don't have data on virulence and case fatality rate. Data from the UK says the Delta variant spreads faster. Covid cases seem to be on the decline and the Delta variant is replacing the variant of SARS-CoV-2 previously in circulation. If the variant reflects in the overall Covid surge, then it may be a cause of worry." Experts said there is a need to reduce the time lag in genomic sequencing. It currently takes four weeks in the state to complete the testing procedure on a batch of samples, starting from sample collection, transportation of specimen, and sequencing, to bioinformatic analysis. Rao said if results are a month old, it is difficult to ascertain patient zero (index patient). "There is a need to trace back to patient zero and prospectively look at primary and secondary contacts. This is very essential to keep a track of the new variants. We're trying to create a heat map, if possible, district-wise, to get representation of cases. It's in the discussion-stage but we need to move towards real-time monitoring rather than look at cases retrospectively. This data will now go to various districts and will be correlated with patient codes. Metadata analysis is yet to be done by the BBMP and other districts." Dr Vishal Rao, Dean, Centre for Academic Research, HCG, another member, told DH, "These cases seem to be at least three to four weeks old. The Delta variant has been a predominant contributor to the second wave but it is showing up in numbers only now. This gives us a reaffirmation that it is a 'variant of concern'. The Kappa variant continues to be a variant of interest. But in the coming days, anything related to the sub-lineages of the B.1.617 is something we need to closely watch for."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-200-new-delta-variant-cases-33-new-kappa-cases-1003928.html
02-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Centre allots 4.5L extra vaccine doses to Karnataka||Karnataka has received 7.5 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine, state health minister Dr K Sudhakar told ANI. "The Central government has allotted 4.5 lakh extra doses to the state. I will visit Delhi on Monday to request more vaccines to Karnataka," he is quoted as saying. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/centre-allots-45l-extra-vaccine-doses-to-karnataka-1003953.html
02-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Wasn’t aware of extortion by aide, says B Sriramulu||Karnataka Social Welfare Minister B Sriramulu attributed the arrest of his aide Rajanna to a “miscommunication” and said that he was not aware of the alleged extortion carried out by him. Speaking to reporters, Sriramulu said that he learned about the arrest from the media. "No one should misuse anyone's name. An FIR is registered against him. Let the investigation be completed after which it will be clear whether he was guilty and what punishment should be meted as per law," he said. Sriramulu said that he would have put an end to the alleged extortion if he had known earlier. "I would have spoken to (BJP vice-president) B Y Vijayendra and put an end to this," he said. He also said, “I request everyone to exercise caution and beware of such fraudulent people and immediately bring to my attention if you come across any such incidents of fraudsters trying to misuse my name by making false promises.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/wasn-t-aware-of-extortion-by-aide-says-b-sriramulu-1003960.html
02-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||FM Sitharaman has assured to pay GST compensation dues: Bommai||Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday said Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman assured him that the Centre would release Rs 11,800 crore GST compensation pending from last year to Karnataka. Bommai, who represents Karnataka in the GST Council, said this after meeting Sitharaman who was in the city. “Sitharaman also assured that the Centre would borrow Rs 18,000 crore and give it to the state as GST compensation, just like it did last time,” Bommai said in a statement. Bommai said he asked Sitharaman to release the first instalment of the state’s share in the GST collected in the first quarter of the current fiscal. During their meeting, Bommai said he asked Sitharaman to release the Centre’s share of money towards centrally-sponsored schemes, to which she agreed. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/fm-sitharaman-has-assured-to-pay-gst-compensation-dues-bommai-1004117.html
02-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Karnataka reports 207 fresh cases of Delta variant||Karnataka on Friday reported 207 fresh cases of the Delta Covid-19 variant, taking the total caseload from the variant to 725. Overall, the state reported 2,984 Covid-19 cases and 88 deaths, as its active Covid-19 caseload fell to 53,871. The state has reported 28,49,997 Covid-19 cases and 35,222 deaths so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-karnataka-reports-207-fresh-cases-of-delta-variant-1004130.html
02-07-2021||West||Six forts associated with Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj taken up for conservation by CM-headed team||Six grand forts associated with the life and times of legendary Maratha warrior Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj is being taken up for a conservation programme. These forts are Shivneri (Junnar), Rajgad (Bhor) and Torna (Velhe), all three in Pune district, Vijaydurg (Devgad) and Sindhudurg (Malvan), both in Sindhudurg district and Sudhagad (Sudhagad) in Raigad district. For the conservation programme, a 24-member steering committee has been formed which would be headed by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. The committee includes Deputy Chief Minister and Finance Minister Ajit Pawar, Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat, Cultural Affairs Minister Amit Deshmukh, Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray and Forest Minister, a post currently held by the chief minister. The 13th descendent of Shivaji Maharaj and President-nominated Rajya Sabha MP Sambhaji Raje Chhatrapati of the Kolhapur royal family, actor and Shiv Sena leader Aadesh Bandekar, who is the chairman of Shree Siddhivinayak Ganpati Temple Trust, actor and writer Milind Gunaji, Umesh Zirpe, Hrishikesh Yadav, Madhav Phadke and Nitin Bangude Patil. Director of Directorate of Archaeology and Museums Tejas Garge, representatives of Archaeological Survey of India and various government departments are part of the committee. The steering committee would function from the chief minister’s secretariat, according to the notification issued on Thursday evening. Maharashtra is home to over 400 forts, out of which approximately 350 forts are on government records – the highest in India. These include three varieties: sea forts, forts built on hills and forts built on land. They are further divided into two sections: classified and non-classified forts. As many as 44 classified forts are protected under the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) while 49 are under the Directorate of Archaeology and Museums. There are 337 non-classified forts that are protected under the Revenue and Forest departments, which will be getting these basic tourist amenities. In fact, of the six forts selected – Shivneri, Rajgad, Torna, Vijaydurg, Sindhudurg and Sudhagad – five are part of the bid that the government has submitted for UNESCO World Heritage Site nomination. To be specific, the Department of Cultural Affairs submitted the two serial nominations to UNESCO through ASI – namely, ‘Military Architecture of Maharashtra’ with emphasis on hill and sea forts of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj – and these include the Raigad, Rajgad, Torna, Shivneri, Pratapgad, Simhagad, Lohagad, Panhala/Rangna, Sindhudurg, Vijaydurg, Padmadurg, and Kulaba forts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/six-forts-associated-with-chhatrapati-shivaji-maharaj-taken-up-for-conservation-by-cm-headed-team-1003968.html
02-07-2021||West||Environmentalists win battle to save mangroves off NH 348 in Uran near NHAI site||Environmentalists protesting against the killing of close to 5,000 fully grown mangroves off NH-348 in the Uran area have won their prolonged battle as tidal water flow to the sea plants has been resumed. The site, near Punjab CFS between JNPT and Panvel, which presented a mangrove graveyard, is now flourishing back with mush green mangroves,  B N Kumar, director of NatConnect Foundation, said The battle to save the mangrove began in April 2018 with the local fishing community noticing the blocking of tidal water flow by NHAI. “Environmental groups subsequently complained to the High Court-appointed mangrove committee which called for site inspection which was done in December 2018,” Kumar said. In January 2019, NatConnect, Shree Ekvira Aai Partisthan and Paramparik Machhimar Bachao Kruti Samiti took a joint delegation to then Konkan Divisional Commissioner Jagdish Patil who assured action. Yet there was no action taken till June and rainwater accumulated, remained stagnant and whatever mangroves remained, rotted. Finally, the tidal water flow was restored after much ado. “Mangroves begin to sprout on their own,' said Nandakumar Pawar, head of Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan. The mangroves protect the container stations around the area from flooding due to high tides apart from serving the needs of the fishing community. The environmentalists were pleasantly surprised to see the mangroves sprouting again and fishermen trying to restore their fishing nets in the small stream of water. “The fisherman could catch two baskets full of crabs after a long time,” Kumar said. “The battle is half won as the culprits who were responsible for the killing of the mangroves are yet to be identified and punished. The land is under CIDCO as its environment officer has been promising action,'' Pawar said. “This is just one site. There are many other wetlands and mangroves which have been affected due to the landfill by either NMSEZ or JNPT impacting our lives,” said Tukaram Koli of the fishermen’s group. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/environmentalists-win-battle-to-save-mangroves-off-nh-348-in-uran-near-nhai-site-1003971.html
02-07-2021||West||How a community radio station is helping educate students without smartphones||Radio Vishwas, a Community Radio Station (CRS) in Nashik district of Maharashtra, is bridging the education gap during the Covid-19 pandemic by educating students without smartphones. Run by the Vishwas Dhyan Prabodhini and Research Institute, Radio Vishwas broadcast for 14 hours daily where audio lectures are aired and made accessible to all the students who study in Zilla Parishad and Nashik Municipal schools. The broadcast is done in various languages such as Hindi, English, Marathi, Sanskrit. The CRS’ initiative 'Shikshan Sarvansathi' (Education for All) was launched in June 2020 to provide free education for students from class 3 to 10, during the difficult time of Covid-19. “These are for the students who are trapped in poverty and cannot afford smartphones for digital education,” Station Director, Dr Hari Vinayak Kulkarni, was quoted in a PIB statement. The radio station has bagged two awards at the 8th edition of the National Community Radio Awards instituted by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting - the first prize in the “Sustainability Model Awards” category and the second prize in the “Thematic Awards” category for its radio program 'Education for All' in the times of Covid-19.  The Station Director, Dr Hari Vinayak Kulkarni said the programme received a very positive response. “The lectures were then aired according to the slots allocated to each subject. The programme received a huge response from the targeted community; approximately 50,000 - 60,000 students of municipal and Zilla Parishad schools benefited from it,” he said. Dr Kulkarni further informed that the lectures were also shared with six community radios in Maharashtra so that they too could broadcast through their radio channels. “We are glad that we could help students from all over Maharashtra as six community radios approached us to share this content to broadcast in their respective cities”. ‘Shikshan Sarvansathi’ project was implemented with the help of 150 teachers who recorded lectures in a studio. Dr Kulkarni also spoke about the initiatives being taken by teachers in distributing FM devices to students. “A group of teachers in Igatpuri taluka of Nashik distributed 451 FM devices (inclusive of USB, bluetooth, high-end speakers) to students to ensure that they don't miss out on the current syllabus. Teachers are also planning to upload it on YouTube, which can also be used when normal schooling begins.” Speaking about the various programs being broadcast through the CRS, he told about how the programme 'Shahri Parasbaag' (Kitchen Garden) helped in increasing awareness about environment conservation. “The complete process right from seed availability till planting the sapling is provided to our audience in this program,” he said. 'Mala Aavadlela Pustak' (about favourite books to read) and 'Jaaniv Samajktechi' ( focused on difficulties faced by senior citizens) are programmes targeted to cover a wide range of audiences.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/how-a-community-radio-station-is-helping-educate-students-without-smartphones-1003978.html
02-07-2021||West||Mumbai: BMC issues new norms for vaccination camps at offices, housing societies||In light of the recent Covid-19 vaccination scam, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has issued additional guidelines and stated that inoculation at housing societies and workplaces will only be conducted by private vaccination centres registered on the Co-WIN portal, an official said on Friday. The civic body also released a list of around 95 private vaccination centres in the city registered on the Co-WIN portal of the Union government and contact details of ward-level war rooms. As per the guidelines issued on Thursday, vaccination at workplaces and housing societies will be carried out by registered private Covid-19 vaccination centres only, and managements of offices and housing societies will have to ensure that these centres are registered on Co-WIN by contacting the local authority. Office and housing society managements will have to designate a person to work as a "nodal officer" and coordinate with private vaccination centres and support vaccination activities, it was stated. The nodal officer will oversee and facilitate all aspects of vaccination such as registration of beneficiaries, availability of physical and IT infrastructure and oversee vaccination etc, the guidelines stated. The BMC had last month issued guidelines for vaccination at workplaces and housing societies, making a memorandum of understanding (MoU) mandatory with private Covid vaccination centres, but detailed roles and responsibilities were missing in it. Now, the nodal officer will have to ensure that an MoU is signed by the secretary of the housing society and registered private vaccination centre, and the details about the date of vaccination has to be displayed on the notice board of the society, it was stated. As per the guidelines, housing societies will have to inform their respective medical officer and local police station about the vaccination camps at least three days in advance. The nodal officer of private vaccination centres will have to ensure that all beneficiaries get a link of digital certificates, while the health department team will also conduct random surprise visits to vaccination sites, it was stated. The Mumbai police have registered 10 FIRs so far after a racket that held bogus vaccination camps for housing societies and private firms came to light last month. According to the BMC, 54,67,805 citizens have been inoculated in the metropolis so far, and of these, 10,83,266 beneficiaries have received the second dose as well. Presently, there are 399 active Covid-19 vaccination centres in the city, of which 281 were operated by the BMC, 20 were government-run and 98 are private centres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-bmc-issues-new-norms-for-vaccination-camps-at-offices-housing-societies-1003985.html
02-07-2021||West||Duration of monsoon session can’t be extended due to Covid-19: Maha CM in letter to Guv||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday wrote a letter to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, in which he defended the government’s decision of holding the monsoon session of the state legislature only for two days starting July 5, saying that its duration cannot be extended in view of the coronavirus situation. He also appeared non-committal on holding the legislative assembly speaker’s election during the two-day session, saying there was no “time-frame” for it. Thackeray also urged Koshyari to pursue with the Centre the state government's demand of sharing the empirical data on the Other Backward Classes (OBC) in order to take steps for restoring the political reservation for the community in local civic bodies. Recently, Koshyari had written a letter to Thackeray, asking him to extend the duration of the upcoming monsoon and fill the post of the legislative assembly speaker urgently citing the demands raised by a BJP delegation. In his reply letter, Thackeray said the duration of the legislature session cannot be extended in view of the second wave of the pandemic and the threat of a possible third wave. “Medical experts have predicted a severe third wave,” he said. Thackeray said that taking care of the health of the people and the elected representatives in the state was the responsibility of his government. He said the decision to hold the monsoon session for two days was taken due to the Covid-19 pandemic and cases of Delta Plus variant of the virus reported in several districts of the state. The government was trying to hold the election for the legislative assembly speaker's post at the earliest, he said. "It is better if each and every MLA can participate in the election process. There is no point in doing things in haste. As per the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the union health ministry guidelines, an RT-PCR test done within 72 hours is held valid. So it is not correct to declare a date in advance for holding the speaker's election," the CM said in the letter. Thackeray said deputy speaker Narhari Zirwal is officiating as the speaker and he had overseen the proceedings during the budget session held earlier this year. “There is no violation of constitutional provision. There is no time-frame to hold the speaker's election,” he added.  The CM also said the government has written to the State Election Commission (SEC), requesting it to postpone the by-elections to Panchayat Samitis. "We are expecting a positive response from the commission in view of the threat of spread of the Covid-19," he said. The SEC had recently declared elections to five Zilla Parishads and the byelections to seats in 33 Panchayat Samitis that were rendered vacant and converted to general category following the Supreme Court verdict quashing OBC quota in local bodies. "We have asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to find a constitutional solution to the issue. Empirical data of OBCs is required to provide representation to the community in local bodies. The data is with the central government. I urge you to also pursue with the Centre to provide the empirical data of the 2011 census to enable the state government to take further steps," he said. The BJP had last week held a 'chakka jam' or road blockade protests across Maharashtra last week alleging that the state government had failed short to defend the OBC quota in the Supreme Court and to provide the empirical data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/duration-of-monsoon-session-can-t-be-extended-due-to-covid-19-maha-cm-in-letter-to-guv-1004005.html
02-07-2021||West||ED, CBI should not involve themselves in toppling governments, says Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Friday said the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) should not involve themselves in toppling governments, and alleged that those who played a key role in the formation of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra were being targeted. Amid speculation in the state political circles over differences in the MVA government of the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress alliance, Raut said there was no threat to the dispensation despite the BJP’s attempts to weaken it. Sena’s Rajya Sabha member also expressed confidence that MVA will win the election to the state Legislative Assembly Speaker's post even if the opposition party was trying to create suspicion and uncertainty over the fate of the government. He was talking to reporters in New Delhi. When asked about of the ED’s action of attaching a sugar mill in Maharashtra allegedly linked to Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, Raut said people who played important role in the MVA formation are being targeted. "Threats are being issued that more such actions will be seen. This kind of politics is not good. Lakhs of livelihood are dependent on sugar mills. Use of ED and CBI are attacks from behind. One has to fight face-to-face. ED and CBI should not involve themselves in toppling of governments," he said. Jarandeshwar Sahkari Sakhar Karkhana, located at Chimangaon-Koregaon in Satara district, was attached in connection with the alleged Maharashtra State Cooperative Bank (MSCB) scam, the Enforcement Directorate had said. Raut said like NCP chief Sharad Pawar, Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray enjoy cordial relationship with Congress president Sonia Gandhi. "There is no threat to the MVA even if BJP tries hard to weaken it," he said. He said it was certain that the MVA would win the state Legislative Assembly Speaker's post. “The BJP will do a favour on Maharashtra if they allow a unanimous election. There is no use of creating suspicion and uncertainty over the fate of the government. The speaker's post will go to the Congress. The candidate will be decided by the Congress leadership,” he added. The Shiv Sena is of the view that the speaker's election could have been avoided during the coronavirus pandemic. But the post became vacant after the incumbent speaker (Nana Patole) became the state Congress chief earlier this year, he said. The monsoon session of the state legislature is scheduled to be held on July 5 and 6. As per the state legislature convention, speaker has always been elected unopposed. Patole had quit as the speaker in February this year after he was appointed as the new president of the Maharashtra Congress unit. The budget session of the legislature was held without holding the election for speaker's post. Earlier, state Revenue Minister and senior Congress leader Balasaheb Thorat had told reporters that the process for the election of speaker will be completed during the two-day monsoon session. However, in a letter written to Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Friday, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray appeared non-committal on holding the election for the speaker’s post during the session, saying that there was no “time-frame” for it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ed-cbi-should-not-involve-themselves-in-toppling-governments-says-sanjay-raut-1004025.html
02-07-2021||West||No cheer for Goa bar owners; claim psychological distress due to continued closure||In a letter to Sawant on Friday, Michael Carrasco, president of the All Goa Bar and Restaurant Owners Association, said that the continued closure of their establishments had led to panic in the Association's members, who could resort to distress sales or face bankruptcy. "Since the positive cases and death rates have reduced, the Goa government should consider opening of our business to avoid distress sale, closure of business. More than monetary losses, there are job losses as our industry comprises both unskilled and skill labour," Carrasco said in the representation to the Chief Minister. "And due to our closure, all other subsidiary businesses related to vegetable, meat, fruit, fish vendors, etc, are affected. There is also psychological distress in society. The government should wake up and allow all operations to start to avoid panic among our business colleges and unrest in our society," he said. Licenced bars and restaurants are integral to Goa's tourist profile, especially because of the liberal excise regime in the coastal state, which facilitates lower prices of alcohol as compared to the neighbouring states of Karnataka and Maharashtra. Bars and restaurants continue to be shut under Covid management protocols imposed by the state administration, despite gradual relaxation of norms, which has allowed opening up of markets, retail liquor stores, etc. While bars and restaurants are barred from allowing onsite guests, they are however allowed to keep their kitchens open and home deliver food.Carrasco however claims that the concession is just now enough. "Our businesses have come to a standstill, without any relief... Businessmen are desperate and are ready to rent out and even sell their ancestral businesses. No relief has been considered in any form for our businesses," Carrasco said in his letter.   "Last year, we were officially closed down for six months and this time the closure has lasted for three months already. Over and above, the state government has increased the licence fees, hiked excise rates and has now started charging tax on bars and restaurants as per area. How can we survive under this onslaught?" he said. The coastal state has around 10,000 licenced bars and restaurants. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-cheer-for-goa-bar-owners-claim-psychological-distress-due-to-continued-closure-1004031.html
02-07-2021||West||MSCB scam: ED steps up heat on Ajit Pawar, attaches sugar mill worth Rs 65 crore||As pressure mounts on the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, the Enforcement Directorate has attached a sugar mill worth Rs 65 crore in Satara, which is linked to Maharashtra deputy chief minister and NCP leader Ajit Pawar, in connection with the MSCB scam. Reacting to the development, the NCP said that it was nothing but a move to malign his party and its leaders. However, Pawar, the nephew of NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, remained unfazed and said that he was seeking legal advice on the issue. “The agency (ED) has the right to conduct an inquiry. Earlier, the state-CID and Anti-Corruption Bureau did investigation but nothing came out. The Economic Offences Wing probe is also underway. Investigation is being done from all sides but nothing came out…a judicial probe had also been conducted,” Pawar said in Pune. “You are saying it as scam. Please show me what the scam is,” he said. According to reports, the ED has attached properties including land, building, plant and machinery of Jarandeshwar Sahkari Sakhar Karkhana worth Rs 65.75 crore. The assets are currently held in the name of Guru Commodity Services Pvt. Ltd. and leased to Jarandeshwar Sugar Mills Pvt. Ltd, of which the majority shares are owned by Sparkling Soil Pvt Ltd, which is linked to Ajit Pawar and his wife Sunetra Pawar. The investigation pertains to the alleged Maharashtra State Cooperative Bank (MSCB) scam. Meanwhile, NCP chief spokesperson and minority affairs minister Nawab Malik said: “The manner in which reports are planted against Ajit Pawar and his family are wrong.” "The ED has sealed the sugar mill and is taking further legal action. Ajit Pawar and his family members are not involved in any illegal activities," he said. Meanwhile, BJP leader Kirit Somaiya demanded a probe against Sharad Pawar’s grand-nephew and MLA Rohit Pawar. “I welcome ED attachment of properties of Jarandeshwar Sahakari Sugar Karkhana, a benami sugar Factory of Ajit Pawar. Requested ED for investigation of similar transaction. We requested ED to investigate the acquisition of Kannad Sahakari Shakar Kharkhana Ltd by Rohit Pawar's Baramati Agro Ltd at a very much undervalued price of Rs 50 crore through manipulated auction of MSCB,” he said. Meanwhile, Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said that the BJP is making all efforts to destabilise the government. “Everyone knows about the controversy investigated by ED and CBI. If anyone thinks this can break the Maharashtra government, they're wrong. Even if the Army is deployed, nothing will change,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mscb-scam-ed-steps-up-heat-on-ajit-pawar-attaches-sugar-mill-worth-rs-65-crore-1004041.html
02-07-2021||West||Six lifts inoperative at SRT hospital in Maharashtra; relatives help carry patients to wards||At least six out of seven lifts at Swami Ramanand Teerth Medical College and Hospital in Maharashtra's Beed are inoperative, forcing relatives to help carry patients to wards on the upper floors of the facility, a senior official said on Friday. The medical college and hospital at Ambajogai has a bed capacity of 1,177, and is also a centre for treating Covid-19 patients from Beed and neighbouring districts, the college's dean Dr Shivaji Sukre said. There are seven lifts in the entire premises, of which the administrative building has two, another wing has three and the medicine wing has two, the official said. Of the two lifts in the medicine department, one has been repaired, while the other lift is still inoperative, he said, adding that the remaining five lifts have not been functioning due to various reasons since years. "When the Covid-19 crisis began, infected patients were admitted in three wards on the lower floors. We shifted critical wards on upper floors. Things become difficult when critical patients have to be brought to lower floors to undergo tests," Sukre said, adding relatives also need to help carry patients to upper floors on stretchers. A fund of Rs 43 lakh has been sanctioned to repair the lift in the medicine department and tenders may be floated for this after the state Assembly session, the official said. Despite follow ups with the PWD nothing much happened, and hence the medical facility will write to the district collector about the same, he said. Despite repeated attempts, the concerned official from the PWD was unreachable for a comment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/six-lifts-inoperative-at-srt-hospital-in-maharashtra-relatives-help-carry-patients-to-wards-1004044.html
02-07-2021||West||CBI arrests two ED officers for taking bribe in Ahmedabad||The anti-corruption wing of CBI, Gandhinagar, on Friday, caught two officers of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) allegedly for accepting a bribe of Rs 5 lakh. CBI sources said the accused officers had demanded Rs 75 lakh as bribe from a Surat-based businessman and Rs 5 lakh was the first instalment. "We have caught PK Singh, Deputy Director, and Bhuvnesh Kumar, Assistant Director, from posted with ED, Ahmedabad, in a trap based on a complaint lodged by a trader. They had demanded Rs 75 lakh," a CBI official said on the condition of anonymity. Sources said the CBI team was searching the ED office at Helmet circle in Ahmedabad for further clues. Sources said that the department had transferred Kumar about a week ago and he was supposed to join the Bengaluru office. He was yet to be relieved. Sources said that the complainant is a trader who was booked by CBI in a corruption case. It was based on the CBI case that ED started the probe on charges of money laundering. According to the FIR, Superintendent of Police, CBI, ACB, S K Sareen received a complaint from a trader based in Surat who is under investigation for defrauding Bank of Baroda to the tune of Rs 104 crore. Following the CBI case, ED Ahmedabad also started investigating under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The FIR states for investigation, accused officers-Singh and Kumar- called businessman along with his sons at ED office in Ahmedabad on April 22 and May 25 and recorded their statements. On June 18, the businessman and his son were called again and allegedly abused and beaten up by the two accused officers. "Thereafter, Singh is alleged to have demanded undue advantage of Rs 75 lakhs in the presence of Bhuvnesh Kumar, Assistant Director to settle their case. The complainant was also asked to talk about the bribe in code language i.e one kilo for one lakh. Thereafter, on June 26, Bhuvnesh Kumar made a WhatsApp call on the complainant's mobile, but since he was not there, he called again in the evening, during which he discussed about the bribe amount advance of Rs. 5 lakhs and how to send it through an Angadia firm to Delhi," the FIR states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cbi-arrests-two-ed-officers-for-taking-bribe-in-ahmedabad-1004114.html
02-07-2021||West||Anil Deshmukh case: CBI gets nod to record Waze's statement||A special NIA court on Friday allowed the CBI to record the statement of dismissed police officer Sachin Waze as part of its probe into corruption allegations against former Maharashtra home minister and NCP leader Anil Deshmukh. Waze was arrested by the National Investigation Agency in connection with the recovery of an explosives-laden vehicle near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's home and the murder of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiran who had claimed to be in possession of the vehicle before it was stolen. The CBI had, on Thursday, moved an application before the special NIA court seeking to meet Waze, who is in judicial custody and lodged in Taloja jail in neighbouring Navi Mumbai, and record his statement in connection with the probe against Deshmukh. The CBI is probing Deshmukh under Prevention of Corruption Act and IPC provisions for "attempt to obtain undue advantage for the improper and dishonest performance of public duty" after IPS officer and former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh leveled corruption allegations against the then state home minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/anil-deshmukh-case-cbi-gets-nod-to-record-wazes-statement-1004124.html
02-07-2021||West||Mansukh Mandaviya visits Serum Institute's vaccine plant in Pune||Minister of State for Chemicals and Fertilisers Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday visited the Pune-based vaccine manufacturing plant of Serum Institute of India (SII). The minister also went to know about the production process as well as reviewed the roll out of the Covid-19 vaccine 'Covishield' from the facility. "Visited @SerumInstIndia in Pune today. Got further acquainted with the vaccination production at their plant. Deeply appreciating their exemplary role during the pandemic, I assured them of all Government support in ramping up vaccine production for ensuring #FreeVaccineForAll," Mandaviya tweeted. Got further acquainted with the vaccination production at their plant Department of Pharmaceuticals Secretary S Aparna also visited the plant along with the minister. SII is the world's largest vaccine manufacturer by number of doses produced and sold globally. Later in the day, Mandaviya also inaugurated the facility to produce alcoholic hand disinfectant at Hindustan Antibiotics Ltd's plant at Pimpri, Pune.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mansukh-mandaviya-visits-serum-institutes-vaccine-plant-in-pune-1004177.html
02-07-2021||West||Goa extends coronavirus curfew till July 12||The Goa government on Friday extended the current coronavirus-induced "curfew" in the state till July 12. The restrictions on movement and businesses, termed by the government as curfew, were first imposed on May 9 and extended from time to time. “State-Level Curfew will be extended till 7 am, 12 July 2021. Shops can remain open from 7 a.m to 6 p.m. Saloon and outdoor sports complex/stadium may also open,” tweeted Chief Minister Pramod Sawant. State Level Curfew will be extended till 7AM, 12 July 2021. Shops can remain open from 7 am to 6 PM. Saloon and outdoor sports complex/stadiums may also open. The coastal state, a tourist haven in normal times, reported 183 new infections and two deaths on Friday. There are 2,174 active coronavirus patients in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-extends-coronavirus-curfew-till-july-12-1004185.html
