03-07-2021||Davangere||5-year-old girl, who had recovered from Covid-19, dies of MIS-C||A five-year-old girl, who was undergoing treatment for Multisystem Inflammatory syndrome (MIS-C) in SS hi-tech hospital, died on Friday night. Deputy Commissioner Mahantesh Bilagi said the girl, belonging to a village in Sira taluk of Tumakuru district, was brought to a private hospital in Chitradurga for treatment. Later, she was brought to SS hi-tech hospital in Davangere. She was suffering from multiple-organ failure when she was brought here. Despite the best efforts by doctors, she breathed her last in the hospital. She had recovered from Covid-19, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/davangere/5-year-old-girl-who-had-recovered-from-covid-19-dies-of-mis-c-1004376.html
03-07-2021||First Edit||Gogoi verdict slap on NIA, govt’s face||The discharge of rights activist and Assam MLA Akhil Gogoi of all charges under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the Indian Penal Code for his alleged role in anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests in 2019 shows yet again, if more showing is necessary, how wrongly and badly these laws are used to harass critics of the government and to suppress dissent. The court not only set the activist, who has been in jail since December 2019, free but also criticised the “conduct and approach’’ of the National Investigation Agency and the prosecution “to be discouraging, to say the least.” Gogoi had been charged with criminal conspiracy, sedition, promoting enmity between groups on various grounds, assertions against national integrity and support to a terrorist organisation. He has now been acquitted of charges in all the cases filed against him. The court said that there was no prima facie material to frame charges against Gogoi and other accused persons and that the “ends of justice demand that the accused be discharged, without making him suffer the process of trial.” Cases have been filed against many others also for taking part in anti-CAA protests or protests against the government on other issues. They are facing charges as serious as sedition. Some of them have been discharged by courts but there are many others who are languishing in jail. The court clearly said that “protests in a democracy are sometimes seen to take the form of blockades also, even causing inconvenience to citizens. However, it is doubtful whether such blockades for temporary periods, if unaccompanied by any incitement to violence, would constitute a terrorist act within the meaning of Section 15 of the UAPA. That, in my mind, is beyond the intention of the legislature.” The views expressed by the court in Guwahati have been aired in different ways by other courts elsewhere but the trend of deliberately and vengefully charging people with exaggerated and serious offences, including sedition, continues. Cases are filed not only for participation in protests but even for a single word of criticism of the government. In Gogoi’s case, the court said that “rather than inciting violence, he was exhorting people not to indulge in violence,’’ and still he was arrested and arraigned before the law on an array of charges. The court also said that it has “high expectations from a premier investigating agency like the NIA’’, and that it hopes that “high standards will be upheld, for sake of the country, and this one will be just an exception.” When the State criminalises criticism and dissent and uses draconian laws to throw protesters and critics in jail and to terrorise others, it loses its democratic credentials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/gogoi-verdict-slap-on-nia-govt-s-face-1004317.html
03-07-2021||In Perspective||Shall we begin to live again?||I have stopped reading the obituary column in the newspaper. It became very traumatic. To lose nine close friends in succession to Covid-19, including one whom I had known as a frolicking schoolboy, was devastating. Some of the families whom I contacted to offer my sympathies sent me links to watch the funeral on YouTube. That made things worse. Many others would have had similar experiences to understand the ravages of a pandemic. Millions wiped off the face of the earth. Millions more shattered by the loss of family and friends. The deceptively beautiful coronavirus came like some satanic tornado on the face of the earth, killing and destroying everything in its path. The first twelve months witnessed only destruction and death. Thanks to science and research, we are now seeing humanity scrambling up on its feet to pick up the pieces as a result of vaccinations and other measures. But the havoc caused at the individual level? When the way of life changed from the real to the virtual? Children lost touch with friends and teachers and classmates. Professionals worked from home and lost touch with teammates. The older generation sat glued to telephones to share their loneliness with other lonely persons. Parents met their children scattered across the globe on Zoom and exchanged pleasantries with friends via the internet. Even here, only the tech savvy enjoyed these luxuries. Covid-19 succeeded in making humans into robots, punished them with loneliness and taught them to appreciate the goodness of human contact. The worst victims have been children who have faced tremendous physical and psychological pressures these last 15 months. This entire experience was beyond their comprehension. It is a miracle that they have not succumbed to their fears. But the scars are bound to remain. The ordeal faced by socially and economically deprived children has been worse. They did not even have the luxury of online schooling. They are the kids of our city slums whose parents became unemployed when the pandemic struck. They, like their affluent peers, have faced uncertainty and isolation. The fear of contracting some rare disease and dying has driven many of them into depression and anxiety. Unfortunately, parents also seem to have lost the ability to address their children’s emotional needs as they themselves are struggling to keep their families afloat. According to researchers, Covid-19 may have affected the mental health of adolescent children very badly. Young adults are known to have succumbed to depression as a result of little or no social contact. Their findings reveal that excessive social isolation among children or even adults can wreak havoc on their health and wellbeing. This is particularly true of societies which lived gregariously with unreserved social interaction, like in India. The last 15 months have seen families separated, friends distanced, and communication strictly confined to the phone. A doctor friend confided that this has not only affected his professional life but he is now having to deal with online patients -- mostly women -- exhibiting signs of deep depression. An interesting article in the scientific journal Nature tells us that studies conducted on the pandemic consistently show that young people, rather than older people, are most vulnerable to increased psychological distress, perhaps because their need for social interactions is stronger. It also suggests that young women are more vulnerable than young men, and people with a previously diagnosed psychiatric disorder are at particularly high risk for mental-health problems like anxiety, depression and suicidal thoughts. These are also the same persons who are paranoid of falling sick, or becoming victims of the pandemic. Their excessive and unnecessary precautionary measures may be opening the door to other serious lifestyle ailments. If Covid-19 has arrived just as the plague or malaria or smallpox did, it is high time we accepted it and learned to live with it. Malaria has given place to dengue and chikungunya. Have we not learned to live with both without going to pieces? Medical science is finding ways of warding off or treating Covid-19 with appropriate drugs. It is in our hands to prevent its incidence by following the main precautions, like getting vaccinated, avoiding excessive contact in crowded places and observing simple hygiene in our surroundings. If we follow the same rules as we do for any other seasonal infection like the flu or hepatitis and other gastrointestinal diseases, we should be able to restore a measure of normalcy into our lives. Perhaps, the secret of defeating Covid-19 is to scramble to our feet, pick up the pieces of our disturbed lives and start living again. As the well-known British author Somerset Maugham said: “People who live in fear, don’t live. They simply exist.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/shall-we-begin-to-live-again-1004312.html
03-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||KSDL to provide carbolic soaps to BPL families amid Covid-19||The state-run Karnataka Soaps and Detergents Limited (KSDL) has joined the state government in its battle against the Covid-19 pandemic and has announced that it would distribute Mysore carbolic soap, a powerful agent against viruses and bacteria, to BPL families. The carbolic soap, each weighing 150 grams with high antibacterial properties, would kill many bacteria and viruses, including the novel coronavirus, according to KSDL representatives. Karnataka Soaps and Detergents Limited chairman and Channagiri MLA Madal Virupakshappa told DH, “Most soaps contain around 50% fatty acids. But this carbolic soap contains around 70% fatty acid and 70% antibacterial properties, which are effective against all viruses. It is medically proved that this soap can protect people from various diseases. So, we want to issue this carbolic soap to the BPL families in Karnataka.” He said the KSDL had already received orders worth Rs 5 crore from the government of West Bengal. The market price of soap is Rs 20. It will be sold to West Bengal at Rs 13 per soap. “We don’t have to struggle to find buyers for carbolic soap as the Mysore Sandal brand name is enough... we are manufacturing carbolic soap only for those who made payments along with the order.” He said that the soap was generating revenue of around Rs 12 crore annually. It is being sold in West Bengal, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. The production and sale of carbolic soap have increased amid the pandemic.     The KSDL chairman said that there was a huge demand for the soap within Karnataka and from Tamil Nadu and Kerala.  We have requested the state government to distribute the carbolic soap to all BPL families in the state. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa responded positively, Madal Virupakshappa said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ksdl-to-provide-carbolic-soaps-to-bpl-families-amid-covid-19-1004253.html
03-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Facebook account of Davangere SP hacked||The Facebook account of Davangere Superintendent of Police had been hacked.  Confirming this, Superintendent of Police C B Rishyanth told DH that some miscreants have created a fake Facebook account in the name of Davangere SP and are seeking financial help from the contacts by sending messages to them from the number 08099727196. He has also appealed to the people to ignore the messages. Cybercrime police are investigating it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/facebook-account-of-davangere-sp-hacked-1004403.html
03-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Congress leader files complaint with ACB against Nirani Sugars||Congress party leader Dr H N Ravindra has lodged a complaint with Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) against Nirani Sugars for allegedly violating 40-year lease agreement of Pandavapura Sahakara Sakkare Kharkane (PSSK). Nirani Sugars managing director Vijay M Nirani, also son of Murugesh Nirani, Minister of Mines and Geology, has misused his father’s power and violated 11 norms in the agreement, according to Ravindra. As per lease agreement, the management had to pay Rs 20 crore in advance and Rs 5 crore as security deposit. As part the plan, it was decided to clear the pending salary of the employees, provident fund and loan of the factory. But, the management has not paid the amount as per the agreement even after a year, said Ravindra. The contract had to be registered with the authority concerned within 90 days after the completion of the lease agreement. However, the lease is still not registered. Nirani Sugars has also violated a condition of upgrading the factory. In the complaint, Ravindra alleged that 54 workers were laid off and the contract was violated, alleged Ravindra||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/congress-leader-files-complaint-with-acb-against-nirani-sugars-1004493.html
03-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||BSY says not even a paisa diverted from SC/ST funds||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday dismissed allegations of money meant for SC/STs being diverted, saying that “not even a paisa” from the Scheduled Caste Special Plan and Tribal Sub Plan funds (SCSP-TSP) funds will be used for some other purpose. Several legislators, including BJP members, had alleged that money was being diverted from the sub-plan funds. “As responsible ministers, we are telling you that not even one paisa was diverted. Our progress (in 2020-21 fiscal) is 95-96%. In the next year, our target is to achieve 100% expenditure,” Yediyurappa said. Under the pioneering Karnataka Scheduled Castes Sub Plan and Tribal Sub Plan (Planning, Allocation and Utilisation of Financial Resources) Act, 2013, the government has to spend 24.1% of its total budget on SC/ST welfare: 17.15% for SCs and 6.95% for STs. On Friday, Yediyurappa chaired the state development council of the SCP-TSP and approved a Rs 26,005 crore action plan for the 2021-22 financial year. Of this, Rs 18,331 crore is for SCSP and Rs 7,673 crore for TSP. “There must be no loopholes in the implementation of these programmes. The programmes must be implemented with a focus on improving quality of life of SC/ST community,” Yediyurappa said, adding that his government was committed to the development of these social groups. “Officials must proactively implement the programmes. They have been warned of legal action if any discrepancies are found,” he said.  According to a statement from the chief minister’s office, it was decided that land allotment and other facilities provided to SC/ST communities must be issued under joint names. Also, it was decided to increase the subsidy amount given by the Centre and the state from Rs 15,000 each to Rs 20,000 to SC/ST beneficiaries for construction of toilets and bathrooms.  In 2013, Karnataka became the second Indian state after Andhra Pradesh to enact a law that mandates spending public money to uplift Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bsy-says-not-even-a-paisa-diverted-from-sc/st-funds-1004274.html
03-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Mekedatu: B S Yediyurappa writes to Stalin, offers to hold bilateral talks||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Saturday urged his Tamil Nadu counterpart MK Stalin to not oppose the Mekedatu project “in the right spirit” and offered to hold a bilateral meeting between both states to address any issues.  The project, which envisages a balancing reservoir across the Cauvery river at Mekedatu, aims to cater to the drinking water needs of the Bengaluru metropolitan region. Tamil Nadu has opposed this.  “...the implementation of the said project in no way affects the interests of the farming communities of Tamil Nadu,” Yediyurappa stated in his letter to Stalin.  Yediyurappa pointed out that Tamil Nadu had moved the Supreme Court against the project. Karnataka, too, has filed an application before the Centre seeking approval for Terms of Reference (ToR) to conduct Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) studies, he said.  Yediyurappa further stated that Tamil Nadu itself had taken up two hydro-power projects at Kundah and Sillahalla in the Bhavani sub-basin of Cauvery. “The Government of Tamil Nadu has neither entered into any kind of negotiations nor secured consent from Government of Karnataka for the above projects in Cauvery basin,” Yediyurappa stated.  “In these circumstances, I am to state that it would be in the interest of all concerned and to have a better relationship between the state of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, if the Tamil Nadu government in the right spirit would not oppose the implementation of the project,” Yediyurappa said. “In order to address issues, if any, it is suggested that a bilateral meeting could also be held in the presence of concerned officials to clear all apprehensions.”  The Mekedatu project was first announced in 2013 and it is estimated to cost Rs 9,000 crore.  According to Yediyurappa, who also holds the water resources portfolio, the Mekedatu balancing reservoir-cum-drinking water project will regulate the flow of water to Tamil Nadu as per the final orders of the Cauvery Water Dispute Tribunal (CWDT) and the Supreme Court. This will be used to generate 400 MW power and utilize 4.75 tmc water for Bengaluru. “Overall, this project would immensely benefit both the states.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/mekedatu-b-s-yediyurappa-writes-to-stalin-offers-to-hold-bilateral-talks-1004431.html
03-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Anyone, even defectors, can join Congress: D K Shivakumar||Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar on Saturday said 17 legislators who defected two years ago could submit an application to join his party, virtually overturning Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah’s stand that doors were closed for the turncoats. “Not just those 17, but anybody can apply to become a member of the Congress,” Shivakumar said, adding that a thorough consultation process will be followed if the defectors applied. Of the 17 MLAs who defected in 2019, 14 were Congress legislators and most of them are currently ministers in Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s Cabinet. “Every application is scrutinised at the block-level and up. Those who have belief in our party and leadership, let them (apply). We will collect opinions and consult locals also,” Shivakumar said. Reacting to this, Siddaramaiah said he would talk to Shivakumar. Siddaramaiah, also the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader, has maintained that the party will not take the defectors back, which is something he asserted on the floor of the Legislative Assembly. Asking about how the MLAs had “backstabbed” the Congress, Shivakumar said: “Backstabbing happens everyday in politics. We got Pratapgouda Patil (Maski) from the BJP, but he went back there. Our Gokak candidate in the December 2019 bypoll (Lakhan Jarkiholi) went towards the BJP. It was me who ensured MTB Nagaraj got the ticket. He left. So, anything can happen in politics.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/anyone-even-defectors-can-join-congress-d-k-shivakumar-1004522.html
03-07-2021||Main Article||A long way to go for stability in J&K and rest of India||On hearing about the death of Jawaharlal Nehru on May 27, 1964, Sheikh Abdullah, who was J&K’s first Prime Minister (the designations of Prime Minister and Sadar-e-Riyasat were changed to Chief Minister and Governor in 1965) rushed back to India from Pakistan, where the latter had gone on a goodwill mission with the blessings of PM Nehru. Abdullah was received by one of his friends from J&K, who then lived in Model Town, Delhi, at Palam airport and asked to be taken straight to Teen Murti House. His friend recalled to this writer that while paying tribute to Nehru, Abdullah’s eyes welled up with tears and he remarked that had he known that ‘Panditji’ would die so soon, he would have conclusively settled the Kashmir issue with him rather than go to Pakistan. The seven-decade political story of J&K and its struggles to find a stable equilibrium in its relationship with New Delhi is laden with ironies. It was under Nehru’s premiership that his friend Sheikh Abdullah was arrested in August 1953, and replaced by a more pliant GM Bakshi. After putting Abdullah on trial for conspiring against India – the Kashmir Conspiracy Case -- Nehru decided to host his old friend in April-May 1964 at his residence. It is open to interpretation why Nehru thought of re-engaging with Abdullah – was it external pressure or Nehru’s own assessment that the status quo, a kind of façade of democracy in J&K, was detrimental to India’s interest. Now, in a different context, PM Modi’s recent outreach to leaders from J&K, including some who were detained for several months after August 5, 2019, may have surprised many. However, seeing it from the political canvas of the last 70 years, such moves are not rare in the Kashmir story. The main question at this stage is whether this initiative can result in any headway toward bringing peace and addressing the structural aspects of the Kashmir issue which continues to sap India’s diplomatic, military and financial reserves and stall conciliation between India and Pakistan. First, after battling insurgencies in Punjab and Kashmir Valley, a vital institutional lesson had been learnt that politicians are better in the governing seat than bureaucrats. After almost a decade of violence, the 1992 Punjab Assembly elections, which were held under the shadow of violence, became a key catalyst in containing militancy. Though not as effectively, the 1996 J&K Assembly election also helped in the same way. As long as a political vacuum exists in the governing structure, it is a continuous reminder to the world that the situation is far from normal. Internally, after nearly three years of bureaucratic rule, local confidence and initiative can only be enabled by restoration of democratic rule. Second, the vicious cycle of majoritarian impulse both at the Centre and in the region has fomented a complicated dynamic. Like other conflicts, J&K has its own specificities and even the August 5, 2019 development cannot be seen devoid of its multi-dimensional context. The decision of the central leadership seems to be purely ideological as it had always been a part of the BJP’s manifesto. At the same time, the political approach of the state’s political elite towards the complex realities within the state made the task of the BJP easier. In the last seven-decades, there were several saner voices from J&K who continuously warned the state’s political elite to address ethnic, religious and regional tensions. The warnings went unheeded, and this is no less a reason that even after two years, no political party in India has the gumption to support the demand for reversal of the revocation of Article 370. In that context, the failure to accord residency rights to refugees who came to J&K from Pakistani Punjab in 1947, and who were mostly Dalits, provided a potent argument for the revocation of Article 370. Even the rights of J&K women who were married outside the state were initially opposed by its political elite. The fear of change in religious demographics drove the local parties to oppose these commonsensical steps. Three, one of the reasons being cited for Modi’s recent initiative is a bid to enlist the support of J&K parties for the delimitation exercise. This may have led to undue expectations among some stakeholders within J&K that it would address regional, ethnic and geographical grievances. In the last Assembly, the Kashmir Valley had 46 seats and Jammu 37. No major change is expected in terms of the proportion of the J&K Assembly seats between the two regions. According to the 2011 census, Kashmir’s population is nearly 1.6 million more than that of Jammu, although Jammu is nearly double the size of the Valley by area. Because of the structural realities— Kashmir is relatively more homogenous than Jammu geographically, and by religion and ethnicity— it is unlikely that any delimitation exercise could address the complex ethnic and geographical gulf that exists within J&K. There is enough scholarly work on how to address these ethnic and regional tensions. What is required to actually do it is political bandwidth and intellectual honesty. Four, the impact of Modi’s outreach on the ongoing backchannel discussions between India and Pakistan will be limited. Actually, Pakistani fears of potential demographic change in J&K due to the revocation of Article 370 are exaggerated and not in congruity with facts. Only one lakh residents, who didn’t have state subjects’ rights earlier, have got domicile rights so far. In some respects, the current requirements to get J&K domicile rights are more stringent than to get permanent residency or citizenship rights in richer countries like the US or the UK. An adult requires 15 years of stay in J&K to get domicile status, and till then s/he cannot buy land. The Pakistani obsession with J&K is predicated on far more complex factors. Some of them have become quite independent of the Pakistani State’s approach on these issues. Given all this, Modi’s recent meeting with J&K political leaders may help initiate the electoral process with greater inclusivity, but this alone will not be enough to create a stable and harmonious equilibrium between J&K and the rest of India, something that has already eluded four generations post-1947. (The writer is the author of ‘Across the LoC’, published by Columbia University Press) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/a-long-way-to-go-for-stability-in-jk-and-rest-of-india-1004319.html
03-07-2021||Mysuru||Engineering students drown in Cauvery river||Two engineering students drowned in the Cauvery river at Tadimalangi in T Narasipur taluk in the district. The deceased are Ankesh and Abhishek of Kinakahalli in Yalandur taluk of Chamarajanagar district. According to the Police, the students of Chamarajanagar Government Engineering College visited Tadimalangi to celebrate their friend's birthday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/engineering-students-drown-in-cauvery-river-1004405.html
03-07-2021||National||Bengaluru has 72% of 1,018 Covid patients with new variants||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and Bangalore Urban district has 71.7% of 1,018 Covid patients whose samples were found to have the new variants of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, as per case breakup accessed by DH. So far Karnataka has received 2,774 samples for genomic sequencing out of which 1,738 have been done.  This includes 525 Delta variant patients, 116 Kappa variant patients, 88 Alpha variant patients, and one patient with the Delta Plus variant. In all, there are 730 Covid patients in the State capital whose Covid samples were found to have these above mentioned Covid virus variants. A member of the state genomic surveillance committee on the condition of anonymity told DH, "The BBMP is supposed to act based on this data. They have to move towards quick tracing of these patients as it is crucial. It is retrospective but it is important to check if the patients with Delta variants have recovered from the illness, whether they have been vaccinated, what is their current health condition, how many have died, how many were in the ICU, and how many needed oxygen. This is going to be very useful in understanding the virus variants in a deeper manner." D Randeep, Special Commissioner, Health, BBMP, told DH, "We are awaiting guidance from the State on what needs to be additionally done by the Palike for these newer virus variants. We have only isolated the Delta Plus case, an 87-year-old man. We are still awaiting the BU numbers and SRF IDs of test samples with the other variants of concern. Then we can start intensive surveillance. We need to quickly check if we have done contact tracing for all these Covid patients, get them retested, and in case they come positive, ensure their containment. Delta and Kappa are what triggered the second wave." Randeep said that the BESCOM and BWSSB staff are now slowly being relieved of contact tracing duties and the BBMP is training its own staff in tracing. "If we need to trace 10 primary contacts and eight to nine secondary contacts, in all 20-25 per patient, we require at least one team each to ensure that contact tracing is completed within 48 hours. We are currently having upto 600 cases, so we should have at least 1,000 contact tracing teams across eight BBMP zones. Out of these 730 Covid patients with the new virus variants, we need to check if we have established contact with all, whether they are untraceable and whether they belong to other districts," he said. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengaluru-has-72-of-1018-covid-patients-with-new-variants-1004247.html
03-07-2021||National||India's daily Covid cases under 50,000 for 6th straight day||India reported 44,111 new cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, logging less than 50,000 cases for the sixth day straight. According to data from Union Health Ministry, 738 succumbed to the virus, taking the death toll to 4,01,050. India now has the third-highest death toll after the US and Brazil. The country's active cases fell to 4,95,533 and the total caseload is at 3,05,02,362. India reported 57,477 recoveries in the past 24 hours. Under the national immunisation drive, 34,46,11,291 have been inoculated so far.  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-daily-covid-cases-under-50000-for-6th-straight-day-1004351.html
03-07-2021||National||Only one Uttarakhand CM has completed full 5-year term||Barely four months into his tenure as the Uttarakhand Chief Minister, Tirath Singh Rawat submitted his resignation late Friday night, adding himself to the long list of Uttarakhand CMs who didn't complete their full five-year term. Late Congress leader Narayan Dutt Tiwari was the only CM of Uttarakhand who had completed his full term in office. He led a Congress government from 2002 to 2007 with a small majority in the 70-seat Assembly. Tiwari was one out of the nine CMs that Uttarakhand has had since the state was formed in 2000, following the bifurcation of Uttar Pradesh. BJP leader Nityanand Swami formed the first government in Uttarakhand in 2002. Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari had replaced Swami after he was in office for 354 days.  Koshyari lost power to Tiwari in 2002. After Tiwari, Retired Major General B C Khanduri held office for two years and 111 days. Then in 2009, current Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank had replaced Khanduri. After his tenure of two years and 75 days, Khanduri again took back the term for the remaining 184 days. In the 2012 election, Congress formed the government in Uttarakhand with the support of three BSP, one Kranti Dal MLA and three Independents. In that term, the state witnessed four chief ministerial terms. First, Vijay Bahuguna was the CM from 2012, for one year and 324 days. After his resignation, Congress leader Harish Rawat took over the post. After nine Congress leaders joined BJP, President’s Rule was imposed in Uttarakhand in March 2016. The membership was revoked by the Speaker under the anti-defection law. Following that, President’s Rule was withdrawn from the state and Rawat continued as CM from May 11, 2016, till March 18, 2017.  In 2017, Trivendra Singh Rawat held the CM’s seat with his party winning the Assembly polls with a huge majority of 57 seats. After serving for almost four years, the BJP leader resigned and Tirath Singh Rawat took over. After Tirath Singh Rawat’s resignation on Friday, the BJP legislature party is conducting a meeting at 3 pm today to elect the new CM. Dhan Singh Rawat, Bansidhar Bhagat, Pushkar Dhami and Ritu Khanduri are probable successors to Rawat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/only-one-uttarakhand-cm-has-completed-full-5-year-term-1004354.html
03-07-2021||National||Explained: Why did Uttarakhand CM Tirath Singh Rawat resign?||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat resigned late on Friday, a little less than four months since assuming charge, due to uncertainty over his election to the state assembly within the stipulated six-month time period. Though Rawat refused to answer queries regarding his resignation before he went to Raj Bhavan, he later describing his decision to quit as a constitutional crisis. Rawat said due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Election Commission had decided to not hold a by-election, thus leading to Rawat’s resignation. He also mentioned that he could not participate in the bypoll to Almorah’s Sult seat in April as he was suffering from Covid-19. Tirath Singh Rawat is an MP from Pauri Garhwal, who sworn in as Chief Minister on March 10. As per the Constitution of India, he needed to become a member of the state legislative assembly within six months after taking oath (before September 10) to continue to be in office. As the Election Commission did not hold a by-election due to the pandemic, Rawat could not become an MLA in the stipulated time period. Though the poll panel has not yet given any statement to indicate their decision, some people who are aware of the details have revealed that the EC never received any request from Uttarakhand for an emergency by-election to fulfil constitutional requirements. “I thank Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Amit Shah and J P Nadda for the opportunity they gave me,” he told reporters outside Raj Bhavan in Dehradun.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-why-did-uttarakhand-cm-tirath-singh-rawat-resign-1004365.html
03-07-2021||National||Committed to empowering our traders, says Prime Minister Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday described as "landmark" the decision to include retail and wholesale trade as MSMEs, which will allow traders the benefits of priority sector lending, and said his government is committed to empowering the community. Union Minister Nitin Gadkari had on Friday announced the inclusion of retail and wholesale trade under MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises) as per which the traders will now get the benefit of priority sector lending under RBI guidelines. In a tweet, the prime minister said, "Our government has taken a landmark step of including retail and wholesale trade as MSME. This will help crores of our traders get easier finance, various other benefits and also help boost their business. We are committed to empowering our traders." Our government has taken a landmark step of including retail and wholesale trade as MSME. This will help crores of our traders get easier finance, various other benefits and also help boost their business. Official sources said the move will have an immediate impact on smaller retailers and wholesalers with businesses up to Rs 250 crore of turnover in availing immediate-term finance as part of various schemes announced under "Atmanirbhar Bharat" programme. This landmark decision will have a structural impact for the sector, helping it get formalised by giving better finance options for businesses that want to get structured, they said, adding it will give retail MSMEs the support they need to "survive, revive and thrive". Retail and trade associations have welcomed the move, saying it will enable traders to get access to much-needed capital having been impacted greatly due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/committed-to-empowering-our-traders-says-prime-minister-modi-1004382.html
03-07-2021||National||ED conducts raids in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh over alleged religious conversion case||The Enforcement Directorate on Saturday conducted searches at six places in the national capital and Uttar Pradesh in connection with a case of suspected conversion of hearing impaired students and poor people to Islam with purported funding from abroad. The searches came following the ED registering a criminal case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) based on an FIR registered by the Uttar Pradesh Police's Anti Terrorist Squad (ATS). The ED said in a statement that searches were conducted at three locations each in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. The premises searched included the office of Islamic Dawah Centre, as well as residences of Mufti Qazi Jahangir Alam Qasmi and Mohammad Umar Gautam in Delhi. The ED also searched the offices of Al Hassan Education and Welfare Foundation in Lucknow and Guidance Education and Welfare Society in Sant Kabir Nagar. Gautam has been associated with all these organisations and has been "playing an instrumental role in carrying out illegal conversions", the ED claimed. The Uttar Pradesh Police had earlier arrested two Delhi residents , Mufti Qazi Jahangir Alam Qasmi and Mohammad Umar Gautam, alleging that they run an organisation, Islamic Dawah Centre, which receives funds from Pakistan's spy agency ISI and other foreign agencies for conversion of people. Altogether, ATS has arrested six persons in the case, in which it claimed that "more than a thousand people" were reportedly lured with offers of money, jobs, and marriage and converted to Islam. According to UP Police, one of the accused Salauddin Sheikh allegedly sent hawala money to Umar to fund the conversion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-conducts-raids-in-delhi-uttar-pradesh-over-alleged-religious-conversion-case-1004388.html
03-07-2021||National||Gauri Lankesh murder: Decide bail plea of accused uninfluenced by HC order, says SC||The Supreme Court has asked the Karnataka High Court to decide the bail plea of an accused in the murder case of activist Gauri Lankesh, without considering its decision related to quashing of charges under the Karnataka Control of Organised Crimes Act (KCOCA). A bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar passed such a direction noting that the order passed by the High Court on April 22 was a subject matter of challenge before the top court. The top court on June 29 issued notice to the Karnataka government as well as accused Mohan Nayak on an appeal filed by filmmaker Kavitha Lankesh, sister of slain activist Gauri Lankesh, against the HC's April 22 order. In its written order, released subsequently, the court provided interim relief to Kavitha as her counsel contended after dropping off the stringent charges, the accused had moved the bail plea, on which the High Court had concluded its hearing.  Lankesh, a leading journalist, was killed on September 5, 2017, outside her house at Rajarajeshwari Nagar, Bengaluru. Kavitha is a complainant in the case. She claimed the investigation by SIT has revealed that Nayak, was part of the syndicate led by Amol Kale which has committed multiple organised crimes apart from the murder of Gauri. Her plea also claimed Nayak has been actively involved in providing shelter to the killers before and after committing the offence and has participated in a series of conspiracies, abetting, planning, providing logistics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gauri-lankesh-murder-decide-bail-plea-of-accused-uninfluenced-by-hc-order-says-sc-1004396.html
03-07-2021||National||Kumaraswamy calls GST regime 'monster symbol' of curtailing states' financial autonomy||Senior JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy on Saturday termed Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime as a 'monster symbol' of curtailing the financial autonomy of states in the federal system of governance. The former chief minister alleged that the GST regime is aimed at diverting the revenues of states to the Centre. On the fourth anniversary of GST, Kumaraswamy took a dig at the Centre in a series of tweets. "The GST regime has stood like a monster symbol of curtailing the financial autonomy of states in the federal system of governance. The GST regime appears to be a financial system of nurturing the Centre by fleecing the states," he tweeted. Kumaraswamy stated that the Centre was celebrating the fourth anniversary of the GST regime because it has filled its stomach by snatching away the rights and freedom of the states with respect to taxes. "The Centre, which had promised the states of compensating for losses while including them under the GST regime, has now gone back on its words. Should the states too celebrate the GST's fourth anniversary for getting cheated on their tax resources?" Kumaraswamy asked. The Centre, which had promised the states of compensating for losses while including them under the GST regime, has now gone back on its words. Should the states too celebrate the GST’s fourth anniversary for getting cheated on their tax resources? Noting that Karnataka is yet to get a GST compensation of about Rs 9,000 crore, he said the state would have celebrated the occasion if it had got the compensation on this occasion of commemoration. According to Kumaraswamy, compensation would have benefited the state as it has suffered from resource crunch due to the impact of Covid-19. He alleged that instead of compensating for the losses on account of GST, the Centre is celebrating amidst the sufferings of states. "The main intention of the GST regime is to divert the revenues of states to the Centre so that states would have to sheepishly stand before the Centre like slaves to seek financial allocation. This system of slavery was evolved by the Congress and implemented by the BJP," the JD(S) leader said. He added that the GST regime has reduced the states to a position of begging the Centre for financial allocation and the states are also forced to take up a struggle against inclusion of petroleum products under GST. Kumaraswamy claimed that the GST has failed to improve the lives of common people besides not even providing any boost to start-ups. "There is nothing for the states as well as people to celebrate about the GST regime. It is merely a symbol of fascism of Congress and BJP," the former CM alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kumaraswamy-calls-gst-regime-monster-symbol-of-curtailing-states-financial-autonomy-1004397.html
03-07-2021||National||First compliance report by Google, Facebook under new IT rules big step towards transparency: Ravi Shankar Prasad||Information and Technology Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Saturday said major social media platforms such as Google, Facebook and Instagram publishing their first compliance report on voluntary removal of offensive posts is a "big step towards transparency". Under the new IT rules, digital platforms with over five million users have to submit compliance reports every month, mentioning the details of complaints received and action taken. "Nice to see significant social media platforms like Google, Facebook and Instagram following the new IT Rules. First compliance report on voluntary removal of offensive posts published by them as per IT Rules is a big step towards transparency," Prasad tweeted. On Friday, Facebook said it took action on over 30 million content pieces across 10 violation categories between May 15 and June 15 in the country. These related to spam (25 million posts), violent and graphic content (2.5 million), adult nudity and sexual activity (1.8 million) and hate speech (3.11 lakh). It also took action on bullying and harassment (1.18 lakh), suicide and self-injury (5.89 lakh), dangerous organisations and individuals: terrorist propaganda (1.06 lakh) and dangerous organisations and individuals: organised hate (75,000). Instagram also took action against about two million pieces across nine categories during the same period. In its report, Google said 27,762 complaints were received by Google and YouTube in April this year from individual users over alleged violation of local laws or personal rights, which resulted in the removal of 59,350 pieces of content.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/first-compliance-report-by-google-facebook-under-new-it-rules-big-step-towards-transparency-ravi-shankar-prasad-1004413.html
03-07-2021||National||Mind the gap, says Rahul Gandhi claiming difference between actual and targeted Covid jabs||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday claimed a growing gap between the actual and targeted vaccinations and asked where are the vaccines. "Mind the gap," Gandhi said on Twitter along with a chart highlighting the difference between the targeted and actual vaccinations. The chart showed that the actual vaccination was 27 per cent less than the target. He also used the hashtag "WhereAreVaccines" to press the point that the current vaccination drive was slow. On Friday, Gandhi took a swipe at the government saying that July has come but vaccines have not, drawing a sharp retort from the BJP which cited figures to ask if spreading "confusion" was the opposition party's undeclared policy. "July has come, vaccines have not. Where are vaccines," he tweeted. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan hit back noting that he had on Thursday put out facts on vaccine availability for this month, and said there was no vaccine for the "virus of ignorance". "Just yesterday, I put out facts on vaccine availability for the month of July. What is Rahul Gandhi ji's problem? Does he not read? Does he not understand? There is no vaccine for the virus of arrogance and ignorance!! INC India must think of a leadership overhaul!" the senior BJP leader tweeted. Just yesterday, I put out facts on vaccine availability for the month of July. The BJP also hit out at Gandhi and claimed that people often ask why maturity, wisdom and responsibility have not come to the Congress leader "despite the passage of 51 Julys", a reference to his age. The Congress had hit back with its spokesperson Supriya Shrinate saying ministers in the Narendra Modi government have forgotten their work of handling their departments and are instead acting as "petty, two-rupee trolls".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mind-the-gap-says-rahul-gandhi-claiming-difference-between-actual-and-targeted-covid-jabs-1004416.html
03-07-2021||National||France begins probe into Rafale fighter jet deal with India||The controversy over the 36 Rafale fighter jets India procured from the Dassault Aviation company of France rekindled as a judicial investigation into the deal commenced of late in the West European nation. The Parquet National Financier (PNF) of France appointed a judge to investigate the deal, acting on a complaint filed by Sherpa, an organisation set up to legally fight financial crimes and protect and defend victims of such offences. The PNF – a judicial institution set up to probe serious economic and financial crimes – confirmed that it had launched an investigation into the multi-billion-dollar deal for sale of 36 Rafale fighter jets for the Indian Air Force (IAF). The IAF started receiving the Rafale fighter jets from the Dassault Aviation company of France a year ago and had so far received 23 of the 36 aircraft. The rest are likely to arrive by the end of the year. New Delhi's Rs 59,000 crore government-to-government deal with Paris to procure 36 Rafale fighter jets “off the shelf” had turned into a major political controversy in India, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Government being accused by the opposition Congress of nudging the Dassault Aviation to choose Reliance Defence as its offset partner, brushing aside state-owned Hindustan Aeronautics Limited. The Supreme Court, however, in December 2018 concluded that no irregularities were found in the deal. It also dismissed review petitions in November 2019. Sherpa, however, on April 28 last announced that its lawyers Maîtres William Bourdon and Vincent Brenghart, filed a complaint with the PNF, seeking a judicial investigation for corruption, favouritism and various financial offences likely to have occurred in the context of the deal. Sherpa has its headquarters in Paris. The organisation outlined in its complaint what it called “the troubled circumstances surrounding the negotiations” and signing of a France-India agreement for the production and sale by Dassault Aviation of 36 Rafale aircraft amounting to €7.8 billion. “We questioned the conditions under which the historical operator in India has been pushed aside and the sudden appointment by Dassault Aviation of the Indian group Reliance, which in addition to having no experience in the aeronautical sector was facing important financial troubles and was headed by a man notoriously close to the Indian Prime Minister in office,” Sherpa a.k.a Association Sherpa stated in a note on its website. The organisation had earlier on October 26, 2018 lodged its first complaint, but the PNF had then declined to probe the deal. The Sherpa’s complaint on the deal is based on the reports and documents published by Mediapart, an online investigative journal published from Paris. Mediapart, which has been reporting on the India-France fighter jet agreement, quoted the PNF confirming that the investigation was focussed on all four allegations about the deal – “corruption”, “influence peddling”, “money laundering” and “favouritism”. The journal had previously reported in 2019 that the then PNF head Eliane Houlette had dismissed an initial complaint filed by Sherpa, going against the advice of one of her staff and without carrying out any investigations, justifying her decision as “to preserve the interests of France”. “Now,” it reported on Friday, “two years later, her successor as head of the PNF, Jean-François Bohnert, has decided to support the opening of a probe, after the complaint was updated with details from Mediapart’s recent series of investigations”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/france-begins-probe-into-rafale-fighter-jet-deal-with-india-1004421.html
03-07-2021||National||Congress seeks Joint Parliamentary Committee probe into Rafale deal, urges PM Modi to order it||The Congress on Saturday demanded a Joint Parliamentary Committee probe into the Rafale deal, saying it is the only way forward to find the truth about "corruption" in the purchase of the fighter jets. Prime Minister Narendra Modi should come forward and order the investigation, the party said. The Congress' demand came after French investigative website Mediapart reported that a French judge has been appointed to lead a "highly sensitive" judicial investigation into alleged "corruption and favouritism" in the Rs 59,000 crore Rafale fighter jet deal with India. "Corruption in the Rafale deal has come out clearly now. The stand of the Congress party and Rahul Gandhi has been vindicated today after the French government ordered a probe," Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala told reporters at a press conference. The French public prosecution agency has ordered an investigation into the alleged corruption in the defence deal, he said and urged Prime Minister Modi to come forward and order the Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) probe. Surjewala said since the matter deals with national security and identity, a fair and independent JPC probe is the only way out and not the Supreme Court. "When the French government has accepted that there is corruption in the deal, should a JPC probe be not held in the country where the corruption took place," he asked. Surjewala said this issue is not about Congress versus BJP, but this is an issue that concerns the security of the country and "corruption" in the biggest defence deal. "The facts now clearly tell and call for a thorough JPC probe into the Rafale scam. Will the prime minister, like the French, now answer to the nation and tell when the prime minister will submit his government to a JPC probe into the Rafale scam," the Congress leader asked. He said this is an issue of national interest and against those who are filling their pockets by indulging in corruption in defence deals. Surjewala said a JPC probe will be able to call witnesses and will be able to have access to all government files which the Supreme Court (SC) or the Central Vigilance Commission could never see. It will be able to ask probing questions, will be able to punish somebody for lying and will be able to summon the prime minister, defence minister or defence ministry officials and anybody else, he said. "The JPC is the only way forward," he claimed. "This is not a matter to be deliberated by the court as the SC finally conceded. They don't have the jurisdiction, wherewithal or capacity to let witnesses depose before the SC or to have access to the entire government record. Only a fair independent JPC can do it," he said when asked if the Congress would move court again. The prime Minister should order the JPC probe and the issue concerns national security and India's identity both inside and outside Parliament, he said when asked if the party would raise the issue in Parliament.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-seeks-joint-parliamentary-committee-probe-into-rafale-deal-urges-pm-modi-to-order-it-1004433.html
03-07-2021||National||Under arrest for blackmail, Rajasthan cop accuses RPS officer of rape||A woman head constable, arrested for allegedly blackmailing a Rajasthan Police Service (RPS) officer, has registered an FIR accusing him of raping her in 2019, officials said on Saturday. "A case under section 376 of the IPC was registered against the officer currently posted as circle officer of Hindoli in Bundi on Friday. She has alleged that the RPS officer raped her in 2019," Assistant Commissioner of Police, Shastri Nagar, Atul Sahu said. RPS officer Shyam Sunder Vishnoi had earlier registered a case, accusing the head constable of blackmail and extortion. Vishnoi had alleged that he paid her Rs 5.50 lakh after she threatened to lodge a rape case against him, but the woman demanded Rs 50 lakh more to keep quiet. The head constable was subsequently arrested. Vishnoi and the woman had met in 2019 when he was undergoing training at the Rajasthan Police Academy in Shastri Nagar, Jaipur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/under-arrest-for-blackmail-rajasthan-cop-accuses-rps-officer-of-rape-1004442.html
03-07-2021||National||Who is Pushkar Singh Dhami, the new CM of Uttarakhand? Here's all you need to know||A day after Tirath Singh Rawat resigned as the chief minister of Uttarakhand, the BJP has chosen two-term MLA Pushkar Singh Dhami as his successor.  The decision was taken after 57 Uttarakhand BJP MLAs convened at the party headquarters in Dehradun. The 45-year-old CM is a legislator representing Khatima constituency of the Udham Singh Nagar district. Dhami has never held a ministerial position in the cabinet. He is largely lauded for his role in mobilising the youth for the party. He has served various roles leading the young cadres, including as president of Bhartiya Janata Yuva Morcha for two terms. Dhami, an advocate by profession, has long been associated with the BJP and its other wings. His association dates back to his student days at Lucknow University, where he was with the Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP).  He is also considered close to former Uttarakhand CM and current Maharashtra governor, Bhagat Singh Koshyari. And under Koshyari, Dhami had served as the officer on special duty. He is also reportedly close to Defence Minister Rajnath Singh.  Upon his election as CM, Dhami said, "My party has appointed a common worker, son of an ex-serviceman, who was born in Pithoragarh to serve the state. We'll work together for people's welfare. We accept the challenge of serving people with the help of others, in a short time span." Dhami is now the third CM in four months. Tirath Sigh Rawat, who made several controversial remarks in his brief stint, resigned on Friday following uncertainty over his win in the bypolls to secure the chief ministerial post.  Uttarakhand will go to polls in less than a year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-is-pushkar-singh-dhami-the-new-cm-of-uttarakhand-heres-all-you-need-to-know-1004447.html
03-07-2021||National||ED arrests Rajeev Sharma on money laundering charges||Freelance journalist Rajeev Sharma, who has been accused of supplying confidential and sensitive information to Chinese intelligence officers in exchange of money, has been arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on money laundering charges. He was placed under arrest on July 1 and produced before a local court the next day, which sent him to ED's custody for seven days. Sharma, who was earlier "snooped" using the controversial Israeli spyware Pegasus, was arrested by Delhi Police's Special Cell on September 14 last year and it was followed by the arrest of a Chinese national, a woman, and a Nepal citizen.  According to an ED statement, the cash for remuneration of Sharma and other unknown people was being "generated through hawala means by Mahipalpur-based (South-West Delhi) shell companies that were run by Chinese nationals Zhang Cheng, Zhang Lixia and Quing Shi as well as Nepali national Sher Singh. Apart from cash, the ED claimed, huge transactions were made with various Chinese companies and some other trading companies in the country. "These Chinese companies were acting as a conduit for the Chinese intelligence agencies to provide remuneration for persons like Rajeev Sharma indulged in criminal activities. Rajeev Sharma also received money through benami bank accounts in order to conceal his involvement in criminal activities," it added. He was among 121 activists, academicians and journalists who were alerted by Canada-based internet research agency Citizens Lab that their phones were compromised through their WhatsApp using 'Pegasus', which was developed by Israeli cyber intelligence firm NSO. The Citizens Lab had informed Sharma that his phone was under surveillance for about two weeks in May last year. Sharma, a resident of Pitampura New Delhi and has been covering defence and foreign affairs for around two decades, was found to be in possession of "some defence-related classified documents", Delhi Police had said last year. Delhi Police had claimed that Sharma had received more than Rs 30 lakh from an operative identified as George in about 10 instalments since January 2019 for the information provided by him. He also had meetings with George in Malaysia and in Kunming City in China as well as one Michael. Michael had contacted Sharma after seeing his column in Global Times between 2010-14. He contacted Sharma through a Linkedin account and invited him to a sponsored trip to Kunming for an interview with a Chinese media company. Yadav claimed it was during this meeting that Michael and his junior Xou asked Sharma to work for them for money. "Between 2016 and 2018, Sharma was in contact with Michael and Xou. He was tasked to provide the information/inputs on issues like Indian deployment on Bhutan-Sikkim-China tri-junction including Doklam, the pattern of India-Myanmar military co-operation, India-China boundary issue etc. Subsequently, Sharma had meetings with Michael and Xou in Laos and Maldives," Delhi Police had said last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-arrests-rajeev-sharma-on-money-laundering-charges-1004451.html
03-07-2021||National||Covid-19 will be reduced to an endemic in future, zero figure unlikely: Experts||Cases of Covid-19 might be declining steadily but as the virus is mutating, attaining that magical zero figure is unlikely, experts have said, and predicted that coronavirus will be reduced to an endemic in the future. The Centre, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and his cabinet colleague Satyendar Jain had said last year that one will have to learn to live with the coronavirus and make its prevention norms a part of our lives. Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of Delhi government-run LNJP Hospital said there will always be a few cases of the virus. "Zero is an unlikely figure. The virus is mutating and it is difficult to predict it's future behaviour," he said. Explaining why the virus has posed such a challenge, Dr Sanjeev K. Singh, Resident Medical Director, Amrita Hospitals in Faridabad said it is an mRNA virus which keeps changing its structure.  "These virus is smart and just for the sake of living, it will keep mutating. Covid will be there and may not be affecting all 193 countries but it will be there. "Coming down to zero won't be achievable. In hospitals for getting surgeries, one has to get tested for Hepatitis and HIV. Eventually, you will be tested for Covid too," he said.  Dr Gauri Agarwal, IVF expert and founder of Seeds of Innocence said keeping the 1918 pandemic as a yardstick, we know that eradicating the virus is an unrealistic possibility. "As Covid-19 gradually becomes an endemic, likely in 12-24 months, it will probably stop being a statistic that is being watched on a daily basis. Hence, while we may see zero reportable cases, there may never be a time with actual zero cases ever." Amid concerns over the possibility of a third wave and emergence of the Delta Plus variant, experts assuaged fears of that possible wave being more lethal since a majority of the population has been infected. "In my view, if a new strain doesn't come up against which the vaccines are not effective, I don't think the third wave will be as lethal as the second wave," said Dr Rajesh Chawla, Senior Pulmonologist, Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals, New Delhi. He highlighted that coronavirus will become an endemic in days to come. Agreeing with Chawla, Dr. Rommel Tickoo, Director, Internal Medicine, Max Healthcare, said we are still in the second Covid wave. "Seventy per cent of the cases are limited to Maharashtra, and southern states. In north Indian states, there was a sudden exponential increase and the virus infected a large number of people together which is why the steady decline. "The effect of the virus will be blunted because of the majority of people being exposed to the virus and vaccination," he added. Tickoo said there might be a spike but if the virus doesn't become multi-resistant and undergoes mutations, the third wave won't be as deadly as the second wave and might be lesser in severity than even the first wave. Delhi had reeled under a brutal second wave with oxygen shortage and unavailability of beds adding to woes of patients. However, in the last few days cases have shown a steady decline with the positivity rate coming down below one per cent.  On Monday, the city had recorded 59 cases, the lowest single-day rise this year, and two deaths. After that, the cases have hovered around the 90 mark. Talking about the fluctuations in cases, Dr Gurpreet Sandhu, President, Council for Healthcare and Pharma, said, "On the fluctuation module, we are aware that the testing protocols in India are very abysmal, we do not follow standard protocol of testing. "Secondly, some people in rural community in India are still not aware about the what vaccine is for, how it will affect them or how it will protect them from the virus." Experts unanimously vouched for vaccination as the answer to blunt the effect of the virus. "The effect will be blunted because of the majority of people being exposed to the virus and the vaccination. As the vaccination numbers go up we will be able to blunt the virus impact. More than 50 lakh people have at least received the first while more than 18 lakh have been fully vaccinated," Tickoo said. However, he said, vaccine hesitancy is becoming problematic.  "People still give preference to false news. It has the potential to derail our ambitious vaccination programme. Roping in celebrities, credible voices will help it while doctors have a big role to play. In the UK and the US, majority of the population has received their first doses. In the US they have taken off the masks. We should see these examples," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-will-be-reduced-to-an-endemic-in-future-zero-figure-unlikely-experts-1004476.html
03-07-2021||National||Centre to unveil national cybersecurity strategy soon: National Cyber Security Coordinator||The government will release a new cybersecurity strategy this year, National Cyber Security Coordinator Rajesh Pant said at an event organised by Public Affairs Forum of India (PAFI). He said the strategy would holistically cover the entire ecosystem of cyber space in India. The government is expected to release a new cybersecurity strategy this year, he said speaking at the PAFI event on Friday. "The vision of this strategy is to ensure safe, secure, resilient, vibrant, and trusted cyber space," Pant said. The new strategy would serve as a guideline to tackle various aspects, be it data as a national resource, building indigenous capabilities or cyber audit. "There are about 80 odd deliverables coming out of this new strategy," the PAFI statement quoted Pant as saying. The theme of the PAFI Dialogue was 'Cyber Security in the New Normal.' On the national security narrative for the telecom sector, Pant said, "While other nations have created a black-list of companies that cannot operate in the country, India is the only nation to create a white-list of telecom companies that are allowed to operate in India". The companies allowed must be a 'trusted source', he said adding, "We were able to create and launch the trusted telecom portal during the pandemic and within six months.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-unveil-national-cybersecurity-strategy-soon-national-cyber-security-coordinator-1004480.html
03-07-2021||National||Centre sanctions funds from PM Cares for new vaccine-testing lab||The Centre has sanctioned funds from the PM Cares Fund for setting up a vaccine-testing laboratory here, Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said on Saturday. I thank Honble PM Shri narendramodi Ji for sanctioning funds for setting up of Vaccine Testing Lab at Hyderabad. A big step forward towards comprehensive development of pharma sector in Hyderabad, which will also boost production of Covid-9 vaccines, Reddy, a Lok Sabha member from Secunderabad, tweeted. The increased focus on vaccine production against the backdrop of Covid-19 pandemic has necessitated more vaccine- testing laboratories in the country, Reddy said in a press release. At present, there are two vaccine-testing laboratories in the country -- the Central Drug Laboratory at Kasauli and National Institute of Biologicals at Noida, he said. Funds have been released from the PM Cares Fund on March 6 for establishing two more such laboratories -- one at National Centre for Cell Science, Pune, and the other at the National Institute of Animal Biotechnology, Hyderabad, under the Department of Biotechnology, he said. The laboratory in Hyderabad is expected to commence operations in the next one month, he said. The setting up of the new laboratory is a big step towards the comprehensive development of the pharma sector in Hyderabad as the city is home to many pharma majors, Covid-19 vaccine production companies and other R & D institutions, he said. It would also boost the production of Covid-19 vaccines, Reddy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-sanctions-funds-from-pm-cares-for-new-vaccine-testing-lab-1004492.html
03-07-2021||National||Indian Navy ship completes safety study near Colombo Port; submits report to Lankan authorities||The Indian High Commission in Sri Lanka on Saturday said Indian naval ship, INS Sarvekshak, has surveyed 800 miles of the sea near the Colombo Port and a findings report has been sent to the Sri Lankan Ministry of Fisheries to resume safe navigation and commercial fishing. The survey was necessitated in the aftermath of Singapore-flagged cargo vessel MV X-Press Pearl catching fire and sinking in these water earlier in June. The study aimed to identify underwater debris which could pose a threat to mariners and fishermen. "Ship Sarvekshak surveying around #MVXPressPearl off #Colombo entered Colombo harbour, post completion of 800 miles of side scan #Sonar survey. The ship was welcomed by the Commander of Western Naval Area," the high commission wrote on Twitter. INS Sarvekshak, described as a state-of-the-art Hydrographic Survey Ship, was dispatched by the Indian Navy on June 23 upon a formal request from the Government of Sri Lanka to conduct a joint safety study along with the Sri Lanka Navy and National Aquatic Resources Research and Development Agency in the waters near and along major navigation routes off the Colombo harbour. At a felicitation ceremony on Friday, High Commissioner of India Gopal Baglay handed over the 'fairsheet' of the survey to Minister of Fisheries Douglas Devananda. The 'fairsheet' has identified 54 underwater debris and one ship-wreck. The survey data will be used to issue advisories to mariners and fishermen and also to salvors when removing debris, the Colombo Page online news portal reported. Minister Devananda thanked the Indian government for quick response to their call for a joint study. He lauded India for its vision SAGAR (Safety and Growth for All In the Region), according to the daily. The continued assistance to Sri Lanka in recent maritime incidents has showcased India's 'Neighbourhood First' policy, the High Commission said. INS Sarvekshak surveyed 807 miles of the sea using side scan sonar technology, integral sensors and two survey boats, the news website said. The ship's team worked day and night to process the data to meet the urgent requirements. The felicitation ceremony was attended by State Minister of Fisheries Kanchana Wijesekara, Secretary of Ministry of Fisheries R M Rathnayaka and Chairman Sri Lanka Port Control Captain Nihal Keppetipola. Cargo ship MV X-Press Pearl was carrying 1,486 containers of chemicals and cargo when it went up in flames on May 21 near the Colombo Port. The Sri Lankan Navy, Airforce and the Indian Coast Guard jointly doused the fire in an operation that took days. However, the ship sank off the country's coast on June 17. Apart from the 325 metric tonnes of fuel in its tanks, the ship was loaded with 25 tonnes of hazardous nitric acid. Environmentalists have dubbed it as one the worst ecological disasters in the country's history.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-navy-ship-completes-safety-study-near-colombo-port-submits-report-to-lankan-authorities-1004503.html
03-07-2021||National||Population explosion is 'root cause' of many problems in India: Plea in SC||Population explosion is the 'root cause' of many problems in the country but the Centre has not taken appropriate steps to enact a stringent law till date to curb the menace, a plea filed in the Supreme Court said. In a rejoinder to the Centre's response to a PIL, BJP leader and lawyer Ashwini Upadhyay said the Centre has unequivocally opposed forcing family planning on its people and any coercion to have a certain number of children as it is counter-productive and leads to demographic distortions. Upadhyay has challenged a Delhi High Court order that dismissed a plea seeking certain steps, including the two-child norm, to control the country's growing population. The plea stated that "Population Control and Family Planning" is part of List-III of Seventh Schedule (Entry 20A) in the Constitution and hence the Centre can make stringent rules-regulations to control population explosion but it has not taken appropriate steps to enact a stringent law till date. "The facts constituting the cause of action accrued on December 10, 2020, when in a written reply, Health Ministry said that Centre is against forcing family planning and won't take coercive action," the plea filed through advocate Ashwani Kumar Dubey said. Upadhyay submitted in his plea that population explosion is also the root cause of the pitiable condition of the country's international ranking in various fields. "We are ranked 103rd in the Global Hunger Index, 43rd in Suicide Rate, 168th in Literacy Rate, 133rd in World Happiness Index, 125th in Gender Discrimination, among others," the plea said. Contending that population explosion is the basic cause of more than 50 per cent problems of the country, the plea said effective control measure is the need of the hour. The Centre had earlier told the apex court that it is unequivocally against forcing family planning on its people and any coercion to have a certain number of children is counter-productive and leads to demographic distortions. In an affidavit filed in the top court, the health ministry had told the apex court that the family welfare programme in the country is voluntary in nature, which enables couples to decide the size of their family and adopt family planning methods best suited to them, according to their choice and without any compulsion. The ministry had said that 'public health' is a state subject and the state governments must lead the process of health sector reforms in a suitable and sustainable manner to protect the common people from health hazards. "Improvement in the health sector can be effectively led by the state government with effective monitoring and specific intervention to control and regulate the implementation process of the guidelines and schemes in a proper perspective," it said. "The answering respondent no. (ministry) plays a supportive and facilitative role in achieving the health care reforms and outcomes. It is reiterated that the answering respondent no. 1 merely acts as a facilitator for providing accessible and affordable health care through state-led reforms in the health sector," it had said. The ministry had said that as far as implementation of the guidelines and schemes in the states is concerned, it does not have any direct role and it is the prerogative of the respective state governments to implement the schemes as per the prescribed guidelines. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had told the top court that India has adopted a comprehensive and holistic National Population Policy (NPP), 2000, with clearly articulated objectives, strategic themes and operational strategies. The National Health Policy (NHP), 2017 provides for a policy guidance to inform, clarify, strengthen and prioritise the role of the government in shaping health systems in all its dimensions, it had said. The Programme of Action of the International Conference on Population and Development, 1994, to which India is a signatory, is unequivocally against coercion in family planning. The apex court had earlier sought the Centre's reply on a plea challenging a Delhi High Court order that dismissed a PIL seeking certain steps, including two-child norm, to control the country's rising population. The appeal has challenged the September 3 high court order, which said it was for Parliament and the state legislatures to enact laws and not for the court. The PIL said the high court failed to appreciate that the right to clean air, drinking water, health, peaceful sleep, shelter, livelihood, and education guaranteed under Articles 21 and 21A of the Constitution could not be secured to all citizens without controlling the population explosion. The plea in the high court had claimed that the population of India had "marched ahead" of China, as about 20 per cent of Indians did not have Aadhaar and therefore, were not accounted for, and there were also crores of Rohingyas and Bangladeshis living illegally in the country. It claimed that "population explosion is also the root cause of corruption", apart from being a contributory factor behind heinous crimes such as rape and domestic violence. It also held population explosion responsible for pollution and the dearth of resources and jobs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/population-explosion-is-root-cause-of-many-problems-in-india-plea-in-sc-1004527.html
03-07-2021||National||Covid-19 third wave may see half the cases recorded during the second surge, says govt panel scientist||The third wave of coronavirus could hit the peak between October-November if Covid appropriate behaviour is not followed, but may see half the daily cases recorded during the second surge, according to a scientist of a government panel tasked with modelling of Covid-19 cases. He, however, said the third wave could spread faster if any new virulent variant emerges. Manindra Agarwal, involved in the ‘Sutra Model’ or the mathematical projection of trajectory of Covid-19, also said the model has three scenarios--optimistic, intermediate and pessimistic--for the prediction of the third wave. The Department of Science and Technology had last year formed the panel to forecast the surge of coronavirus cases using mathematical models. The panel had also received flak for not predicting the exact nature of the second wave of Covid. Agarwal, who is part of the three-member panel, said loss of immunity, effects of vaccination and possibility of a more virulent variant, have been factored while predicting the third wave, something which was not done during modelling the second wave. “We have created three scenarios. One is ‘optimistic’ one. In this, we assume that life goes back to normal by August, and there is no new mutant. Second is ‘intermediate’ one. In this, we assume that vaccination is 20 per cent less effective in addition to optimistic scenario assumptions. “Third is ‘pessimistic’ one. This has one assumption different from intermediate one: a new, 25 per cent more infectious mutant spreads in August (it is not delta+, which is not more infectious than delta),” he said in a series of tweets. According to the graph shared by Agarwal, the second wave is likely to plateau by mid-August, and the third wave could reach its peak between October and November. In case of the ‘pessimistic’ scenario, the third wave could see cases rise up between 1,50,000 to 2,00,000 in the country, the scientist noted. The figure is less than half of what was recorded when the deadly second wave had hit its peak in the first half of May, flooding hospitals with patients and claiming thousands of lives daily. On May 7, India had recorded 4,14,188 Covid-19 cases. “If a new mutant comes, the third wave could spread rapidly, but it will be half of what the second wave was. Delta variant is infecting people who were infected with a different variant. So this has been taken into consideration,” Agarwal said. He said as vaccination progresses, the possibility of a third or fourth wave will be less. “In case of an ‘optimistic’ scenario, the daily cases could be in the range of 50,000 to 1,00,000. In case of the intermediate scenario (if it is assumed that vaccination is 20 per cent less effective, in addition to optimistic scenario assumptions), the cases could be in the range of 50,000 to 1,00,000, but more than the optimistic scenario,” the panel member noted. M Vidyasagar, scientist at IIT-Hyderabad, who is also involved in modelling of Covid cases, said hospitalisation could be less during the third wave. He cited the example of the UK where in January more than 60,000 cases were reported with daily deaths touching 1,200. However, during the fourth wave, the number dropped to 21,000 cases and just 14 deaths. “Vaccination played a major role in bringing down the cases that needed hospitalisation in the UK. This has been factored while coming out with the three scenarios,” Vidyasagar told PTI. The government has been emphasising on vaccination as the fear of the third wave looms. Agarwal also explained the reasons behind the delay in coming out with an analysis for the third wave. “It took us a while to do the analysis for three reasons. First, loss of immunity in recovered population. Second, vaccination induced immunity. Each of these two (factors) need to be estimated for future. “And third, how to incorporate these two factors in the Sutra model. Fortunately, it turned out that both can be incorporated by suitably changing contact rate and reach parameters. So that takes care of the third factor. The first two factors required detailed analysis,” he tweeted. ‘Contact rate’ is how fast the infection spreads and ‘reach parameter’ is the percentage of population the pandemic is active in. Agarwal added that his team went through studies done in the past on loss of immunity while making the Sutra Model. “Similarly, we also looked at the projected vaccination rate over the next few months, including the effects of vaccine-hesitancy, and arrived at month-wise estimates for vaccination,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-third-wave-may-see-half-the-cases-recorded-during-the-second-surge-says-govt-panel-scientist-1004537.html
03-07-2021||National||Meet 'Mana-ammayi' Sirisha Bandla, all set to become second Indian-born woman to go to space||Amid the political sparring between the two state governments over the Krishna waters, the people of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana are united in their excitement about a Telugu girl – Mana ammayi - entering space. If all goes to plan next Sunday, Sirisha (34) who hails from Guntur district in Andhra Pradesh, would become the second Indian born woman, after Kalpana Chawla, to soar up into space. The social media space meanwhile was agog with affectionate references to “Mana-ammayi-Modati Telugu ammayi” (Our girl-First Telugu girl) venturing into the world up above and wishes for safe travels. “Indian-origin women continue to break the proverbial glass ceiling and prove their mettle. On July 11th, @SirishaBandla with Telugu roots is set to fly to space aboard VSS Unity with@RichardBranson and the team marking the dawn of the new space age, making all Indians proud! - tweeted Chandrababu Naidu, former chief minister of Andhra Pradesh. Sirisha Bandla is the Vice President, Government Affairs and Research Operations at Virgin Galactic. As part of the space flight mission, Bandla will be evaluating the human-tended research experience, using an experiment from the University of Florida that requires several handheld fixation tubes that will be activated at various points in the flight profile. “I really didn't need to tweet this (news) since my friends flooded the feed yesterday with itI was overwhelmed (in a good way!) by messages of love, unrecognizable capital text, and positivity. Slowly working my way through them...one platform at a time,” Sirisha shared her joy on Twitter, where her profile description is just one word – SPACE. I really didn't need to tweet this since my friends flooded the feed yesterday with it❤️I was overwhelmed (in a good way!) by messages of love, unrecognizable capital text, and positivity yesterday. Slowly working my way through them...one platform at a time! Sirisha's family – father Muralidhar Bandla, mother Anuradha Bandla have settled in the US when she was a few years old. She reportedly grew up in Houston, Texas and is an engineer from Purdue University. She went on to post graduate from George Washington University. Back home in Guntur district, her paternal grandfather Dr Bandla Ragaiah, a retired agriculture scientist, is beaming with pride. “She is my granddaughter! Sirisha was fearless since childhood and had this keen interest in space. I wish her all the best. She grew up with us in Tenali till she was five.” Dr Ragaiah told reporters. Sirisha regularly visits India and her next trip is scheduled for December.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/meet-mana-ammayi-sirisha-bandla-all-set-to-become-second-indian-born-woman-to-go-to-space-1004548.html
03-07-2021||National||Delhi Medical Association opposes Baba Ramdev's plea against FIRs||Delhi Medical Association has moved the Supreme Court to oppose yoga guru Baba Ramdev’s plea for stay on proceedings in connection with multiple FIRs lodged over his alleged remarks against the use of allopathic medicines during the Covid-19 pandemic. Terming Ramdev a “businessman clad as a yoga guru", it claimed that he did not have any degree or licence to practice Ayurveda and prescribe medicines. The medical body contended that Ramdev has insulted allopathy and “instigated” people to disregard vaccines and treatment protocols. On June 30, a bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana had asked Ramdev to bring on record an original record of his statement allegedly made against the use of allopathic medicine for treating Covid. The DMA claimed that Patanjali has earned over Rs 1,000 crores by selling Coronil kits which were not approved by medical bodies.   “While the entire medical fraternity of the country was fighting the deadly pandemic in unity and was trying to educate the public about the Covid vaccines and correct course of treatment, Ramdev,... shockingly started a false propaganda against vaccines and the treatment protocol with the mala fide intent to promote the sale of products namely Coronil Kit,” the plea filed through lawyer Ashish Kothari said. The impleadment application of the DMA contended that Ramdev referred to the modern medical system, that is, allopathic science as “Tamasha” and “Stupid Science”.  The plea added that Ramdev made comments that the doctors who are treating Covid patients don’t know anything and claimed that even without a degree, he is a better doctor than qualified doctors.  “By insulting allopathy and allopathic doctors, Ramdev attempted to create a false narrative that Ayurveda is a better science than allopathic science and instigated people to disregard “allopathic” vaccines and Covid treatment protocols issued by the Central Government,” the plea added. The plea contended that Ramdev intended to create an artificial rivalry between “allopathy” and “Ayurveda”, and he wanted to cast a doubt in the minds of people against the effectiveness of Covid vaccines and treatment protocols. The doctors' body alleged that it was a methodology to encourage people to buy “Coronil Kit” which he falsely propagated as “Ayurvedic preparations”. The Patna and Raipur chapters of the Indian Medical Association have lodged complaints against Ramdev alleging that his remarks are likely to cause prejudice to the Covid control mechanism. Ramdev, in his plea, has sought the clubbing of FIRs in Patna.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-medical-association-opposes-baba-ramdevs-plea-against-firs-1004552.html
03-07-2021||National||Number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India has crossed 35 crore: Health ministry||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has exceeded 35 crore, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday. As the new phase of universalisation of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from June 21, more than 57.36 lakh vaccine doses were given in the country on Saturday, as per a provisional report up to 7 pm. The ministry said 28,33,691 first vaccine doses and 3,29,889 second doses were given in the 18-44 years category on Saturday. Cumulatively, 99,434,862 people in this age group across all states and union territories have received their first dose and 27,12,794 have received their second dose since the start of phase-3 of the vaccination drive, the report showed. Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra have administered more than 50 lakh first doses of the Covid-19 vaccine in the age group of 18-44. Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have inoculated more than 10 lakh beneficiaries of the 18-44 years category with the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/number-of-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-has-crossed-35-crore-health-ministry-1004554.html
03-07-2021||National||30% rise in mortality seen in second Covid-19 wave, says ICMR||The second wave of Covid-19 saw a 30% rise in deaths in public as well as private hospitals, the Indian Council of Medical Research said in a new study. The ICMR researchers compared the outcome in 11,178 patients admitted in a hospital during the first wave with 3,258 hospitalised patients in the second wave, and found 13.3% of the hospitalised people died in the second wave as against 10.2% in the first – a 30% jump in Covid mortality. “Compared to the first wave, mortality also significantly increased in the second wave in all age groups except in those below 20 years,” said an ICMR official. The records analysed by the ICMR came from a Covid-19 clinical registry that the council has been maintaining since last year. In the second wave, a significantly higher proportion of patients complained of shortness of breath, had developed ARDS (acute respiratory distress syndrome, a life threatening condition) and required supplemental oxygen and mechanical ventilation. The proportion of ARDS increased from 8% in the first wave to 13% in the second. The clinical profile of admitted patients in the second wave have changed with lesser proportion having comorbidities and higher proportion showing breathlessness. This has led to higher utilisation of oxygen supplementation, mechanical ventilation and subsequently mortality. “The explosive nature of the second wave led to a large number of people being affected within a short span of time. This has put the health infrastructure under pressure, making hospitalisation possible for only more severe patients, which could also explain the higher mortality among the hospitalised patients,” the ICMR team reported in the Indian Journal of Medical Research. The ICMR findings came days after another research paper that found 40% higher mortality among hospitalised patients in the second wave compared to the first one. The study was carried out on patients admitted in nine Max group hospitals spread over five northern states. The ICMR investigation, on the other hand, covered both public and private institutes from different regions of the country, but the trends in supplemental oxygen utilisation, need for mechanical ventilation, and mortality were similar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/30-rise-in-mortality-seen-in-second-covid-19-wave-says-icmr-1004562.html
03-07-2021||National||Water wastage by RO purifiers for commercial interest of companies needs to be checked: NGT||Huge wastage of water in the use of RO purifiers merely for advancing the commercial interest of companies at the cost of public interest needs to be checked, the National Green Tribunal has said. It directed the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) to issue notification without delay banning RO purifiers where the level of total dissolved solids (TDS) in water is below 500 milligrams per litre. The green panel said it was not expected that MoEF will take years to finalise the matter and seek repeated adjournments and extensions which is against the rule of law. "It may be noted that high total dissolved solids (TDS), requiring RO (treatment), is found in groundwater. Considering huge wastage of water as rejects in the use of RO, such use merely advancing commercial interests need at the cost of loss of valuable water which needs to be checked. This purpose is defeated by inordinate delay by MoEF. "This amounts to acting against the interest of the environment. Instead of permitting ROs, conductivity and TDS in water can be regulated and controlled by coordination of regulators concerned – MoJS with agencies supplying water like PHED/Water Supply and Sewerage/Municipal Body/Jal Nigam etc. saving huge amount of water which is being unduly wasted in the process of use of ROs against public interest," the NGT said. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel directed the MoEF to ensure further action positively before the next date irrespective of steps by any other department which may delay the matter. It warned that in case of failure, the NGT will be left with no other option except to take coercive measures personally against the officers concerned. "The Secretary MoEF is directed to identify the dealing officers concerned and put them to notice of this order. Their names be furnished to this Tribunal before the next date so that they can be made accountable for upholding public interest and the rule of law," the bench said. The NGT in July last year had directed the MoEF to issue by the year-end a notification banning RO purifiers where TDS level in water is below 500 milligrams per litre. The tribunal had granted more time to the MoEF after it informed the tribunal that the exercise could not be completed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The Ministry had in January 2020, sought four months for executing the NGT order. The MoEF, in its plea, had said that four months are required for effective compliance of the order -- two for wide circulation of draft notification inviting comments and two for incorporating comments, finalisation of notification and obtaining approval from the Ministry of Law and Justice. The matter is listed for the next hearing on January 25. The NGT had on the last date of hearing slammed the ministry for the delay in issuing the notification and warned the officer concerned of stopping his salary. The tribunal had earlier said its order was based on a report of an expert committee, which also comprised a representative of the MoEF, and is enforceable without permission of any other authority with penal consequences. In a bid to regulate the use of RO purifiers, the NGT had directed the government to prohibit them where TDS is below 500 mg per litre and to sensitise the public about the ill-effects of demineralised water. The tribunal has also asked the government to make it mandatory to recover more than 60 per cent water wherever RO is permitted across the country. TDS is made up of inorganic salts as well as small amounts of organic matter. As per a WHO study, TDS levels below 300 mg per litre are considered to be excellent, while 900 mg per litre is said to be poor and above 1,200 mg is unacceptable. Reverse Osmosis (RO) is a water treatment process that removes contaminants from water by using pressure to force molecules through a semipermeable membrane. The order had come after perusing an expert committee report which said that if TDS is less than 500 milligrams per litre, a RO system will not be useful but will result in removing important minerals as well as cause undue wastage of water. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by NGO Friends seeking conservation of potable water by preventing its wastage on account of unnecessary use of RO systems.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/water-wastage-by-ro-purifiers-for-commercial-interest-of-companies-needs-to-be-checked-ngt-1004569.html
03-07-2021||National Politics||Fuel price rise due to Congress' policy: BJP MP Mahesh Sharma||BJP MP and former Union minister Mahesh Sharma on Thursday said the rise in fuel prices in the country is due to policies of the previous Congress-led central government. Sharma, the Lok Sabha MP from Gautam Buddh Nagar adjoining Delhi in western Uttar Pradesh, also said that checking fuel prices is not in the control of any government or minister now. “If you look at the rate of price rise in petrol and diesel, you know it is not because of our government but of the Congress. The Congress during its rule had linked the fuel prices to the international price index, which is now not in control of any government or minister,” he said. “The fuel prices are rising because of a system that was created by the Congress,” he told reporters at a press meet when asked if inflation could be an issue for the BJP in future elections. The former Union minister also said the government is taking adequate steps and considering if petrol and diesel should also be brought under the GST regime of taxation. “The government is seized of the issue. Whenever state governments would want, the issue would be taken up for discussion,” he said. “As far as inflation in other sectors is concerned, I believe both the Centre and the UP government have taken right decisions at the right time to tide through the situation especially during the pandemic,” he added. Sharma’s remarks come in the wake of Congress accusing the Centre of collecting crores of rupees through excise duty and taxes on petrol and diesel due to which fuel prices are hovering around or have crossed Rs 100 per litre at several places in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/fuel-price-rise-due-to-congress-policy-bjp-mp-mahesh-sharma-1004335.html
03-07-2021||National Politics||DH Toon | No longer middle class! We're very poor!||A majority of urban Indians left unemployed by the coronavirus pandemic want the government to guarantee them jobs like it does for people in rural areas, says a study by the London School of Economics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-no-longer-middle-class-were-very-poor-1004337.html
03-07-2021||National Politics||Solicitor General denies meeting West Bengal BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari||Solicitor General Tushar Mehta has denied meeting West Bengal BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari at his official residence here after the Trinamool Congress wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking his removal over the issue. The letter to the prime minister was written by TMC MPs Derek O'Brien, Sukhendu Sekhar Roy and Mahua Maitra stating that the alleged meeting between Adhikari and the law officer "reeks of impropriety" as the BJP MLA is an accused in Narada and Saradha cases which are being investigated. ”Shri Suvendu Adhikari did come to my residence cum office on Thursday at around 3:00 PM, unannounced. Since I was already in a pre-scheduled meeting in my chamber, my staff requested him to sit in the waiting room of my office building and offered him a cup of tea. “When my meeting was over and thereafter my PPS informed me about his arrival, I requested my PPS to convey to Mr Adhikari my inability to meet him and apologise as he had to wait. Mr Adhikari thanked my PPS and left without insisting to meet me. The question of my meeting with Mr Adhikari therefore did not arise,” the law officer said. Adhikari, the leader of the opposition in the West Bengal assembly, had also denied the meeting, saying that he had recently gone to Mehta's residence in Delhi regarding a case related to "post-poll violence" in the state but "could not meet him in person". The TMC MPs had claimed that Adhikari was accused in various cases of cheating, bribery and illegal gratification related to the Narada sting operation and the Saradha scam. "The meeting between Adhikari and the solicitor general not only reeks of impropriety, there is a direct conflict of interest and also taints the position of the second highest law officer of the country, the Solicitor General," the TMC lawmakers had said in the letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/solicitor-general-denies-meeting-west-bengal-bjp-leader-suvendu-adhikari-1004368.html
03-07-2021||National Politics||BJP has thrown Uttarakhand into political instability, betrayed people: Congress||The Congress on Saturday hit out at the BJP leadership, saying instead of ushering in development, it has thrown Uttarakhand into political instability and betrayed its people by repeatedly changing chief ministers. BJP leader Tirath Singh Rawat resigned as the state's chief minister on Friday after holding the post for less than four months. He had replaced Trivendra Singh Rawat in March. The BJP has insulted the 'devbhoomi' of Uttarakhand, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi and its president J P Nadda are responsible for the current situation, the Congress alleged. Starting with Nityananad Swami, the BJP will have eight chief ministers in the state, senior Congress leader Harish Rawat said and added that in the latest four and a half years of the BJP's rule in Uttarakhand, there will be three chief ministers. The Congress condemns the BJP for insulting the state and its people by not doing anything to solve its problems, he said. "The BJP's high drama in Dehradun is an insult to the people of Uttarakhand. The prime minister had promised to give a double-engine government, but the state only received different chief ministers and no development," Harish Rawat, a former chief minister, said. "The BJP has not solved the problems of Uttarakhand and has added to the rising unemployment in the state," he told reporters. It has "insulted the 'devbhoomi' (land of Gods) of Uttarakhand and the Congress condemns the BJP for giving political instability", Harish Rawat said. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the BJP has betrayed the people and Prime Minister Modi and Nadda are responsible. "This is BJP's example of lust for power, political instability, sharing fruits of power and failure of leadership. Instead of serving the people of Uttarakhand, they tried to distribute power, and PM Modi and JP Nadda are responsible for this. The BJP has brought Uttarakhand to such a turn where power means only sharing its fruits and nothing else," he alleged. Surjewala said in 2017, the people of Uttarakhand elected the BJP, but in five years instead of serving them and ushering in development, the BJP only "looted its resources". "This is BJP's 'chair-changing game' going on in 'devbhoomi' Uttarakhand," he said referring to the change of chief ministers in the state. "Modi ji-Nadda ji have betrayed the interests of the people of 'devbhoomi' by pushing Uttarakhand into political instability, loot of power and 'chief minister swap scheme'," Surjewala said. Uttarakhand Congress chief Pritam Singh said the people are hurt by the BJP's attitude towards the state, where unemployment is rising and people are left to fend for themselves. AICC secretary and in-charge for Uttarakhand Congress Devendra Yadav said the people of the state are waiting to throw out the BJP as it has given nothing to the state, except "loot its resources". The Uttarakhand BJP legislature party will meet on Saturday afternoon to elect its new leader following Tirath Singh Rawat's resignation. The legislature party meeting will begin at the BJP headquarters at 3 pm in the presence of central observer Narendra Tomar and BJP general secretary in-charge of Uttarakhand Dushyant Kumar Gautam. All the MLAs have been asked to be present at the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-has-thrown-uttarakhand-into-political-instability-betrayed-people-congress-1004392.html
03-07-2021||National Politics||Congress renews call for JPC in Rafale; Rahul 'pawn' of rival defence firms, says BJP||Congress on Saturday demanded a probe by a Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) into the Rafale deal, a day after a French court ordered a judicial probe to investigate allegations of “corruption” and “favouritism” in the multi-billion-dollar fighter jet contract. “The probe by the French Public Prosecution Agency has vindicated the stand taken by the Congress and Rahul Gandhi that the Rafale deal is marred in corruption,” AICC General Secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala said here. He said the government needs to come clean on the biggest defence deal and only an investigation by a JPC would tell whether the Rafale deal was free of corruption. “The French Public Prosecution agency is also probing the former President and perhaps the current President of France. Why should the Government of India in light of these prima facie allegations of corruption now being judicially investigated in France not conduct JPC,” Surjewala asked. BJP hit back at the Congress and alleged that Rahul Gandhi was being used as a “pawn” by rival defence agencies. “The way Rahul Gandhi is behaving, it will not be an exaggeration to say that he is being used as a pawn by competing companies,” BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said. He sought to make light of the judicial probe ordered in France contending that it was a result of the complaint by an NGO and should not be seen as a matter of corruption. Surjewala said this issue was not about Congress versus BJP, but about the security of the country and “corruption” in the biggest defence deal. “The facts now clearly tell and call for a thorough JPC probe into the Rafale scam. Will the prime minister, like the French, now answer to the nation and tell when the prime minister will submit his government to a JPC probe into the Rafale scam,” the Congress leader asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-renews-call-for-jpc-in-rafale-rahul-pawn-of-rival-defence-firms-says-bjp-1004440.html
03-07-2021||National Politics||In dig at Centre, opposition leaders share Vajpayee's 1973 petrol price hike protest video||In an apparent dig at the Centre over the rising fuel prices, some Opposition leaders on Saturday shared video footage from 1973 in which then Jan Sangh leader Atal Bihari Vajpayee is seen arriving in Parliament on a bullock cart to "protest an increase of 7 paise in petrol prices". Petrol price on Friday crossed the Rs 100-per-litre-mark in Chennai as well as in some places in Punjab and Kerala after fuel prices were hiked yet again. Petrol is priced at over Rs 99 a litre in Delhi and Kolkata -- the only metro cities which haven't seen the Rs 100 mark yet. Sharing Vajpayee's footage from 1973 in which the former prime minister and then Jan Sangh leader is seen reaching the Parliament in a bullock cart, senior Congress leader Tharoor tweeted, "Rare footage from 1973 of an opposition protest when petrol prices were raised by seven Paise." "Atal Bihari Vajpayee arrived in Parliament on a bullock cart (which would not be possible today with the new security restrictions on vehicle entry into the complex!)," he said. Sharing the same video which he said he received on WhatsApp, Trinamool Congress leader Derek O'Brien tweeted, "History. Ouch. When petrol prices were increased by a few paisa (7 paisa?) in 1973, Atal Bihari Vajpayee had travelled to #Parliament on a bullock cart in protest." History. Ouch. Aam Aadmi Party Delhi MLA Somnath Bharti said that in 1973, Vajpayee travelled in a bullock cart to Parliament to oppose an increase of 7 paise in petrol prices, and added "those were the days". Petrol price was hiked by 35 paise per litre on Friday but there was no change in diesel rates, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as value-added tax (VAT) and freight charges. For this reason, petrol has crossed the Rs 100-a-litre mark in some places in Punjab and all over Kerala. Jalandhar in Punjab has the fuel priced at Rs 100.22 a litre while it costs Rs 101.14 in Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/in-dig-at-centre-opposition-leaders-share-vajpayees-1973-petrol-price-hike-protest-video-1004502.html
03-07-2021||National Politics||District Panchayat chief polls: BJP used 'force', 'kidnapped' voters, alleges Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday charged the ruling BJP with making a mockery of the elections to the posts of district panchayat chief, alleging that it "kidnapped" voters and used "force" to prevent them from voting. The ruling BJP has claimed that the party-backed candidates emerged victorious on 67 of the 75 seats, the elections for which were held on Saturday. "To convert its defeat into victory, the BJP got the voters kidnapped, used force with the help of police and administration to stop them from voting," the SP chief alleged in a party release. The BJP made a mockery of all democratic norms, something not seen earlier, he alleged. The former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said it is strange that while most results in the elections for the zila panchayat members were in favour of the Samajwadi Party, the BJP gained in the polls for the district panchayat chief. The complicity of officials has also come to the fore, he alleged.  The SP chief said despite submitting a memorandum to the state Election Commissioner, no action was taken and alleged that the dictatorship of the ruling party was clearly visible. Citing the cases, he said pro-Samajwadi Party member Arun Rawat was kidnapped in Lucknow. SP candidate Vijay Laxmi was made to sit in the DM’s office and her husband MLA Ambareesh Pushkar was prevented from meeting her, he alleged. Samajwadi Party workers and women were subjected to indecency when they protested, he alleged. The SP chief added that the public is ready to give a reply for the "rigging" in the elections in the upcoming Assembly polls. Democracy will be restored only after the formation of the Samajwadi Party government and only then justice will be done, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/district-panchayat-chief-polls-bjp-used-force-kidnapped-voters-alleges-akhilesh-yadav-1004504.html
03-07-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand BJP MLAs to decide on new CM today||After BJP leader Tirath Singh Rawat resigned as Uttarakhand chief minister on Friday, the state BJP legislature party is set to meet Saturday to elect its new leader, who will be later sworn in as the next CM of the state where assembly elections are due early next year. The Constitution required Rawat, who is an MP, to get elected as a member of the state Assembly within six months to continue as CM. But there seemed increasing uncertainty over the Election Commission holding bypolls for the two vacant seats in the state when there is less than a year to go before the next assembly elections. Rawat met party president J P Nadda and Union Home Minister Amit Shah in Delhi, amid speculation of another leadership change in the hill state. Returning to Dehradun, he addressed a press conference in Dehradun on Friday night. Contrary to expectations, he did not announce his resignation there. But shortly after the press meet he drove to the Raj Bhawan. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-bjp-mlas-to-decide-on-new-cm-today-1004265.html
03-07-2021||North and Central||ABC of EBC politics in Uttar Pradesh; Smaller castes to decide bigger outcome||The cauldron of caste politics in Uttar Pradesh has begun heating up. With state polls just nine months away, parties representing smaller castes are flexing their muscles as dominant caste groups have already put their weight behind respective parties. While Nishad Party leader Sanjay Nishad last week demanded deputy chief ministership in the next BJP government and boasted of contesting 160 seats, Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party leader Om Prakash Rajbhar on Wednesday boldly questioned the might of the bigger parties and whether they have any votes left with them. Rajbhar, who considers himself a strong leader of Rajbhar community (non-Jatav Dalit), came up with a bizarre formula of five CMs and 20 deputy CMs during a five-year tenure for this alliance, after his earlier stint as a BJP ally had been a rocky affair. Then there are parties like Anupriya Patel's Apna Dal (S), rebel SP leader Shivpal Yadav's Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (Lohia), Peace Party and Krishna Patel faction of Apna Dal, who have their small pockets of influence. Samajwadi Party, which saw limitations of allying with big parties like Congress in 2018 Assembly polls and BSP in 2019 Lok Sabha, on Thursday announced its intent to ally with smaller parties. Asking people to vote for change, SP chief Akhilesh Yadav said he would have tie-ups with smaller parties for the 2022 Assembly polls. Rajbhar, who had in past been wooed by all parties including BJP, now heads Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha (BSM) and is exploring an alliance with Trinamool Congress and AAP, which do not have much presence in UP but stand as formidable opponents of the BJP in West Bengal and Delhi respectively. BSM, an umbrella outfit of nine smaller parties, has announced that it will contest all 403 seats but could end up being an ally of any bigger party close to the polling schedule. The outfit includes AIMIM, Jan Adhikar Party, Rashtra Uday Party, Apna Dal faction of Krishna Patel, Rashtroday Party, Rashtriya Bhagidari Party, Janta Kranti Party and Rashtriya Upekshit Samaj Party. The party it chooses may depend upon the best bargain. Mahan Dal is another party, which has some vote pockets. Most of these parties represent political aspirations of a specific caste. Caste groups like Kahar, Kashyap, Kewat, Nishad, Bind, Bhar, Prajapati, Rajbhar, Batham, Gauriya, Turha, Majhi, Mallah, Kumhar, Dheemar, Dheewar and MachhuaPasi, Valmikis, Kurmis, Koeris, Lodhs, Jats and Sunars have not been at the forefront of UP's power matrix. Out of the state's 44 per cent OBCs and 21 per cent Dalits, Yadavs and Jatavs (Mayawati's caste) have taken the lead and produced Chief Ministers, voting for SP and BSP respectively. Upper castes (16 per cent) have moved from Congress to BJP now and Muslims (19 per cent) vote for a party which can defeat BJP. So, while they have opened their cards, smaller caste groups, around 35 per cent of total electorates, stand solidly behind their respective leaders who keep switching political sides. The state for now is bracing for a quadrangular contest among BJP, Congress, SP and BSP, with much depending on the alliance any of these parties manage to weave with smaller parties. BJP has made sustained efforts to win back these caste groups, honouring their leaders. In February 2016, Amit Shah had gone to Bahraich and unveiled a statue of Suheldeo, 11th-century king while in the run-up to the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the then BJP president Shah promised to build an 80-feet tall statue of Nishadraj in Allahabad. Nishad or Mallah, having 5 per cent of total voters, are influential in nearly 100 seats, where their population is 15,000-70,000 strong. When on June 22, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath joined senior RSS leaders for lunch at the home of Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, it was also seen as BJP's renewed attempt to consolidate votes among the non-Yadav OBCs like Kushwaha, Koeri, Kurmi, Shakya, Patel and others in UP. Kurmis, only next to Yadavs in prominence, had been left behind in political significance. It is EBC (non-Yadav OBC) and Mahadalit (non-Jatav Dalits) that has helped BJP consolidate its position in the Hindi state, besides its traditional Brahmin-Baniya vote, which later also included the Thakur votes. Caste conferences are another strategy UP parties have adopted off late to augment their electoral appeal. BJP will soon be organising caste conferences among its core support base Vaishyas, which though constitute only 4 per cent of the total voters, influence other communities as well during their regular interaction with them. Other similar conferences by BJP and other parties are also lined up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/abc-of-ebc-politics-in-uttar-pradesh-smaller-castes-to-decide-bigger-outcome-1004355.html
03-07-2021||North and Central||Red Fort violence: Delhi court grants bail to man accused of assaulting cop||A Delhi court on Saturday granted bail to a man who allegedly assaulted a policeman on duty with a spear during the violence which erupted at the Red Fort on Republic Day this year.   On January 26, protesting farmers had clashed with police during the tractor rally against the three farm laws and stormed into the Red Fort, hoisting religious flags on its domes and injuring scores of policemen. Granting him relief, Additional Sessions Judge Kamini Lau said neither the photographs and videos relied upon by the prosecution are very clear nor accused Khempreet Singh can be seen attacking anyone in them.  "The charge ­sheet against the accused has already been filed and he is no longer required for investigation," the judge said, adding that an accused is "deemed innocent till proved guilty". She further said that most of these offences in the case are bailable in nature and 14 accused out of the 18 arrested, including main conspirators Deep Sandhu and Iqbal Singh, are already out on bail. Th judge also relied upon the observations in the bail order passed by the Delhi High Court in the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) case filed against three student activists -- Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita, and Asif Iqbal Tanha. "The Delhi High Court observed that at a time when the society is polarised and fractured across various lines and ideology reached vanishing point, the court will do all within their mandate to prevent the misuse of the law and alleviate the anxiety which has come to surround these individuals," ASJ Lau noted. The Hon'ble Delhi Court observed that the courts do not function in a vacuum and judges surely have a view on what is happening around them and that the India democracy is undergoing metamorphosis, she added. According to the police, accused Khempreet Singh entered the Red Fort through Lahore Gate with an unruly mob, waived the spear from the ramparts, and severely attacked and assaulted the on-duty policeman.   Denying this claim, advocates Jaspreet Singh Rai and Jagdeep Singh Dhillon, representing the accused, told the court that there is not even an iota of evidence against him, and is being falsely implicated in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/red-fort-violence-delhi-court-grants-bail-to-man-accused-of-assaulting-cop-1004385.html
03-07-2021||North and Central||Heatwave abates, IMD forecasts drop in temperature by 3-4 degrees over north India||The oppressive heatwave that swept through the north Indian plains and hills has abated and no such conditions are likely during the next five days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Saturday. Mercury is likely to drop by 3-4 degrees Celsius over the next five days, it added. The IMD had issued a heatwave alert for July 1-2. “As predicted, heatwave conditions have abated from the plains of Northwest India with the occurrence of only isolated heat waves over Haryana yesterday (Friday),” it said. On Friday, fairly widespread rainfall occurred over Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and adjoining parts of West Uttar Pradesh due to a western disturbance bringing respite from the prevailing heatwave conditions. “Maximum temperatures over the plains of Northwest India are likely to fall by 3-4 degrees Celsius today and no significant change is likely thereafter. Subsequently, no heatwave conditions are likely over the region during the next five days,” the IMD said. It said the abatement of the heatwave is due to south-westerly winds from the Arabian Sea. However, due to an increase in humidity in association with these winds, the discomfort will continue during the next five days, the IMD said. Over the last two days, many places including Delhi breached the 40 degrees Celsius mark.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/heatwave-abates-imd-forecasts-drop-in-temperature-by-3-4-degrees-over-north-india-1004393.html
03-07-2021||North and Central||UP govt sets up panel to review cases filed under UAPA||The Uttar Pradesh government has constituted a panel to conduct independent reviews before giving the sanction of the prosecution to cases being probed by the state police's Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS), a senior official said here Saturday. "The UP government has formed a two-member authority to review cases, including the evidence, filed in the state under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967," Home Secretary B D Paulson told PTI. "The panel has a mandate to function for a year, and will also make recommendations to the government about prosecution sanction against those booked under the UAPA," he added. Paulson said the UAPA has a provision to form an authority to review cases in which it is invoked. This authority will have a retired high court judge and a retired principal secretary (Law) as members, an official statement said on Friday. Initially, this authority will be constituted for a year, and at the end of the tenure, a review would be done for an extension, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-govt-sets-up-panel-to-review-cases-filed-under-uapa-1004406.html
03-07-2021||North and Central||SAD chief Sukhbir Badal alleges illegal sand mining at Punjab's Mukerian||SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday alleged that illegal sand mining was being carried out at Mukerian in Punjab's Hoshiarpur district. Badal made a surprise visit to Mukerian and while talking to reporters there, he alleged that there was a nexus between certain officials and Congress leaders behind the illegal mining. “Shocking state of mining mafia. After Beas, visited Mukerian & saw first hand how mafia has extracted sand up to 200 feet. CM @capt_amarinder  & minister @SarkariaTeam should tell Pbis (Punjabis) which law allows extraction of sand up to 200 feet? Officially the limit is 10 feet only,” Badal said in a tweet. “2 days back when we exposed illegal mining at Beas, Mining Secretary justified the same. I'm waiting how govt will justify illegal activity at Mukerian. We aren't afraid of cases. Cong govt can register 10 cases against me but I'll continue to safeguard interests of Punjabis,” said Badal in another tweet. On June 30, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief had made similar charges when he made a visit to Beas river bank in Amritsar. Though at that time, the state mining department had trashed Badal's accusations and asserted that the site visited by the SAD chief near Beas river was a legal one. On July 1, the Amritsar Police had booked Badal and two other Akali leaders under various sections including 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the IPC and the Epidemic Diseases Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sad-chief-sukhbir-badal-alleges-illegal-sand-mining-at-punjabs-mukerian-1004410.html
03-07-2021||North and Central||Not an 'aam baat': This tree in Uttar Pradesh grows 121 types of mangoes||Want to taste over one hundred varieties of mangoes in one place?  One only has to visit this mango tree at the Company Bagh area in Uttar Pradesh's Saharanpur town, about 500 kilometres from Lucknow, where as many as 121 different varieties of mangoes are grown. One can taste the delicious 'Dussehri' or 'Langra' and even 'Alfanso' (all varieties of the mangoes) among others grown on this tree, which has become a centre of attraction for the people from not only the town but also from the nearby villages. They, of course, do not get to taste the mangoes. It was not easy to grow the tree if one were to go by the horticulturists. ''It took five years to grow this tree.....it was an experiment'' said Bhanu Prakash Ram, a joint director at the Horticulture and Training Centre, Saharanpur. He said that the researchers kept making experiments on the tree, which had been there for the past 15 years. Ram said that a common ten-year-old mango tree was chosen for the experiment. Later, different varieties of mangoes were grafted on its branches. ''We had to monitor the tree regularly and a man was specifically appointed for this purpose,'' he added. The researchers are not satisfied by growing 121 varieties of mangoes on the tree. They want to grow more varieties. India is home to around 1,500 different varieties of mangoes of which around one thousand are commercial varieties. India is the biggest producer of mangoes in the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/not-an-aam-baat-this-tree-in-uttar-pradesh-grows-121-types-of-mangoes-1004412.html
03-07-2021||North and Central||If Owaisi becomes voter of UP, he can become CM: SBSP||Making a pitch for AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi, Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party president Om Prakash Rajbhar has said if Owaisi becomes a voter of Uttar Pradesh, then he too can become the chief minister of the state. The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AMIM) is a part of an alliance formed by Rajbhar's SBSP for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls. Without naming Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Rajbhar said that "a person proved to be clever, and he came from Uttarakhand to the state, became a voter of Uttar Pradesh and then became chief minister". "If AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi becomes a voter of Uttar Pradesh, then he can become the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh," he said while speaking to reporters on Friday in Rasra in Ballia. Claiming that Muslims constitute 20 per cent of the state’s population, the SBSP president said their representation should be there in the government as per their population. This is their right, he said. "Why cannot a son of a Muslim become chief minister or a deputy chief minister? Is being a Muslim a crime? The BJP had entered into an agreement with Mehbooba Mufti, who always spoke of separatism and Pakistan, to form government in Jammu and Kashmir," Rajbhar said. On Saturday, Union Minister for Animal Husbandry Giriraj Singh in Bareilly said that in the 2022 assembly elections, Adityanath will be forming the government in the state. "AIMIM chief Asaduudin Owaisi and SBSP chief Om Prakash Rajbhar are dreaming (day-dreaming) like 'Mungerilal'. Owaisi wants to end the social harmony of the country, and is spreading misunderstanding. Yogi Adityanath will be forming the government in the state," Singh told reporters at Bareilly's Indian Veterinary Research Institute. Singh is on a two-day visit to Bareilly. On Congress MP Rahul Gandhi's statement that vaccines are not available in July, the minister said, "If he (Rahul Gandhi) has to get vaccinated, he should tell the Centre where he wants to get vaccinated. Posters have been put up at various vaccination centres telling people to come and get vaccination done. Those who want to say only negative things, will do."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/if-owaisi-becomes-voter-of-up-he-can-become-cm-sbsp-1004415.html
03-07-2021||North and Central||Pushkar Singh Dhami to take over as Uttarakhand CM today||Pushkar Singh Dhami, a young two-term MLA, was on Saturday chosen as the next Chief Minister of Uttarakhand, making him the third person to helm the state in nearly four months. The BJP Legislature Party elected 45-year-old Dhami as the successor of Tirath Singh Rawat, who quit as chief minister after 114 days in office expressing inability to meet the constitutional requirement to get elected to the state assembly. The Election Commission had deferred bypolls due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Dhami and senior BJP leaders met Governor Baby Rani Maurya and informed her about the new legislature party leader. The new chief minister is scheduled to take the oath of office at 5:00 p.m. on Sunday. The change of guard in Uttarakhand comes barely seven months ahead of the assembly elections early next year. On March 10, Tirath Singh Rawat had replaced Trivendra Singh Rawat as chief minister following complaints against him by party leaders and MLAs. The BJP leadership opted for an old RSS-ABVP hand, ignoring claims of leaders such as Satpal Maharaj, who had quit the Congress to join the BJP before the 2017 elections. Dhami, a two-term MLA from Khatima, has been associated with the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad during his student days at the Lucknow University and later served as the president of the Uttarakhand unit of the Bhartiya Janata Yuva Morcha for two terms. He also served as an Officer on Special Duty to the then Chief Minister Bhagat Singh Koshyari from 2001-02. It was Koshiyari, the current Maharashtra Governor, who encouraged Dhami to take to electoral politics. Born in the Kanalichhina area in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh region, Dhami studied law and pursued higher studies in human resources management and industrial relations at the Lucknow University in the then undivided Uttar Pradesh. Dhami first brush with politics was during his student days and later held several positions in the Uttar Pradesh unit of the ABVP. He shifted to Uttarakhand politics after the formation of the state in 2000 and is known for his skills to mobilise the youth for social initiatives. “I am thankful to the central leadership of the BJP for having chosen an ordinary party worker and the son of an ex-serviceman to serve the state,” Dhami told reporters in Dehradun soon after being elected as chief minister. “There are challenges ahead. I will take everyone along and face them,” Dhami said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pushkar-singh-dhami-to-take-over-as-uttarakhand-cm-today-1004420.html
03-07-2021||North and Central||NDMC, CSC join hands to boost municipal services under Digital India||Seeking to boost municipal services offered to people, the north corporation has joined hands with a technology firm under the Digital India initiative, officials said on Saturday. An MoU was signed between the North Delhi Municipal Corporation and CSC e-Governance Services India Limited at the Civic Centre here on Friday to facilitate better services to the citizens of north Delhi, they said. Common Service Centres (CSC) scheme is one of the mission mode projects under the Digital India Programme of the Union government. CSC has been set up by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology to oversee implementation of the CSC scheme. CSC scheme provides a centralised collaborative framework for delivery of services to citizens. North Delhi Mayor Raja Iqbal Singh said various online municipal services such as registration of birth and death, property tax, e-mutation, health trade license, general trade license, factory license application services, park and community hall booking, renewal of tehbazari, and hawking would be available online through these CSCs. He said around 15 municipal services would be available to the citizens through about 816 CSCs run by the Union government. Citizens who do not have IT infrastructure access can avail multiple municipal services under CSC centres, Singh said, adding, now it would be easy for the citizens to get access to municipal service through these centres. Municipal Commissioner Sanjay Goel said CSCs are the access points for delivery of essential public utility services, social welfare schemes, healthcare, financial, education and agriculture services and now civic services of NDMC would also be available to the citizens of north Delhi. It provides digital access and to make e-governance services available to the citizens at doorstep, he said. Goel said the MoU is a step towards Digital India and to provide municipal services to the citizens of north Delhi in simplest way.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ndmc-csc-join-hands-to-boost-municipal-services-under-digital-india-1004428.html
03-07-2021||North and Central||Police use water cannon to disperse AAP workers trying to gherao Punjab CM's residence||Police on Saturday used water cannon to disperse AAP workers forcing their way to "gherao" the residence of Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh at Siswan here in protest against frequent power cuts. The protesting Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) workers, led by its Punjab unit chief Bhagwant Mann, shouted slogans against the Congress government over the power shortage. Police personnel were deployed in strength and multi-layered barricades were put up on the road leading to the chief minister's farmhouse. As scores of AAP workers carrying party flags forced their way through the first layer of barricades and reached the second, police used a water cannon to disperse them. Punjab has been reeling under an unprecedented power shortage with urban and rural areas facing long hours of load shedding amid scorching heat. The Punjab government had already ordered reduction in timings of state government offices and reduced power supply to high energy consuming industries. The Amarinder Singh-led government has been under fire from the opposition for not being able to provide sufficient electricity to consumers, especially to paddy growers for sowing crop. Earlier, AAP leaders slammed the Congress government for having "failed" to provide 24-hour power to people at cheaper rates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-use-water-cannon-to-disperse-aap-workers-trying-to-gherao-punjab-cms-residence-1004439.html
03-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi's first pedestrian-friendly scramble crossing at Red Fort likely to open by July 15||Delhi's Red Fort-Chandni Chowk intersection, which has been under redevelopment, is likely to open from July 15 and it will have a scramble crossing at which traffic lights completely stop vehicles to allow pedestrians to cross in any direction, including diagonally, officials said. This is Delhi's first scramble or 'X' crossing and it makes it safer for pedestrians and cyclists, they said. Besides this, the redeveloped intersection will also have raised crossovers for cyclists, traffic refuge islands and tabletop crossings for pedestrians. Tabletop crossings as pavements work as speed breakers for vehicles while pedestrians can cross the road using them while a refuge island is a small pavement where pedestrians can stop before crossing the road. "Nearly 95 per cent of construction work has been done. Cobbled stones are being fixed at present. Once finishing touches are given, we are planning to open the intersection for pedestrians, cyclists and traffic from July 15," a senior Public Works Department (PWD) official, who is engaged in the revamp work, said. This will be Delhi’s first scramble crossing that has been developed on the lines of London’s Oxford Circus diagonal crossing, the official added. The scramble crossings are widely used in countries like Japan, Canada, the US, Australia and the UK. The approximate cost of the redevelopment is Rs 3.5 crore, the PWD officials said. "The purpose is to ease pedestrian movement at the intersection and also to ensure that the theme of the area in front of the Red Fort is in tune with that of a redeveloped Chandni Chowk," the official said. The officials said that after the redevelopment of the Chandni Chowk and because of its proximity to the Red Fort, the junction will have more people amid heavy traffic. Therefore, a scramble crossing was necessary, they said. "At present, nearly 4,000 people (pedestrians and motorists) pass through the Red Fort junction per hour. This will only increase after the redevelopment of the Chandni Chowk," another PWD official said. "This scramble crossing will enhance the load-bearing capacity of the junction and accommodate more pedestrians, which is highly anticipated after the redevelopment,” the official said. Besides pedestrian safety measures, the traffic junction will also have a dedicated space for a police booth, and decorative lights and flowering plants. The revamp of the intersection had started in March-end and was to be completed in 40 days but it got delayed. "The delay was due to shortage of workforce as many labourers engaged in the construction work had gone to their hometowns during the second wave of Covid-19 in April," a PWD official said. Other than making the intersection safer for pedestrians, the PWD has also worked to make it more beautiful. "Our theme is an amalgamation of Mughal-era architecture with modern design and facilities. So, we are using red granite stones and red concrete from Rajasthan in the revamp work so that it matches with the heritage theme of a redeveloped Chandni Chowk and the Red Fort,” the official said. Even on the main road, the PWD will not use black tar to carpet the street. Red granite stones are laid in around in a 1,000 square-metre area of the intersection, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-first-pedestrian-friendly-scramble-crossing-at-red-fort-likely-to-open-by-july-15-1004455.html
03-07-2021||North and Central||DMA moves SC for guidelines to prevent attacks on medical fraternity, staff||The Delhi Medical Association has approached the Supreme Court for directions to the Centre and other authorities to prevent frequent attacks on medical fraternity and their establishments by taking adequate security measures and declaring hospitals and nursing homes as protected zones. In a PIL, the DMA and its Assam President, Dr Satyajit Borah, sought framing of guidelines to have a requisite preventive and security system in place to have a safe working environment for healthcare professionals and other staff to prevent any assault, violence or mob lynching against them by patients relatives or friends. The petition, filed through advocate Sneha Kalita, also pleaded for formulating a mechanism to ensure speedy trials in assault cases against medical service professionals. The association sought a direction to all state governments to display a banner prominently in every health establishment as a warning against any kind of violence or assault with healthcare workers. It said medicare service institutions and its staff have been rendering their untiring service to humankind, and more, during the current Covid-19 pandemic. "A preventive, punitive and compensatory mechanism for adequate safety measures to them is a need of the hour wherein the healthcare workers are fighting a war like situation with either limited or scarce resource," the plea stated. Out of 28 states and eight Union Territories, only 23 states and two UTs have their own legislations regarding the medical healthcare professionals and personnel against any violence with a maximum period of three years imprisonment. The law in Arunachal Pradesh, however, prescribed maximum imprisonment upto 10 years and with a fine which may extend to 5 lakhs for such violence, it pointed out. According to medical journal The Lancet, nearly 75% doctors in India have faced either verbal or physical violence during their lifetime.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dma-moves-sc-for-guidelines-to-prevent-attacks-on-medical-fraternity-staff-1004483.html
03-07-2021||North and Central||UP district panchayat chief polls: Party-backed candidates won 67 of 75 seats, claims BJP||The Uttar Pradesh BJP has claimed that the party-backed candidates won 67 of 75 seats of the district panchayat chief, the voting for which was held on Saturday. State BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh told reporters that the success of the party was due to the welfare policies initiated by its government and the popularity of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. "The BJP+ (BJP and its allies) has won 67 out of 75 seats of zila panchayat chairpersons. For these unprecedented results, I thank the people of the state and hardworking party workers," he said in a Hindi tweet. The polling for the seats had begun at 11 am and continued till 3 pm. Meanwhile, a video surfaced on social media, in which former Samajwadi Party MP from Chandauli Ramkishun Yadav can be seen falling at the feet of members of a zila panchayat, allegedly to seek votes for his nephew, prompting UP BJP spokesperson Rakesh Tripathi to make a jibe about his party. In a Hindi tweet, Tripathi said, "Those (SP) who fled in the past elections were seen falling at the feet of voters and begging for votes. This took place on Friday night." SP MLC Ashutosh Sinha said Yadav only touched the feet of independent voters. "Tej Narayan Yadav is the nephew of Ramkishun Yadav. Tej Narayan is supported by the SP for the post of the zila panchayat chairperson," he told PTI. Chairpersons of 22 zila panchayats were declared elected unopposed on Tuesday. Of these, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) claimed to have won 21 seats. The state Election Commission did not announce the party affiliation of the winning candidates. The panchayat polls or those for district panchayat chiefs are not held on a party symbol but candidates enjoy the tacit support of various parties. The districts where zila panchayat chairpersons won unopposed are Saharanpur, Bahraich, Etawah, Chitrakoot, Agra, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Meerut, Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr, Amroha, Moradabad, Lalitpur, Jhansi, Banda, Shravasti, Balrampur, Gonda, Gorakhpur, Mau, Varanasi, Pilibhit and Shahjahanpur. Zila panchayat chiefs are elected from among the elected members of zila panchayats. The four-phase panchayat polls concluded in the state last month. On Monday, Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati had said her party has decided not to contest the zila panchayat chief elections as it wants to channel its energy on strengthening the organisation before the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls next year. The BSP president asserted that the people of the state want her party to form the next government. Once the BSP forms its government in the state, the majority of the zila panchayat chairman themselves will join the BSP as they cannot function without power. We have kept this fact in mind and so decided not to contest the election, she had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-district-panchayat-chief-polls-party-backed-candidates-won-67-of-75-seats-claims-bjp-1004511.html
03-07-2021||North and Central||Mehbooba Mufti calls ending of 'darbar move' insensitive decision||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Saturday termed the ending of 149-year-old practice of 'darbar move' as an “insensitive” decision, adding that its economic and social benefits outnumbered the expenses incurred for moving of the offices during summer and winter. “GOIs recent decision to stop Darbar move is penny wise & pound foolish. Its economic & social benefits outnumber expenses incurred for moving the capital during summer & winter. Quite obvious that such insensitive decisions are taken by those who least care for J&K's welfare,” she wrote on Twitter. GOIs recent decision to stop Darbar move is penny wise & pound foolish. Its economic & social benefits outnumber expenses incurred for moving the capital during summer & winter. Quite obvious that such insensitive decisions are taken by those who least care for J&K’s welfare. The Jammu and Kashmir administration had last month announced that it has completely transitioned to e-office, thereby ending the practice of the biannual darbar move. The practice of darbar move - under which the administration functions in Jammu during six months of winter and in Srinagar during summer - was started by Maharaja Gulab Singh in 1872 to escape extreme weather conditions in the two regions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mehbooba-mufti-calls-ending-of-darbar-move-insensitive-decision-1004520.html
03-07-2021||North and Central||Hundreds queue up for police recruitment in Kashmir||The process of recruitment for an exclusive border battalion of Kashmir began on Saturday as hundreds of youth turned up for the physical test in Baramulla district, police said. The government has announced two battalions each for the regions of Jammu and Kashmir. There are 1,350 posts – 675 for each battalion, officials said, adding about 40,000 applications have been received for the vacant posts in J&K UT as well as Ladakh. The advertisement regarding the recruitment was issued in March 2019 and the physical test for the Jammu candidates concluded in January this year. “The process (in Kashmir) started today and the physical test of the candidates of border areas of Baramulla, Kupwara and Bandipora districts is on,” recruitment board member Maqsood-ul-Zaman told reporters in Baramulla. “There is total transparency in the process and we have made good use of technology for the tests,” he said. Zaman said there was a tremendous response to the recruitment and people were enthusiastic. “We called only 800 candidates today for the screening on the first day of the process due to Covid protocols and it will continue like this,” he said. He said this battalion will augment J&K police and was an employment opportunity for the youth of the border areas. “The representation of the people from border areas was less in J&K police. So, this is exclusively for them as they face many difficulties…” he said. Meanwhile, J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha said the youth have shown an overwhelming response to the recruitment. “Exuberant youth of Baramulla gave an overwhelming response during recruitment for the border battalion, which will continue till July 10th. Hundreds of youths to be a part of the J&K police force and security to safeguard the borders of the nation,” he wrote on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hundreds-queue-up-for-police-recruitment-in-kashmir-1004529.html
03-07-2021||North and Central||Will turn challenge of 2022 into opportunity: Pushkar Singh Dhami||Pushkar Singh Dhami, who is all set to become the next chief minister of Uttarakhand, Saturday said he will turn the challenge of 2022 assembly polls into an opportunity.    "Yes of course it is a challenge but we will turn it into an opportunity," he told reporters soon after meeting Governor Baby Rani Maurya to inform her about his election as the leader of the BJP's legislature party.  Dhami, who will be sworn in on Sunday, takes over at a time when the state is going to the assembly polls early next year.  He thanked the party's central leadership including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP president J P Nadda for choosing a common party worker like him for the top job saying his party was the first in the country to do something like this. He also expressed a sense of pride in the fact that India was distributing anti-Covid vaccines among other countries.  "This is the true spirit of Vasudhaiv Kutumbakam (the entire universe is family). This is the spirit behind the Prime Minister's Mantra of  Sab ka saath, sab ka vikas sab ka vishwas," he said. Asked whether there would be a cabinet reshuffle in the state, he said he would be able to say something on it only after he had done proper homework.         When asked whether he will work for the unemployed youth, he said he will definitely make an effort to get them jobs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-turn-challenge-of-2022-into-opportunity-pushkar-singh-dhami-1004535.html
03-07-2021||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: Naxals attack mining site, kill one||Naxals attacked an iron ore mining site in Chhattisgarh's Narayanpur district on Saturday and killed an employee of a private firm after torching six vehicles and machinery, police said. An exchange of fire took place between the Naxals and security personnel who were rushed to the area after receiving information about the attack, said a police official. The incident took place in Dongar hills in the Aamdai Ghati area, 350 km from the state capital Raipur, where Jayaswal Neco Industries Limited (JNIL) has been allotted an iron ore mine. Production is yet to start and pre-mining area development work was underway, officials said. “Naxals stormed the construction site around 10 am and threatened workers, asking them to stop the work," Inspector General of Police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P told PTI. They set fire to four Poclain excavator machines and two Hyva trucks besides other machinery deployed for the construction work, he said. “There were 14 workers at the spot. Before fleeing, the Naxals thrashed some workers. They beat Pradip Sheel, a supervisor, to death with sticks,” the IG said. Sheel hailed from Bhilai in Durg district, he added. The rebels also fired gunshots and grenades at the nearby camp of the Chhattisgarh Armed Force, another official said. “After being alerted about the incident, a team of security forces from a nearby police camp set off for the spot. Some Naxals who were hiding in the forest fired country-made BGL (barrel grenade launcher) on security forces and the camp, leading to a gun battle," district Superintendent of Police Mohit Garg said. No security personnel was injured in the skirmish, he added. Reinforcement was rushed to the spot and 13 workers and the body of the dead employee were evacuated to Chhote Dongar police station, he said, adding that a search operation was on to trace the rebels. Thousands of tribals had staged a protest against iron ore mining in the area in December 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-naxals-attack-mining-site-kill-one-1004542.html
03-07-2021||North and Central||Arvind Kejriwal reviews power supply in Delhi, says successful in meeting growing demand||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday reviewed the power supply situation in Delhi as the peak demand for electricity rose sharply due to hot and humid weather in the past few days. An official statement said that the Delhi government is preparing to meet over 8,500 MW peak demand for electricity next year. At a review meeting, the chief minister assured the discoms of the government's assistance in addressing problems they face in fixing transformers due to lack of space and directed that the electric wires be either insulated put underground. Kejriwal said the growing power demand is being successfully met and all residents of Delhi are getting electricity supply round the clock. "Every year, Delhi goes through an average 4-5 per cent increased demand for power because of new consumers. We have been successful in meeting the growing demand until now and are supplying power round the clock to all the residents of Delhi." Delhi Power Minister Satyendar Jain, additional chief secretary Satya Gopal, and CEOs of all power distribution companies, and officials of the power department were also present in the review meeting. Delhi's peak power demand scaled a new high of 7,323 MW on Friday afternoon. The season's earlier peak of 7,026 MW was registered on Thursday which in turn broke the previous day's record of 6,921 MW.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arvind-kejriwal-reviews-power-supply-in-delhi-says-successful-in-meeting-growing-demand-1004550.html
03-07-2021||North and Central||SAD chief Sukhbir Badal alleges illegal sand mining at Punjab's Mukerian||Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday alleged illegal sand mining at Hoshiarpur’s Mukerian, drawing a reaction from state minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria who dubbed the allegations as a desperate bid to gain the lost political ground. Badal made allegations during a “surprise” visit to mining sites and told reporters that the nexus between some officials and Congress leaders was responsible for the illegal mining. Badal asked Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and Mining Minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria to disclose the rules that permitted excavations up to 200 feet to extract sand, adding that land along several villages in the constituency has been “ravaged” by the mafia in active connivance with police and officials. While walking around Dhamian, Sandhwal and Bringali villages, the former state deputy chief minister alleged that the sand mafia dug up in trenches to restrict the movement of vehicles. “Such kind of tactics cannot stop the SAD from exposing them,” said Sukhbir. He said even though more than 10 villages have been ravaged by the mafia here, the government is least concerned. “Even today the local police facilitated illegal miners by informing them about the visit in advance so that they could flee. The mafia is so brazen that they dug up trenches to ensure we could not reach the spot where illegal mining was being done. They even tried to prevent our exit from the area by digging the 'kutcha' road,” he alleged. The SAD president said it was shocking that even though rules permitted excavation till 10 feet, the sand mafia had done excavations till 200 feet, which had resulted in the formation of a lake in the area with ground water seeping up. Badal also alleged that "goonda tax" of Rs 10,000 per truck is being charged from local truckers as well as those who operate in neighbouring Himachal Pradesh by the mining mafia. Badal alleged that the Congress government had "presided over" a loot of more than Rs 1,000 crore in illegal sand mining alone and said once his party is voted to power, they will recover this amount and register cases against the guilty. Later, in a statement issued here, Mining Minister Sukhbinder Sarkaria accused Badal of “desperate attempts to gain the lost political ground”. He said the sites visited by Badal in Hoshiarpur district were auctioned in the previous SAD-BJP regime. Several attempts were made by some people to continue illegal mining but the department acted swiftly besides imposing heavy penalties, the minister claimed. The minister said this was the only reason that the Akalis went to their “favourite” mining sites and there was no machinery as well as illegal mining as claimed by the Akalis. The entire Punjab knows that the word sand mafia originated in the Akali government and the Akalis “looted” Punjab. Sarkaria said Badal was making “useless” visits just for “political motives” as he knew that the “transparency” ensured by the Congress government in mining activities would become an issue in the upcoming assembly polls. He said Badal was trying to “mislead” people of Punjab by visiting those sites, which were allotted during the Akali regime and the Mining Department had already initiated actions against such sites. On June 30, the SAD chief had made similar charges when he visited the Beas river bank in Amritsar. The state Mining Department had trashed Badal's accusations and asserted that the site visited by the SAD chief near the Beas river was legal one.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sad-chief-sukhbir-badal-alleges-illegal-sand-mining-at-punjabs-mukerian-1004561.html
03-07-2021||North and Central||IMD forecasts 3-4 degrees Celsius temperature drop in north India as heat wave abates; rainfall in Delhi||Rains accompanied by gusty winds brought some respite to the national capital on Saturday, even as some north Indian states reeled under searing temperatures despite the meteorological department saying that the heat wave sweeping through the region has abated. The downpour in parts of Delhi may have brought the mercury down by a few notches following four days of intense heat, but normal life took a hit in Rajasthan, Punjab and Haryana as the temperatures continued to climb. In Rajasthan, Karauli recorded the highest maximum temperature of the day at 42.1 degrees Celsius, and Bathinda in Punjab saw the mercury jump to 42 degrees Celsius. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Saturday said the oppressive heatwave that was sweeping through the north Indian plains and hills has abated and no such conditions were likely during the next five days that will likely see the mercury drop by 3-4 degrees. "As predicted, heatwave conditions have abated from the plains of northwest India with occurrence of only isolated heat waves over Haryana yesterday (Friday)," it said. The IMD had issued a heatwave alert for July 1-2. On Friday, fairly widespread rainfall occurred over Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and adjoining parts of west Uttar Pradesh due to a western disturbance, bringing respite from the prevailing heatwave conditions. "Maximum temperatures over the plains of northwest India are likely to fall by 3-4 degrees Celsius today (Saturday), and no significant change is likely thereafter. Subsequently, no heatwave conditions are likely over the region during the next five days," the IMD said. It said the abatement of the heatwave is due to south-westerly winds from the Arabian Sea. However, due to an increase in humidity in association with these winds, the discomfort will continue during the next five days, the IMD said. In Delhi, the maximum temperature was recorded at 38.6 degrees Celsius, two notches above the season's normal, while the relative humidity recorded at 5.30 pm was 43 per cent. The city had recorded a high of 41.3 degrees Celsius on Friday. The weatherman has predicted partly cloudy skies with light rain and thundershowers for Sunday, with the maximum and minimum temperatures expected to be around 39 degrees Celsius and 24 degrees Celsius respectively. The city received 19 mm rainfall since Friday. As scorching heat conditions prevailed in Rajasthan, Sriganganagar, Pilani and Phalodi recorded maximum temperatures of 41.7 degrees Celsius, 41.3 degrees Celsius and 41.2 degrees celsius respectively, according to the Met department in Jaipur. While the weather was dry in the state throughout the day, Dholpur and Dabok received 0.5 and 0.2 mm rains respectively. Hot weather conditions persisted in Punjab and Haryana as well. Bathinda's maximum temperature of 42 degrees Celsius was the highest in the two states. Among other places in Punjab, Amritsar, Ludhiana, Patiala and Faridkot recorded their maximum temperatures at 35.4, 35.2, 37.8 and 37 degrees Celsius respectively, according to a report of the Meteorological Department in Chandigarh. In Haryana, Ambala, Hisar and Karnal recorded their respective maximum temperatures at 38, 40.6 and 36.6 degrees Celsius, up to three degrees above normal. Narnaul, Rohtak, Gurgaon and Bhiwani recorded their maximum temperatures at 40.5, 38.9, 40.3 and 38.9 degrees Celsius, respectively. Chandigarh, the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana, recorded its maximum temperature at 36.4 degrees Celsius.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/imd-forecasts-3-4-degrees-celsius-temperature-drop-in-north-india-as-heat-wave-abates-rainfall-in-delhi-1004570.html
03-07-2021||North and Central||Did not sleep for seven nights during oxygen crisis: Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday said he did not sleep for seven nights when the state faced a severe oxygen shortage during the peak of the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. “I have no hesitation to disclose today that I did not sleep a wink for seven nights when the state faced an oxygen crisis,” he said at a program here. "News came that such-and-such hospital will run out of oxygen in 30 minutes. We worked hard to make oxygen available. I used to talk to the driver of the oxygen tanker to find out where he had reached,” Chouhan said. The state government was ramping up the health infrastructure and working to end the vaccine shortage to fight off a possible third wave, he said, adding that people must understand that the pandemic is not over. Around 80,000 people are being tested daily in the state, he said. Chouhan also said that officials should keep an eye on the people going to and coming from neighbouring Maharashtra where a relatively large number of cases are being reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/did-not-sleep-for-seven-nights-during-oxygen-crisis-shivraj-singh-chouhan-1004573.html
03-07-2021||North and Central||BJP will win 2022 UP polls with a huge margin, claims Yogi Adityanath||As the BJP on Saturday claimed to have swept the elections to the posts of the district panchayat chief, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said the party will win the 2022 elections with a huge margin. "We'll win more than 300 seats," the Chief Minister told news agency ANI. Responding to Samajwadi Party's (SP) allegation that the ruling party "kidnapped" voters and used "force" to stop them from voting, the Chief Minister said it is the result of the hard work of BJP workers. SP chief Akhilesh Yadav accused the BJP of making a mockery of the elections, saying it is strange that while most results in the polls for the district panchayat members were in favour of his outfit, the BJP gained in the contest for the district panchayat chief. Though the panchayat polls in UP are not held on the party symbol and the state Election Commission did not announce the party affiliation of the winning candidates, the BJP claimed that the candidate backed by it won on 67 of 75 posts, the elections for which were held on Saturday. Claiming victory, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said in a tweet that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s popularity and welfare policies initiated by his government and the Centre are responsible for the party’s good show. "This is the manifestation of public confidence in the good governance that has been established in Uttar Pradesh. Thanks to all people of the state and a hearty congratulations for the victory," he said. उत्तर प्रदेश में जिला पंचायत अध्यक्ष पद के चुनाव में भाजपा की ऐतिहासिक विजय आदरणीय प्रधानमंत्री जी की लोक कल्याणकारी नीतियों का प्रतिफल है। यह उत्तर प्रदेश में स्थापित सुशासन के प्रति जन विश्वास का प्रकटीकरण है। सभी प्रदेशवासियों का धन्यवाद एवं विजय की हार्दिक बधाई!||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-will-win-2022-up-polls-with-a-huge-margin-claims-yogi-adityanath-1004578.html
03-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi records 86 new Covid-19 cases, 5 deaths||Delhi recorded 86 fresh Covid-19 cases and five deaths due to the disease on Saturday, according to data shared by the Health Department here. The city's positivity rate was recorded at 0.11 per cent, down from 0.13 per cent on Friday. The five new fatalities have pushed the death toll in the city to 24,988, as per the latest bulletin. On Friday, Delhi had reported 93 cases of the infection and two deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-86-new-covid-19-cases-5-deaths-1004579.html
03-07-2021||Opinion||Experts break silence on J&J Covid-19 boosters||By Michelle Goldberg, Early last month, I got my third Covid vaccine shot. I now realise this was overkill, and I’m fairly embarrassed about it, but at the time I felt like I was operating in an information vacuum. Let me explain. As I’ve written before, I participated in the Johnson & Johnson vaccine trial. Even though I initially got the placebo, the study offered me the opportunity to get the real thing weeks before I’d have otherwise been eligible, and I gratefully accepted. At the time, public health authorities were telling everyone to take the first shot you could get. I’m still glad I followed this advice; after gutting out the worst year of my life, I was terrified of getting Covid right on the brink of vaccine salvation. But then things started to go wrong for J&J. At the end of March, news broke of problems at the Baltimore plant manufacturing the vaccine, and up to 15 million contaminated doses had to be scrapped. (Eventually, around 60 million doses were thrown away.) In mid-April federal authorities called for a pause on the use of J&J shots because, in very rare cases, they were linked to a blood-clotting disorder. By then, I’d had my vaccine for a month. But I was anxious about what the problems with J&J meant for boosters. When I got my inoculation, I knew the company was testing a two-dose regimen, and I thought it was likely that I’d end up getting a second Johnson & Johnson shot. Suddenly that seemed unclear. In the following weeks, my uncertainty only grew. Because J&J has made up only a small fraction of vaccinations, there’s been a paucity of information about how it’s performed in the real world. In May, for example, when the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said that vaccinated people don’t have to wear masks indoors, it was primarily based on findings that the mRNA vaccines — those manufactured by Pfizer and Moderna — inhibit transmission. I had no intention of living my life more cautiously than people who’d got the mRNA shots, but I hated feeling like I was more vulnerable than them. So in May, with vaccines plentiful where I live, I went to a nearby clinic and got a Pfizer shot. At that point, I reasoned, European countries were already combining the AstraZeneca vaccine, which uses roughly the same mechanism as J&J, with mRNA shots. A British study found no danger from mixing doses aside from increased side effects. And a Spanish study showed that when the AstraZeneca shot was followed by Pfizer, it seemed to trigger a more potent immune response than two doses of AstraZeneca did. No one at the clinic asked if I’d already been vaccinated. Still, I felt that I was doing something sneaky and disreputable, and not just because it’s unfair that Americans have such a glut of doses. In general, I don’t think people like me, with no medical expertise whatsoever, should ignore expert guidance on vaccines because “I’ve done my own research” on the internet. But the experts weren’t telling people who’d gotten J&J much of anything. I reached out to a couple of high-profile physicians and scientists, but they didn’t answer me, perhaps out of reluctance to provide untested medical advice. Some other people were quietly doing the same thing I had. Right after getting the Pfizer shot, I called the J&J trial to confess, in case the people running it needed me to drop out. The person I spoke to said that while it wasn’t ideal, I should keep participating and that I wasn’t the only volunteer who’d gone out and gotten a second vaccine. The evidentiary void around J&J seemed to grow more frightening with the spread of the delta variant. Previously, data from Britain had shown that a single dose of either Pfizer or AstraZeneca provided pretty good protection against Covid infection. With delta, single-dose protection went way down, to around 35%. For weeks, no one knew what that meant for the J&J vaccine. Angela Rasmussen, a virus expert at the Vaccine and Infectious Disease Organization at the University of Saskatchewan, had the Johnson & Johnson shot and has been hearing from people who’d also gotten it and were scared. “I really don’t blame people; they keep hearing all this stuff about two shots, two shots, delta, you need to be fully vaccinated,” she told me earlier this week. “And nobody’s really saying anything about Johnson & Johnson.” Many people, she said, “feel that they’ve been left behind because there really isn’t any new information coming out about it.” On June 21, Rasmussen decided to get a Pfizer booster. At around the same time, Michael Z. Lin, a neurobiologist and bioengineer at Stanford, wrote a Twitter thread arguing that the CDC should issue guidance on mRNA boosters for people who’d received J&J. A couple of days later, Andy Slavitt, until recently a senior adviser to President Joe Biden’s pandemic response team, put out an episode of his podcast titled, “The Delta Variant Question No One Will Answer,” addressing those who’d received Johnson & Johnson and were wondering about getting another shot. He was equivocal: Either wait for the data or “go ahead and take a Pfizer or Moderna shot.” I wish I’d heard these voices earlier, because by then I’d already gotten two Pfizer shots. When the clinic scheduled my second appointment, I wasn’t sure whether to return for it. I’m still not sure why I did. Mostly, at a time when no one was talking about J&J boosters, I didn’t want to be an anomaly. I wanted the full Pfizer course because I didn’t want to worry about whether new findings about mRNA effectiveness against the variants applied to me. Nothing bad happened, but the experts I spoke to said that the third shot was unnecessary and that there’s a point after which too much immune stimulation can be harmful. “There’s no pressing reason to go beyond a single RNA booster,” Lin told me. Indeed, there may be no reason to get a booster at all. On Thursday evening, with discussion of boosting J&J all over the media, Johnson & Johnson released data showing that its vaccine retains most of its effectiveness against the delta variant. “Booster shots seem unnecessary, at least for now,” The New York Times reported. The news from Johnson & Johnson didn’t change Lin’s thinking. As he sees it, even before the delta variant, J&J wasn’t as effective as the mRNA vaccines, which makes him apprehensive about breakthrough infections. And because delta is more transmissible than previous variants, those who do have breakthrough infections could be more likely to infect others. No one I spoke to had any second thoughts about the message, during the early part of the vaccine rollout, to take the first shot you can get. When vaccines were in short supply and the virus was surging, it made sense. But now that mRNA vaccines are abundant in this country, the situation has changed. It would be nice to have guidance on this from the CDC, but we shouldn’t expect it anytime soon. In the absence of data, Slavitt said, it would be irresponsible for the CDC to make a recommendation. “People want the science to tell us exactly what to do,” Slavitt said. “When we say, ‘Follow the science,’ the reality is, the science doesn’t always know.” So, as with many other aspects of this pandemic, people have to figure things out for themselves. Slavitt said one of his sons was vaccinated with Johnson & Johnson and is planning to get an mRNA booster. But, he adds, people who do the same should know they’re doing it at their own risk. The need to made decisions with imperfect information “isn’t uncommon, particularly in a situation where you’ve got a novel virus,” Slavitt said. “Eventually, that answer will be known. Of course, people don’t like to be in the uncomfortable zone before we know the answer.” I’m glad that people with expertise are finally weighing in. I just wish this conversation had gone public a few weeks sooner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/experts-break-silence-on-jj-covid-19-boosters-1004332.html
03-07-2021||Opinion||Army, air force and the drama over new theatres||Dust kicked up from the roaring rotors of Chinook and Apache helicopters on a summer’s day as they took off with the commandos from the airfield. The commandos were being inserted into enemy territory to kill or capture a person designated as a “high-value target” (HVT). The commandos were to be landed near the village where the HVT was suspected to be, sneak in and neutralise him. “Operation Red Wings” in June-July 2005 was doomed. The team of four assaulters was spotted, surrounded and all barring one were killed. The lone soldier survived with severe wounds after another sophisticated search-and-rescue operation. There are two points in this story. First, Operation Red Wings aimed at a Taliban commander Ahmed Shah in Afghanistan’s Kunar province involved the US Marines, Navy SEALS, the air force and the army. (SEAL is short for sea, air and land). Second, the airfield was Bagram, roughly 40 km north of Kabul and easily the largest military base from which multiple US and NATO forces were operating for 20 years. On Friday, the last of the US forces vacated the 1950s-era base built by the Soviets. It was almost immediately attacked by unknown persons suspected to have connections with the Taliban or were dependent on the base for jobs. Six years after Operation Red Wings, SEAL Team Six in Operation Neptune Spear took out “Jackpot” Osama Bin Laden in a compound in Pakistan’s Abbottabad and gave him, in full or parts, a sea burial from the fo’c’sle of the USS Carl Vinson Aircraft Carrier in the North Arabian Sea. In them, Red Wings and Neptune Spear illustrate how the US’ integrated battle operations are conducted at a tactical level. Yesterday, July 2, as the US troops pulled out of Bagram (with portents of another blowback in the region), India’s top military commanders were on live television practically showcasing New Delhi’s contortions over the idea of integrated theatre commands. Most modern militaries have integrated their forces under commands structured to harness their components optimally. That is not the case with India. The one glaring example: China has a singular command – the Western Theater Command (WTC) – responsible for its frontiers with India. That has been the case since 2012. That has been the case all through 2020 and till date as Indian and Chinese soldiers clawed and clubbed one another in Eastern Ladakh’s Galwan. India has seven different commands opposite China’s WTC – the northern, western (that includes the ‘Sugar sector’ part in Uttarakhand), central and eastern army commands, and the western, central and eastern air commands. To add to this scenario, there are elements of the intelligence agencies that report to the Union Home Ministry, the Aviation Research Centre (ARC), the Special Frontier Force (SFF) and the R&AW (Research and Analysis Wing) that report to the Cabinet Secretariat. Despite, or because of this, there is the poverty of plenty that failed to detect and react to China’s capture of Indian territory north and south of the placid Pangong Tso. Cutting through jargon and theory, there are basically two models of integrating militaries that are most visible. There is the US example, one that encompasses the globe divided into theatres. In this concept, India is the US’ Pacific Command Area of Responsibility (PACOM AoR). The wars in Afghanistan and Iraq are in the AoR of the US’ Central Command. The PACOM is usually helmed by an Admiral. Each of the US’ theatre commands is headed by a four-star general or equivalent from the air force/navy. Then there is the Pakistan/China model in which the army is supreme. Thus China has a Peoples’ Liberation Army Navy (PLAN) and a PLAAF (air force). In this model, the navy and the air force are important to the extent that they service the land forces. The US’ model is tailored for expeditionary warfare across the world. The China/Pak model is more homebound though the PLAN has been expanding its “sea legs” over the years.  In both models, the integration of forces post the Second World War and towards the end of the Cold War was possible because of clear political will and directions. The creation of integrated theatres is easily the biggest reform in the military because it restructures the chain of command. This means that, for the US, the Supreme Commander (the President) acting through the defense secretary directs the combatant commanders – the theatre commanders who are four-star generals. In China, the PLA is, in any case, a wing of the Communist Party. In India, when General Bipin Rawat was made Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) in January 2020, he was also given a brief: “Facilitation of restructuring of Military Commands for optimal utilisation of resources by bringing about jointness in operations, including through the establishment of joint / theatre commands.” After General Bipin Rawat stated that the task of the air force and the navy was to “support” the land forces, it raised a fundamental question: Are the CDS and his army laying the groundwork for an ancient, outmoded way of fighting in the 21st Century (Vedic warfare, if you will) when organised violence is multidimensional? Integration needs political deadlines in a manner that enabled the Goldwater-Nicholls Act of 1986. That requires the comprehension that radars do indeed see through cloudy skies. But, even the US’ military integration was made possible by an oily actor of B-grade Hollywood flicks, Ronald Reagan. (Sujan Dutta is an independent journalist based in Delhi) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the authors’ own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/army-air-force-and-the-drama-over-new-theatres-1004435.html
03-07-2021||Opinion||Amarinder and Sidhu try running each other out||A cricketing analogy would best describe the current state of affairs in the Punjab Congress, where two batsmen are trying their utmost to run each other out. Of late, both have taken to dash to Delhi with their respective howzat appeals. The umpires, the first family of the Congress, are yet to raise their finger.  When the two players, Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu, are in Chandigarh, stinging exchanges of words inevitably ensue. A gripping political buildup with fresh twists and turns unfolds each day in Punjab as it nears the Assembly polls slated for early next year. A week is a long time in politics, but there are days in the corridors of Punjab Congress that have started to seem longer. Until sometime back, of the five poll-bound states in February 2022, Punjab looked the surest chance for the Congress party to win. The infighting is harming the party's interests. But bafflingly enough, it does not seem to be on top of the agenda of anyone in the party. Leaders in the Punjab Congress are busy burning bridges behind them. Setting a precedent for them is the Congress first family, the Gandhis, who seemed to have shunned Amarinder Singh after feedback from disgruntled MLAs that he has remained inaccessible to them in the last four-and-a-half years. Sidhu has launched an attack on the chief minister on Twitter and in television interviews, and Amarinder Singh is responding in kind, leaving little scope for a future conciliation. But the Gandhis have not entirely been neutral. Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Vadra recently met Sidhu. Around the same time, Amarinder Singh too was in Delhi. But he wasn't given an appointment. The message couldn't have been more explicit - a green signal to Sidhu and something to worry about for the Punjab CM. The latest round of conflict began somewhere in February when an angry Sidhu met Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi. Subsequently, Punjab affairs-in-charge of the Congress Harish Rawat reportedly conveyed Sonia Gandhi's message to Amarinder Singh to rehabilitate Sidhu. Amarinder Singh offered Sidhu a place in the state cabinet. However, Sidhu was interested in the post of Congress state unit chief. Subsequently, Rawat met Sidhu in March and offered him the deputy chief minister's post, which the latter declined. So, why is Sidhu keen on becoming the Congress state unit president? The best place to draw a roadmap to unseat Amarinder Singh is by becoming the state unit chief. The Gandhis, the referees, seem to have sided with Sidhu to squeeze Amarinder Singh out of the game. If Congress wins the 2022 assembly elections, Sidhu will be in the best position to stake a claim for the chief minister's post as the state unit chief. But to be able to win the polls, the inner differences have to be resolved.  However, there is no truce in sight. The Congress MLAs have knocked at the doors of 10 Janpath with their grievances against Amarinder Singh. Nearly three dozen Congress legislators had apprised the Congress high command that voters were not satisfied with the government's handling of the sacrilege case. Neither did these MLAs show any solid support to Sidhu. Yet all the grumblings that reached the Congress high command immediately found their echo in Sidhu's tweets. This has suggested that while Sidhu is leading the rebellion against Amarinder Singh, the top leadership in Delhi has contrived it. Predictably, Amarinder Singh is miffed with the high command. While he is keen to score a first-ever back-to-back victory in the assembly polls, Amarinder Singh can bring the Punjab Congress to get its act together, but only if he is at the helm. He has taken to host luncheon meetings and even managed to win over some of the disgruntled MLAs back into his fold. As part of the lunch diplomacy, he recently hosted the party's Hindu MLAs at his residence on July 1. In a bid to cut Sidhu to size, Amarinder Singh floated the idea that a Hindu or a Dalit face should lead the Punjab Congress into the 2022 polls. But the current state unit chief, Sunil Jakhar, is Hindu. Of late, Amarinder Singh and Jakhar do not see eye to eye after the latter's criticism of the chief minister for offering jobs to Congress MLAs Fateh Jang Bajwa and Rakesh Pandey's sons to get them to be on his side. Amarinder Singh hosted two luncheon meetings in the last few months. In the last week of March, he lunched with 20 MLAs and the other in the second week of June with 10 MLAs from the Amritsar district. Therefore, the current political equation in the Punjab Congress is as follows: Amarinder Singh plus Punjab ministers plus the CM's luncheon guest MLAs versus the Congress high command plus Sidhu. Former Gurdaspur MP Pratap Singh Bajwa, former CM Rajinder Kaur Bhattal and Jakhar, all key players, are currently fence-sitters. The people's anger at the unresolved issue of sacrilege is likely to be directed at the Badals and Amarinder Singh. The incidents took place during the regime of the Badals. Amarinder Singh had vowed but failed to bring the guilty to book.  The circumstances offer the Aam Aadmi Party an opportunity to get lucky this time round if it plays its cards well. However, if Congress is a house divided between Sidhu and Amarinder Singh, the AAP is almost a leaderless party in Punjab. Keen watchers of Punjab affairs who some time back thought Congress had a fair chance of being voted back to power now say that the top leaders of the Congress are digging their graves. (The writer is a Chandigarh-based journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the authors’ own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/amarinder-and-sidhu-try-running-each-other-out-1004486.html
03-07-2021||Right in the Middle||Bond with the family physician||Our family doctor, who was also our friend, had proudly announced: “Amma, by cutting the nails of your son, I have now become Sodaramaava (maternal uncle) of this infant.” He smilingly explained that in some communities in the country, when the maternal uncle trims the first-erupted fingernails of an infant, he is rewarded with a diamond by the child’s parents. As my son grew up, the family physician, a former army doctor, became my son’s paediatrician too. I always sought Dr Shirdi Prasad Tekur’s advice even when my son developed a minor ailment— forgetting that I and my husband are both doctors too. “Yeno, ice cream tindya, yaake negadi bandide? (Did you eat ice cream and got a cold?),” the doctor would ask my son, auscultating my son’s chest with his stethoscope. He would then prescribe an anti-worm drug and an anti-allergic medication. My son would regain his health in 3 days. Later, when my son completed his MD in Internal Medicine with distinction, I went with a pair of silver ‘Diyas’ to the doctor’s clinic and told him: “Shirdi, you will have to accept this gift, remember you became my elder brother 27 years ago, the day you trimmed my son’s nails. Instead of a diamond, I gratefully present you with a pair of silver lamps”. With much reluctance, the wizardly doctor accepted the gift. The doctor, when he called me last November, had requested to send my driver to his clinic, so that he could send a collection of a few of his published articles and would wait for my expert opinion on his write-ups. The last time that I spoke to him was on March 25 this year, the day I took my first dose of vaccine. A counsellor and a consoler for many families, Dr Tekur succumbed to Covid-19 in May after battling the virus for 15-days. In February, Dr Tekur’s video where he has talked about “how to face death” was posted on YouTube. He recalled how close he was to death when the van in which he was travelling had fallen into a gorge. Tears welled down my eyes when I read about him in Deccan Herald that a village in Odisha posthumously has honoured Dr Tekur for his humanitarian services in the field of community medicine. Adieu dear brother, family physician par excellence, Dr S P Tekur, you were missed acutely on this year’s Doctor’s Day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/bond-with-the-family-physician-1004311.html
03-07-2021||Second Edit||Keep politics out of varsity appointments||The Karnataka High Court order setting aside the removal of seven medical professionals who were nominated to the Senate and Syndicate of Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) should be a warning to the state government to stop politicisation of academic posts. In the absence of any valid and reasonable ground for ejecting the members before the end of their term, the court has debunked the “pleasure of the government” doctrine, observing that the “removal came about after a change in the ruling dispensation and hence a political bias cannot be ruled out.” All these members, who were appointed by the previous government, have now been reinstated. Such arbitrary removal as they suffered clouded their reputations and portrayed them as stooges of a particular party without justification. Universities should be insulated from politics. The government should strictly avoid appointing or axing people based on their political leanings. The court has rightly observed that “even academicians are being enslaved to the delusion of so-called power in posts which demand academic excellence. Appointments are sought to be changed to suit political considerations, resulting even in eminent people being treated with disdain.” Unfortunately, this is often the reality, with caste and political leanings playing a role in university appointments right from the post of vice-chancellors downward. The malaise is so deep-rooted now that the Governor, who in his capacity as Chancellor of state universities is mandated to uphold the integrity of the universities, appointed recently a controversial principal of a private dental college as the interim vice-chancellor of RGUHS, in contravention of all precedents and convention, that too without even consulting the medical education minister. The court order will hopefully prevent arbitrariness in removal of eminent personalities from academic posts at the whims and fancies of the government in power in future. Where appointments are for a definite tenure, it is imperative that those appointed are not disturbed unless there are valid reasons which are recorded and can be scrutinised. Universities should remain centres of distinction, not handmaidens of politicians nor steppingstones to politics for appointees or sinecures for those who could not be accommodated elsewhere. Unless the government and politicians at the helm of affairs are committed to excellence in higher education and strictly keep politics and other extraneous considerations out, our universities and our higher education system will go to seed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/keep-politics-out-of-varsity-appointments-1004318.html
03-07-2021||South||Covaxin 65% effective against Delta variant, phase 3 study reveals||Covaxin is showing an overall efficiency of 77.8% against Covid-19 and is 93.4% effective in severe cases of infection, said Bharat Biotech on Saturday, revealing the final Phase-3 trial results of the vaccine's safety and efficacy. The indigenous Covid-19 vaccine is offering 63.6% security in asymptomatic cases, and is also demonstrating 65.2% protection against the Delta variant infection, the Hyderabad-based vaccine maker announced in a joint statement with Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Saturday. “Covaxin is the first licensed SARS-CoV-2 vaccine to report promising efficacy against asymptomatic infections based on qPCR testing that will help in reducing disease transmission,” Bharat Biotech said. B.1.617.2 aka Delta, classified as a "Variant of Concern" by the World Health Organization, is reported as the coronavirus variant primarily responsible for the Covid-19 second wave in the country. “Covaxin is working well against all variant strains of SARS-CoV-2. Covaxin's successful development has consolidated the position of Indian academia and industry in the global arena,” said Prof Balram Bhargava, Secretary, Department of Health Research & Director General, ICMR. The much awaited Phase-3 clinical trial results were revealed exactly six months after the vaccine developed in public-private partnership was accorded the emergency use authorization by  the Drugs Controller General of India  on 3 January. However, the results based on the event driven analysis of 130 symptomatic Covid-19 cases, reported at least two weeks after the 2nd dose, are yet to be peer reviewed. The study outcomes are published on preprint server MedRxiv. Phase-3 trials of Covaxin were conducted between November 2020 and February 2021, on 25,800 volunteers across the country, in what Bharat Biotech claimed is “the largest Phase-3 efficacy trial ever conducted for any vaccine in India.” Around 12 percent of the 34 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country till now are Covaxin and the rest are Oxford-AstraZeneca developed and Serum Institute of India, Pune manufactured Covishield. Russian made Sputnik V, the third vaccine approved in India in April, is yet to be made available commercially. The efficacy of Covishield was pegged at 70.42 % by the DCGI, while Sputnik V, as per an article in The Lancet, was found to be displaying 91.6 percent efficacy against Covid-19 infection. Bharat Biotech said the overall rate of adverse events observed with Covaxin was lower than evident in other Covid-19 vaccines. “Safety analysis demonstrates adverse events reported were similar to placebo, with 12 % of subjects experiencing commonly known side effects and less than 0.5 % of subjects feeling serious adverse events” In the second interim analysis from Phase-3 trials put out in April, Bharat Biotech and ICMR stated that Covaxin was showing overall clinical efficacy of 78 percent and 100 percent efficacy against severe Covid-19 infections. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covaxin-65-effective-against-delta-variant-phase-3-study-reveals-1004344.html
03-07-2021||South||Covid-19: Clinical trials under way for Covaxin's booster dose||Bharat Biotech International Limited has stated that clinical trials to determine the safety and immunogenicity of Covaxin's booster dose are in process. “Our commitment to improve Covaxin is well under way with additional clinical trials to establish safety and efficacy in children between 2-18 years of age. A clinical trial to determine the safety and immunogenicity of a booster dose is also in process. Several research activities are being carried out to study variants of concern and to assess their suitability for follow-up booster doses,” Bharat Biotech said, while releasing the final Phase-3 trial results. Covaxin's trials on children began in June. The vaccine's suitability is being tested on 525 volunteers at medical centres like AIIMS New Delhi and Patna. The Phase-3 results, based on trials on 25,800 participants between 18-98 years of age, also claim that the vaccine is offering 63.6% security in asymptomatic cases, and is also demonstrating 65.2% protection against the Delta variant infection. The results are yet to be peer reviewed. “It is a momentous day for everyone at Bharat Biotech,” Suchitra Ella, Joint Managing Director said. Covaxin, given emergency use authorization in the country in January, has till now now received EUAs in 15 other nations, including, Brazil, Philippines, Iran, Mexico. EUA is in process in 50 countries worldwide. The company is in discussions with WHO to obtain emergency use listing. “The successful safety and efficacy readouts of Covaxin as a result of conducting the largest ever Covid-19 vaccines trials in India establishes the nation's ability to focus on innovation and novel product development. We are proud to state that Indian Innovation will now be available to protect global populations,” Dr Krishna Ella, Chairman & Managing Director, Bharat Biotech, said. Bharat Biotech said it has established Covaxin manufacturing at four facilities in India, and “further expansions are in process to reach an annualized capacity of one billion doses by the end of 2021.” Technology transfer activities are in progress to companies in the United States, and other countries, the biotech firm said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-clinical-trials-under-way-for-covaxins-booster-dose-1004372.html
03-07-2021||South||Story of a Kerala woman's fight for survival and her motivator go viral||While a 31-year-old woman, who made it to the Kerala Police as sub-inspector, has become an icon of inspiration as she had passed through very difficult times in life, now, a man who supported her in life has also become viral as an iconic motivator. Annie Shiva, a native of Thiruvananthapuram, had achieved much even after she was abandoned by her husband and expelled from her family for marrying her lover. With a nine-month-old son, she started her fight in life at the age of 20 by staying on the railway station waiting area, in shacks and eking out a living by selling lime juice, insurance policies and doing door-to-door delivery service. She received much attention recently as she took over as a sub-inspector at the Varkala police station, incidentally, a place where she used to sell lime juice. Over the last few days, she has been receiving appreciation from various quarters, even from celebrities like actor Mohanlal. But the real hero in the story emerged afterwards on a social media post of Annie in which a person was seen adorning a uniformed Annie with sub-inspector badge. The person was Shaji, a Kerala State Road Transport Corporation driver, who had been motivating Annie to prepare for recruitment tests and had been morally supporting her. Annie waited for a day after her passing-out parade for Shaji to come and pin the badge on her. To her friends who enquired why she was not wearing the badge, she emotionally said no one else, other than Shaji, should do it. "He is my father, brother, mentor and everything. It is because of him that I reached up to this stage in life," said Annie. Shaji, who is Annie's distant relative, is still motivating her to chase the civil services, which was indeed Annie's father's dream. "I had seen the talent in her and hence, backed her," he said. It was while doing her graduation in 2007 that Annie, who is a native of Kanjiramkulam on the suburbs of Thiruvananthapuram, ended up in a love affair and decided to marry her former husband. But he abandoned her when their son was about nine-months-old. Her family also refused to accept her. There began Annie's fight to live. She had to even change her appearance by sporting a boy's hair cut as a safety measure rather than convenience. After completing her degree, she took up jobs like being an insurance agent, doing door-to-door delivery and selling lime juice.   It was in 2012 that Annie approached Shaji, who also hails from Thiruvananthapuram, seeking help for getting an address proof for her to apply for jobs. Shaji, who is the father of two girls, was moved by Annie's plight and thereafter, considered her as his third daughter and supported her in all possible ways. He only advised her to attempt recruitment tests. Annie cleared the civil police officer's test in 2016. But she continued to dream big and cleared the sub-inspector test in 2019. Though she was initially posted in Varkala on the suburbs of Thiruvananthapuram, senior police officers, who came across her wish to serve in Kochi for the convenience of her 12-year-old son's studies, swiftly gave her a transfer to Kochi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/story-of-a-kerala-womans-fight-for-survival-and-her-motivator-go-viral-1004391.html
03-07-2021||South||Anganwadis to be fully electrified in Kerala||All anganwadi centres in Kerala will be completely electrified soon, thanks to a significant decision taken by the Left government in the state. A recent meeting, attended by Health-Women and Child Development minister Veena George and Power Minister K Krishnankutty, decided to completely electrify all childcare centres as part of plans to improve the infrastructure facilities. According to the state Social Justice Department figures, there are 33,115 anganwadi centres functioning in Kerala. Of them, 2256 centres in various districts are yet to get the power supply, an official statement said here. The anganwadis, which are not electrified even after the wiring works are completed, would be provided the connection on a war footing, it said. Details of those buildings, where the wiring process was progressing, should be handed over to the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) within one month after completing the pending works. KSEB would allot electric post free of cost to those anganwadis, if it is necessary for its electrification process, after including them in concerned schemes. There are 221 angandwadis which are facing fund crunch to meet the expenditure of electrification and respective village panchayats would extend them necessary support in this regard, it said. Besides ministers, secretaries of both departments, district collectors and panchayat presidents were also among those took part in the ministerial meeting on Thursday, the statement added. According to government figures, over 18,000 anganwadis are functioning in their own building in Kerala. While 20,837 centres have toilet facilities, over 19,000 have cooking gas connection, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/anganwadis-to-be-fully-electrified-in-kerala-1004404.html
03-07-2021||South||Neither PM nor BJP interested in conceding statehood demand of Puducherry: Narayanasamy||Senior Congress leader V Narayanasamy has charged Prime Minister Narendra Modi with showing 'no interest' to concede the demand of Puducherry for statehood. Addressing reporters on Friday night, he said when Modi was on a visit to the union territory for poll campaign in February, he did not respond to the plea of AINRC made at a public campaign for statehood for Puducherry. "The Prime Minister chose to remain silent on the demand and this proved that he is not interested in granting statehood for Puducherry," he claimed. The delegation of two Ministers of Puducherry belonging to the BJP and also the other legislators of the party who met the Prime Minister and Central Ministers recently in Delhi did not make any demand for statehood. "It is therefore very clear that neither Prime Minister nor the BJP is interested in ensuring statehood for Puducherry," he said. Narayanasamy recalled that the Congress and its alliance partners had launched a series of agitations for statehood during the previous Congress government headed by him here. "Once statehood is available, the financial status of Puducherry would improve. Decisions taken by the elected government could be implemented fast and Puducherry would be included in the Central Finance Commission," he pointed out. The former Chief Minister also took strong exception to the Centre's silence on the rise of petrol, diesel and cooking gas cylinder prices. Very soon signatures from the public would be obtained through special campaigns by the Congress as per directions of the AICC to urge the Centre to roll back the hike in prices, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/neither-pm-nor-bjp-interested-in-conceding-statehood-demand-of-puducherry-narayanasamy-1004407.html
03-07-2021||South||Auto ambulances to carry Covid-19 patients introduced in Tamil Nadu||Tamil Nadu Forest Minister K Ramachandran on Saturday flagged off six auto ambulances in Coonoor in Nilgiris district to carry Covid-19 patients. Being a hilly district, the roads and pathways were too narrow for the movement of bigger ambulances, so auto ambulances were introduced, he said. The number of Covid cases started declining after efforts taken by Chief Minister M K Stalin to ensure facilities like beds, medical oxygen and other infrastructure, Ramachandran said at a function. Considering the decline in the cases, the Chief Minister announced lockdown relaxations and was taking steps to prevent the third wave of Covid, the Forest Minister said. District Collector J Innocent Divya and other senior district officials were present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/auto-ambulances-to-carry-covid-19-patients-introduced-in-tamil-nadu-1004473.html
03-07-2021||South||Ease of doing business in Kerala comes under scanner again||The recent decision of leading garment manufacturer Kitex Garments to backtrack from a Rs 3,500 crore investment plan in Kerala has once again brought to focus the lack of 'ease of doing business' in Kerala. Even as the Kerala government claimed to have initiated measures like single-window clearance systems for investors, the state has been lagging behind in ease of doing business rankings. The state was at the 28th position in the rankings brought out by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade. Labour militancy and involvement of multiple government agencies in giving sanctions to business units are major challenges being faced by investors in Kerala. With reports that at least six states have already invited Kitex Garments to invest, the Kerala government has initiated steps to pacify the firm. Kochouseph Chittilappilly, founder and chairman emeritus of Kerala based V-Guard industries, said the fresh allegations by Kitex Garments have further fuelled criticism that Kerala was not investor-friendly. He said Kerala's ease of business ranking, that was 21 a few years ago, has now came down to 28. Though the government initiated many measures, the ground realities were remaining unchanged. Chittilappilly, who had shifted many of his business units out of Kerala, said only a stern political leadership can curb labour militancy as it was associated with politics. Lulu Group chairman Yusuff Ali M A said the Kerala government should ensure that no investor moved out of the state as investments decide the state's future. The government should try to find an amicable solution on the issues raised by Kitex group. Meanwhile, Kerala industries department officials called on Kitex Garments chairman and managing director Sabu M Jacob and initiated discussion. He said action should be taken against officials who conducted raids and issued notices citing baseless charges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ease-of-doing-business-in-kerala-comes-under-scanner-again-1004490.html
03-07-2021||South||Migrant worker dragged along road by snatchers in Kerala, 2 accused held||A migrant worker was dragged along the road by a two-member snatching gang at Koduvally in Kozhikode district of North Kerala. The brutality of the incident, that occurred on June 30, came to the fore only when CCTV footage of the incident went viral on social media. Ali Akbar, a native of Bihar, was identified as the victim. The accused, who were on a motorcycle, snatched his mobile phone. Akbar ran behind them and got hold of the rear handle of the bike. Subsequently, the snatchers dragged him along the road by trying to speed away. Akbar was unable to free his grip from the motorcycle and was dragged for nearly 150 metres, before he could let go. Akbar suffered injuries all over the body. According to local police, the two accused have been arrested. Both were local residents and have been identified as Sanukrishna and Shamnaz.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/migrant-worker-dragged-along-road-by-snatchers-in-kerala-2-accused-held-1004496.html
03-07-2021||South||Tamil Nadu to press Centre to set up tribunal, Karnataka's dam will hit irrigation: Minister||Irrigation for about 870 hectares in Tamil Nadu's Krishnagiri district would be affected by Karnataka's new dam across river Markandeya, Water Resources Minister Durai Murugan said here on Saturday. Tamil Nadu would hence continue to urge the union government to set up a tribunal and the issue would be resolved through the proposed body, he said. Appropriate steps would be taken by Tamil Nadu government to uphold the rights of the state and protect the interests of farmers and people who depend on river Markandeya, the Minister said in a statement. Referring to news reports in some dailies about Karnataka completing construction of a dam across Markandeya river, Durai Murugan said Tamil Nadu government had all along opposed this project of the neighbouring state and approached the Supreme Court in 2018. Due to this dam, irrigation for 870 hectares in Krishnagiri taluk of Tamil Nadu would be affected, he said. While Karnataka had said in 2019 that the 0.5 Thousand Million Cubic Feet capacity reservoir was almost completed, the apex court had in its judgment that year favoured setting up a tribunal to resolve the dispute. The Tamil Nadu government had over the years prevailed upon the Central government to constitute it and even last month, the union government was requested by the state to set up the tribunal expeditously. "Tamil Nadu government will continue to urge the Central government to quickly set up the tribunal. The dispute will be resolved through the tribunal," he said. Markandeya river is a tributary of Pennaiyar, that originates in Karnataka and enters Tamil Nadu in Krishnagiri district. Karnataka had maintained that the dam near Yargol village in Bangarpet taluk in Kolar district was for drinking water pruposes and groundwater replenishment. The TN government, farmers and parties have been opposing the dam as it would affect irrigation and drinking water needs of six districts including Krishnagiri.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-to-press-centre-to-set-up-tribunal-karnatakas-dam-will-hit-irrigation-minister-1004517.html
03-07-2021||South||Kerala starts publishing list of Covid-19 victims amidst concerns of privacy||In a bid to resist the allegations of underreporting of Covid deaths, Kerala government has started publishing list of Covid victims from Saturday. The daily Covid bulletin published on Saturday contained the names, place and age of the 135 Covid deaths confirmed in the last 24 hours. Health Minister Veena George herself had raised concerns of privacy involved in publishing the names of Covid victims on Friday, hours before she decided to publish the names. Earlier, the state had witnessed rows over Covid patients details being leaked out. Health department sources said that though the privacy concern was the major hindrance so far in publishing the identity of Covid victims, with the Supreme Court directing the government to give compensation to victims, many people seems to be now least bothered about privacy. Meanwhile, there were reports that the health department also stared a process of reviewing many deaths that were not recorded as Covid deaths citing other comorbid factors. The district medical officers were learnt to have been instructed to review all suspicious cases also. Though the minister earlier said that only specific cases would be reviewed based on requests, the opposition Congress demanded total review of all suspected cases. Already the state health department received scores of requests to review death reports. Moreover, many earlier cases were also kept in abeyance owing to missing of key data like Specimen Referral Form identification number (SRF ID), which is generated when a person is tested Covid positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-starts-publishing-list-of-covid-19-victims-amidst-concerns-of-privacy-1004526.html
03-07-2021||South||Golden jubilee of triumph over Pakistan: Victory Flame reaches Kerala||Celebrating the golden jubilee of India's triumph over Pakistan in 1971, the 'Swarnim Vijay Mashaal' or Victory Flame arrived at the Pangode Military Station here on Saturday from New Delhi. The Victory Flame started its journey from the eternal flame of the National War Memorial in the capital and was received in Thiruvananthapuram by Station Commander Brigadier Kartik Seshadri. Seshadri paid tribute to the heroes of the 1971 war by laying a wreath at the Pangode War Memorial, a defence release said. "As a mark of honour and respect, the Victory Flame will visit the house of 1971 war veteran Captain Gopakumar Raman Pillai, Vir Chakra, and will felicitate his wife Geetha Gopakumar at Observatory Lane, Thiruvananthapuram, on July 4" the release said. It said the team accompanying the flame would also collect the soil from the house of Capt Gopakumar Raman Pillai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/golden-jubilee-of-triumph-over-pakistan-victory-flame-reaches-kerala-1004571.html
03-07-2021||South||'Fictitious online lover' suspected to have prompted Kerala woman to kill newborn||In a twist to a six-month-old killing of a newborn at Kollam district in Kerala, the police suspect that a fictitious online lover had prompted the mother of the newborn to kill her. It was in January that a newborn was found abandoned in the premises of a house of one Sudarsanan Pillai at Kalluvathukal in the suburbs of the district. With the residents of the house pleading ignorance, the police conducted a DNA test and last month it was found that the woman was born to Pillai's daughter Reshma, who is married. She admitted to it and said that her online paramour, named Ananthu, advised her to abandon the child so that they can live together. But she maintained that she had not seen the paramour. As part of the probe, the police summoned her co-sister, Arya, for quizzing. But Arya and another close relative Greesham were found dead in a nearby river. It was suspected that they ended life by suicide. On further investigation, the police found that Reshma's online paramour was a fictitious one created by Arya and Greeshma to tease her. Fear of being caught could have forced the two to end life. Police sources said a friend of Greeshma gave a statement that she had told about the ficticious account being used. It is being verified. The youth's statement would be recorded before a magistrate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/fictitious-online-lover-suspected-to-have-prompted-kerala-woman-to-kill-newborn-1004574.html
03-07-2021||State||Taking back defectors not discussed: Deshpande||Former minister R V Deshpande on Saturday said taking legislators who defected two years ago ago into the Congress has not been discussed in the party. He also said no race is going on to become the party’s chief ministerial candidate, as elections are still far.   Speaking about that issue is not relevant now, and all should work unitedly thelp the people who are in trouble, Deshpande added||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/taking-back-defectors-not-discussed-deshpande-1004575.html
03-07-2021||State||Person ends life by self-immolation in Belagavi||A person who was deeply hurt after suffering injuries to both legs in an accident reportedly ended his life by self-immolation in his agriculture land at Honga village in Belagavi taluk. Incident came to the fore on Saturday. He has been identified as Balaram Yallappa Anandache (52).  Family members informed police that Balaram had been hurt due to injuries suffered in the accident. He had been out on Friday afternoon and did not return home. He ended life by in their agriculture lands. Kakati police are investigating.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/person-ends-life-by-self-immolation-in-belagavi-1004576.html
03-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka excise revenue grows by 55% in first quarter||The Karnataka Excise Department has registered a 55.41% growth in revenue in the first quarter of 2021-22 compared to the corresponding period, last year, when the liquor stores were shut for over a month in view of the lockdown. In the last three months, the department has raked in Rs 5,954.07 crore against Rs 3,831.17 crore in the corresponding period last year. Officials said the impressive growth in the first quarter doesn’t mean a bumper revenue year. “Last year’s jump in revenue is mainly due to the average increase of 17% in additional excise duty and better enforcement. We have to wait for at least two more quarters to make an assessment on this year’s revenue,” a senior official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-excise-revenue-grows-by-55-in-first-quarter-1004248.html
03-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka HC directs KEA to register 45 OCI students for CET 2021||The High Court of Karnataka has directed the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) to allow the 45 students holding Overseas Citizens of India (OCI) cards to take up Common Entrance Test (CET) 2021. Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum passed the order in a batch of petitions filed seeking directions to quash the notifications issued by the Union government as well as KEA, inviting applications for CET-2021.  The Union government’s notification dated March 4, 2021, denied the right to the OCI cardholders to be considered as Indian citizens. They have been made eligible only for NRI seats and also not eligible for admission against any seat reserved exclusively for Indian citizens. The petitioners contend that since they are denied the right to register for CET-2021, they will be denied the opportunity to participate in the counselling process. The advocates submitted that the petitioners ought to be treated on a different footing as they have domiciled in India and pursued their schooling for more than seven years.  They also contended that CET covers not only the government seats but also institutional seats, filled by private unaided educational institutions through CET. The advocate also said that as board examinations were not held on account of the pandemic, it would be crucial to the students intending to pursue technical courses by participating in CET. “In this background, I am of the view that if the petitioners are not registered with the Karnataka Examinations Authority, they would be put to irreparable loss and it may even take away all their future prospects in their career,” the court said. The KIA has been directed to register the students for CET-2021 as per the notification dated June 14, 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hc-directs-kea-to-register-45-oci-students-for-cet-2021-1004249.html
03-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Rs 103 crore Covid relief package for Karnataka private school staff||The Karnataka government has released Rs 103.47 crore under the Covid-19 special package for teaching and non-teaching staff of unaided private schools in the state. This follows the recent decision by the department of primary and secondary education to provide a Rs 5,000 Covid-19 relief package for teaching and non-teaching staff working with unaided schools. According to the order issued by the Education department, a total of 2.06 lakh teaching and non-teaching staff from 22,065 schools in the state are eligible to avail of the benefit. Those who have registered in the Students Achievement Tracking System portal will be eligible to get the benefit and the amount will be directly credited into their bank accounts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rs-103-crore-covid-relief-package-for-karnataka-private-school-staff-1004250.html
03-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Mercury soars as dry monsoon spell continues in Karnataka||Even though Karnataka is recording a dry monsoon spell over the course of a week, normal showers are forecast for the state during the coming month. Heavy showers in the first two weeks of June meant that rainfall was normal for most of Karnataka, except for Malnad region - where it was marginally deficient. According to data from Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre, intensity of rainfall has tapered off during the course of the week. As a result, maximum temperatures were 3-4 degrees above normal in many parts of the state, including Bengaluru. During the past week, Karnataka received less than half the normal rainfall for the period. In the month of June overall, the state has received an average of 198 mm rainfall, against a normal of 191 mm.  The region gaining most of heavy rainfall during the first two weeks of June was North Interior Karnataka, which received 131 mm against a normal of 100 mm. Rainfall in coastal districts and Malnad was marginally below the high normal for the region during the monsoon season. Among the districts, Mysuru, Mandya and Dakshina Kannada have received deficit rainfall during the month. A total of 13 districts received normal rainfall, 14 excess rainfall and Chikkballapur received more than 60% excess rainfall - classified as large excess. According to extended range models of India Meteorological Department, dry spell of monsoon is expected to subside in the first week of July.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mercury-soars-as-dry-monsoon-spell-continues-in-karnataka-1004256.html
03-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's Covid-19 positivity rate dips to 1.92%||Karnataka on Friday logged 2,984 new cases of Covid-19 and 88 deaths, taking the caseload to 28,49,997 and toll to 35,222. The day also witnessed 14,337 discharges, pushing the total recoveries to 27,60,881. The active cases in the State now stand at 53,871. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 1.92%, the case fatality rate was at 2.94%. Dakshina Kannada reported 13 deaths while Bengaluru Urban recorded 11. Ballari saw 10 new fatalities followed by Dharwad and Mandya (7 each). Of the fresh infections reported in the state, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 593 new cases. Mysuru logged 457 fresh cases, Dakshina Kannada 302, and Hassan 271.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-covid-19-positivity-rate-dips-to-192-1004259.html
03-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Science communicator Sudhindra Haldodderi passes away||Noted science communicator in Kannada and former scientist of Defence Research Development Organisation (DRDO) Dr Sudhindra Haldodderi (61) passed away on Friday. Dr Sudhindra had suffered a cardiac arrest on June 21 and he was admitted to a private hospital for treatment. He is survived by his wife and two daughters. According to his daughter Meghana, his body has been donated to Bangalore Medical College as per his wishes for research activities. Dr Sudhindra, an aeronautical scientist, was an expert in the design and development of several fighter aircraft and helicopters and was an eminent science columnist in Kannada. Dr Sudhindra had worked as an aeronautical engineer in Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) for over two decades. At the engine division of the HAL, he had worked on fighter jets and helicopters engine and Tejas Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) projects. He was closely associated with the projects, such as achieving fuel efficiency among the Jaguar fighter jets, Suryakiran jets, Cheetah, Chetak, Sea King helicopters.  For a brief period, he had also worked with the former president and scientist Dr APJ Abdul Kalam. After taking voluntary retirement from service, he was teaching aeronautical subjects at Jain and Alliance Universities. He had received the National Science Day medal and citation of the scientific advisor to the Defence Minister, DRDO Technology Group award, Silver Jubilee award of Karnataka Vijnana Parishat., the best science communicator award and several awards at DRDO. Interestingly, the Kannada Book Authority had announced Dr Anupama Niranjana Medical and Science Writing Award to Dr Sudhindra on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/science-communicator-sudhindra-haldodderi-passes-away-1004261.html
03-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||SSLC students demand whitener in exam hall||Several students, appearing for the SSLC examination, have demanded to make a whitener available in the examination hall to correct the answers in the optical mark reader (OMR) sheets. They said this is for the first time that they are appearing for the examination using OMR sheets. “We are not asking the authorities to allow us to carry whitener. But we are requesting them to make it available with the invigilator in the examination hall,” a student said. Another student said, “When we were writing descriptive type answers, there were options to answer a few questions at the end if we were confused about the answers. As we are attempting OMR for the first time, we need options to correct our answers using the whitener.” Dr Supreeth B R, principal of Oxford Independent PU College, Bengaluru, said, “I feel the government should consider this request because there will be a lot of confusion among students while answering on the OMR sheet. If they feel they have marked the wrong answer, then they should be allowed to correct it using a whitener.” Shashi Kumar D, general secretary of the Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said, “The evaluation will be difficult if students use whitener as the OMR reader machine will not read the answers even if there is a small change. Moreover, the usage of whitener is banned for children.” However, the officials of the Primary and Secondary Education Department revealed that they have not received any demand from the students or parents in this regard. This year, 8,76,581 students registered for the SSLC examinations on July 19 and 22. For the first time, the examination has been reduced to two days and the students have to attempt Multiple Choice Questions in the OMR sheet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sslc-students-demand-whitener-in-exam-hall-1004263.html
03-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sriramulu's aide, held on Karnataka CM son's plaint, freed||The Central Crime Branch sleuths on Friday did a U-turn on their claim that they arrested a man who was cheating people by taking bribes to get work done in the government using the name of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s son, B Y Vijayendra.  The alleged suspect is a close aide of Social Welfare Minister B Sriramulu. Hours after Sriramulu expressed disappointment over Vijayendra approaching the police about his aide Rajanna alias Raja without informing him, CCB officials released Rajanna and asked him to appear before the investigating officers when summoned.  According to the procedure, the police, after detaining a suspect, produce him before a court and take him/her into their custody for further interrogation. In this case, no such procedure was followed.  Vijayendra said he is not acquainted with the suspect. The CCB police said Rajanna was detained near Chalukya hotel but there were some claims that he was picked up from Sriramulu’s house. His voice sample has been sent for analysis. He posted on his Facebook page that the voice in the clip was not his.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sriramulus-aide-held-on-karnataka-cm-sons-plaint-freed-1004269.html
03-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||FM has assured to clear GST dues: Bommai||Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday said Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman assured him that the Centre would release Rs 11,800 crore GST compensation pending from last year to Karnataka.  Bommai, who represents Karnataka in the GST Council, said this after meeting Sitharaman who was in the city.  "Sitharaman also assured that the Centre would borrow Rs 18,000 crore and give it to the state as GST compensation, just like it did last time," Bommai said in a statement.  During their meeting, Bommai said he asked Sitharaman to release the Centre's share of money towards centrally-sponsored schemes, to which she agreed.  The two also discussed the feared third wave of Covid-19. "She gave an assurance that the Centre would make sure there's no paucity of funds to tackle the pandemic," Bommai said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/fm-has-assured-to-clear-gst-dues-bommai-1004271.html
03-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka education department looks to revive 'Vidyagama'||The Karnataka government is likely to resume the 'Vidyagama' programme with some fine-tuning. Under the revitalised programme, teachers will meet students in small batches, instead of resuming offline classes in a full-fledged manner. Highly-placed sources in the Department of Primary and Secondary Education said they have arrived at two options and decide on one after receiving the report from a task force to be constituted to look into the possibility of reopening of offline classes.  "At the department level, we are preparing ourselves with two options. Conducting classes on the lines of ‘Vidyagama’ is one of them," an official source said. "We are bringing in some changes to the ‘Vidyagama’ programme and planning to implement in a more effective and safer way," the official mentioned. The department’s Plan B is the result of uncertainty over getting approval for resuming offline classes from the Health Department. “We are not sure if we will get clearance from the Health Department to resume classes in a full-fledged manner. Even if they permit, that will definitely be for upper grades. Considering all these aspects, we are planning to start ‘Vidyagama’ for primary level,” explained the official. Meanwhile, the department has decided to vaccinate all teachers before going ahead with offline or ‘Vidyagama’ classes. “One of the main reasons for withdrawal of ‘Vidyagama’ programme last year was the reports of students and teachers contracting Covid-19 virus. This time, we do not want to give room for any such incidents this year," the official added. ‘Vidyagama’ has also become a necessity considering the lack of accessibility of gadgets to students. As per the recent survey conducted by the Department of State Educational Research and Training, 61% of students have access to one or the other gadget and 39% have no access to any gadget.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-education-department-looks-to-revive-vidyagama-1004273.html
03-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt has, so far, paid bills of 30% Covid-19 patients treated under quota in Bengaluru||Around 2.66 lakh Covid-19 patients have been hospitalised in the city from last year till date under the government quota. However, bills for only 78,658 patients, amounting toRs 310.99 crore, have been paid by the Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust (implementing agency for Ayushman Bharat-Arogya Karnataka). This means, bills of only 29.57% of the patients treated under the government quota have been paid for so far by the government. Across the state, payment for 13,847 Covid patients' bills, amounting to Rs 43.79 crore, are in the pipeline. SAST Executive Director NT Abroo, in an email, said the total claims paid for across the state include 1,44,947 cases, amounting to Rs 466.55 crore. Private hospitals say the government owes them each lakhs in dues for the treatment of Covid patients. Dr Prasanna HM, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA), said, in the first Covid wave, 1.3 lakh patients were treated in the private sector's government quota while in the second Covid wave, 2.5 lakh Covid patients were billed to the government. "The SAST data on claims they have paid for includes government hospital patients too. They haven't cleared even 50% of the bills of the first wave," he said. Pristine Hospital, Rajajinagar, for example, says dues of Rs 19 lakh are pending from the first Covid wave. But for the second wave, they have received a payment of Rs 3 lakh. On an average, a Covid patient requires at least seven days to recuperate post-hospitalisation, which generates a bill of a minimum of Rs 35,000 despite the government's price ceiling. "In the first Covid wave, the private hospitals in the city treated more than 75,800 Covid patients, while the government quota patients were around 60,000. In the second Covid wave, the number of hospitalisations increased. We have dues pending from the first wave too. We started receiving payments only when the second wave started. Out of the bills submitted for the second wave, private hospitals have received 5-10% payments," he added. SAST software can clear only 200 bills per day Prasanna revealed that as per information given by Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Jawaid Akhtar, only 200 payments can be cleared per day by the SAST software. "Because of the limitations of the SAST software, the 201st bill payment gets blocked even if their HR processes it. This means, only 6,000 payments can be cleared in a month. This, when we are clocking 3,000 cases per day," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-has-so-far-paid-bills-of-30-covid-19-patients-treated-under-quota-in-bengaluru-1004446.html
03-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka administrative reforms panel pushes for easier, faster delivery of services||The Karnataka Administrative Reforms Commission-II on Saturday gave the government its first report, recommending sweeping reforms that include passport-like Tatkal for faster citizen services, home delivery of ration, paperless offices and issuance of income certificates based on self-declaration. In all, there are 856 recommendations for the Revenue, Food & Civil Supplies and Transport departments that the Commission headed by former chief secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar has made in its 269-page report to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. According to the report, a system of Tatkal services can be introduced for select offerings of the Revenue department. “Some part of the higher fees that are charged for Tatkal services can be given to the office staff as a team, and not individually, as an incentive for working faster and harder,” it said. The Commission has recommended doing away with population, residence, crop and agriculturist certificates as they have “outlived their usefulness”. It also pitched for the abolition of all four regional commissioners, putting a state-level revenue commissionerate in their place. The Commission said the registration or discharge of mortgages on immovable properties and issuance of encumbrance certificates should be “simplified and made fully online with no need for parties to come to the sub-registrar’s office”.  Besides providing the option of home-delivery of ration for a fee, the Commission said births and deaths should be linked with the ration card database so that the list can be automatically updated. To make life easier for citizens, the Commission has recommended that all services of the Regional Transport Offices (RTO) be made paperless. “Citizens should be given the option of going to any RTO office in Bengaluru city to avail services, as in the case of registration of documents in sub-registrar offices,” it also said. It has further asked the government to introduce QR code-based and card-based payment in RTO offices “to reduce the time taken for payments and to reduce the cash component of payment”. The Commission was constituted in January 2021. Its objectives include reviewing the recommendations made by its predecessor headed by H Ramaswamy, reorganization of departments, redistribution of staff, adoption of technology and so on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-administrative-reforms-panel-pushes-for-easier-faster-delivery-of-services-1004498.html
03-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka lifts weekend curfew; malls, places of worship to reopen from Monday||Public transport, including metro, will begin operations with full seating capacity, malls will reopen and offices will be allowed to function at full working strength from Monday.  Announcing Unlock 3.0 on Saturday, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said the government decided to further relax the existing Covid-19 restrictions based on expert recommendations. These relaxations will be in effect from July 5 to July 19, he said. While the night curfew will continue on weekdays between 9 pm and 5 am, the weekend curfew has been lifted. Until now, the government had imposed a curfew from 7 pm on Friday to 5 am on Monday.  Relaxing the existing restrictions imposed on weddings and other family functions, the government has allowed up to 100 guests for these events. There was a limit of 40 guests until now. For cremation, up to 20 people can gather, Yediyurappa said.  The government has also allowed places of worship to open from Monday. "Temples will be open only for Darshan. No other special Seva will be permitted," he said. Sports complexes, stadia and swimming pools will be open only for training purposes.  However, theatres, cinema halls and pubs will remain closed. All education institutions will remain closed too, until further directions. "We will hold a separate meeting to discuss this issue," Yediyurappa said.  The DCs will have the prerogative to impose any restriction as they deem fit depending on the situation in their respective districts, the Chief Minister added.  The government will review all the relaxations after a fortnight. If the public does not cooperate and if Covid precautions are not followed in public places, the government will roll back the relaxations and impose restrictions again, Yediyurappa said, urging people in the state to cooperate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-lifts-weekend-curfew-malls-places-of-worship-to-reopen-from-monday-1004501.html
03-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka logs 2,082 Covid-19 infections, 86 deaths||Karnataka saw 2,082 infections and 86 deaths on Saturday, taking the total cases and fatalities to 28,52,079 and 35,308 respectively, the Health Department said. The number of active Covid-19 cases in the state fell to 48,116. During the peak of the second wave of the virus, which began in the first week of March, there were more than six lakh cases. As many as 7,751 patients recovered in the state, taking the total recoveries to 27,68,632. Bengaluru Urban district reported 481 infections, which is the highest among all the districts of the state, while there were 10 deaths. The city has so far reported 12,15,309 infections and 15,665 deaths. There were 19,411 active cases. Mysuru remained as the second major Covid-19 hot spot with 227 infections and seven fatalities. It was followed by Dakshina Kannada which reported 214 infections and 13 deaths, the highest among the districts. According to a bulletin, 202 cases were reported in Hassan, 108 in Shivamogga, 102 in Udupi, 91 in Belagavi, 89 in Tumakuru 79 in Chikkamagaluru, 72 in Mandya and 55 in Bengaluru Rural. Infections were reported in other districts as well and they include Kolar, Davangere, Dharwad and Uttara Kannada. The department said there were nine deaths in Ballari, seven in Belagavi, six each in Dharwad and Mandya, four in Hassan, and three each in Bengaluru Rural, Chikkaballapura, Shivamogga and Uttara Kannada. Fatalities were reported in 11 other districts as well. There were no fatalities in Bagalkote, Bidar, Chitradurga, Kalaburagi, Kodagu, Raichur and Yadgir. The state conducted 1,54,655 Covid tests, including 1,18,536 RT-PCR tests and others. So far 3.47 crore tests were done cumulatively, the department added. As many as 2.35 crore were inoculated in the state, including 3,66,182 today. The positivity rate and the case fatality rate for the day were 1.34 per cent and 4.13 per cent respectively, the department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-logs-2082-covid-19-infections-86-deaths-1004528.html
03-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress seeks Yediyurappa's ouster after court order||Congress on Saturday sought the resignation of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa after a special court rejected a report seeking closure of Lokayukta investigation against him in a 15-year-old land case. “Yediyurappa must now quit to pave way for a fair investigation into corruption,” AICC General Secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala said here. “Will the PM and BJP President act now? This is the litmus test for – Na Khaunga, Na Khane Doonga,” the Congress leader said. Surjewala’s remarks came after a special court for public representatives on Saturday dismissed the ‘B-Report’ by the Lokayukta police seeking the closure of investigation against Yediyurappa in a 15-year-old case relating to denotification of prime land in Bengaluru. The court also directed the Lokayukta police to expedite the investigation and furnish the final or additional final report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-seeks-yediyurappas-ouster-after-court-order-1004551.html
03-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'Karnataka needs to administer 2.8L jabs daily to cover 65% in 6 months'||Karnataka should administer at least 2.82 lakh vaccine doses every day to cover 65% of its population against Covid-19 within six months.  The estimate is as per a model developed by a three-member team comprising a clinical data scientist from Rector Healthcare, Pune, and a biostatistician and an oncologist from HCG Centre for Research and Academics, Bengaluru.  The team estimates that 35% of the population is aged below 18 years of age and, has not factored this group into the model.  On July 3, till 8.47 pm, the state-administered 4.72 lakh jabs. But on July 2, 2.34 lakh doses were given till 9.53 pm, and on July 1, 1.88 lakh doses were given till 8 pm.  Dr Ujjwal Rao, medical director and clinical data scientist, Rector Healthcare, Pune, who worked on the model, told DH, "The data shows that the focus has been on the 45 plus age group, primarily on the first dose. On June 30, for example, only 45,722 second doses were given and 1,40,836 first doses were given." Though the gap set for Covishield doses is three months, for Covaxin, it is a mere one month. This does not help either as majority of doses with the state are that of Covishield.  "At this rate, it will be well into January 2022 before the state vaccinates its adult population, provided they give at least 2.82 lakh doses daily. If the state has to vaccinate every adult by December 31, the per-day target is even higher. Even with conservative estimates, Karnataka needs to double up its daily doses so that some portion of the population develops immunity in view of any newer variants we're likely to see in the third wave," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-needs-to-administer-28l-jabs-daily-to-cover-65-in-6-months-1004584.html
03-07-2021||West||Maharashtra government announces Class 12 state board exam evaluation criteria||The Maharashtra government has announced the policy for allotment of marks to the state board students of Class 12, as its exams were cancelled this year owing to the coronavirus pandemic. State School Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad made the announcement. To assess the performance of a student, his/her scores in college-based assessments in Class 12 and 11 internal exams, and the average of best three performing subjects in Class 10 of the board exams will be considered, she said. “After several rounds of consultations with various stakeholders, we have finalised the assessment mode & the policy for tabulation of marks for Std 12th HSC board students. Given the pandemic situation, state board is permitted to pass all students,” Gaikwad said in a statement. “For an objective and true reflection of a student's performance, his/her scores in college-based assessments in Std 12th & Std 11th exams, and the best 3 performing subjects in Class X board exams will be considered," she added. For the theory portion, scores in one or more (unit test/first semester exams/practice exams) theory papers of Class 12 will carry 40 per cent weightage, whereas marks in the final exam of Class 11 and the average of the best three performing theory papers of Class 10 will have 30 per cent weightage each, the minister said. The overall assessment will be the measure of a students' performance in theory papers & orals/practical/internal assessments. Marks for the latter will be actual basis as per the board's prevailing policy, Gaikwad said. “It is no doubt an ad-hoc arrangement, but one that attempts to capture the spirit of continuous assessments using credible data points. It also offers some semblance of 'normal times', with computation of Std 10th, 11th marks based on assessments held during pre-Covid times,” she said. According to her, any candidate who is not satisfied with the marks allotted, can appear in the next couple of examinations for improvement in scores to be conducted by the board. A result committee headed by the college principal and comprising six teachers will be responsible for the finalisation of results and safe keeping of records, she said, adding that although the task was challenging, she was confident that the colleges and the teachers would live up to the task. She said the same mode of assessment will be used to assess the performance of a candidate appearing for minimum competency vocational courses, bifocal vocational courses and courses aligned with the National Skills Qualification Framework (NSQF). Separate assessment plans have also been finalised for private/repeater candidates and those appearing for isolated subjects. All students and their parents are also requested to read the policy details carefully, she said. For Improvement Scheme candidates, the cancelled board exam of 2021 won't be counted as a missed opportunity, and they can still avail their eligible number of attempts, she said, adding that colleges have been requested to meet the timelines for various activities to allow the board to declare results in a timely manner. “It has been a school year like no other. The 2020-21 batch has had to adjust a lot. But it has managed to weather the storm with help of our able teachers,” the minister noted. Maharashtra has been pushing for an Uniform Assessment formula across India for Class 12. Opting for an evaluation method similar to the one devised by the central education boards will certainly help, she said. In the last week of May, the Maharashtra government had announced the evaluation criteria for the state board students of Class 10, as its exams were cancelled due to the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-government-announces-class-12-state-board-exam-evaluation-criteria-1004371.html
03-07-2021||West||Covid-19: Navi Mumbai civic body vaccinates sex workers||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) held a special anti-coronavirus vaccination camp for sex workers in the city, a civic official said on Saturday. The camp was organised on Friday as part of the civic body’s attempt to cover the neglected sections of the society under the vaccination programme, spokesperson of the NMMC, Mahendra Konde, said. Seventy-eight sex workers were administered vaccines during this drive, he said. The corporation’s drive to vaccinate the homeless people has been appreciated by the central government, the official added. NMMC Commissioner Abhijit Bangar said every effort was being made to cover every citizen in Navi Mumbai under the vaccination programme. “At present, there are 76 vaccination centres in the city and we are making arrangements to increase this figure to 100 to expedite the inoculation,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-navi-mumbai-civic-body-vaccinates-sex-workers-1004375.html
03-07-2021||West||Homeless, beggars should work; everything can't be provided to them by state, says Bombay High Court||The Bombay High Court on Saturday said that homeless persons and beggars should also work for the country as everything cannot be provided to them by the state. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni said this while disposing of a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by one Brijesh Aarya, seeking directions to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to provide nutritious meals thrice a day, potable water, shelter and clean public toilets for homeless persons, beggars and poor people in the city. The BMC informed the court that food packets were being distributed to such people all over Mumbai with the help of NGOs, and sanitary napkins were being provided to the women from this section of the society. The court accepted this submission and said no further direction is required to augment the distribution. "They (homeless persons) should also work for the country. Everyone is working. Everything cannot be provided by the state. You (petitioner) are just increasing the population of this section of the society,” the high court said. The court also raised questions on the petitioner, saying that granting all the prayers sought in the petition would be like an "invitation to people not to work". The court, in its order, noted that public toilets in the city and across the state presently charge a minimum amount for usage, and directed the Maharashtra government to consider allowing homeless persons to use such facility free of charge. “We direct the state government to look if the homeless persons can use these toilets free of charge,” the bench said. The bench also noted that the petition lacks details of who a homeless is, population of homeless persons in the city and so on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/homeless-beggars-should-work-everything-cant-be-provided-to-them-by-state-says-bombay-high-court-1004378.html
03-07-2021||West||ED issues fresh summons for Anil Deshmukh in money laundering case||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh has been issued fresh summons by the ED for appearance on July 5 in a money laundering case investigation being conducted against him and others, officials said on Saturday. They said this is the third notice issued to the NCP leader for deposing before the investigating officer of the case. Deshmukh has been asked to record his statement at the central agency's office in south Mumbai on Monday. Deshmukh (72), had skipped the two earlier summons citing his "vulnerability" to Covid-19 as the reason for non-compliance in his last communication to the agency. He instead offered the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to record his statement through video conferencing. The summons are in connection with the criminal case registered under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) related to an alleged Rs 100 bribery-cum-extortion racket that led to Deshmukh's resignation in April this year. The first summons followed raids conducted by the ED at his premises in Mumbai and Nagpur apart from that of his aides and some others last month. The agency subsequently arrested two of his aides in this case, personal secretary Sanjeev Palande (51) and personal assistant Kundan Shinde (45). They are in ED custody till July 6. The agency, sources said, apart from the present case wants to question Deshmukh about his and his family members' alleged links with certain shell companies that were being used to launder funds much before the present allegations of bribery in the Mumbai Police setup came to light. The ED case against Deshmukh and others was made out after the CBI booked him in a corruption case related to allegations of at least Rs 100 crore bribery made by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. In his letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray after he was removed from the police commissioner's post, Singh had alleged that Deshmukh had asked suspended Mumbai Police assistant police inspector (API) Sachin Waze to extort over Rs 100 crore a month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai. Deshmukh had to resign from his post in April following the allegations and he has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing. In his last communication sent to the agency through his lawyers, Deshmukh said the agency had already recorded his statement during his "several hours" of interaction with the ED investigators when they raided his premises here on June 25. He wrote in a letter saying he was a law abiding citizen "who has led a life of dignity and honour." "I am sanguine to expose the falsity, hollowness and lack of substance in the allegations levelled against me," he had stated. He said he was suffering from "hypertension and cardiac problems" and hence it "may not be prudent or desirable to appear in person today." The ED had earlier claimed in the court that Waze recorded his statement before the agency stating he "collected" Rs 4.70 crore cash from Mumbai bar owners and "handed it over" to Deshmukh's personal assistant (Shinde). The cop, lodged in Taloja prison in Navi Mumbai, had also told the ED that he attended a meeting at the official residence of the home minister wherein he was given a list of bar and restaurant owners and asked "to collect Rs 3 lakh per month from each bar and restaurant" in Mumbai. As per the PMLA,  a statement recorded under the stringent sections of this law is admissible before the court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ed-issues-fresh-summons-for-anil-deshmukh-in-money-laundering-case-1004408.html
03-07-2021||West||Mumbai Samachar director Muncherji Cama passes away||Muncherji Cama, a director at the oldest Indian newspaper in print, Mumbai Samachar, died on Saturday due to old age and illness, sources said. Cama, who was in his mid-60s, was active in the family's publishing business till the onset of the coronavirus pandemic, they said. He was a resident of Walkeshwar in South Mumbai. His elder brother Hormusji is more active in the day-to-day operations of the company at present. On July 1, Mumbai Samachar had entered the 200th year of publication.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-samachar-director-muncherji-cama-passes-away-1004432.html
03-07-2021||West||Bombay HC extends Stan Swamy's stay at private hospital in Mumbai till July 6||The Bombay High Court on Saturday extended the stay of Jesuit priest and activist Stan Swamy, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoists links case, at a private hospital in Mumbai till July 6. Senior counsel Mihir Desai told a bench of Justices SS Shinde and NJ Jamadar that the 84-year-old was still undergoing treatment at the intensive care unit of the Holy Family Hospital, where he was shifted from the Taloja prison in Navi Mumbai following the HC's order on May 28 this year. Swamy, 84, who claims to be suffering from several ailments, including Parkinson's disease, had moved the high court earlier this year through advocate Desai, seeking medical treatment and interim bail on health grounds. His plea for medical bail and bail on merits was listed for hearing in the high court on Friday but could not be taken up due to the paucity of time. The bench adjourned the hearing to Tuesday and extended his hospital stay till then. ''Till the next hearing, our interim order on his (Swamy's) treatment at the private hospital will continue,'' the bench said. Swamy also filed a fresh plea in the HC on Friday challenging section 43D(5) of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) that imposes stringent restrictions on the grant of bail to those booked under the Act. In his plea filed through advocate Desai, Swamy said the above section created an insurmountable hurdle for the accused to get bail and, thus, was violative of the accused person's fundamental right to life and liberty as guaranteed by the Constitution. The common practice under the criminal justice system is to presume an accused person's innocence unless charges against him or her are proven by the prosecution. Section 43D (5) of the UAPA however, mandates that if a court has reasonable grounds to believe that the accusation against someone charges under the Act is prima facie true, then the accused shall not be released on bail. Swamy's plea stated that presumption of innocence is a fundamental tenet of criminal jurisprudence and when a harsh condition, such as that mentioned above is imposed on the grant of bail, even before the trial is conducted, the same ''inverts on its head, the principle of presumption of innocence.'' Desai said the plea also stated that the provision under the UAPA to brand certain organisations as a front for banned or terrorist organisations was bad in law. UAPA provides for the declaration of an association as unlawful and for the listing of organisations in the first schedule of the Act as "terrorist organisations". Prosecuting agencies often charge accused persons under the Act of being members of organisations working as a front for banned ones. In the Elgar-Parishad case, Swamy and his co-accused have been charged by the National Investigating Agency (NIA) as being members of frontal organisations working on behalf of the banned CPI (Maoists). Last month, the NIA had filed an affidavit before the HC opposing Swamy's bail plea. It had said that there did not exist ''conclusive proof'' of his medical ailments. It said that Swamy was a Maoist, who had hatched a conspiracy to create unrest in the country. The Elgar Parishad case is related to inflammatory speeches made at a conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which, the police claimed, triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the outskirts of the western Maharashtra city. The police had claimed the conclave was organised by people with alleged Maoist links.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-hc-extends-stan-swamys-stay-at-private-hospital-in-mumbai-till-july-6-1004472.html
03-07-2021||West||Cannot allow local train travel for lawyers at present as experts fear third wave of Covid-19: HC||The Bombay High Court on Saturday said it cannot permit lawyers to travel by suburban trains at least till the end of July as the Maharashtra State Covid-19 Task Force apprehends a third wave of the pandemic. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni said that the court cannot override medical experts' opinion by a judicial order. “At least till the end of July, it may not be possible (to allow lawyers to commute by trains). The State Covid Task Force feels that the third wave may start if trains are opened to all. You (lawyers) will have to wait for one more month,” the court said. The bench was hearing a petition filed by the Bar Council of Maharashtra and Goa against the exclusion of lawyers from travel in local suburban trains in Mumbai. Presently, only state government and public administration officials are allowed to commute in public transport. The bench noted that in its administrative meeting with the task force officials, the judges were informed that the present Covid-19 situation is likely to improve only by the month of August. The court posted the matter for further hearing on August 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cannot-allow-local-train-travel-for-lawyers-at-present-as-experts-fear-third-wave-of-covid-19-hc-1004478.html
03-07-2021||West||Elgar Parishad case: Teltumbde's wife moves Bombay HC, accuses jail official of withholding letters||The wife of Anand Teltumbde, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, has filed a petition in the Bombay High Court alleging that the Taloja prison superintendent was deliberately withholding or belatedly posting letters and communication written by her husband to kin and lawyers. Rama Teltumbde, in her plea filed through advocate R Satyanarayan, said the prison superintendent was committing such acts since March this year after an article written by her husband on the Union government's plan to privatize some public sector enterprises was published in the Caravan magazine. Her plea claimed the jail superintendent was not posting letters written by Teltumbde, nor was correspondence marked to her husband being delivered, which she said was a "malicious and inhuman act". The plea claimed the superintendent was doing the same with letters and correspondences of Teltumbde's co-accused in the case who are lodged in Taloja jail. The plea was filed last week and was heard by a bench of Justices SS Shinde and NJ Jamadar for the first time on Saturday. Advocate Satyanarayan told the bench that Teltumbde's wife and lawyers had not received any communication from him since March this year. In her plea, Rama Teltumbde said that after the said article was published on March 10 this year, the jail superintendent served a 'samaj patra', a sort of show cause notice, to the arrested activist, who replied that the article had no relation to the Elgar Parishad case, and, therefore, it did not breach any law. In his reply to the 'samaj patra', Teltumbde also said the article was not part of political propaganda, nor did it comment on the prison administration. The plea said Teltumbde sought a copy of the 'samaj patra' and his reply to it but the request was turned down by prison authorities. Rama Teltumbde said she and her husband's lawyers as well as co-accused had written several letters to the jail superintendent but had not received replies, which forced her to file an RTI application seeking a copy of the 'samaj patra' and the arrested activist's reply to it. Her plea said the superintendent was acting in gross violation of his official position and duties, adding that all prison inmates have statutory and fundamental rights that enable them to exchange letters, communicate with family, friends, and lawyers. She urged HC to direct the superintendent to allow Teltumbde and his co-accused to write to and receive letters from family and lawyers, and also sought an inquiry against the official for his action. On Saturday, NIA counsel Sandesh Patil told the court he was yet to receive a copy of the plea, after which the HC directed advocate Satyanarayan to serve the copies to the NIA and the state. Susan Abraham, wife of Teltumbde's co-accused Vernon Gonsalves, is a co-petitioner, and has also claimed that communication to and from her husband was withheld by the jail superintendent. The court is likely to hear the plea further on July 6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/elgar-parishad-case-teltumbdes-wife-moves-bombay-hc-accuses-jail-official-of-withholding-letters-1004505.html
03-07-2021||West||Goa Crime Branch begins probe into triple suicide of Bagalkot family||Days after three members of a family hailing from Bagalkot in Karnataka allegedly committed suicide at their rented home in the Zuarinagar slum near Vasco town in South Goa, the Crime Branch of the Goa Police has now started probing the case. The three deceased, namely Hulgappa Ambigera (35) his wife Devamma (28) and his brother Gangappa (29) all committed suicide, shortly after they came back home from the Verna police station, where they had been summoned in connection with a theft case filed against Devamma. The complaint was filed against Devamma by a person at whose house she worked as a maid. "We have started investigating the case. All persons linked to it, including police officials, will be summoned for questioning," a senior Crime Branch official said on Saturday. The local sub-divisional magistrate has already started a probe into the deaths. While human rights organisations have accused the Goa Police of harassing the trio, police however claim that a suicide note left behind by the deceased states that they owe money to extended family members in Bagalkot, who were, in turn, harassing them. The Crime Branch probe follows a demand by an NGO backed by the Goa Church, Council for Social Justice and Peace to appoint an independent enquiry into the deaths and suspension of police officials who are linked to the theft case, in which the trio was summoned to the Verna police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-crime-branch-begins-probe-into-triple-suicide-of-bagalkot-family-1004507.html
03-07-2021||West||Maharashtra: Cop kills self with service weapon after losing eyesight to 'black fungus'||A 46-year-old policeman, who recently lost both his eyes to Mucormycosis, allegedly committed suicide by shooting himself with his service pistol in Maharashtra's Nagpur city on Saturday, police said. Head constable Pramod Mergurwar shot himself in the mouth with his service weapon at his home in the Mankapur area of the city around 3 pm, an official said. Mergurwar, who had joined the special protection unit (SPU) on deputation a few years ago, had recovered from Covid-19 and later contracted black fungus infection, the official said. The head constable was admitted to a hospital for treatment, during which doctors had to remove one of his eyes, and soon when the infection started spreading fast, he lost the other eye as well, he said. The policeman had been depressed following his recovery, the official said, adding that the deceased’s body was sent for post-mortem and a case of accidental death has been registered. The deceased policeman is survived by his wife and two children, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cop-kills-self-with-service-weapon-after-losing-eyesight-to-black-fungus-1004521.html
03-07-2021||West||Record 7 lakh-plus Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in Maharashtra||More than seven lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses, highest in a single day so far, were administered in Maharashtra on Saturday, a senior official said. "We surpassed our previous best performance... as of 7 PM we had administered 7,85,311 doses, the highest-ever figure for the state," said health secretary Pradeep Vyas. Vaccination was going on at many centres and the final figure can cross eight lakh, he added. The previous record in the state was witnessed on June 26 when 7,38,704 doses were administered, Vyas said. With a total of 3,38,57,372 vaccine jabs given so far, Maharashtra has been at the top position in the country for more than three months, he said, thanking the health workers involved in the vaccination process for this feat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/record-7-lakh-plus-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-in-maharashtra-1004536.html
03-07-2021||West||MVA will pass resolution in monsoon session against three Centre's farm laws: Nawab Malik||NCP leader and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Saturday said the state government will pass a resolution during the monsoon session of the state legislature next week against the three Central farm laws even as he denied certain remarks attributed to the party chief Sharad Pawar about them. The monsoon session of the state legislature is scheduled to be held on July 5 and 6. "All the three parties (Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress) in the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) are opposed to the three laws passed by the Central government. Our opposition to these laws remains. The state government will pass a resolution in the monsoon session of the state legislature to oppose these laws," Malik said in a statement. He said a committee set up to study the three laws will speak to farmers' leaders to prepare a draft law to be enacted by the state government. "Until farmers accept the draft law, the state government will not go ahead," Malik added. He said the NCP was of the view that the three Central laws should be repealed. "Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar made a remark about Sharad Pawar's views on the three farm laws which the NCP chief never said. Pawar did not speak on the three Central laws . Pawar was only giving information about what steps the state government was planning against the Central acts," Malik stated. Talking to reporters on Thursday, Pawar said the Centre should hold talks with farmers from North India who are protesting against the new agriculture laws for the last seven months. "The Centre should step up dialogue with them. Bringing political differences in the issue was wrong," he added. The NCP chief had also said the Maharashtra government favours amendments in the three new farm laws enacted by the Centre last year before their implementation in the state. Farmers have been camping at Delhi's borders since November 2020 with their demands that the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee minimum support price for crops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mva-will-pass-resolution-in-monsoon-session-against-three-centres-farm-laws-nawab-malik-1004544.html
