04-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||4 Raichur Thermal Power Station units resume power generation||Power generation has resumed in four of the eight units in the Shaktinagar-based Raichur Thermal Power Station. Four units - 3,5,6 and 7 - combined are generating 600 MW power. Power generation was halted owing to lack of demand, according to RTPS officials. All eight units in full flow can generate 1,720 MW.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/4-raichur-thermal-power-station-units-resume-power-generation-1004607.html
04-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Hardship is a way of life in Bhimagad's villages||There is no life here,” says Madhav Lakshman Gaonkar, standing inside the Bhimgad Wildlife Sanctuary in Belagavi, where the sunlight struggles to reach the forest floor. Madhav is a resident of Krishnapur, one of the 13 villages inside the sanctuary that is also home to tigers, leopards, sloth bears, and 184 species of birds. “Life is full of uncertainty here,” Madhav continues, as he expresses doubt over whether his family would continue living in their village. “We cannot cultivate our food here. Heavy rains damage our paddy crops most times. There is also the threat of wild animals grazing on the crops. And thanks to the non-motorable roads we cannot even take our produce to market,” he says and adds the strict rules enforced by the forest department officials are only making their lives harder. Satheri Parashuram Dabale (70) of Hemmadaga, another core area village in the sanctuary, says that at least two villages here face shortage of drinking water during summer.  Bhimgad forest region is among the highest rainfall receiving areas in the state. On an average the region receives 8000 mm of rainfall and is also the origin of the headwaters of Mahadayi, Malaprabha, Tillari, Bandura rivers and countless other streams and rivulets.  “During the four months of monsoon, the overflowing rivers and streams naturally ‘lockdown’ the core villages by cutting off the road connectivity. Getting even health emergency service becomes difficult during monsoon. Yet, in summer we face water scarcity,” he says. Old-age homes This uncertainty has pushed the majority of youth here to move to Goa and Maharashtra to work as daily wage labourers, inadvertently turning these tiny villages into old-age homes.  Deepak Gavalkar, a 24-year-old Gram Panchayat member from Jamgaon, is one of the few youths residing in his village. “Nearly 60% of the working age people have migrated to neighbouring states as they do not see a future in the village,” he says. The locals here leave the villages even for their education. While a majority of the 13 villages have primary schools, the students have to depend on their relatives’ house in Khanapur and elsewhere for high school and higher education. Priyanka Balakrishna Gaonkar, an MSc Agriculture student of University of Agriculture Science, Dharwad and resident of Jamgaon says she used to walk 11 km through the forest road to catch a government bus to reach her PU College in Khanapur.  “I did my graduation and post-graduation while staying at my relatives’ house,” she says. Education Not all girls in the villages get to complete their education. Most of the girls who drop out of schools after primary education are married off at a young age and migrate along with their husbands to neighbouring states, leaving behind their children with grandparents. A majority of these women work in cashew plantations, the construction industry or as maids. These villages spring back to life only during Holi and Ganesh festivals as the youths come back to their native to celebrate the festival with the aged parents and children. Vishnu Vithoba Patil, a resident of Talewadi, one of the villages which refused to move out, says the forest department and governments which give approval for widening of National Highway 4A (that cuts through the sanctuary) by allowing to cut more than 20,000 trees deny villagers permission to asphalt an already existing mud road.  “The officials show us the rule book and deny permission for a road, the money for which has been sanctioned under Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana. Are the rules applicable only for the poor?” he asks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hardship-is-a-way-of-life-in-bhimagads-villages-1004630.html
04-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Newborn girl found hanging in govt hospital toilet||In a heart-wrenching incident, a newborn girl was found hanging from a toilet window of the Chintamani government hospital, Chikkaballapur district, in the early hours of Saturday. Police suspect that the perpetrator murdered the baby before hanging her from window grills. The bone-chilling incident came to light after a Group D employee noticed it. CCTV footage shows a churidar-clad woman taking the baby to the toilet. The police have launched a manhunt to nab the culprit. Dr Santosh, medical officer, Chintamani government hospital, told DH, "This is an inhuman act. Our Group D staff noticed a woman taking the baby inside the toilet. She locked the door from inside. We checked records for the deliveries in the last three days. The woman might have delivered the baby in some hospital and committed the crime here." Police have registered a complaint.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/newborn-girl-found-hanging-in-govt-hospital-toilet-1004652.html
04-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Get vaccinated after periods: Health workers allegedly told menstruating women in north Karnataka||Menstruating women in North Karnataka have reportedly been asked to seek Covid jabs five days after their cycle, while eligible beneficiaries from Raichur, Belagavi and Bidar being allegedly asked to return later. “They are specifically asking women not to take the vaccine during the menstruation cycle,” activist Vihdya Patil, who works for the welfare of rural communities, told the publication. However, the Raichur district health officer, Ramarkishna, and deputy commissioner R Vekatesh Kumar, have denied the allegations. “There are no such directions from the government, and women are being administered vaccines,” Kumar said. Similar incidents were reported from Belagavi as well, with one woman saying that she was asked to seek the jab "after five to six days". "I wonder why they advised me to delay the shot when there is no such directive from the health and family welfare department. The health worker said they were merely exercising caution," the woman said. Meanwhile, Belagavi district immunisation officer IP Gadad said that there is no need for any fear as vaccines, if administered during the cycle, do not cause any side effects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/get-vaccinated-after-periods-health-workers-allegedly-told-menstruating-women-in-north-karnataka-1004771.html
04-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru Palace to be opened for public from Monday||Mysuru Palace, which was closed for the visitors due to the Covid-19 lockdown, will be open to the public from Monday.  The Palace was closed from April 24 due to lockdown to contain the spread of the virus. As the state government eased lockdown guidelines, the Mysuru Palace Board has decided to open for the public. The visitors will be subjected to thermal screening before entering the Palace premises.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-palace-to-be-opened-for-public-from-monday-1004779.html
04-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Female nilgai dies due to infighting in zoo-cum-safari in Shivamogga||A 19-year old female nilgai died due to infighting in a zoo-cum-safari at Tyavarekoppa on the outskirts of the city. Sources in zoo-cum-safari stated that it died last month. As many as nine nilgais had been brought from Mysuru. The zoo had 19 nilgais, but with this incident, the number of nilgais in the zoo fell to 18. Of them, seven are male while the remaining are female. Speaking to DH, veterinary officer Sujay said the lifespan of nilgai is around 25 years. It died due to internal bleeding.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/female-nilgai-dies-due-to-infighting-in-zoo-cum-safari-in-shivamogga-1004780.html
04-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid lockdown extended for one more week in Hassan||Hassan Deputy Commissioner R Girish has issued orders extending the lockdown for another week from July 5 till 5 am on July 12, as the positivity rate is still above 5%. The Covid positivity rate as on July 3 was 5.64%. The order stated that with an effort to bring down the positivity rate, the district administration has decided to extend the lockdown for another week in the district. The existing relaxations will continue for another week. Hence, the shops selling essential items will be open on alternate days on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, between 6 am and 2 pm. There will be a total lockdown on Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday and Sunday. There are no relaxations to reopen places of worship. Weddings can accommodate only 40 people, as per the existing order. The night and weekend curfew will continue, the DC stated. The people should follow all the government guidelines and Covid-appropriate behaviour, he appealed. However, a section of the people of the district have expressed their displeasure over the extension of the lockdown for another week, claiming that it would affect the people, especially the poor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-lockdown-extended-for-one-more-week-in-hassan-1004814.html
04-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||In three months, Mumbai-Karnataka region's six districts almost doubled their Covid-19 death toll||The second wave of Covid-19 was severe, and the numbers in the State medical bulletin reveal how in a span of three months -- from April 1, 2021, to July 4, 2021-- the six districts of the Mumbai-Karnataka region almost doubled their new cases and deaths. With 603 Covid deaths, Dharwad reported the highest number of casualties in the region during the second wave followed by Uttara Kannada (512), Belagavi (450) and Haveri (414). According to the State medical bulletin, Dharwad had reported 628 deaths in the first wave (from March 23, 2020, to April 1, 2021). The district reported its first Covid case on March 23, 2020, and its first death on June 10 the same year, when a 58-year-old man from Girani Chawl in Hubballi succumbed to the virus. However, in the second wave that started peaking from April 14, Dharwad reported 603 deaths taking the total deaths in the district in both waves to 1,231. In terms of cases also, the district saw a sudden spike. Till April 1, 2021, the district had reported 23,036 cases, whereas, in the next three months, the cases shoot up by 37,034. As of July 4, 2021, the district has reported 60,070 cases. The neighbouring Belagavi district reported the highest number of positive cases in the second wave. From 27,460 cases in the first wave, Belagavi added 48,692 cases in the second wave to take its total tally to 76,152 cases, which is the highest in the M-K region. In terms of deaths too, the district saw a rise of 230%. On April 1, 2021, the district had reported a total of 344 deaths, and in the next three months, it added another 450 cases to take the tally to 794. Uttara Kannada highest Uttara Kannada was the worst affected district in terms of the percentage rise in both cases and deaths. The district saw a 384% hike in death cases in the second wave. The district, which had minimised its causalities to just 180 in the first wave, added 512 cases in the second wave. Uttara Kannada has so far reported 692 death cases in both waves, while its positive cases shot up by 37,037 cases from 15,035 to 52,072 cases. Haveri had a peculiar situation. While its positive cases were less, it was the death rate that worried the administration the most. For 10,630 new cases that the district reported in the second wave, it added 413 deaths, a whopping 317% rise from the first wave. The district had reported only 190 deaths in the first wave, whereas by the end of the second wave it clocked 604 cases. The positive cases went up from 11,056 to 21,690. Bagalkot added 181 deaths and 21,087 new cases to its first wave tally. In the first wave, the district had reported 136 deaths, whereas, on July 4, 2021, it had reached 317 death counts. On April 1, 2021, it had reported 13,931 cases. Gadag was the district wherein the least death cases reported. It added 167 deaths and 14,636 cases to its first wave tally. As of July 3, the district has reported 25,848 cases and 309 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/in-three-months-mumbai-karnataka-regions-six-districts-almost-doubled-their-covid-19-death-toll-1004894.html
04-07-2021||National||As questions swirl around third Covid wave, experts allay some fears||What, who, when, where, why and how — the W-H rule guiding journalists for generations is now uppermost in the minds of millions of Indians as they fret over the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.  When will the third surge come? Will it be as large or ferocious as the second? Where will it surface first? Who will be impacted? Why aren’t the vaccines effective? How can I protect myself and my family? These are some of the questions with barely any answers from policymakers. Many of them are in denial, claiming that such a wave will not happen if people act in a disciplined manner and if large-scale vaccination takes place.  Both factors come with their own share of uncertainties. Experts say the third wave is a distinct possibility, if not inevitable, but the timing and scale is difficult to predict as it depends on these two factors. With studies clearly demonstrating the benefits of vaccination, the peak in the third wave can be much lower if enough people are vaccinated, reducing the pool of susceptible population. But to achieve that, the current pace of vaccination at around 40 lakh doses per day needs to be doubled to reach the target population of 94.47 crore with two doses by December. Vaccination drive Though the vaccine stock available with the government and planned procurement may support such a campaign, the big questions are on timely delivery from manufacturers and the administration’s ability to sustain a relentless campaign to administer more than 80 lakh shots every single day for the rest of the year — it has been done only once so far. With nearly half of senior citizens and 45% of 45-plus people receiving at least one shot of Covid-19 vaccine, public health experts want more focus on the 18-44 age group, which was adversely affected during the second wave. "As long as there are unvaccinated vulnerable groups, there is a serious risk of transmission. It is people in the 18-45 age group who are actively engaged in external economic activity and a high proportion of unvaccinated among them is a huge risk. With the emergence of highly transmissible variants such as Delta, these concerns are amplified,” commented Oommen John from the George Institute of Public Health. The jury is still out on the kids' vaccination front as several experts and professional bodies ruled out the possibility of the third wave impacting children more as feared by a section of doctors. V K Paul, the government’s principal advisor and Niti Aayog member, also observed that the government was not in a hurry to vaccinate children and would prefer to wait to analyse the results of two child vaccination studies before taking a decision. Asked about the third wave, Paul said while the government will be ramping up health infrastructure and scaling up vaccination, it all depends on people’s behaviour. Wave or ripple? "If we are disciplined, the wave may not even come," he said. "If the third wave comes by November, as is being forecast on several grounds, we should be much better prepared and keep it down to a ripple rather than let it surge to a wave,” observed K Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India. The experts’ opinion gained traction from two recent studies carried out by scientists at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) as both of them independently concluded that a nationwide third wave may not be as severe as the second one. Using mathematical models of the transmission dynamics of SARS-CoV-2, the ICMR study examined the conditions under which a serious third wave could occur. Four hypotheses were examined as drivers of a third wave in India: (i) waning immunity without any change in the virus, (ii) emergence of a new virus variant that is capable of escaping pre-existing immunity, (iii) emergence of a more transmissible variant without loss of immunity to previously circulating strains and (iv) fresh opportunities for transmission afforded by the relaxation of local restrictive measures (lockdowns) in response to the second wave. It suggests that a third wave, even if it occurs, is unlikely to be as severe as the second wave, given the extent of spread that has already taken place. Since a substantial proportion of the population is likely to have been exposed by now, given the explosive spread of infection across the country, the virus will require extreme scenarios for abrogation of that immunity to cause a major third wave. Even in the case of the Covid-19 virus escaping from infection-induced immunity, the impact will be less severe when compared against the first-time infection. “Such partial loss of immunity is a more realistic scenario than complete loss of protection (as fed into the model as a deliberately exaggerated parameter), one might expect any immune-mediated third wave to be a mild one, without the severe public health challenge posed by the preceding second wave,” they reported in the Indian Journal of Medical Research. Similar conclusions were drawn by TIFR’s Sandip Juneja and Daksh Mittal who modelled the third wave possibility against the backdrop of Mumbai. As per their model, about 80% of Mumbai’s population has been exposed to Covid-19 by June 1. Under the assumption that all who are exposed have immunity against further infection, it is unlikely that Mumbai will see a large third wave. A third model by IIT Kanpur mathematician Manindra Agarwal projected a small third wave between October and November — possibly keeping the festival factors in mind — which will die by December 2021. But it's pertinent to remember that Agarwal had earlier predicted the death of the first wave by February 2021 and could not foresee the second surge. “The bottom line is: if there is no significantly faster spreading mutant, the third wave will be a ripple. And if there is such a mutant, the third wave will be comparable to the first one. However, if there is an immunity-escape mutant, all the above scenarios will be invalid!” tweeted Agarwal. There is hardly any difference between optimistic and intermediate scenarios suggesting vaccine efficacy changes do not have significant impact. A faster spreading mutant has bigger impact as shown by purple curve. Even this is nowhere close to second wave. Government action Another way to minimise the possibility of a severe third wave is early identification of hotspots and vulnerable populations and protect them. Government action is wanting on these two fronts as well. At the peak of the pandemic in May, when there was widespread fear of the infection spreading to small towns and villages, the government announced its plans to carry out 25 lakh daily testing by May end, which was to be enhanced to 45 lakh by June. It never happened and the maximum that the government could reach was 21.81 lakh between May 21 and 27. Genome sequencing efforts — the best route to find troubling new variants and hotspots — have also slowed down with the Centre shifting the target from “5% of all positive samples” to “300 samples from every state in every month". Such a sample size, the researchers said, was not sufficient to know about the new variants and how they are impacting disease dynamics. The sequencing of reinfections, as well as vaccine breakthrough infections, is necessary to understand vaccine effectiveness and development needs against emerging Variants of Concern. “We hope that the lessons from Wave 2 lead to a bolstering of public health infrastructure, timely and comprehensive collection, and release of data as well as compel policymakers to act more proactively, thereby preparing India to respond to future waves and crises,” said epidemiologist Bhramar Mukherjee at the University of Michigan and her collaborators in a research paper.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-questions-swirl-around-third-covid-wave-experts-allay-some-fears-1004648.html
04-07-2021||National||Kerala Congress leaders denied permission to visit Lakshadweep||The Lakshadweep administration on Saturday denied permission to Congress leaders to visit the islands, which has been witnessing protests seeking withdrawal of the draft legislation -- Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation -- saying their visit "for political activities" will "disturb" the peaceful atmosphere. It also said there was a possibility of these leaders "mingling" with large number of people of the islands which may "lead to further Covid spread in the islands". Additional District Magistrate S Asker Ali, in his order denying permission for Congress leaders T N Prathapan, Hibi Eden MP, and C R Rakesh Sharma, the national legal advisor of All India Fishermen Congress party, to enter the islands, said their purpose of visit "appears to be a political action". "...the purpose of visit has been stated as to understand the problems faced by the islanders due to the new policies of the Administrator" which appears to be a political action," the order said. According to the order, a report submitted by the Lakshadweep police said that the visit is likely to instigate violent agitations in the islands and the same is part of a planned effort to disturb the peaceful atmosphere prevailing in the Lakshadweep islands. "...it is stated that the proposed visit of MPs from Kerala to Lakshadweep is likely to cause unrest in the islands as the political parties and leaders from mainland have been making attempts to instigate local people, political parties/activists, social workers and people from different walks of life to oppose all administrative actions and to agitate against the Administration," it said. According to the order, "avoiding disturbances" due to external interferences in the Union Territory, a scheduled area, is the bounden duty of the administration. Meanwhile, the administration has also decided to "disengage" 151 casual labourers "upon the closure of tourist season on the onset of monsoon and consequently no tourism-based activities...". The residents are seeking repeal of the proposed Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation (LDAR), the Lakshadweep Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Regulation (PASA or the Goonda Act), and the Lakshadweep Animal Preservation Regulation (LAPR) legislations. Expressing solidarity with the people of Lakshadweep, the Kerala Assembly had unanimously passed a resolution demanding the recall of island administrator Praful Khoda Patel and requesting the Centre's immediate intervention to protect the lives and livelihood of the islanders. An archipelago located in the Arabian Sea, Lakshadweep has been witnessing protests by locals over the recent actions and administrative reforms being implemented by Patel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-congress-leaders-denied-permission-to-visit-lakshadweep-1004657.html
04-07-2021||National||DH Toon | AAAARGH! Crushed by the Government of India!||For the Modi government, the law is binding on the people (and meant to harass dissenters), but for itself, it is optional. One wonders why the Modi government does not have money to pay ex gratia. After all, even if it were to pay Rs 4 lakh – as the court petition sought, in line with a 2015 government notification -- to the kin of each of the roughly four lakh people who have died of Covid so far (officially recognised figure, we all know the true number is far higher), it would amount to just Rs 16,000 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-aaaargh-crushed-by-the-government-of-india-1004662.html
04-07-2021||National||India reports 43,071 new Covid-19 cases, 955 deaths||India saw a single-day rise of 43,071 Covid-19 infections, which took the tally of cases to 3,05,45,433, while active cases have declined to 4,85,350, according to Union health ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll has climbed to 4,02,005 with 955 more fatalities, while the case fatality rate has risen to 1.32 per cent from 1.31 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. The active cases have further declined to 4,85,350 and comprise 1.59 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 97.09 per cent, the ministry said. It said active cases have declined by 10,183 in a span of 24 hours. The data stated that 18,38,490 tests were conducted on Saturday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 41,82,54,953. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.34 per cent. It has been less than five per cent for 27 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding that the weekly positivity rate has declined to 2.44 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for 52 consecutive days, and the number of people who have recuperated from the disease has increased to 2,96,58,078, it said. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 35.12 crore under nationwide Covid vaccination drive. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed two crore cases on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 955 new fatalities include 371 from Maharashtra, 135 from Kerala and 115 from Tamil Nadu, the ministry said. It said that 4,02,005 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,22,724 from Maharashtra, 35,308 from Karnataka, 32,933 from Tamil Nadu, 24,988 from Delhi, 22,622 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,779 from West Bengal and 16,103 from Punjab. The health ministry said more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-43071-new-covid-19-cases-955-deaths-1004674.html
04-07-2021||National||Fuel prices hiked again; Sikkim latest state to cross Rs 100-mark for petrol||Diesel price on Sunday crossed Rs 100-a-litre mark in some places in Madhya Pradesh, while Sikkim became the latest state to see Rs 100 per litre petrol price after yet another hike in fuel rates. Petrol price was increased by 35 paise per litre and diesel by 18 paise a litre, according to a price notification from state-owned fuel retailers. The increase - 34th in petrol and 33rd in diesel in two months - pushed rates across the country to fresh highs. In Delhi, petrol now comes for Rs 99.51 a litre and diesel is priced at Rs 89.36 per litre. Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as value-added tax (VAT) and freight charges. And for this reason, petrol has crossed the Rs 100-a-litre mark in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Jammu and Kashmir, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Bihar, Punjab and Ladakh. Sikkim joined that list on Sunday. Petrol in state capital Gangtok is now priced at Rs 100.15 a litre and diesel comes for Rs 91.55. Petrol has crossed Rs 100 a litre mark in metro cities of Mumbai, Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Pune and it is over Rs 99 in other two cities of Delhi and Kolkata. Rates of diesel, the most used fuel in the country, have crossed the Rs 100-a-litre mark in Sri Ganganagar and Hanumangarh in Rajasthan as well in some places in Odisha. And on Sunday, Rewa, Shahdol and Balaghat in Madhya Pradesh saw those levels. The hike on Sunday is the 34th increase in price of petrol and 33rd in case of diesel since May 4, when state-owned oil firms ended an 18-day hiatus in rate revision they observed during assembly elections in states like West Bengal. In 34 hikes, the price of petrol has risen by Rs 9.11 per litre. Diesel rates have soared by Rs 8.63 a litre in 33 instances of price increase. Oil companies revise rates of petrol and diesel daily based on the average price of benchmark fuel in the international market in the preceding 15 days, and foreign exchange rates. International oil prices have climbed in recent weeks on optimism of a quick recovery in fuel demand. Brent crude touched the USD 75 per barrel mark, the first time since April 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fuel-prices-hiked-again-sikkim-latest-state-to-cross-rs-100-mark-for-petrol-1004676.html
04-07-2021||National||Govt readies amendments to GIBNA for insurance PSU privatisation; may table Bill in monsoon session||To facilitate privatisation of a public sector general insurance firm, the government is working on amendments to the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Act (GIBNA), and a Bill for that is likely to come up in the upcoming monsoon session. The monsoon session is expected to begin from July 19. The Act, which came into force in 1972, provided for the acquisition and transfer of shares of Indian insurance companies and undertakings of other existing insurers in order to serve better the needs of the economy by securing the development of general insurance business. The amendments to the GIBNA are being worked out and may be tabled in the upcoming session to help privatisation of a general insurance company announced in the Budget this year, sources said. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her Budget 2021-22 had announced a big-ticket privatisation agenda, including privatisation of two public sector banks and one general insurance company. As part of the divestment strategy for the financial sector, the government has decided to go for a mega initial public offering (IPO) of Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) and residual stake sale in IDBI Bank during the financial year beginning April. The government has budgeted Rs 1.75 lakh crore from stake sale in public sector companies and financial institutions during 2021-22. The NITI Aayog was entrusted with the task of recommending a suitable candidate for privatisation of two public sector banks and one general insurance company. The government think-tank is believed to have suggested the name of United India Insurance to the Core Group of Secretaries on Disinvestment headed by the Cabinet Secretary. Aside from this, the government is gearing itself to table amendments in the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, to enable privatisation of two public sector banks. Amendments would be required in the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970, and the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1980, for privatisation, the sources said. These Acts led to nationalisation of banks in two phases, and provisions of these laws have to be changed for privatisation of banks, they said. Last year, the Union Cabinet, headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, cleared a proposal to provide capital support to National Insurance, Oriental Insurance and United India Insurance. The Cabinet had also decided to increase the authorised share capital of National Insurance Company Ltd (NICL) to Rs 7,500 crore and that of United India Insurance Co Ltd (UIICL) and Oriental Insurance Co Ltd (OICL) to Rs 5,000 crore each to give effect to the capital infusion decision. At the same time, the Cabinet junked the earlier Budget proposal of merging NICL, OICL and UIICL.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-readies-amendments-to-gibna-for-insurance-psu-privatisation-may-table-bill-in-monsoon-session-1004723.html
04-07-2021||National||'Revenge travel' a shot in the arm for India's bleeding hospitality sector||After months of being cooped up inside as Covid raged outside, well-heeled Indians have decided that home is not where the heart is and are hitting the road – and the skies – to break the monotony of their indoor existence. There is even a term for it – ‘revenge travel’. So when states started opening up after a ferocious second Covid wave, people headed out in droves to beachside hotels, hill homestays or even just a resort close by. Anywhere but home and maybe not quite what the doctor ordered Taking revenge as it were for the months of anxiety, of working from home, doing or conducting classes online and unable to meet even close relatives, they masked up, got their jabs and wasted no time in heading outdoors. "Advance bookings as measured by the share of bookings with travel dates more than four weeks away are over 10 per cent this year compared to around 5 per cent last year,” Rajiv Subramanian, vice president at global online travel company Cleartrip, told PTI. “We expect the increased momentum of the vaccination drive and reduced caseloads to catalyse domestic travel recovery in the next two quarters," he added.   On the ground, images of people thronging destinations like Manali and serpentine queues of cars waiting to get into popular hill destinations such as Shimla. Be it a workcation, staycation or drivecation, people were clearly eager to travel and splurge as India’s Covid cases dipped, determined to make up for lost leisure days due to frequent shutdowns, signalling the return of normalcy for the corona-hit travel and hospitality sector.   Noida-based IT professional Avinash Giri chose the quiet town of Naggar in Himachal Pradesh’s Kullu district for his workcation. "This is the first time that we have travelled since the onset of the pandemic. Things were pathetic in the past two months. We were cooped inside our homes, not going out even to the balcony. My wife and children wanted to be out and I decided to pick this secluded Naggar district," he said. "The view, the weather, everything is amazing here. The property I am staying at is new and economical — food and other chores are well taken care of by the host. I will stay at least for a month at different places in Himachal Pradesh, and our next possible destination is Manali," the 37-year-old added.   Both Giri and his wife are partially vaccinated.   His 'revenge' is sweet news for the bleeding hospitality industry. Budget-friendly hostel chain GoStops, multi-hospitality chain OYO and Airbnb, the online marketplace for arranging or offering lodgings, are among the companies that witnessed a major spike in the number of enquiries and bookings made in June. While GoStops, according to its founder and CEO Pallavi Agarwal, has recorded a "1,000 per cent" spike in its daily reservations; Airbnb India has also observed a "strong pent-up demand" for destinations that are a drive away from metro cities. According to travel tech startup RateGain findings, New Delhi (2,943), Pune (2,113), Hyderabad (1,969), Bangalore (1,516), and Chennai (1,516)  are the top five destinations with the most rooms booked from June 7-20.   "Leisure cities are taking slightly longer to bounce back. However, they are showing significant potential for the coming weeks. Leisure hotspots like Jaipur, Visakhapatnam and Agra are already seeing positive signs of travel coming back. We're noticing increasing interest for hill stations within driving distance from mainstream cities... (stations) like Manali, Lonavala, Nainital, Shimla, Mysore… ," said Yatish Jain, OYO vice president and chief growth officer. Hotels and resorts are riding high on the revenge travel trend too. WelcomeHeritage Hotels, for instance, is seeing nearly "70-80 per cent" of occupancy in most of their hill properties, including Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. Offering various innovative packages, such as 'Work from Home' and 'Drivable Holidays', their 'Head for Hills' package which is proving to be a hit among tourists travelling from the nearby cities starts from Rs 7,000 onwards. The trend is benefiting resorts near big cities too.   Both The Westin Gurgaon, New Delhi, and The Westin Sohna Resort and Spa in nearby Gurgaon are clocking week-on-week "25-30 per cent growth" in leisure guests through their staycation offerings. "There is pent up demand; and people do want to get away from the humdrum and monotony of being at home, and are looking for safe ways to return to some semblance of normal life. In fact, the whole of May when the resort was non-operational, we were getting queries asking when we will reopen the resort," said Rahul Puri, multi-property general manager for The Westin Hotel and Resort.   The package for two at The Westin Gurgaon and The Westin Sohna Resort and Spa starts at Rs 6,000 and Rs 12,000 plus taxes, respectively.    Car rental company Avis India has also reported a surge in bookings with commuters traveling "solo, in couples, and with their families".    "They are planning weekend getaways to nearby mountains or cities such as from Delhi to Himachal or Jaipur. Or from Bangalore to Ooty. Some are also relocating to work from hills such as Manali or Shimla which is leading to an increase in long term rentals. We are seeing a rise in the booking of Amaze, Honda City in the Sedan category while InnovaCrysta has been the preferred choice by our customers in the SUV category," said Sunil Gupta, MD and CEO, Avis India.   As India’s Covid numbers fall – India on Sunday reported 43,071 fresh cases and a positivity rate of 2.34 per cent, less than 5 percent for 27 consecutive days – doctors advise caution and the need to be vigilant.   "Yes, it has been a tough time. However, we cannot let our guard down. We should not be mingling with groups. It is not advisable at all. We need to stay cautious for the next two to three months…,” said Dr Vikas Maurya, director and Hod, Pulmonology, Fortis Hospital Shalimar Bagh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/revenge-travel-a-shot-in-the-arm-for-indias-bleeding-hospitality-sector-1004724.html
04-07-2021||National||Saina Nehwal congratulates Yogi on BJP win in UP local polls; RLD chief calls her 'sarkari shuttler'||Ace badminton player Saina Nehwal has congratulated Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on BJP's "thumping victory" in elections to the posts of the district panchayat chief, prompting a sharp comment from RLD president Jayant Chaudhary who called her "sarkaari shuttler". In a tweet on Saturday night, Nehwal said, "Hearty congratulations for thumping victory in Zila Panchayat Chairperson election in UP @myogiadityanath sir." Nehwal had joined the BJP ahead of the 2020 Delhi Assembly elections. Reacting to Nehwal's tweet almost one-and-half-hours later, Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) president Chaudhary tweeted, "Sarkaari shuttler recognises BJP skill in smashing peoples' verdict! I think voters need to play a subtle drop shot on celebs trying to influence their decisions!." The BJP on Saturday claimed to have swept the elections to the posts of the district panchayat chief even as the SP alleged that the ruling party "kidnapped" voters and used "force" to stop them from voting. Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav accused the BJP of making a mockery of the elections, saying it is strange that while most results in the polls for the district panchayat members were in favour of his party, the BJP gained in the contest for the district panchayat chief. Though the panchayat polls in UP are not held on the party symbol and the state Election Commission did not announce the party affiliation of the winning candidates, the BJP claimed that the candidate backed by it won on 67 of 75 posts, the elections for which were held on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/saina-nehwal-congratulates-yogi-on-bjp-win-in-up-local-polls-rld-chief-calls-her-sarkari-shuttler-1004726.html
04-07-2021||National||Army Chief Naravane leaves for visit to UK and Italy||Army Chief General M M Naravane on Sunday left on a four-day visit to the UK and Italy with an aim to enhance India's bilateral ties with the two countries. The Army said Gen Naravane will be meeting his counterparts and senior military leaders of the two countries to explore ways to boost military cooperation. In the first leg of the visit, the Chief of Army Staff will hold talks with the UK's Secretary of State for Defence, Chief of Defence Staff, Chief of General Staff and other dignitaries, the Army said. He will also be visiting various army formations where he will exchange ideas on issues of mutual interest, it said. "During the second leg of his tour from July 7  to 8, the Army Chief will be holding important discussions with the Chief of Defence Staff and Chief of Staff of the Italian Army," the Army said in a statement. "Additionally, the Chief of Army Staff will also inaugurate the Indian Army Memorial in the famous town of Cassino and will be briefed at the Italian Army's Counter IED Centre of Excellence at Cecchingola, Rome," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-chief-naravane-leaves-for-visit-to-uk-and-italy-1004734.html
04-07-2021||National||Heatwaves in India have claimed over 17,000 lives in 50 years: Study||Heatwaves have claimed more than 17,000 lives in 50 years in India, according to a paper recently published by the country's top meteorologists. The paper said there were 706 heatwave incidents in the country from 1971-2019. The research paper was authored by M Rajeevan, Secretary of Ministry of Earth Science, along with scientists Kamaljit Ray, S S Ray, R K Giri and A P Dimri, earlier this year. Kamaljit Ray is the lead author of the paper. Heatwave is one of the extreme weather events (EWE). In 50 years (1971-2019) EWE killed 1,41,308 people. Of this, 17,362 people were killed due to heatwave -- a little over 12 percent of the total deaths recorded, the study said. The maximum heatwave deaths were in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Odisha, it added. Core Heatwave Zone (CHZ) is the most prone area for heatwave (HW) and severe heatwave (SHW) with the highest frequency of occurrence during the month of May. The CHZ covers states of Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. The study assumes significance in the backdrop of recent heatwaves in different parts of northern hemisphere. Earlier this week, an intense heatwave swept through parts of Canada and the US in north America claiming lives of scores of people. Vancouver recorded a record-breaking temperature of more than 49 degrees Celsius. In India, the north Indian plains and the hills also experienced heatwave. In the plains, temperatures rose above 40 degrees Celsius in many parts earlier this week. The paper also noted that there is an increase in mortality due to heatwaves, an extreme weather event, and lightning for vulnerable states. Heatwave over a station is declared only when the actual temperature of the station is 40 degrees Celsius for the plains and 30 degrees Celsius for hilly regions. However, when the maximum temperature is 40 degree Celsius for coastal stations and 45 degrees Celsius for other stations, conditions are declared as heatwave. A heatwave is declared when the actual maximum temperature is greater than the normal maximum temperature which is greater than 40 degrees Celsius. In a written response to a question on heatwaves in Lok Sabha in January 2020, Earth Sciences minister Harsh Vardhan had said the latest studies show an increase in temperatures as well as the occurrence of heatwaves in many parts of the country during the recent years. “One of the reasons for the increase in heatwaves is global warming associated with the increase in greenhouse gasses like carbon dioxide, methane etc in the atmosphere,” he had said. In 2017, there were 30 instances of heatwave in the country -- Andhra Pradesh (1), Jharkhand (2), Maharashtra (6), Odisha (8), Telangana (12), West Bengal (1). The year 2018 recorded 12 instances of heatwave -- Uttar Pradesh (2), Maharashtra (5), Jharkhand (1), Kerala (3), Chattisgarh (1). In 2019, there were 26 incidents of heatwave in Maharashtra (15), Kerala (6), Bihar (4), Rajasthan (1). Heatwave is also associated with health risks. Four common health impacts resulting from excessive exposure to heatwaves include dehydration, cramps, exhaustion and heatstroke. It is also learnt that there is a sharp rise in the number of cases of acute gastroenteritis and food poisoning due to spoilage of food and reduction of its shelf life owing to high temperatures. There is also a rise in the number of cases of anxiety, palpitations, nervousness and behavioural change linked to extreme temperature rise, Vardhan had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heatwaves-in-india-have-claimed-over-17000-lives-in-50-years-study-1004735.html
04-07-2021||National||PM Modi greets President Biden on 245th Independence Day of US||Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeted President Joe Biden and the people of the United States on the country's 245th Independence Day on Sunday.  In a tweet, Modi said India and the US, as vibrant democracies, share values of freedom and liberty and their strategic partnership has a truly global significance. The US celebrates its Independence Day on July 4. Modi said, "Warm felicitations and greetings to @POTUS @JoeBiden and the people of the USA on their 245th Independence Day. As vibrant democracies, India and USA share values of freedom and liberty. Our strategic partnership has a truly global significance."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-greets-president-biden-on-245th-independence-day-of-us-1004748.html
04-07-2021||National||Indian man and his associates win 20 million dirham jackpot in UAE: report||A 37-year-old Indian man and nine of his associates from different countries have hit a jackpot by winning a whopping 20 million dirham (approximately Rs 40 crore) in a raffle draw in the UAE, according to a media report. Renjith Somarajan, who hails from Kerala and works as a driver in Abu Dhabi, has been purchasing tickets for the past three years, including winning the jackpot while he was right in front of a mosque, the Khaleej Times reported on Saturday. “I never thought I would hit the jackpot and had always pinned my hopes on the second and third,” Somarajan was quoted as saying in the report. He said this time the second and third prizes were 3 million dirham and 1 million dirham. Somarajan’s phone is now buzzing with congratulatory calls from friends and loved ones. He said it has been a tough life for him so far while hopping jobs in hope of a better salary. “I have been here since 2008. I worked as a driver with Dubai Taxi and different companies. Last year, I worked as driver-cum-salesman with a company but with my salary deduction, it was a difficult life,” Somarajan added. Somarajan will be sharing the amount with nine others whom he gathered only recently. “We are a total of 10 people. Others are from different countries, like India, Pakistan, Nepal and Bangladesh. They work in the valet parking of a hotel. We took the ticket under the ‘buy two and get one free’ offer. Each person pooled 100 dirhams. The ticket was taken in my name on June 29. What I can tell others is to continue trying your luck. I was always sure that my lucky day would come. I was always sure the almighty would bless me one day,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-man-and-his-associates-win-20-million-dirham-jackpot-in-uae-report-1004755.html
04-07-2021||National||Kejriwal writes to PM Modi, seeks Bharat Ratna for Indian doctors||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking that the country's highest civilian award Bharat Ratna should be given this year to all doctors, nurses and paramedics who served the people amid the pandemic.   It will be a true homage to doctors who lost their lives, he said. In the letter to the prime minister, Kejriwal said this year's Bharat Ratna should be conferred upon doctors, nurses and paramedics. “Many doctors and nurses sacrificed their lives fighting Corona. If we honour them with Bharat Ratna then it will be a true tribute to them.Lakhs of doctors and nurses served people selflessly without worrying about their lives and families. There can be no other better way (than honouring them with Bharat Ratna) to thank and honour them,” he wrote in the letter in Hindi. He also stressed that if necessary changes should be made in rules so that the medical community can be awarded the highest civilian award. “If rules do not permit to confer Bharat Ratna on a group, then I request you to change rules. Entire country is grateful towards our doctors. Every citizen of the country will be happy if they (doctors) are honoured with Bharat Ratna,” Kejriwal appealed to the PM in the letter. Earlier in the day, the chief minister has also tweeted on the same matter. "The 'Indian Doctor' should receive Bharat Ratna this year. 'Indian Doctor' means all doctors, nurses and paramedics. It will be a true homage to all martyred doctors. It will be an honour of those who have been serving without caring for their lives and families. The whole country will be glad at this," Kejriwal had said in a tweet in Hindi. As many as 730 doctors have succumbed to coronavirus infection during the second wave, according to data available by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) in mid-June. Bihar saw the maximum number of 115 deaths, followed by Delhi at 109, Uttar Pradesh 79, West Bengal 62, Rajasthan 43, Jharkhand 39, and Andhra Pradesh 38, the data showed. According to the IMA, 748 doctors died in the first wave of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kejriwal-writes-to-pm-modi-seeks-bharat-ratna-for-indian-doctors-1004770.html
04-07-2021||National||CBI books I-T officer in disproportionate assets case||An Income Tax Appellate Tribunal official has come under the scanner of the CBI for amassing assets worth Rs 3.51 crore disproportionate to his known income, the third such case registered in a span of five days. The agency has registered a case on July 1 against Dasi Sadhu Sunder Singh, an IRS officer who is the Accountant Member in Income Tax Appellate Tribunal in Visakhapatnam. This is the third case of disproportionate assets against public servants registered by the CBI between June 27 and July 1. According to the CBI FIR, Singh has acquired moveable and immovable assets in his name and in the names of his family members between April 2008 and October 2018. Investigations had shown that Singh and his family members were in possession of immovable and moveable assets to the tune of Rs 50.42 lakh as on 1 April, 2008. Between 1 April, 2018 and 31 October, 2018, the CBI claimed Singh acquired immovable and movable assets, amounting to Rs 4.71 crore in his name and in the names of his family members. An analysis by the investigation claimed that the total known income of Singh and his family were Rs 3.59 crore while spending Rs 2.38 crore on domestic expenditure and college education of children among others. According to the FIR, the likely savings of Singh was only Rs 1.20 crore and the agency claimed that Singh acquired assets to the tune of Rs 3.51 crore which are disproportionate to his known sources of income. On June 30, it had registered a case against Saurav Singh, an Appraiser in the Office of Chief Commissioner of Customs in Chennai, on charges of amassing wealth beyond known sources of income to the tune of Rs 1.28 crore. Brajesh Kumar, a  Deputy Superintendent of Police posted in the anti-corruption bureau of CBI in Bengaluru also faced a CBI FIR on June 27 on charges of amassing disproportionate assets worth Rs 1.94 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-books-i-t-officer-in-disproportionate-assets-case-1004793.html
04-07-2021||National||NGT orders Centre to act on water wastage in RO purifiers||To prevent wastage of water in the use of RO purifiers, the NGT has directed Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) to issue notification at the earliest banning RO purifiers where the level of total dissolved solids (TDS) in water is below 500 milligrams per litre. The NGT Principal Bench headed by its Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel directed the MoEF to ensure further action positively before the next date of hearing on January 25, irrespective of steps by any other department which may delay the matter. Hearing a plea filed by NGO Friends, the NGT in July last year had directed the MoEF to issue by the year-end a notification banning RO( Reverse Osmosis) purifiers where TDS level in water is below 500 milligrams per litre. The tribunal had granted more time after goverment informed the tribunal that the exercise could not be completed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The Ministry had in January 2020, sought four months for executing the NGT order. The MoEF, in its plea, had said that four months are required for effective compliance of the order.  The green panel expressed displeasure over delay to notify new norms. "It may be noted that high total dissolved solids (TDS), requiring RO (treatment), is found in groundwater. Considering huge wastage of water as rejects in the use of RO, such use merely advancing commercial interests need at the cost of loss of valuable water which needs to be checked. This purpose is defeated by inordinate delay by MoEF," NGT. "This amounts to acting against the interest of the environment. Instead of permitting ROs, conductivity and TDS in water can be regulated and controlled by coordination of regulators concerned Ministry of Jal Shakti with agencies supplying water like Water Supply and Sewerage/Municipal Body/Jal Nigam etc. saving a huge amount of water which is being unduly wasted in the process of use of ROs against public interest," the NGT said. In a bid to regulate the use of RO purifiers, the NGT had earlier directed the government to prohibit them where TDS is below 500 mg per litre and to sensitise the public about the ill-effects of demineralised water. The tribunal has also asked the government to make it mandatory to recover more than 60 per cent water wherever RO is permitted across the country. The order had come following an expert committee report which said that if TDS is less than 500 milligrams per litre, a RO system will not be useful but will result in removing important minerals as well as cause undue wastage of water.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-orders-centre-to-act-on-water-wastage-in-ro-purifiers-1004849.html
04-07-2021||National||Don't get trapped in cycle of fear that Islam is in danger in India: RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat||Asserting that the DNA of all Indians is the same, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Sunday urged muslims not to get "trapped in the cycle of fear" that Islam is in danger in India. Addressing an event organised by the Muslim Rashtriya Manch on the theme 'Hindustani First, Hindustan First', he said that people can't be differentiated on how they worship. He also took on those indulging in lynching, saying, "They are against Hindutava". Though at times, some false cases of lynching have been registered against people, Bhagwat said. "Don't get trapped in the cycle of fear that Islam is in danger in India," he said at the event. Underlining that development is not possible without unity in the country, the RSS chief stressed that the basis of unity should be nationalism and the glory of ancestors. The only solution to Hindu-Muslim conflict is dialogue, not discord, he said. "Hindu-Muslim unity is misleading as they're not different, but one. DNA of all Indians are same, irrespective of religion," Bhagwat said. "We are in a democracy. There can't be a dominance of Hindus or Muslims. There can only be the dominance of Indians." While beginning his speech, Bhagwat said he was attending the event neither for any image makeover nor for vote bank politics. Bhagwat said neither the Sangh is in politics nor does it bother about maintaining an image. "It keeps on doing its work to strengthen the nation and for the welfare of all in the society," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-get-trapped-in-cycle-of-fear-that-islam-is-in-danger-in-india-rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-1004850.html
04-07-2021||National||NHAI to set up 600 electric vehicle charging station along National Highways||To boost electric vehicle infrastrecture, National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) is planning to set up over 600 charging stations along National Highways in 22 states. "The NHAI will set up with the charging stations in joint venture with private companies in the next five years. Apartment of charging stations the NHAI also proposing to set up food courts, restaurants, retail outlets as well in one place along highways," said an official in the NHAI. So far, the NHAI has identified around 90 sites along upcoming Mumbai-Delhi Expressway, and another 400 sites along with new expressways and highways, and remaining along existing highways in different parts of the country. According to NHAI officials, they has invited bids for 130 sites and received good response from private sector to set up charging stations. "Setting up EV charging station will help to boost the electric vehicle usage," said the official.  Union Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari recently said by the end of this decade, India aims 70 per cent commercial cars, 30 per cent of private cars, 40 per cent of buses, and 80 per cent of two-wheelers and three-wheelers to be electeic. By pushing electric vehicle and vehicle with alternative fuel, the government wanted to bring down spending on importing petrol, Gadkari had said. To meet the ambitious target, the government wanted to set up 30 lakh public charging stations in the country in the next one decade. The government is aggressivey pushing to set up electric vehicle infrastructure with setting up charging station at fuel pump, residential colonies and malls and other public places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nhai-to-set-up-600-electric-vehicle-charging-station-along-national-highways-1004857.html
04-07-2021||National||SC to consider plea for compliance of 2015 judgment on Sec 66A of IT Act||The Supreme Court is scheduled to consider on Monday a plea by NGO PUCL for a direction to the Centre to issue advisory to all police stations against registering of FIR under Section 66A of the Information Technology Act, declared unconstitutional by the top court on March 24, 2015. In an application, the organisation contended "shockingly" that Section 66A of the IT Act has continued to be in use not only within police stations but also in cases before trial courts across the country. By its judgment of March 24, 2015, the top court held that “Section 66A is struck down in its entirety being violative of Article 19(1)(a) (freedom of speech) and not saved under Article 19(2) (reasonable restrictions).” Section 66A of the Information Technology Act, 2000  made posting "offensive" comments online a crime punishable by a jail term of three years. "The findings of the Zombie Tracker Website reveal that as of 10.03.2021, as many as a total of 745 cases are still pending and active before the Districts Courts in 11 States, wherein accused persons are being prosecuted for offences under Section 66A of the IT Act," the plea. The plea asked the court to direct the Centre to collect all the data regarding FIRs or investigations where Section 66A has been invoked as well as pendency of cases in the courts throughout the country. It also sought directions to all the High Courts to ensure compliance with the judgment. It also said the Union government should publish in all leading newspapers, both English and in the official vernacular informing the general public that Section 66A having been struck down was no longer law. Earlier too in 2018, an application was filed by PUCL, questioning the continued use of Section 66A.  However, on February 15, 2019, the top court disposed of the matter by directing that the copies of its judgment in Shreya Singhal case should be made available by every High Court in this country to all District Courts. The Union government was told to make available copies of the judgment to Chief Secretaries of all State Governments and Union Territories. The Chief Secretaries were, in turn, directed to sensitise the police departments by sending copies of the judgment to the Director-General of Police in each State. However, "the information gathered showed that not only the investigations under Section 66A by the police are continuing but even in the trial courts, the application of the provision continues at different stages," it stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-consider-plea-for-compliance-of-2015-judgment-on-sec-66a-of-it-act-1004866.html
04-07-2021||National||India's daily new Covid-19 case numbers stay below 50,000-mark for seven days; Kerala, NE states still worrisome||India’s daily Covid-19 count has remained below 50,000 for the past seven days, but Kerala and some northeastern states continue to be a cause of concern due to the high test positivity rate. Kerala has been reporting a test positivity rate of 10.2%, while in Sikkim it is 19.7%, Manipur (13.2%), Mizoram (13%) Meghalaya (10.9%) and Arunachal Pradesh (6.5%). Daily new cases appeared to have plateaued in Kerala around 12,000 for at least the past three weeks. Daily new cases have also been on the rise in some districts of Maharashtra, including Kolhapur, Sangli, Pune and Satara. NITI Aayog Member V K Paul had described such regions as “simmering pockets of the pandemic” and stressed on containing the outbreak within those regions. “We need to contain the pandemic within the pockets of the outbreak,” Paul had said noting that 71 districts across the country were reporting more than 100 cases daily. As of Sunday morning, India had reported a single-day increase of 43,071 Covid-19 infections, while active cases have declined to 4,85,350. The death toll has climbed to 4,02,005 with 955 more fatalities, while the case fatality rate has risen marginally to 1.32% from 1.31%, the Health Ministry said. The data stated that 18,38,490 tests were conducted on Saturday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 41,82,54,953. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.34%. It has remained under 5% for 27 consecutive days, the ministry said. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for 52 consecutive days, and the number of people who have recuperated from the disease has increased to 2,96,58,078, it said. India had administered more than 35 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines since the vaccination drive began on January 16.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-daily-new-covid-19-case-numbers-stay-below-50000-mark-for-seven-days-kerala-ne-states-still-worrisome-1004870.html
04-07-2021||National||Prime Minister Modi to address Co-WIN Global Conclave on July 5||Prime Minister Narendra Modi would be sharing his thoughts at the Co-WIN Global Conclave to be held on Monday as India will offer the Co-WIN platform as a digital public good to other countries to run their own Covid-19 inoculation drives. About 50 countries, including Canada, Mexico, Nigeria, Panama and Uganda, have shown interest in adopting Co-WIN, a digital platform, to run their vaccination drives, Dr R S Sharma, the CEO of the National Health Authority (NHA), had said recently, adding that India is ready to share the open-source software for free. The prime minister has directed officials to create an open-source version of the platform and give it to any country that wants it for free, Sharma had said. "We are elated to announce that Hon'ble PM @narendramodi would be sharing his thoughts on #CoWINGlobalConclave as India offers #CoWIN as a digital public good to the world to combat #COVID19," the NHA said in a tweet. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan will inaugurate the virtual conclave. Others expected to speak at the event include Foreign Secretary H V Shringla, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan and Sharma. The virtual meet will see participation from health and technology experts representing countries from across the globe. The conclave aims to share India's experience with regards to universal vaccination to fight Covid-19 through Co-WIN, the NHA said in a statement posted on its website. India developed Co-WIN as the central information technology (IT) system for strategising, implementing, monitoring and evaluating Covid vaccination. Recently, many countries have shown interest in using the platform, the NHA said. "India is excited to join hands with the world to win over Covid-19 together with Co-WIN. "Join us as we unfold the story behind the development of a scalable, inclusive and open platform called Co-WIN, the tech backbone of India's vaccination drive," it said. The virtual conclave is a joint initiative by the Union ministries of health, external affairs and the NHA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prime-minister-modi-to-address-co-win-global-conclave-on-july-5-1004888.html
04-07-2021||National||Ensure every possible medical treatment to Stan Swamy: NHRC to Maharashtra Chief Secretary||The National Human Rights Commission on Sunday asked the Maharashtra Chief Secretary to ensure every possible medical treatment to the imprisoned Father Stan Swamy as part of life-saving measures and protection of his basic human rights.  Earlier, the NHRC had received a complaint that Stan Swamy was being denied medical facility during the Covid-19 period. It was also alleged that he had not been vaccinated and that there was no proper medical care in the jail hospital.  The Commission has called for a report in the light of the allegations made in the complaint and the treatment record of the 84-year-old activist-priest, who is lodged in Taloja Jail in Navi Mumbai. He was arrested in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case.  This direction has come in continuation with the earlier order of the Commission, wherein it had advised the Maharashtra government to provide adequate medical care and treatment to Stan Swamy, who is hospitalized in Holy Family Hospital, a statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-every-possible-medical-treatment-to-stan-swamy-nhrc-to-maharashtra-chief-secretary-1004898.html
04-07-2021||National||Centre sets up 2 more labs for batch testing of Covid-19 vaccines||As the vaccination drive against Covid-19 picks up steam, the central government has set up two more central drug laboratories for testing and pre-release certification of vaccines. Currently, the Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) at Kasauli was the only National Control Laboratory for testing and pre-release certification of immunobiologicals meant for human use in the country. The two new CDLs have been set up at National Centre for Cell Science (NCCS), Pune, and National Institute of Animal Biotechnology, (NIAB) Hyderabad for batch testing and quality control of vaccines. Both NCCS and NIAB are autonomous research institutes under the department of biotechnology. The funds for setting up the CDL were provided by the PM-CARES Fund. The facilities are expected to test approximately 60 batches of vaccines per month. The facilities are geared up to test existing Covid-19 vaccines and other newer Covid-19 vaccines as per demand in the country. The new CDLs will not only expedite the vaccine manufacture and supply but also be logistically convenient considering that both Pune and Hyderabad are vaccine manufacturing hubs of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-sets-up-2-more-labs-for-batch-testing-of-covid-19-vaccines-1004904.html
04-07-2021||National Politics||No more in alliance with Assam Jatiya Parishad: Raijor Dal chief Akhil Gogoi||Raijor Dal president Akhil Gogoi on Sunday said his party has broken the alliance with regional front Assam Jatiya Parishad, led by former AASU general secretary Lurinjyoti Gogoi. The two newly floated regional parties, which were born out of the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act sentiment, had joined hands in February this year and contested the assembly election in March-April. The AJP had drawn a blank and the RD managed one seat with Gogoi winning as an Independent MLA. "We were not in alliance during the polls. We broke the tie-up in the middle of the election. There was no united opposition platform, and so we parted ways," Gogoi told PTI in an interview. However, neither of the two parties announced the falling apart of their alliance during the election, although speculation was rife that their association had run into rough weather, especially on the seat selection process. Out of the total 126 constituencies, the AJP had contested in 83 seats and the RD in 38. In 16 constituencies, both the parties fielded candidates and fought against each other, thereby dividing the anti-CAA votes. Gogoi walked free on July 1 after 567 days of imprisonment following his arrest in December 2019 for his alleged role in the violent anti-CAA movement in Assam, as the National Investigation Agency failed to frame any charge against him and three associates. Asked why the party did not formally declare the end of the alliance before the polls, the first-time legislator said, "We contested the assembly election alone. As of now, we are not in any alliance with the AJP." On February 4, AJP president Lurinjyoti Gogoi had met Akhil Gogoi at the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital, where he was undergoing treatment for various ailments while being in judicial custody, and announced finalisation of their coming together for the polls. On whether AJP's decision of nominating too many candidates without consulting the RD derailed the regional alliance, Akhil Gogoi said: "I don't know. I don't want to comment on them. We didn't want to have three poles in the election, but two - BJP and anti-BJP. But the Congress cheated us by breaking the united front. At that time, we also broke the alliance with the AJP." The Congress, which was in power for 15 years in Assam since 2001, had formed a 'Grand Alliance' with AIUDF, BPF, CPI(M), CPI, CPI(ML), Anchalik Gana Morcha (AGM), RJD, Adivasi National Party (ANP) and Jimochayan (Deori) Peoples Party (JPP) to fight the assembly election against the BJP-led NDA. "After severing ties with the AJP, I myself appealed to people that they should not vote for our candidates, but vote for only the strongest BJP nominees in the respective seats. Such a thing has never happened in the world that the party president is appealing not to vote for his own party's candidates. "If we had not done this and kept it a triangular contest, the BJP would have got more seats. Even after so much sacrifice, some people still blame us for dividing anti-BJP votes," Gogoi said. The BJP had bagged 60 seats, while its allies AGP won nine and UPPL six. In the opposition camp, the Congress bagged 29 seats, AIUDF 16, BPF four and the CPI(M) cornered one seat. Peasant leader-cum-RTI activist Gogoi's Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS) and 70 other groups had last year formed the Raijor Dal. On the other hand, the Assam Jatiya Parishad was jointly created by the All Assam Students' Union (AASU) and the Assam Jatiyatabadi Yuva Chhatra Parishad (AJYCP) in 2020. Gogoi, who contested as an Independent from Sibsagar, became the first Assamese to win an election remaining behind the bars and without any physical campaigning. He also became the first in the Assam Assembly to take oath on May 21 as a prisoner MLA, arriving from jail on special permission by the court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-more-in-alliance-with-assam-jatiya-parishad-raijor-dal-chief-akhil-gogoi-1004759.html
04-07-2021||National Politics||CPI(M) demands Joint Parliamentary Committee probe into Rafale deal in wake of French investigation order||The CPI(M) on Sunday demanded a probe by the Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) into the Rafale deal following the French Public Prosecution Services (PNF) ordering an investigation by a judge. The party's Polit Bureau said the judicial investigation was formally opened into the Inter-Governmental Agreement on June 14 following a decision by the Financial Branch of the PNF.  The exposures of official papers concerning the deal by a French investigative website show that Dassault Aviation, the manufacturer of the Rafale and Anil Ambani’s Reliance Group entered into an agreement on March 26, 2015 i.e. fifteen days before PM Modi’s announcement of the new deal and exclusion of HAL, it said.  "This reconfirms the apprehensions raised by the CPI(M) that PM Modi’s turnaround from the earlier purchase agreement, is mired in deep corruption and money laundering," a statement issued after a meeting of the Polit Bureau said. It reiterated the demand raised in September 2018 for the constitution of a Joint Parliamentary Committee to investigate the role of the Prime Minister and the government in this whole episode and establish the truth of the deal, it said. The CPI(M) also demanded the withdrawal of the draconian Essential Defence Services Ordinance, 2021, which aims to prohibit the employees of the ordnance factories to organise legitimate protests against the outright sale of India’s national assets to facilitate profit-maximisation of corporate cronies. On Covid-19 vaccination, the party said the second wave of the pandemic has plateaued according to pandemic administrators but there is no substantial decline in the number of infections. This is very alarming and concerning, it said. "The only way to protect the lives of our people and contain the pandemic is through a massive free universal mass vaccination programme. The target of vaccinating all adults by the year-end requires close to 190 crore vaccination doses," it said. The Modi government that claimed on May 13 that between August-December 2021 India will have access to 216 crore vaccine doses has substantially lowered vaccine availability in an affidavit to the Supreme Court on June 26 to 135 crore doses. This is an alarming shortfall to meet the year-end target, it said.  The CPI(M) also criticised the government for the near-daily hikes in petroleum prices, which apart from crippling people’s livelihood’s directly has resulted in a surging inflationary spiral across the board. This Modi government increased the excise duties on petrol by 258 per cent and diesel by 820 per cent. The Central Government is raking in revenues at the expense of ruining people’s lives who are already burdened with increased expenditures in combatting the pandemic, it said. The CPI(M) demanded the scrapping of these excise duties on petroleum products and effective measures to control the prices of all essential commodities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cpim-demands-joint-parliamentary-committee-probe-into-rafale-deal-in-wake-of-french-investigation-order-1004761.html
04-07-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi holds survey on Rafale deal on Twitter, slams Modi government||A day after the Congress demanded a JPC probe into the Rafale deal, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday put out an online survey asking why the Modi government was not ready for it. Among the choices given by Gandhi to the question were guilt conscience, saving friends, JPC does not want a Rajya Sabha seat and all the above. "Why is the Modi government not ready for a JPC probe? -- guilt conscience, saving the friends, JPC does not want a Rajya Sabha seat and all of these are right," he said in Hindi on Twitter, while putting out the survey. JPC जाँच के लिए मोदी सरकार तैयार क्यों नहीं है? Gandhi has been alleging corruption in the Rafale fighter jet deal for long now and had made this as a major poll plank in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, which the Congress lost badly. A French judge has been appointed to lead a "highly sensitive" judicial probe into suspected "corruption" and "favouritism" in the Rs 59,000 crore Rafale fighter jet deal with India, French investigative website Mediapart has reported. The Congress has demanded a Joint Parliamentary Committee(JPC) probe into the Rafale deal, alleging corruption in the purchase of the fighter jets, and said such an investigation is the only way forward to find the truth. The main opposition party had further said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi should order the investigation and come clean on the deal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-holds-survey-on-rafale-deal-on-twitter-slams-modi-government-1004767.html
04-07-2021||National Politics||Congress questions Centre's silence on Rafale probe in France||The Congress on Sunday questioned the silence of the Modi government over the judicial probe ordered in France over the allegations of corruption, favouritism and financial offences in the context of the Rafale fighter jet deal with India. “It is downright insulting to the people of India that this Government and its ministers have stayed tight-lipped about this entire scandal. Why is the Minister of Defence silent?,” Congress spokesman Pawan Khera told a press conference here. Khera wondered why the Indian government had not ordered an inquiry into the “undeniable role” of key functionaries of the Government of India who formed the other side of the multi-crore inter-governmental agreement. Congress had demanded the constitution of a Joint Parliamentary Committee to investigate the allegations of corruption in the Rafale deal. Khera rejected the BJP contention that the people had voted for the party overwhelmingly in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections despite the Congress making Rafale deal a poll issue. “It is a matter of shame that this government cannot think of anything beyond elections,” he said, adding that new facts had emerged in the Rafale deal between 2019 and 2021. Khera said the Congress would talk about what will happen in the 2024 elections in 2023. “We are talking about what should happen now. The deal should be investigated and a JPC should be set up,” the Congress spokesman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-questions-centres-silence-on-rafale-probe-in-france-1004783.html
04-07-2021||National Politics||'C' in Congress stands for cunning, says Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati on Sunday hit out at the Congress for accusing her party of having a tacit understanding with the BJP, saying the 'C' in its name stands for "cunning". Reacting to her remarks, UP Congress spokesperson Ashok Singh said every voter in Uttar Pradesh is saying that the BSP is the spokesperson of the BJP and Mayawati should "accept this truth". In the past, both the BSP and the Congress have accused each other of having a tacit understanding with the ruling BJP. In November last year, Mayawati had said the BSP would never enter into an alliance with the BJP for any polls as their ideologies were "opposite". In a series of tweets in Hindi on Sunday, Mayawati said, "The Congress, which is running on oxygen in Uttar Pradesh, says that the B in BSP stands for BJP. This is highly objectionable as the B in BSP stands for Bahujan, which comprises of SCs, STs, OBCs and religious minorities. Since their numbers are high, they are called Bahujan." "The C in Congress actually stands for 'cunning' party which left Bahujans helpless and made them slaves despite forming governments at the Centre and in states for a long time due to their votes. Eventually, the BSP was formed and at that time the BJP was not in power at the Centre or in the states," she said. Mayawati alleged that as long as the Congress, the BJP or the Samajwadi Party are in power in Uttar Pradesh, no election can be held in a free and fair manner. When the BSP was in power, all elections, big or small, were held in a free and fair manner, she said. Reacting to Mayawati's remarks, UP Congress spokesperson Ashok Singh tweeted, "Each and every voter of the state is saying that the BSP is the spokesperson of the BJP and Mayawati should accept this truth."   Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/c-in-congress-stands-for-cunning-says-mayawati-1004810.html
04-07-2021||National Politics||Farmers will protest every day outside Parliament during Monsoon Session: Samyukt Kisan Morcha||Farmers agitating against the three farm laws plan to hold protests outside Parliament every day during the Monsoon Session to press for their demand for rollback of the reforms. The farmers, who have been protesting at the borders of the national capital for the past seven months, also said that they would hand over a ‘warning letter’ to every opposition MP, urging them to raise their concerns over the farm laws inside Parliament. The Monsoon Session of Parliament is scheduled to begin on July 19 and continue till August 13. “We will be protesting outside Parliament continuously till they hear our demands,” Balbir Singh Rajewal, a leader of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, told a press conference here. The SKM also called for a nationwide protest on July 8 against the rising prices of petrol, diesel and LPG cylinders. It asked people to come out and park their vehicles along state and national highways from 10 am till 12 pm. “Whatever vehicle you have, tractor, trolley, car, scooter, just bring it to the nearest state or national highway and park it there. But don't create a traffic jam,” Rajewal said. Farmers have been camping at Delhi's borders since November 26 last year, demanding that the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee minimum support price for crops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farmers-will-protest-every-day-outside-parliament-during-monsoon-session-samyukt-kisan-morcha-1004826.html
04-07-2021||National Politics||Opposition's opposition to unity an advantage for BJP in Uttar Pradesh Assembly election||The Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government,  which is facing anti-incumbency in Uttar Pradesh after the Covid-19 second wave, can breathe a sigh of relief if the Opposition votes get divided in the state Assembly election which is barely nine months away. BSP chief Mayawati on Sunday hit out at Congress, saying that the 'C' in its name stands for "cunning", while Congress is claiming that it is quite capable of fighting the election on its own without the support of either SP or BSP. "The Congress, which is running on oxygen in Uttar Pradesh, says that the 'B' in BSP stands for BJP. This is highly objectionable as the 'B' in BSP stands for Bahujan, which comprises SCs, STs, OBCs and religious minorities. Since their numbers are high, they are called Bahujan," Mayawati, who has announced her intent to go solo in UP polls, tweeted on Sunday. Mayawati, whose party in the past had joined hands with all the three Opposition parties, also said that free and fair elections cannot be held in the state till one of Congress, BJP or Samajwadi Party remains in power. Samajwadi Party, which forged an alliance with the BSP for the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and with Congress for the 2017 UP Assembly polls, announced that this time, instead of the big parties, they will form alliances with smaller parties that have particular vote banks. Mayawati dubbed this announcement as a reflection of "SP's helplessness after being shunned by major parties". And herein lies the silver lining for the BJP. In the last seven years, the saffron party has expanded hugely in UP, and enjoys the backing of a wide network of RSS Karyakartas in a state where the Hindutva politics has resonated well. A closer look at the performance of all the four parties in the last 15 years shows that while BJP has increased its vote share in the last three elections (2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha polls and 2017 Assembly polls), the other parties have lagged behind. A dominant BJP won the 2017 Assembly polls by bagging 40 per cent votes and further increased it to 50 per cent in the state in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. BSP, which has been on a decline, had got its best at 30 per cent in 2007.  In a four-cornered contest among the SP, BSP, BJP and Congress, a vote share of 30%-35% will help any party to form the government. In 2017, BJP won a whopping 312 Assembly seats, nearly seven times more seats than the 47 it won in 2012 state polls. BJP got almost 40 per cent votes then, getting a swing of nearly 25 per cent. BSP and SP got nearly 22 per cent each, with the former slightly ahead, while Congress plummeted to 6.25 per cent, falling from nearly 12 per cent it got in 2012 state polls.  The 2019 Lok Sabha polls saw BJP getting nearly 50 per cent votes in UP, BSP less than 20 per cent and SP around 18 per cent votes. When BSP won the 2007 state elections, it got almost 30.5 per cent votes and SP 25.5 per cent and BJP still managed to get 17 per cent votes. Even in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, BJP got nearly 42.5 per cent votes, SP 22 per cent, BSP 20 per cent and Congress nearly 7.5 per cent. In the 2012 state elections, SP got the largest share with 29.15 per cent, followed by the BSP with 25.91 per cent. The BJP got just 15 per cent, and the Congress around 11.5 per cent. Also, despite getting its core Jatav votes in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, BSP failed to win even a single seat as upper castes did not vote for the party and BJP, on the other hand, managed to breach the large Dalit vote base of Mayawati. Hence, the BSP chief has been aggressively countering the bid of other parties to rope in Dalits--be it by accusing BJP of being "deceitful" after President Ram Nath Kovind inaugurated a statue of Dalit icon B R Ambedkar or Congress' plan to reach out to Dalits, which had begun in 2010 with Rahul Gandhi's 'dine with Dalit' events.  After having defeated BJP in some assembly and Lok Sabha bypolls, the highlight of which was Kairana where an RLD candidate backed by SP, BSP and Congress won in 2018 despite the place being a BJP stronghold, the divide in the Opposition camp is back. And the division will only help BJP to strengthen its grip in Uttar Pradesh after the 2022 Assembly election.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/oppositions-opposition-to-unity-an-advantage-for-bjp-in-uttar-pradesh-assembly-election-1004861.html
04-07-2021||National Politics||Is it because Gandhi family didn't get 'commission': BJP's retort to Congress questioning Rafale deal||The BJP on Sunday hit out at the Congress for raising questions over the Rafale deal and sought to know why its government did not procure the fighter planes for 10 years despite a depleted squadron strength of the Indian Air Force. "Is it because the Gandhi family did not get their desired 'commission'?" asked BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra. The Congress party has questioned the silence of the BJP government after French authorities ordered a probe into "corruption and favouritism" in the multi-billion fighter aircraft deal. In reply, Patra said it does not sound well when the Congress party accuses others of jeopardising national security. "The Congress should answer as to why for 10 years, despite a depleted squadron strength of the Indian Air Force, Congress government didn't procure the much-needed Rafael fighter planes? Is it because the Gandhi Family did not get their desired 'commission'?" he asked. It is astounding that yet again the Congress has taken the "abuse" way. Abusing the prime minister and talking about his appearance and beard, the BJP spokesperson said. "Congress followed the same strategy of abusing Modi ji during the 2019 Lok Sabha Elections… we had then seen the fallout... if they still want to experiment with the dejected 'toolkit' they are welcome... the people of this country will give a befitting reply to Rahul Gandhi and the Congress," Patra said. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera has sought to know that in an inter-governmental defence deal, where there cannot be any middlemen or corruption when the beneficiary of any "corruption" has ordered a probe, why has a country, which has lost public money, not ordered one? He alleged that the government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi makes a lot of noise about national security, but undermines the country's security interests when it comes to helping its crony capitalist friends. Patra said that the pricing, procedures of procurement and all other aspects of the deal has been examined both by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India and the Supreme Court. "In India, the 'verdict' is out from the highest epitome of justice. Congress' accusations sound hollow and carry no water," Patra said, alleging that the Congress is "blatantly lying" about a tender during their regime. Explaining the process, Patra said there is a difference between a proposal and a deal/tender. "If there was a tender during the UPA regime why was the fighter jet not procured? It is clear that the Congress is trying its best to yet again do what it is best at… spreading confusion and fakery so that forces inimical to India stand benefitted," he alleged. The Congress has sought to know that now that the French Public Prosecution Services (PNF) has initiated a probe into the corruption allegations against the previous president of France, who was one of the parties to the deal, why is no enquiry being ordered on the role of the key functionaries of the Indian government? "The Indian National Congress demands that a fair Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) be constituted immediately and every aspect of the Rafale deal probed by it. The people of India deserve to know the truth," Khera said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/is-it-because-gandhi-family-didnt-get-commission-bjps-retort-to-congress-questioning-rafale-deal-1004872.html
04-07-2021||National Politics||Shiv Sena, BJP not enemies, says Devendra Fadnavis||Amid a fast-changing political situation in Maharashtra, Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said that BJP and its former ally Shiv Sena were "not enemies" but admitted to differences cropping up among the two allies one-and-a-half-years ago. After the 2019 Vidhan Sabha polls, Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray  parted ways with BJP to join hands with Sharad Pawar-led NCP and Congress to form and head the Maha Vikas Aghadi government. "Our friend (Shiv Sena) contested the 2019 (Lok Sabha and Vidhan Sabha) polls with us... After the Vidhan Sabha polls, they joined hands with those (NCP and Congress) we contested the elections against," said Fadnavis, a former chief minister. It may be recalled, Thackeray took over as chief minister on November 28, 2019. When specifically asked whether his last week's meeting with Union Home Minister Amit Shah was an indication of the possibility of Shiv Sena and BJP coming together, he said: "...there are no ifs and buts in politics... decisions are taken on prevailing situation." It may be mentioned, last month senior Shiv Sena leader and three-time MLA Pratap Sarnaik, who is facing an ED probe, wrote to Thackeray to reconcile with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP as the party was "suffering". Reacting to this, state BJP president Chandrakant Patil had then said: "Sarnaik has written a letter to Thackeray...he would decide on it....then our leaders will decide." Fadnavis's statement comes at a time when the Centre has mounted pressure on the MVA government with senior leaders like former Home Minister Anil Deshmukh facing probe by ED and CBI. Pawar's nephew and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar too faced problems when a mill in Satara linked to him and his family was attached by ED. Congress too seems to be unhappy and have decided to go alone in future local bodies, Vidhan Sabha and Lok Sabha polls - for which Thackeray publicly spoke out against its state leaders. Over last week, Pawar and Thackeray met individually and with senior leaders. On Saturday, in a surprise meeting, Thackeray's troubleshooter Sanjay Raut met BJP's Ashish Shelar. "The more you spread rumours, the stornger we would emerge," Raut had said. The MVA partners - Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress - has been alleging that the Centre and BJP was misusing central agencies to destabilise the alliance government. The MVA had also run-ins with Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shiv-sena-bjp-not-enemies-says-devendra-fadnavis-1004886.html
04-07-2021||National Politics||BJP should transfer UP CM Yogi Adityanath to Uttarakhand, says Akhilesh Yadav||Taking a dig at the BJP over the leadership change in Uttarakhand, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday urged the saffron party to transfer Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath to the hill state. He said in this way, Uttarakhand will get rid of the “daily problem of leadership change”. Yadav was apparently referring to the change of guard in Uttarakhand after BJP leader Tirath Singh Rawat resigned as the state's chief minister on Friday after holding the post for less than four months. He had replaced Trivendra Singh Rawat in March. Pushkar Singh Dhami was sworn in as the new chief minister of the state following his election on Saturday as the leader of the BJP legislature party. "… In Uttar Pradesh, democracy has been ‘injured’ because of the Chief Minister (Yogi Adityanath), and in Uttarakhand, democracy has become a ‘victim of instability’. In this situation, it will be better that the BJP transfer the UP CM to Uttarakhand, so that the hill state gets free from the daily problem of change of leadership,” the SP leader said in a statement. He also alleged that both the states were grappling with law and order problem, women security, unemployment, poor health services, among others. “There is a decline in the law and order situation in both the states of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. No investments are taking place in the states owing to political manipulation. “Unemployment, inflation and corruption is also on the rise since the BJP came to power in the states,” the statement said. The SP chief added that women are finding it difficult to live with honour and injustice is being done to farmers in both the states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-should-transfer-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-to-uttarakhand-says-akhilesh-yadav-1004895.html
04-07-2021||North and Central||Pushkar Singh Dhami pays courtesy calls on former Uttarakhand CMs||Pushkar Singh Dhami, who is set to be sworn in as the 11th chief minister of Uttarakhand this evening, paid courtesy calls on his predecessors here on Sunday morning. Dhami paid a visit  to former chief minister and his immediate predecessor Tirath Singh Rawat at his Bhagirathipuram residence. He also called on former chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat at his Defence Colony residence, an official release here said.  Dhami's swearing-in is to take place on Sunday evening at Raj Bhawan. The Uttarakhand BJP legislature party on Saturday unanimously elected Dhami, a two-time MLA from Khatima as its new leader paving the way for him to take over as the 11th chief minister of the state replacing Tirath Singh Rawat who resigned on Friday night citing constitutional factors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pushkar-singh-dhami-pays-courtesy-calls-on-former-uttarakhand-cms-1004707.html
04-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi's stadia, sports complexes to reopen without spectators from Monday||The Delhi government has allowed the reopening of stadium and sports complexes without spectators from Monday, an order issued by the DDMA said on Sunday. There will be strict adherence to standard operating procedure and other guidelines of the government, and compliance of Covid appropriate behaviour while opening the stadia and sports complexes, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said. However, cinema halls, multiplexes, swimming pools, spas, schools and colleges, social, political, cultural, religious and other such gatherings will remain prohibited, the order stated. Delhi Metro trains and public transport buses will continue to operate with 50 per cent seating capacity, it said. Last week, the DDMA allowed the opening of gyms and yoga institutes with half their capacity as well as weddings at banquet and marriage halls and hotels with a limit of 50 percent attendance. The prohibited and restricted activities will continue till 5 am on July 12, the order said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-stadia-sports-complexes-to-reopen-without-spectators-from-monday-1004711.html
04-07-2021||North and Central||Navjot Singh Sidhu bats for 300 units of free electricity, 24-hour power supply in Punjab||Amid a power crisis in Punjab, Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday pitched for providing up to 300 units of free electricity and round-the-clock power supply to consumers in the state. Sidhu also said that domestic and industrial consumers should be given electricity at cheaper rates. “Punjab already provides 9000 crore subsidy but we must do more for Domestic & Industrial consumer giving power at Rs 3-5 per unit instead of surcharge inflated Rs 10-12 per unit, along 24-hour supply with No Power-Cuts & Free Power (Up to 300 Units).. It is definitely achievable,” said Sidhu in a tweet. Sidhu's tweet came days after Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal promised 300 units of free electricity for each household and 24-hour power supply if his party AAP comes to power next year. The cricketer-turned-politician reiterated that “faulty” power purchase agreements signed during the erstwhile SAD-BJP regime should be nullified through a law.  “Let us start with Congress High Command's Pro-People 18 Point Agenda and get rid of the faulty un-negotiable Badal-signed Power Purchase Agreements through “New Legislation in Punjab Vidhan Sabha” fixing rates as per National Power Exchange with No fixed charges !” said Sidhu in another tweet. Sidhu had earlier also batted for a law to nullify the power purchase agreements (PPAs) signed during the tenure of the previous SAD-BJP government. The Amritsar East legislator has been at loggerheads with the Punjab chief minister and has attacked him over a host of issues in the past. On Saturday, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had said his government would soon announce its legal strategy to counter the “ill-conceived” PPAs during the previous SAD-BJP regime. Singh had also said these PPAs, which were already under review, had put an “atrociously unnecessary” financial burden on the state. Of the 139 PPAs signed during by the erstwhile SAD-BJP government, 17 were enough to cater to the state's full power demand, the CM had said. The remaining 122 for 1314 MWs of expensive power were inexplicably signed, putting an unnecessary financial burden on the state, he had said. Before coming to power in 2017, the Congress had promised that it would renegotiate the existing PPAs to ensure low cost power. Punjab had been reeling under an unprecedented power shortage with urban and rural areas facing long hours of load shedding amid scorching heat. The State-owned power utility PSPCL on Saturday had said that following the measures taken by the state government, eight-hours of power was being supplied to all agriculture consumers and there were also no scheduled power cuts on domestic, commercial, small and medium supply industrial consumers in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/navjot-singh-sidhu-bats-for-300-units-of-free-electricity-24-hour-power-supply-in-punjab-1004720.html
04-07-2021||North and Central||Explained | What is Delhi's colour-coded system to manage future Covid outbeaks?||To fight future outbreaks of Covid-19 in different parts of the national capital, Delhi government will soon enforce a colour-coded management system. An eight-member committee is in the final stage of drafting this graded response action plan. The alerts are categorised into Yellow, Amber, Orange and Red, based on positivity rate, cumulative new positive cases, and average oxygen bed occupancy in hospitals. The administration has also included the odd-even restrictions for malls and markets in this plan.  Here’s a category-wise explanation of this novel system: Yellow Alert This is the first level of alert which will go out if the Covid-19 positivity rate is over 0.5 per cent for two days consecutively, or there are new 1,500 cases recorded in a week. Yellow can also be imposed if the average occupancy of oxygen beds in hospitals across Delhi is 500 for a week. Under the Yellow alert, shops and markets offering non-essential goods and services will be allowed to open on an odd-even basis within the set time period of 10 am to 8 pm. A weekly market with half of the vendors will be permitted to operate in each municipal zone. Construction activities and industrial establishments/manufacturing units will operate as usual. Amber Alert The next level of alert is Amber which will go out if the positivity rate is over one per cent for two days consecutively, or there are 3,500 new cases recorded in a week. This alert can also be imposed if the average oxygen bed occupancy is over 700 in a week. As far as restrictions are concerned, it will be the same as Yellow. However, the timings of the shops and markets will be from 10 am to 6 pm. Orange Alert This third category will be imposed if the positivity rate increases to two per cent for two days consecutively, or new cases recorded in a week increase to 9,000, or the average oxygen bed occupancy is over 1,000 in a week. Unlike the previous two categories, Orange will have stricter restrictions. All markets and shops will be shut. Only shops with essential goods will stay open like grocery stores, milk booths and medical stores.  Transportation will be restricted. Metro services will be shut and buses will ply with 50 per cent capacity carrying only those engaged in essential services. Private transport like autos, cabs and e-rickshaws will operate with a maximum capacity of two passengers. Only construction sites providing accommodation to labourers will be allowed, while the rest will be put on halt. Same condition applies to factories producing essential goods. Red Alert The category ‘Red’ will have the strictest restrictions. If the positivity rate breaches five per cent in two consecutive days, or the new cases recorded in a week increase to 16,000, or the average number of oxygen beds in hospitals goes to 3,000 or above in a week, this alert will be imposed. Restrictions will be similar to the Orange alert with stricter rules for public transport.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/explained-what-is-delhis-colour-coded-system-to-manage-future-covid-outbeaks-1004721.html
04-07-2021||North and Central||DMRC monitoring Phase-IV, Patna Metro via indigenously-built software||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation has implemented a custom-made project monitoring software for monitoring the progress of work on its Ph-IV corridors and the Patna Metro, officials said on Sunday. IPMS (Integrated Project Monitoring Software) will monitor the progress of work of all disciplines civil, electrical and mechanical, and signalling and telecommunication contract, package-wise at the chief project manager and project manager levels and corridor-wise at the directors and managing director levels, the DMRC said. "In a major initiative towards digitalising its functioning, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has implemented a custom-made project monitoring software known as the (IPMS) for monitoring the progress of its Phase 4 corridors and the Patna Metro," it said in a statement. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on February 17, 2019, had laid the foundation stone for the Patna Metro Rail Project. Delhi Metro Rail Corporation is working on the Patna Metro project. Through IPMS, all the stages of project, planning and implementation, right from the tender stage to revenue operation of each corridor will be monitored, including the issues of work front availability, such as land availability, tree transplantation and shifting of services and design status, officials said. For this purpose, corridor-wise 'Master Construction Schedule' has been prepared and uploaded in the IPMS, they said. The IPMS has the features of integration of other construction-related softwares, such as Primavera Schedules for Project Planning and 3D BIM (Three-Dimensional Building Information Modelling) and a mobile app through which the actual progress at site on real-time basis can be uploaded in the IPMS, the Delhi Metro said. Role-based access is provided right from higher management to the junior engineer level through specially designed dashboards and a mobile application. The project progress can be viewed in dashboards as well as in 3D models, the officials said. The software was launched in April earlier this year and is being used for monitoring the progress of contract packages which are awarded, and in progress. As the works get gradually awarded, they are integrated in the IPMS, the DMRC said. Till Ph-III work, the DMRC's project monitoring was being done offline. With the implementation of this new technology, the DMRC's engineers can now monitor the progress of work through this dedicated platform, the officials said. Specially-designed dashboards will feature progress of all major components of construction and their status can be checked just by the click of a button, they said. The implementation of this software will enable easier round-the-clock monitoring of projects, as the IPMS portal can be accessed from anywhere on mobiles, laptops, computers, the Delhi Metro said. This will also help in better record-keeping and knowledge sharing among the engineers. DMRC's Vendor Payment Portal which carries all relevant information regarding payments made to the vendors will also be integrated with this platform in the days to come, the officials said. This project by the DMRC is an excellent example of the government's Digital India as well as 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' initiatives. A consortium of three Indian companies has been assigned with this responsibility and the software has been indigenously developed, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dmrc-monitoring-phase-iv-patna-metro-via-indigenously-built-software-1004744.html
04-07-2021||North and Central||Cong has capacity to fight UP polls without alliance with SP or BSP: PCC chief Lallu||Days after the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party ruled out forging any major alliances for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, Congress' state unit chief Ajay Kumar Lallu on Sunday expressed confidence that his party has the capacity to fight the elections without aligning with either of them and form the next government on its own. He also said the Congress would fight the polls in Uttar Pradesh next year under Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's "dekh-rekh (supervision)", and that under her leadership, the party would make a comeback in the state after over three decades. In an interview with PTI, Lallu said Congress has emerged as the main challenger to the "oppressive" UP government and claimed that his party with just five legislators has proven to be a more effective opposition than the Samajwadi Party (SP) which has 49 MLAs in the 403-member assembly. He said "winds of change" were blowing in UP and added, "Badlav ki aandhi hai, jiska naam Priyanka Gandhi hai (There is a storm of change and its name is Priyanka Gandhi)." Lallu asserted that the Congress organisation has been strengthened at various levels in UP under Priyanka Gandhi's leadership. Asked if Priyanka Gandhi should be made the chief ministerial face by the party for the polls, he said it is the party's national leadership that would decide on who should be the chief ministerial face. Pressed on whether Priyanka Gandhi would be the party's face in the run up to the polls, Lallu said she is UP's in-charge and the elections will be fought under her supervision. "The people of Uttar Pradesh are looking at Congress with hope. There is a lot of enthusiasm among the workers and under her leadership, the Congress government will be formed in UP," he said. His remarks come at a time when the party has shifted gears for the assembly elections with the state unit organising zone-wise training camps of block presidents, district presidents and other office bearers to prepare workers for the polls. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi is likely to visit several districts this month with an aim to enthuse the cadre and prepare the party for a pitched electoral battle with the ruling BJP. Whether the party would fight the polls on its own or in alliance with the SP or the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), Lallu said the Congress will forge an alliance with issues of the people, farmers, poor, women and oppressed. The Congress will go to the people with this alliance and is confident they will bless it, he added. Asked if the Congress has the capacity to fight the polls on its own, Lallu said, "Yes, definitely it has the capacity to fight." His remarks assume significance as they come days after SP chief Akhilesh Yadav said his party will not enter into any alliance with big parties, while BSP supremo Mayawati later asserted that her outfit will not enter into any alliance for the UP polls. On whether votes could get divided if the SP, the BSP and the Congress contest separately, Lallu said people had given opportunity to the other political players in the state but they were not able to stay true to the faith shown by the people and now it was the Congress' turn. About SP and BSP leaders' statements on the polls, he said it reflected frustration and disappointment as people have rejected them and are standing with the Congress. On many political pundits not considering the Congress the main challenger to the BJP in UP and the party's poor showing in the panchayat polls, he alleged that an "oppressive" BJP government is in power and said if any party is raising its voice against the Yogi Adityanath dispensation on the streets, it is the Congress which has emerged as a "strong opposition". "Be it for farmers, youth or poor in rural areas, Congress has raised its voice on issues such as unemployment, law and order situation, saving lives during the Covid pandemic, on deaths due to spurious liquor, jungle raj and other problems," he said. "When tribals were killed in Sonbhadra, when injustice was done to Hathras' daughter, when injustice was done to daughters of Unnao and Shahjahanpur, Priyanka Gandhi raised her voice and fought against injustice. When it came to hitting the streets to oppose the farm laws, it was Priyanka Gandhi who did it," Lallu said. Asserting that Congress workers had taken the fight against the state government to the streets, he claimed that over 1 lakh party workers have been detained and cases filed against thousands of them at different points in time. "I myself have been detained more than 80 times in a year, over 40-50 cases were filed and I went to jail four times," Lallu said. Talking about the Congress' performance in the panchayat elections, Lallu said 271 of the party-backed candidates were elected, 571 came second while 711 were third. The Congress got 50 lakh votes in Lok Sabha polls and in the assembly elections, it got 51 lakh votes, but in zila panchayat polls, it got 1,52,00,000 votes, he said, alleging that the SP only "grabbed headlines" by putting their name on winning candidates despite losing out. "There is frustration and disappointment in BJP and SP, the Congress with its determination is going to make a comeback in UP under Priyanka Gandhi's leadership. We have full faith in the people," he said, stressing that Congress was the BJP's main challenger in the polls. Pointing out that the party has been strengthened at various levels, he said, "We have 840 block presidents, 8,145 nyay panchayat presidents and in 59,000 villages, we have gram sabha units. We are strengthening booths, training programmes are going on. In light of the developments and on the basis of raising people's issues, we will definitely make a comeback in UP." Claiming that the three farm laws were a big issue in UP, Lallu said the Congress stood against the laws, and farmers would support the party. On All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul- Muslimeen's decision to enter the poll fray in UP, he said political parties have the right to fight polls and one can't stop anyone, but added people are looking at the Congress with hope and the party is confident that it will get their blessings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cong-has-capacity-to-fight-up-polls-without-alliance-with-sp-or-bsp-pcc-chief-lallu-1004746.html
04-07-2021||North and Central||Tourists throng Himachal as heatwave hits plains, Covid wave slows down||Tourists have been thronging Himachal Pradesh as the heatwave has hit the plains and the second wave of Covid-19 seeing a significant decline in the country. People from the plains are visiting tourist hotspots like Shimla, Kufri, Narkanda, Dalhousie, Manali, Lahaul and other places in the hill state in large numbers to get rid of the scorching heat. The occupancy in the hotels has increased in the past few days but it has yet to reach its peak, said Mohinder Seth, president of Tourism Industry Stakeholder Association. “The occupancy in the hotels remains between 60 and 90 percent during weekends, while on other days it remains around 40-45 percent,” Seth told PTI. Shimla Hotel and Restaurant Association president Sanjay Sood said the withdrawal of the condition of negative RTPCR report and e-Covid pass to enter Himachal Pradesh recently has given a boost to the tourism industry of the state. However, the increase in the number of tourists has posed a challenge to the state government to ensure adhering of Covid protocol by the visitors amid fears of an impending third wave of coronavirus infections. Asserting that the hoteliers have been following Covid protocol in their premises for over a year, Sood hoped that the number of tourists would further increase in the coming days. A tourist, Nikita Kukreja, said the majority of the visitors were seen following Covid protocol. She along with her family members has come from Gurgaon to visit various tourist places in and around Shimla. “Police personnel are also seen at various places on Mall road. As and when they see any tourist not wearing a mask, they warn that tourist to properly follow Covid protocol,” she said. Another tourist from Delhi Sanjana said the oppressive heatwave in the national capital forced her to visit the state. Mohinder Seth said the state government has not provided any relief in the shape of financial aid or waiver of taxes to the tourism industry hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic. While the Gujarat government has provided a hundred percent relief to hoteliers by waiving of property tax and garbage collection fees, Maharashtra and Odisha governments have given fifty percent relief, he claimed seeking relief on the same pattern in Himachal Pradesh. In Kullu district, Atal Tunnel Rohtang (ATR) has become a major attraction for visitors. A record number of 6,400 vehicles had crossed the tunnel last Sunday. “This was the highest single-day and highest till date arrivals,” said Manav Verma, Superintendent of Police Lahaul-Spiti, adding 2,001 vehicles crossed the tunnel on Friday. However, Budhi Prakash Thakur, state convener, Forum of Hotel and Restaurant Association, said the occupancy in hotels in Kullu district is dismal and figures hang around less than 25 percent. As the tourism industry is yet to pick up the pace, the Manali town is not witnessing the usual summer season traffic jams. In Chamba district, the tourist inflow to Dalhousie, Khajjiar and Chamba is picking up gradually. The hoteliers are upbeat as there was an acute slump in the tourism business for the last over one year due to the pandemic. Federation of Hotels and Restaurants Association Dalhousie chief patron Manoj Chadha believes that since this is the peak tourist season due to summer, the tourist influx would further increase if the conditions continue to be the same. The charming hill station Dalhousie has the potential to attract tourists from home and abroad, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tourists-throng-himachal-as-heatwave-hits-plains-covid-wave-slows-down-1004752.html
04-07-2021||North and Central||UP Assembly polls: BJP will form govt, there should be no doubt about it, claims Yogi Adityanath||The BJP will win the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, and there should be no doubt about it, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has said, after AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi's reported remarks that the saffron party will not be allowed to form government in the state. The Om Prakash Rajbhar-led Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party and the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) have announced to fight the elections together. Owaisi had reportedly said, "Inshallah, (we) will not allow Yogi (Adityanath) to become the chief minister of UP again. If our morale is high and we work hard, then everything will happen. Inshallah, our endeavour is that the BJP government is not formed in Uttar Pradesh." Reacting to the AIMIM chief's statement, Adityanath on Saturday said, "Owaisi ji is a big national leader, he goes to different parts of the country for campaigning, and he has his own 'janaadhaar' (voter base). If he has challenged the BJP, then the BJP worker accepts his challenge." "The BJP will form the government, and there should be no doubt on this," the chief minister said. He added that the BJP's central leadership has fixed a target of 300 plus assembly seats in the 2022 elections. The party will win over 300 seats, Adityanath asserted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-assembly-polls-bjp-will-form-govt-there-should-be-no-doubt-about-it-claims-yogi-adityanath-1004753.html
04-07-2021||North and Central||Bharat Ratna should be bestowed upon doctors, nurses, paramedics who battled Covid-19: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said the country's highest civilian award Bharat Ratna should be given this year to all doctors, nurses and paramedics who served the people amid the pandemic. It will a true homage to doctors who lost their lives, he said. "The 'Indian Doctor' should receive Bharat Ratna this year. 'Indian Doctor' means all doctors, nurses and paramedics. It will be a true homage to all martyred doctors. It will be an honour of those who have been serving without caring for their lives and families. The whole country will be glad at this," Kejriwal said in a tweet in Hindi. As many as 730 doctors have succumbed to coronavirus infection during the second wave, according to data available by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) in mid-June. Bihar saw the maximum number of 115 deaths, followed by Delhi at 109, Uttar Pradesh 79, West Bengal 62, Rajasthan 43, Jharkhand 39, and Andhra Pradesh 38, the data showed. According to the IMA, 748 doctors died in the first wave of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bharat-ratna-should-be-bestowed-upon-doctors-nurses-paramedics-who-battled-covid-19-kejriwal-1004763.html
04-07-2021||North and Central||Man kills 4 family members of daughter’s lover in Punjab’s Gurdaspur||A man allegedly killed four family members of a youth with whom his daughter was in a relationship in Punjab’s Gurdaspur district, police said on Sunday. The accused identified as Sukhjinder Singh, a resident of Balarwal village in Batala, got enraged when he came to know about his daughter’s love affair with one Germanjeet Singh, who lives in the same village, they said. On Sunday morning, the accused allegedly reached the farm belonging to the family of Germanjeet Singh who along with his father Sukhwinder was present there. After a verbal duel, Sukhjinder Singh allegedly fired at them killing Sukhwinder Singh on the spot and injuring Germanjeet Singh, said police. After learning about the incident, Germanjeet Singh's grandfather Mangal Singh, uncle Jasbir Singh, cousin Babandeep and another relative Jashan reached there, they said. The accused fired at them too resulting in the death of Mangal Singh, Jasbir Singh and Babandeep, they said. Germanjeet Singh and Jashan, who were injured in the incident, are stated to be out of danger, police said, adding Sukhjinder Singh is absconding and efforts are on to nab him. Batala Superintendent of Police Gurpreet Singh said a case has been registered in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-kills-4-family-members-of-daughter-s-lover-in-punjab-s-gurdaspur-1004784.html
04-07-2021||North and Central||Sushil Kumar asks Tihar jail authorities to provide TV for wrestling match updates||Two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar, lodged in Tihar jail in connection with the Chhatrasal Stadium brawl, has urged prison authorities to provide him a television to remain updated about wrestling matches, officials said on Sunday. Kumar was arrested along with co-accused Ajay Kumar on May 23 from outer Delhi's Mundka area. He and his associates allegedly assaulted wrestler Sagar Dhankar and two of his friends Sonu and Amit Kumar on the intervening night of May 4 and 5 over a property dispute. Dhankar, 23, succumbed to injuries later. A senior jail official said Kumar has made the request through his advocate. He has requested for a television set so that he would get updates about wrestling matches, the official said. Earlier, a Delhi court extended the judicial custody of Kumar till July 9. He has been shifted to Tihar jail number 2 from Mandoli jail where he was earlier lodged. Police said 12 accused, including Kumar, have so far been arrested in connection with the Chhatrasal Stadium brawl case. The police have claimed that Kumar is the "main culprit and mastermind" of the murder and said that there is electronic evidence in which he and his associates could be seen beating Dhankar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sushil-kumar-asks-tihar-jail-authorities-to-provide-tv-for-wrestling-match-updates-1004785.html
04-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi reports 94 Covid-19 cases, 7 deaths in 24 hours||Delhi recorded 94 fresh Covid-19 cases and seven more deaths on Sunday, while the positivity rate stood at 0.13 per cent, according to data shared by the health department. The national capital has recorded 14,34,554 Covid-19 cases since the pandemic began last year. So far, over 14.08 lakh patients have recovered. The death toll stands at 24,995. On Saturday, Delhi had recorded 86 cases and five deaths with a positivity rate of 0.11 per cent, according to official data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-reports-94-covid-19-cases-7-deaths-in-24-hours-1004786.html
04-07-2021||North and Central||'Bandit Queen' Phoolan Devi makes a comeback in Uttar Pradesh politics||Phoolan Devi, popularly known as the 'Bandit Queen', may have been assassinated two decades back, but she appears to have made a comeback in the Uttar Pradesh electoral politics, thanks to the caste equations. Phoolan Devi, then a Lok Sabha member, was shot dead outside her Delhi residence in 2001. She hailed from the 'Nishad' (boatmen, fishermen) community, which commands considerable influence in around 50 assembly seats in UP, where elections are barely nine months away. Bihar minister and president of Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP) Mukesh Sahni, who calls himself 'son of mallah' (son of boatman) and declared to contest the assembly polls in UP, indicated that he intended to electorally 'encash' Phoolan's popularity in the 'Nishad' community in the state. ''We will be celebrating July 25, the day Phoolan Devi was assassinated, as martyrdom day across UP. Our workers will be paying tribute to her and recall her services for the Nishad community,'' Sahni said. Phoolan, who represented Mirzapur in the Lok Sabha, was quite popular among the members of her community. The Samajwadi Party (SP) supremo Mulayam Singh Yadav nominated her from the seat as his party's candidate in the 1996 general elections after the then SP government withdrew all cases against her and released her from prison.  Another VIP leader, who accompanied Mukesh Sahni, said that the UP-based Nishad Party, which claimed to be the sole representative of the community, never recognised the services of Phoolan for her community. Nishad Party had contested the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in alliance with the BJP and its president Sanjay Nishad was nominated as the saffron party candidate from Sant Kabir Nagar LS seat. ''We are ready to nominate Sanjay Nishad from any seat he wants in the 2022 assembly polls. After all, he too is our brother. We appeal to him to join hands with us to raise the issue of inclusion of the community in the SC/ST category for reservation,'' Mukesh Sahni said. He also refused to approach the BJP leaders for an electoral alliance in the upcoming assembly polls. ''Why should I meet BJP leaders?'' he retorted when queried in this regard. Mukesh Sahni's decision to jump into the electoral fray in UP could queer the pitch for Nishad Party with whom the BJP is currently holding talks for an alliance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bandit-queen-phoolan-devi-makes-a-comeback-in-uttar-pradesh-politics-1004794.html
04-07-2021||North and Central||'Hybrid' militants: The new challenge for security forces in Kashmir||With infiltration from across the Line of Control (LoC) almost drying up, security agencies in Kashmir are facing a new challenge in the form of outsourcing of militant activities. Police source revealed to DH that dozens of youth, who are not listed as militants, but radicalised and trained enough to carry out terror attacks, have been engaged by Lashkar-e-Taiba, Jaish-e-Mohammed and Hizb-ul-Mujahideen outfits in the last few months. “Most of them are teenagers and highly motivated. They do not cross the border for arms training nor do they go underground to commit violent acts. In a majority of cases, their motivation is pure indoctrination or the macho image associated with violence. In some cases, money is also a factor as several of those arrested are from poor families,” they said. The new trend has sent security agencies into a tizzy as these “hybrid” or “part-time” militants are very difficult to track, as they slip back into routine life after carrying out an attack, thus, posing a huge challenge to the security forces. “Due to relentless operations by security agencies, only a few active militants operate in towns and Srinagar city. Now on the directions of the Pakistan spy agency, ISI, militant handlers are engaging these young boys, who carry out their routine activities during the day time. Their handlers (militant commanders) assign them specific tasks and after its completion they again slip back to normal work,” a senior police officer involved in counter insurgency operations, said. He said these “hybrid” militants mostly target those who speak against separatism and against the perpetrators and instigators of violence. “They have been mostly given pistols and their targets are political activists without security and off-duty policemen. The reason that security forces have failed to neutralise them is that they have no police record,” the officer said. Kashmir police chief Vijay Kumar while acknowledging the presence of sleeper cells and “hybrid” militants in Srinagar city said that they will neutralise them soon. “There are some sleeper cells that we call part-time or hybrid terrorists. We are tracking full-time terrorists but there is difficulty in tracking the part-time or hybrid terrorists as they go back to their normal work after carrying out an operation. But we are keeping full surveillance and we will get them soon,” he asserted. While security and intelligence agencies put the number of active militants across Jammu and Kashmir to 200, sources said, they are mostly concentrated in mountainous areas like Bandipora and Lolab in the north and upper reaches of Pulwama and Shopian in the south.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hybrid-militants-the-new-challenge-for-security-forces-in-kashmir-1004797.html
04-07-2021||North and Central||Pushkar Singh Dhami sworn in as new Uttarakhand CM, 10 others administered oath as cabinet ministers||Pushkar Singh Dhami on Sunday took oath as the 11th chief minister of Uttarakhand, capping an end to the fast-paced developments of the change of guard in the hill-state for the second time in four months. Dhami, 45, is the youngest chief minister of Uttarakhand and has a tough task at hand to steer the state by managing bruised egos of many veteran cabinet ministers who were also aspirants for the top post. Before taking the oath of office and secrecy at the Raj Bhawan in Dehradun on Sunday evening, Dhami called on former chief ministers Tirath Singh Rawat, Trivendra Singh Rawat and Bhuwan Chandra Khanduri. He also called on senior minister Satpal Maharaj, who was one of the top contenders for the post of the chief minister. “I have been working among youngsters and I understand the issues very well. Covid has impacted their livelihood. We will try to make the situation better for them and we will try to appoint youngsters for the vacant posts in the state,” he said after taking the oath. BJP leaders had to work overtime to put up a show of unity at the swearing-in ceremony on the Raj Bhawan lawns and Dhami, seated next to Governor Baby Rani Maurya, was seen making some last-minute phone calls from the dias before taking the oath of office. According to reports from Dehradun, Dhami was to be sworn-in alone on Sunday, but unease among the ministers forced the BJP to repeat the entire council of ministers under his predecessor. Ten ministers – Satpal Maharaj, Harak Singh Rawat, Bansidhar Bhagat, Yashpal Arya, Bishan Singh Chuphal, Subodh Uniyal, Ganesh Joshi, Dhan Singh Rawat, Rekha Arya and Yatishwaranand – took the oath of office and secrecy along with Dhami. A two-time MLA from Khatima in Udham Singh Nagar district, Dhami replaces Tirath Singh Rawat, who resigned on Friday. Dhami takes over the reins of power at a time when the Uttarakhand Assembly election is just seven months away.  Dhami, a promising young Thakur leader from the Kumaon region, began his political career with the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad, the student wing of the RSS, in 1990.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pushkar-singh-dhami-sworn-in-as-new-uttarakhand-cm-10-others-administered-oath-as-cabinet-ministers-1004806.html
04-07-2021||North and Central||Dhami meets Satpal Maharaj, efforts on to persuade sulking BJP MLAs in Uttarakhand||Pushkar Singh Dhami, who will take oath as the new chief minister of Uttarakhand on Sunday, met senior BJP leaders, some of whom are said to be unhappy over his appointment, ahead of the swearing-in ceremony. Sources in the saffron party said some leaders, including Satpal Maharaj and Harak Singh Rawat, who were members of former chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat's cabinet, are sulking since Saturday when Dhami was elected as the state BJP legislature party leader. Chief Minister-designate Dhami met Satpal Maharaj at his residence in Dalanwala and offered him a bouquet of flowers. He is understood to have persuaded the senior leader, whose name was among the half-a-dozen names doing the rounds until Saturday as probables for the chief minister's post. Satpal Maharaj was the first to leave the legislature party meeting on Saturday, even before Dhami's election as its leader was formally announced by Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar, who was present at the meeting as a central observer of the BJP. It was interpreted as his unhappiness with the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) choice. However, talking to reporters, Dhami said there was no resentment in the party. Some other MLAs such as Bishan Singh Chufal, Yashpal Arya and Subodh Uniyal are also said to be unhappy with the decision to appoint Dhami as the chief minister. Their main grouse is with the party's preference for youth over experience. Efforts are underway by senior party leaders to assuage the frayed tempers. Nainital MP Ajay Bhatt is said to have met Chufal to persuade him, while BJP in-charge of Uttarakhand Dushyant Kumar Gautam is trying to pacify the sulking leaders at state party chief Madan Kaushik's residence here to ensure that the swearing-in ceremony scheduled at 5 pm at the Raj Bhawan passes off without a hitch. However, former state BJP president Banshidhar Bhagat said there is no resentment anywhere and the party is unitedly behind the high-command's decision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dhami-meets-satpal-maharaj-efforts-on-to-persuade-sulking-bjp-mlas-in-uttarakhand-1004815.html
04-07-2021||North and Central||After terror attack, drones banned in J&K's Srinagar||A week after a drone attack at an Air Force base in Jammu, authorities in Srinagar on Sunday banned the sale, possession and use of such unmanned aerial vehicles in the city. Earlier, authorities in border districts of Rajouri and Kathua in the Jammu region had put curbs on the use of drones and other UAVs in the wake of the terror attack last Sunday. Two explosives-laden drones had crashed into the Indian Air Force station at Jammu airport and there were other suspicious sightings of UAVs, triggering a security alert. In an order, deputy commissioner of Srinagar Mohammad Aijaz directed those having drone cameras or other similar kinds of unmanned aerial vehicles to deposit them in local police stations. The order, however, exempted government departments using drones for mapping, surveys and surveillance in agricultural, environmental conservation and disaster mitigation sectors but directed them to inform the local police station before using them. The administration cautioned that any violation of the guidelines will attract punitive action, and directed police to implement the restrictions in letter and spirit. The order to ban the use of drones came after the recommendations of the city's police chief. “The decentralised airspace access has to be regulated in view of recent episodes of misuse of drones posing threat to security infrastructure as reported by media/other reliable sources,” the order said. To “secure the aerial space” near the vital installations and highly populated areas, it is “imperative” to discontinue the use of drones in all social and cultural gatherings to eliminate any risk of injury to the life and damage of property, the order said. “Keeping in view the security situation, apart from concerns of breach of privacy, nuisance and trespass, it is extremely dangerous to let unmanned aerial vehicles wander around in the skies within the territorial jurisdiction of district Srinagar,” it said. The district magistrate imposed "restrictions/ban on the storage, sale/ possession, use and transport of drones/similar kinds of unmanned aerial vehicles in the city". “Persons already having the drone cameras/ similar kind of unmanned aerial vehicles in their possession shall ground the same in the local police stations under proper receipt,” the order said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-terror-attack-drones-banned-in-jks-srinagar-1004834.html
04-07-2021||North and Central||Haryana extends Covid-19 lockdown till July 12||The Haryana government on Sunday extended the lockdown clamped in the state to curb the spread of the coronavirus by another week till July 12, while allowing some examinations to be held. According to the order issued by Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan in exercise of powers under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, “the Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana is extended for another week, that is from July 5 (5 am onwards) to July 12 (till 5 am) in the state of Haryana..” The state government has termed the covid-induced lockdown as "Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana (Epidemic Alert-Safe Haryana)". The Institute of Chartered Accountants is allowed to hold “Chartered Accountant Examinations” from July 5-20, the order said. While conducting the exams, “guidelines for examination centres, examination functionaries and candidates for July 2021 CA examination in wake of the ongoing Covid pandemic, released by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India” along with SOPs issued by the Centre from time to time regarding preventive measures to be followed to contain Covid will have to be followed strictly, according to the orders. The orders further said that it has also been decided to allow the Common Entrance Exam (CEE) to be held at Hisar by the Army Recruiting Office, Military Station Hisar, subject to strict observance of social distancing norms, sanitisation and Covid appropriate behavioural norms. The relaxations, with respect to opening of shops, malls, restaurants, religious places, corporate offices, gatherings in weddings, funerals, and open spaces will continue as currently in place. According to earlier relaxations, all shops are allowed to open from 9 am to 8 pm, malls are allowed to open from 10 am to 8 pm, restaurants and bars, including those in hotels and malls, are allowed to open from 10 am to 10 pm with 50 per cent seating capacity. Swimming pools and spas will continue to remain closed. "Now, after duly considering the fact that although the Covid positivity rate and the number of new Covid positive cases have declined, so as to continue the preventive and precautionary measures to contain the Covid pandemic… the 'Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana' is extended for another week..,” the order said. The number of daily Covid-19, which had crossed the 15,000-mark in May, have now come down to nearly 50 while the Covid fatalities have also registered a sharp fall in the state. The Haryana government had imposed the lockdown in the state on May 3 in view of the prevailing Covid situation. It has now been extended for the ninth time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-july-12-1004865.html
04-07-2021||North and Central||Uncollected ashes of Covid victims being used to develop park at Bhopal crematorium||A park is being developed at a Hindu crematorium in Bhopal using the ashes of those who died due to Covid-19 infection during the second wave of the pandemic this year, its management committee has said. This novel idea is being implemented at the Bhadbhada Vishram Ghat using 21 truckloads of the ashes of the dead, which kept lying at the facility as their relatives failed to collect that due to the coronavirus-induced restrictions and its proper disposal posed a challenge before the management. The park will be developed on 12,000 square feet of land at the crematorium in memory of those who lost their lives due to the pandemic, an office-bearer of the crematorium’s management committee said. “Over 6,000 bodies were cremated at Bhadbhada Vishram Ghat in adherence to Covid-19 protocol during a 90-day period from March 15 to June 15. Most of the family members collected the bones and left the ashes due to the coronavirus-induced restrictions,” Mamtesh Sharma, its management committee secretary told PTI. “Due to this, 21 truckloads of ashes of the deceased were left in the crematorium. It was hard and not environment-friendly to release the ashes into the Narmada river. Doing so could have polluted the river. So, the decision about developing a park using the ashes was taken,” he said. Sharma said a land surface has been developed on 12,000 square feet of land in the crematorium by using the ashes of the dead, soil, cow dung, wood sawdust, sand, among other things, to develop the park. This garden is being developed using Japan's “Miyawaki technique”, through which about 3,500-4,000 plants can be accommodated, he said. Sharma said that under this technique, these plants will take 15 to 18 months to grow into a tree. Committee president Arun Choudhary said the decision was taken to keep the memory of the dead permanent by developing this park in the crematorium campus. “We have urged the family members of those who lost their lives due to Covid-19, to participate in the plantation work. The management committee will take care of these plants till they grow into a tree,” he said. Committee’s treasurer Ajay Dubey said the plantation on the given land will start from July 5. “The plantation activity will continue from July 5 to 7 and the people of the city can make their contribution by planting saplings during this,” he said. Bhadbhada Vishram Ghat was the only Hindu crematorium for the funeral of Covid-19 patients in Bhopal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uncollected-ashes-of-covid-victims-being-used-to-develop-park-at-bhopal-crematorium-1004871.html
04-07-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand CM Pushkar Singh Dhami promises to take all his party members along||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Saturday said he would move ahead by taking all senior and junior members along as the new leader of the BJP legislature party in the state. His comments came amid reports that a senior leader and few MLAs were not happy with his election. Asked about resentment among some members of the BJP against his appointment as the CM, Dhami said: "Does anyone here look unhappy?" "I am young. All of them are experienced and my seniors. My party is my mother, which has given me the opportunity to serve. So, it is my responsibility to take along all the elders with respect and all the youngsters with love to take forward the state's development work," Dhami, a two-time MLA from Khatima in Udham Singh Nagar district, said. He further said that he was acquainted with every nook and corner of the state. "I was born into a family of soldiers at Kanalichina in the border district of Pithoragarh and studied there up to class five. Khatima on India-Nepal border is the place where I have been working. I have lived among the youth and I am aware of their problems, " he said. Dhami said his government would find a solution to people's problems with one on one interactions. He also said that he would try his best to rise to the expectations of the people of the state and the party leadership. Dhami has given promotion to all the ministers in hs cabinet. Accordimg to him, all of them are “extremely talented” and have been promoted so they work to the best of their ability. "Surely, you will see its effect," he said. On the stay on Chardham Yatra due to Covid-19, the Chief Minister said it was “indeed a problem but opening tourism and chardham yatra for visitors is necessary”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-cm-pushkar-singh-dhami-promises-to-take-all-his-party-members-along-1004890.html
04-07-2021||North and Central||Mohalla clinic in posh colony treating owners of bungalows, say Satyendar Jain||Encouraging people to avail mohalla clinics, Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday said such a facility set up at a posh colony in Delhi has been receiving 120 patients every day, most of whom are owners of nearby bungalows. "We opened a mohalla clinic among bungalows in a posh colony. We thought that only those employed in those bungalows would come for treatment. In the first few days, only 15 patients a day came to the healthcare facility. We though it had failed," the minister recalled at the launch of another such clinic at Patparganj. "I went to the same place again after three months. I was surprised to know that around 120 patients had been coming to that mohalla clinic every day. Of these, more than 100 were the owners of those bungalows," Jain said while encouraging people to use these healthcare facilities. The minister recalled another incident involving the daughter of his friend. "The daughter of one of my friends had to get some tests done. His father suggested her to go to a mohalla clinic. She hesitated first but later decided to go. When she returned, her father asked if she got the tests done. She replied that not only the tests have been conducted, the doctors are also really good," the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mohalla-clinic-in-posh-colony-treating-owners-of-bungalows-say-satyendar-jain-1004896.html
04-07-2021||Opinion||Excuse me, but why doesn’t the Modi government have money?||In the movie Schindler’s List, Oskar Schindler, the clever, supposedly unfeeling businessman who bordered on the crook, breaks down, distraught that he hadn’t done enough to save more lives. “If only I had made more money…I could have got more out.” He had some more assets he could have sold to buy off the lives of a few more Jews from the Nazis, he cries. “This car, I could have sold this car. Ten people right there…10 more people…this pen…it’s gold…I could have saved one more person…I didn’t do enough!” This, after he had saved some 1,100 Jews from the Nazi concentration camp at Krakow by hiring them for his factory that made munitions for the Nazi military. The scene kept coming back to me over the last few days as the Modi government pleaded in court that it need not pay ex gratia to the families of those who died of Covid-19 because the pandemic is not a “one-time event” but a continuing one, that it does not have the money to pay ex gratia to four lakh families, that it can spend the little money it has more usefully on building health infrastructure, even that the “shall” in Section 12 of the Disaster Management Act actually means “may” and the government is not bound to pay ex gratia! For the Modi government, the law is binding on the people (and meant to harass dissenters), but for itself, it is optional. One wonders why the Modi government does not have money to pay ex gratia. After all, even if it were to pay Rs 4 lakh – as the court petition sought, in line with a 2015 government notification -- to the kin of each of the roughly four lakh people who have died of Covid so far (officially recognised figure, we all know the true number is far higher), it would amount to just Rs 16,000 crore. Nitish Kumar has announced Rs 4 lakh ex gratia in Bihar; Shivraj Singh Chauhan in Madhya Pradesh and Yediyurappa in Karnataka have announced Rs 1 lakh; and Arvind Kejriwal in Delhi has announced Rs 50,000 ex gratia for Covid deaths. Why, even the private Azim Premji Foundation, which runs on the large-heartedness of just one man, has earmarked Rs 2,125 crore for Covid response and relief activities. Only the government of Narendra Modi, who has more or less monopolised almost all sources of revenue and funds – known and secret -- to the central government (taxes, cesses, etc), to the PMO (PM Cares Fund, which is a government fund run by the PMO for collecting money, but a private trust if anybody seeks information about it!), and to the BJP’s own kitty (Electoral Bonds, Electoral Trusts), has no money to give relief to families who have lost a dear one, a bread-winner. After all, how much more is Rs 16,000 crore compared to the Rs 6,000 crore-plus that the BJP has collected from unknown sources through Electoral Bonds? Consider this: Every day, the Centre collects about Rs 1,000 crore in taxes on petrol and diesel. About Rs 3.6 lakh crore a year. And it has been squeezing you and me of this order of money for seven years, keeping fuel prices inordinately high. Yet it has no money to pay relief to some unfortunate families. The BJP’s sycophants claim that Modi is doing so to pay for debts the UPA government left behind. Turns out it’s a half-truth, as usual. The oil bonds debt amounts to Rs 1.4 lakh crore in total, amortised over several years. Yearly payments range from about Rs 10,000-22,000 crore between October this year and March 2026. So, the government is citing an annual liability of Rs 10,000-20,000 crore to justify keeping fuel prices sky high and collecting Rs 3.6 lakh crore from you and me every year! Yet, it has no money to show compassion to unfortunate families. The sycophants will then tell you that the fuel taxes are being used to fund schemes for the poor. Yes, that’s right. The money that’s being squeezed out of you and me is paying for the nation’s food, fertiliser and fuel (LPG/kerosene) subsidies, and then some. Previous governments ran the subsidy schemes without taxing us daily for them. And that begs the question: Why is this so under the Modi government? Weren’t we all told repeatedly that India had become an economic superpower under Modi and so the government had greater resources? Didn’t India’s GDP grow and grow under Modi as often proclaimed? Didn’t demonetisation bring all the black money out and fill up the government’s coffers with higher tax revenues as claimed? Then why doesn’t the government have money? Wouldn’t it be so much simpler and honest for Modi to just come up on TV and tell the nation that he totally screwed up the economy with his whims and fancies, especially since November 8, 2016, and he’s sorry for that. But, of course, you have to have a large heart to be able to say sorry, to be able to show compassion. And if you do have a large heart, as claimed, you don’t wait for the Supreme Court to tell you what you need to do. You would think and do as Schindler did.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/excuse-me-but-why-doesn-t-the-modi-government-have-money-1004624.html
04-07-2021||Opinion||The humanism of Siddalingaiah||Poet, folklorist, orator, teacher, legislator, administrator and co-founder of the Dalit movement in Karnataka, Siddalingaiah’s many-layered engagement with the life of the state defies easy characterisation. Indispensable for a historian of contemporary morality in Karnataka, Siddalingaiah’s work is an elaboration of a rich vision of humanism. His debut book of poetry, Holey-Maadigara Haadu (The Song of the Holeyas and Maadigas, 1975) expressed the suffering of Dalits with a fury and imagery hitherto unknown in modern Kannada poetry. Due to an early attraction to the class analyses of Marxism, his poetic focus though was not solely fixed on the Dalit experience. The famous poem from his debut anthology, Nanna Janagalu (My People), for instance, articulated the experience of several kinds of toiling labourers without referring to their community identities. The title poem of his second book of poetry, Saviraru Nadigalu (Thousands of Rivers, 1979), which viewed society as a place of struggle and likened it to a vast ocean formed by thousands of rivers, offered a vision of deep political and cultural plurality. Sung with revolutionary fervour at political rallies and street processions organised by the Dalit Sangharsh Samiti, the poems from these anthologies were integral to the emerging political consciousness among the Dalit communities in Karnataka. A rage towards the exploitative social order didn’t mean a simultaneous rejection of tradition in Siddalingaiah. A scholar of Kannada literature, he identified moral lineages in the past to his political concerns. His well-known poem, Chomana Makkala Haadu (The Song of Choma’s Children, 1979), asks the country where everyone knew of Choma, the Dalit protagonist in Shivarama Karantha’s tragic novel, Chomana Dudi (Choma’s Drum, 1933), to listen to the stories that his children wish to narrate in the present. Clarifying that the school of Bandaya (Protest) literature, which his poetry is seen to have inaugurated, wasn’t the first to embrace a pro-people stance, he saw predecessors for the latter in Pampa, the 10th-century Jain poet, who claimed that the human community was one (“Manushya Jati Tanonde Valam”), the Shaiva composers of Vachanas and Kanakadasa. In a recent interview, Siddalingaiah argued that Dalit literature was not separate from Kannada literature and observed that Dalit writers were custodians of the humanistic thought found in the Kannada literary tradition. Advising them to cultivate a close understanding of this moral legacy, he reminded them that giving voice to everyone’s pain was their responsibility. The breadth of Siddalingaiah’s political and moral vision -- as well as that of the two other co-founders of the Dalit movement, Devanur Mahadeva, the writer and B Krishnappa -- made a difference to the character of the Dalit movement in Karnataka. The founder-activists invited well-wishers from non-Dalit communities to participate in their organisational efforts. Their regard for the significance of Ambedkar for the Dalit movement didn’t mean an avoidance of Gandhi, Lohia or Marx. And, non-violence stayed central to their political work. In the early 80s, Siddalingaiah wrote a series of articles profiling village deities for the newsletter of the left-Samudaya theatre movement, which were collected together in a book titled Avataragalu (Incarnations, 1982). In this exercise aimed at demystifying God, he narrated a series of hilarious episodes to show that religion was nothing other than a human affair. In one instance, a village deity addresses upper caste girls in the plural and those from lower caste families in the singular. Abandoning this critical attitude in later years, Siddalingaiah became more interested in the humane values animating these deities. In an interview I did with him on village deities a decade ago, he noted that “the well-being of all” and “the celebration of life, the grandness of life” were central to the festivals of these deities. In Ooru-Keri (1996), his celebrated autobiography, Siddalingaiah used wit to narrate tragic life experiences and disclose a self that was securely confident and free from resentment and bitterness toward caste subordination. In his autobiography as well as in his speeches and conversations, wit occasioned a communion, an opportunity for exploring common grounds of being together. It enabled an awakening, a loosening of hardened sensibilities. It also broke the political tedium and made reality a bit more bearable, achieving a prelude perhaps to starting things anew. I was among the hundreds of friends and well-wishers who wished to see Siddalingaiah return home safely from the hospital. He had struggled against Covid complications for over a month. In his death, we lost a rare voice of compassion, strength and wisdom.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-humanism-of-siddalingaiah-1004625.html
04-07-2021||Opinion||India’s political economy of fear||A few days ago, a major national television news network ran a bloodthirsty story, laced with genocidal rhetoric. The communally charged primetime ‘debate’ insinuated, fact-free, that Muslims are engaged in a grand conspiracy to increase their own population and put “Hindus in danger.” The political context of the show was clear enough: It was aimed at the upcoming state elections in Uttar Pradesh – India’s playground for bad ideas of all kinds – and echoed several leaders from the BJP who had woven similar conspiracy theories of their own. I wasn’t shocked that a major news channel, with millions of followers, had run a story that made the 1990s Radio Rwanda programmes seem like peace appeals; the channel in question has done far worse in the past. But I certainly was shocked that it continues to do its thing without eliciting any outrage or action from Indian thought leaders. Whenever communalism rears its ugly head, pushback always seems to come from the same few people and the usual old quarters. The vast majority of Indian business leaders, academics and think-tankers go about their work unmoved and unperturbed. The imbalance between the vocal and the silent helps to paint the handful of usual dissenters as an ‘anti-national cabal.’ I asked a friend why these people stay quiet. Have they been sensitised to communal hate rhetoric as far as that? Quite simply, she said, “Some people just have too much to lose.” That comment reminded me of another conversation I’d once had in another part of the world some years ago. During a leisurely stroll through a Manhattan park with another friend, a former journalist for the New York Times in Beijing, I pondered over the curious case of China. Why do so many Chinese people tolerate President Xi Jinping’s personality cult, I asked my Chinese friend, especially after their terrible experience with such politics under Mao. “Because we have no agency,” she said. “Unlike you guys, we don’t have democracy in China. We have to take things as a fact of life.” But India is fast becoming an example that even in a democracy, governments can build a political economy of fear, robbing citizens of their agency and silencing them in the face of the worst. In India’s economy, businesses can’t do business without the goodwill of the government. Laws are so framed that anybody can be easily harassed by authorities for anything – from tax filing to licensing. Often, lengthy judicial procedures are punishment enough for crimes that have not even been committed. Many think-tanks are beholden to the government for their very existence. Ministries are the audience for their work – and often, also the sponsors. Television channels depend heavily on government advertisements to stay on air. Universities owned by the government are now also controlled by the government; the University Grants Commission recently required them to praise the prime minister for his vaccination drive. But even the cause – of fighting communal bigotry – is not appealing enough. Majoritarianism works because it favours the majority community. The marginalised are simply not large enough to ever win power by themselves (hence the need to ensure that they don’t increase their population!). And by punishing enough people in the majority community who do speak up, any government can ensure that conscientious citizens bite their tongue. I don’t know if the silence of the Han majority in China is going to lead that country into catastrophes under Xi, but the history of other similar countries is not encouraging. The problem with bigotry and authoritarianism is that its fire eventually consumes everyone – majority or minority.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/india-s-political-economy-of-fear-1004626.html
04-07-2021||Opinion||Who Are You?||There’s a line from Who Are You?, the title track of English rock band The Who’s 1978 record, that goes: I remember throwing punches around/And preachin’ from my chair/Well who are you?! While the song is mostly about Pete Townshend’s heavy drinking with the anarchic Sex Pistols band, for some reason whenever I hear it, I am reminded of the debates surrounding the Aryan migration theory. Maybe it’s because of the incongruous Meher Baba references that Townshend was always weaving into his songs, including the final verse of Who Are You? I know there’s a place you walked/Where love falls from the trees… How can I measure up to anyone now/After such a love as this?/Well, who are you? Tell me, who are you? Are you of Aryan stock, tracing back to wending migrations from the Eurasian steppes, or of more urbane Dravidian stock, claiming heritage from the sprawling, sophisticated Harappan civilisation? Or perhaps one of the many eastern and north-eastern Indians whose paternal lineage hearkens back to prehistoric China? Or you could be unlucky like me and have to trace your roots back to horse-fetishist, ‘predatory nomads’ like the Scythians/Sakas. But again, the free-flowing love that Meher Baba tried to instil in Pete Townshend is not what drives The Who’s rocking jam; rather, what really drives this song is its bellicosity, the preaching at others and throwing punches around. And it is precisely that preachiness and aggression that characterises how people today tend to discuss early Indian history. There are few academic debates with more animus. I have plenty of anecdotal evidence. For example, although I have uploaded 100 video lectures on my YouTube channel where I discuss topics as crazy as cannibalism, UFOlogy, and dry fasting, or as controversial as Indian political thought or constitutional law, the one video that always attracts the most acerbic, indeed vicious, comments is the one where I treat different views on the Aryan migration theory -- trolls assault me merely for voicing scepticism about the out-of-India hypothesis. In case you don’t know, the out-of-India hypothesis, which the vast majority of social scientists regard as untenable, posits that the Vedic Aryans, as well as the Indo-European language that they spoke, originated within the Indian subcontinent, and not, as is almost universally held, from the Eurasian steppes. In some ways, this animus, if not the vicious aggression, is understandable. The Aryan migration hypothesis emerged within the wider context of European colonialism alongside pseudo-scientific theories of racial superiority used to legitimise subjugation. And we are a wounded civilisation. Moreover, the very concepts by which Vedic Aryans themselves distinguished their own clans from the other peoples inhabiting ancient India are flashpoint issues even today: religion, language, and ‘race’. Ancient Aryans critiqued their rivals, Dasas or Dasyus (were they Dravidians, former inhabitants of the Indus Valley civilisation(s), Mundas, or none of these?) for their swarthy complexion, their inability to pronounce Sanskrit words properly, their refusal to perform sacrifices, their worship of linga instead of Indra, Agni, or other Aryan gods, and many other differentiating characteristics. In some ways, Vedic Aryan ideology was an early prototype for 20th century muscular Hindutva — although, of course, the Aryans ate beef. Then there is also the internal differentiation within the Aryan clans themselves; these, too, overlap with contemporary flashpoint issues: Varna, or later caste, that are also tangled up with other controversial binaries, like fair (Aryan, northern) versus dark (Mleccha, southern), Savarna versus Avarna, Brahman versus Shraman. And we are a highly fractured nation. All these open wounds, internal factions and divisions do not support a scientific, apolitical study of origins. But to be more optimistic, it did first take Pete Townshend hitting total rock bottom before The Who were finally able to relentlessly demand Well, who the f*** are you? Cause I really wanna know!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/who-are-you-1004627.html
04-07-2021||Opinion||For the nth time, we’ve a demand problem, fixing supply side won’t help||A total of 15.12 million two-wheelers (motorcycles, scooters and mopeds) were sold in India in 2020-21, the last financial year. This is lower than the 15.98 million sold in 2014-15 and slightly higher than the 14.81 million sold in 2013-14. Of course, a simple explanation for this lies in the fact that due to the pandemic running right through FY21, people did not buy as many two-wheelers as they would normally have. And that’s right to some extent. Nevertheless, the total number of two-wheelers sold in 2019-20 had stood at 17.42 million, lower than the 17.59 million sold in 2016-17. Clearly, two-wheeler sales have stagnated over the years. A two-wheeler is probably the second or third most expensive thing an individual or a family buys in their lifetime, after a house and/or a car. Also, many more Indians own a two-wheeler than a car. Hence, it is an excellent indicator of Indians’ purchasing power at any given point of time. Having said that, a similar trend can be seen even in domestic passenger car sales. They were at 1.54 million in 2020-21. In comparison, car sales were as high as 2.03 million in 2011-12, nearly a decade ago. In 2019-20, it had fallen to 1.7 million, in comparison to the all-time high of 2.22 million in 2018-19. There are other indicators that suggest a demand problem. The RBI’s current consumer confidence index has had a largely downward trend for almost the last five years. And things have only gotten much worse with Covid. The level of the current confidence index in May 2021 was around half of where it was in May 2019. This is also reflected in the fact that people have more cash in hand currently than they ever did. As of March 2021, the ratio of currency in circulation to GDP stood at 14.5%, the highest in half a century. It was at 12% of GDP in 2019-20. This tells us that people are holding on to money and not looking to spend it. The reasons may vary – fear of another wave of Covid; uncertainty whether their income will stay at current levels or whether they might suffer pay cuts or even lose their jobs. In this situation, people are trying to stay prepared for the future by keeping money in hand, rather than spending. The point is, India has a major demand problem. The government has been trying to address it for a while now. In September 2019, it cut the base corporate tax rate from 30% to 22%. The idea was that lower tax rates would incentivise companies to expand their operations. That would create jobs. Jobs would mean incomes, which people would spend and thus fuel economic growth. The government has also offered loan guarantees to encourage banks to lend to industry. Between 2019-20 and 2020-21, bank lending to medium industry -- defined as firms with investment in plant and machinery or equipment of up to Rs 50 crore and a turnover of below Rs 250 crore – rose by 28.8%. While this sounds impressive, it was on a small base. In absolute terms, bank lending to medium industry rose from Rs 1.06 lakh crore to Rs 1.36 lakh crore. Also, the overall lending to industry rose by just 0.44% in 2020-21. In fact, this isn’t just a one-year phenomenon. Bank lending to industry over the last five years has risen at the rate of just 1.33% per year. This, despite the fact that interest rates have come down dramatically in the last two to three years. One reason for this lies in the fact that the capacity utilisation of Indian industry has been falling. Data from the Reserve Bank of India tells us that it peaked at 83.2% in March 2011 and since then has seen a largely downward trend. It was at 76.1% in March 2019, falling to 69.9% in March 2020, even before the negative economic impact of Covid had set in. It was at 66.6% in December 2020. Basically, Indian industry on the whole has enough capacity currently and has no need to expand unless demand goes up dramatically. As the economist Nitin Desai put it in a recent column in the Business Standard: “Investment is a derived demand, and it will not rise till final demand rises.” This is reflected in the investment-to-GDP ratio, which has fallen from a peak of 35.81% in 2007-8 to a 20-year low of 27.09% in 2020-21. The point is, the government and the RBI are trying to drive up investment in the economy, which is at best a long-term solution. But the long-term solution won’t kick in unless demand goes up in the short term. In order to do that, more money needs to be put in the hands of people, or the prices of things have to fall. Take the case of two-wheelers and cars: Sales can easily be boosted by cutting the GST rate on them. The multiplier effect of doing so would be huge given that everything from steel to rubber to plastic goes into the making of two-wheelers. The government could also look at easing the income tax rate. While a very small portion of the population pays income tax, remember that it is this section of the household economy which still has decent purchasing power. In short, India has a demand problem, which cannot be set right by trying to fix the supply side.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/for-the-nth-time-we-ve-a-demand-problem-fixing-supply-side-won-t-help-1004628.html
04-07-2021||Opinion||Why Bengal, which has faced map-maker's scalpel before, is troubled by the idea of 'partition'||By Jayanta Roy Chowdhury, When John Barla, BJP's Alipurduar Lok Sabha MP, last week made a controversial demand for a separate Union Territory carved out of Bengal's northern districts, little did he realise the storm that would rage with endless hours of television debate, scores of opinion pieces and thousands of social media outpourings against what has been dubbed as "The New Partition Plan". Demand for another state carved out of tribal-dominated districts of West Bengal, made by another BJP MP Saumitra Khan, merely added fuel to the fire with furious newspaper editorials condemning the move to "balkanise" the eastern state. Bengal, which has gone under the map-maker's scalpel twice in the last 116 years, finds itself caught in a vortex of emotions as the hated word 'partition' increasingly crops up in coffee house debates and 'addas' (long conversations) at roadside tea shops. "The word 'partition' evokes strong emotions here as the state has faced two bloody and emotionally exhaustive partitions -- the first in 1905, and then in 1947 when bloody riots followed Sir Cyril Radcliffe wielding his knife through Bengal's body politic," pointed out Aditya Mukherjee, Professor of Contemporary History and Director of Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Advanced Studies. In July 1905, Lord Curzon announced his plan to partition Bengal presidency into two separate provinces -- Bengal which comprised western Bengal, Bihar and Odisha, and a separate province of East Bengal and Assam -- ostensibly for administrative expediency but in reality, to tame a growing nationalist movement based out of Kolkata. India's first mass movement followed with people from all walks of life -- from Congress leader S N Banerjee to India's poet Laurette Rabindranath Tagore -- taking to the streets to protest the partition. The uproar which spread to other parts of British- ruled India forced a rethink and the partition was reversed in 1911, but the capital of British India was shifted out of the restive metropolis of Calcutta to the political backwaters of Delhi, then a town with just 4 lakh inhabitants. However, the attempted partition had deeper consequences for the country, with the Congress splitting between moderates and extremists who favoured more street- based agitations, and secret revolutionary societies such as Anushilan Samiti which advocated an armed revolution, springing up as a force to reckon with. "Much of Bengal's popular genre of patriotic music and literature was from this period -- Tagore, Dwijendralal Roy, Rajanikanta Sen produced path-breaking songs of this genre -- which are still popular in both India and Bangladesh," pointed out Mukherjee. The next time the Roman maxim 'Divide et Tempera' or divide and rule was adopted for Bengal was 1947, as the British decided to quit India leaving behind perpetually disjointed twins busy squabbling with each other. The summer of 1947 saw last-minute hectic parleys to retain some form of united Bengal, but as Mahatma Gandhi wrote to Sarat Bose, Subhas Bose's brother and leader of the Forward Bloc, the Congress leadership including Sardar Patel and Jawaharlal Nehru were "very much opposed to it", and the nascent plan for keeping the two Bengals together dreamt by Huseyn S Suhrawardy, Bose and Kiran Shankar Roy remained stillborn. The last nail in the coffin of united Bengal was struck in June 1947, when the legislative assembly voted for partition. On July 3, 1947 a shadow cabinet was formed by the Congress party, led by P C Ghosh which would take over the running of West Bengal once partition came about. The Muslim League which no longer trusted Suhrawardy, till then the League-elected Premier of Bengal, formed a similar cabinet led by Khwaja Nizamuddin, which would take over the running of East Bengal. The partition carnage which followed and long lines of refugees who fled leaving behind their land and hearth is part of many families' personal history as is the aftermath of life in refugee camps, the struggle to rebuild lives, and to escape the curse of poverty. Filmmaker Ritwik Ghatak based his award-winning trilogy of movies 'Meghe Dhaka Tara' (Cloud-Capped Star), 'Komal Gandhar' (Soft Note on a Sharp Scale) and 'Subarnarekha' (Streak of Gold) on this period. The aftermath, historians and political scientists say, find reverberations in political and socio-economic life even today. "Though the pain felt and remembered is of personal loss, the deeper and longer-lasting impact of the 1947 partition was economic," said Kunal Bose, economist and former India correspondent of the Financial Times. Bengal was an economically integrated province. The rich farmlands of eastern Bengal produced the food and cash crops that were processed in the Industrialised west. The east was also the ready market for foundries and textile mills in and around Calcutta. The Radcliffe line which used the rivers Padma and Ichamati to divide the two Bengals, rent asunder its economic life. "The biggest loser was the jute industry which till then was India's top foreign exchange grosser...connectivity with Assam and the Northeast was also strangled raising costs for the tea trade and letting rivals like Sri Lanka and Kenya come up," pointed out Bose. However, Barla and Khan feel their demand is legitimate given the "neglect" that hill and tribal areas have experienced over the last seven decades since Independence. Nevertheless, BJP's state unit chief Dilip Ghosh has gone on record to state, "I want to make it clear that the BJP has no such agenda to divide Bengal or create a new state." Darjeeling, where Nepali-speakers predominate, has witnessed a movement for 'Gorkhaland' focussing on the economic backwardness of the tea-growing hill areas since the late 1980s which the West Bengal government has tried to address by forming an autonomous district council. The movement for Kamtapur, which too is based on ethnic differences, however, has not made much headway till now. Others including the Left too concede that there are striking regional variations in development within West Bengal. "Bengal's Adivasis do have grievances which need to be addressed, though it does not mean separate states have to be created," CPI (ML) Liberation general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya said. The ruling TMC, off the record, does concede that more needs to be done in both tribal areas and the hills but is adamant against any plans to divide the state and will possibly use such demands to consolidate its own base in the plain areas, given the emotional chord that 'partition' demands touches. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has already turned it into a state-versus-Centre issue and stated she would "not allow anyone to divide Bengal" or allow any part of the state "to lose its freedom and be dependent on Delhi". Ranabir Samaddar, a well-known political scientist and Director, Calcutta Research Group, said, "Partition is the first idea of a lazy statesman...the fact is, history shows that partitions always create more problems than they solve." Analysts point out that the differences which Muslim League cited besides the religious divide in seeking to partition Bengal was the "backwardness and exploitation" of East Bengal vis-a-vis the industrialised west. These differences seemed to remain even after Pakistan was born, between West and East Pakistan, and eventually became one of the reasons behind the uprising and subsequent creation of Bangladesh in 1971.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-bengal-which-has-faced-map-makers-scalpel-before-is-troubled-by-the-idea-of-partition-1004846.html
04-07-2021||South||Imposing self-restrictions, following rules will keep Covid third wave away: Tamil Nadu CM||As uniform relaxations come into force across the state on Monday, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Sunday appealed to the people to follow strictly the Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and imposing “self-regulation” by not stepping out of their homes without any need. The Chief Minister said the state has only been able to “control the spread” of the novel coronavirus and has not “eliminated” the virus. Hence, he asked people to be vigilant and follow Covid-19 rules by wearing a face mask, washing hands regularly, and maintaining physical distancing. In a video message posted on his verified Twitter page, Stalin said Tamil Nadu was able to reduce its case load from 36,000 a day to around 4,000 a day in just about two months only because of complete lockdown, dedication shown by doctors, the state’s vibrant medical infrastructure, and an “efficient administration.” On Saturday, the state reported 4,013 fresh Covid-19 infections 115 deaths. The active cases stood at 35,881. Stalin added that the state government was prepared to face “any wave”. His message came a day before the new set of relaxations come into force on Monday – the government has allowed almost all activities except a few like reopening of colleges and cinema halls. While buses are on the road already in 27 districts, public transport in the remaining 11 districts will resume on Monday. “We can say we have controlled the spread of the virus, but we cannot say we have eliminated the virus. Still, schools, colleges, parks, and cinema theatres have not been allowed to function. We have also not granted permission for political and religious events. It is because these are the places where public gather in large numbers,” the Chief Minister said. He said the government relaxed the restrictions by resuming public transport and keeping offices opened keeping in mind “people’s livelihood.” Appealing to people to impose “self-restriction”, Stalin asked them to “double mask” in crowded places and keep washing their hands regularly. “People who work in shops and office should keep their face masks on all the time. Shops should ensure that sanitisers are kept at the entrance, people are screened with thermal scanners and that not many are allowed inside at any given time,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/imposing-self-restrictions-following-rules-will-keep-covid-third-wave-away-tamil-nadu-cm-1004690.html
04-07-2021||South||Tamil Nadu bride's display of self-defence on wedding day leaves Netizens in awe||In an unusual attempt to raise awareness about self-defence, a woman from Tamil Nadu’s Thoothukudi district performed martial arts on her wedding day. Nisha has been practising this traditional form of martial arts called Silambattam for almost three years. In her conversation with ANI, she said that through her performance, she aims to promote the importance of self-defence among women. “I performed the traditional martial arts before the villagers soon after the wedding to make women aware of the importance of self-defence. I have been learning this for the past three years. I want more people to learn this art,” Nisha said. Twenty-two-year-old Nisha’s video of performing this weapon-based martial art on her wedding day has gone viral on social media. Dressed in wedding finery, and wielding her weapons, Nisha's awareness campaign left people stunned and in awe. Her video is now making rounds on social media and here's how some netizens have reacted to it: Wow. Rich Indian culture. how gracefully she did that! thanks for setting an example. Girls should learn the lesson from Nisha for self defence.Congratulations to Nisha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-brides-display-of-self-defence-on-wedding-day-leaves-netizens-in-awe-1004739.html
04-07-2021||South||Sri Lankan Navy personnel chase away TN fishermen, 'damage' expensive fishing nets||Sri Lankan Naval personnel damaged about 30 fishing nets, each costing about one lakh rupees and chased them away at gunpoint while they were fishing in Palk Strait, fishermen alleged here on Sunday. When fishermen, who had set out for fishing in as many as 597 boats, Lankan navy personnel chased them away at gunpoint on Saturday night and "cut the nets up each costing about one lakh rupees," fishermen association chief Sesu Raja said here. Attacks on Indian fishermen by Lankan Naval personnel have been on the rise and they are facing severe hardship, he said. "Even if we try to sell the boats so that we could quit this profession and venture into some other business, there are no takers for the boats." The Central and state governments should guarantee the safety and security of fishermen, their boats, nets and gear, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sri-lankan-navy-personnel-chase-away-tn-fishermen-damage-expensive-fishing-nets-1004787.html
04-07-2021||South||Rogue elephant 'Shankar' tamed, freed from enclosure||A rogue elephant, which killed three people in Nilgiris district and two in Kerala last year, was released from kraal (enclosure) on Sunday after succcessfully turning it into a kumki (tamed elephant). The 20-year-old Shankar, with a single tusk, had killed the three at Pandalur, about 90 km from here, after destroying farm land in December 2020 and migrated to a forest area near Nilambur in Kerala, where the animal killed two more persons. It returned to Tamil Nadu forests and stayed at Cherampadi, where the Forest Departments of both the states monitored its movement to tranquilise and capture it, but to no avail. At last, Shankar was captured with the help of five kumkis and 100 forest officials on February 12 and taken to Theppakkadu Elephant Camp in Mudumalai Tiger Reserve in the district and kept in the kraal. The Forest Department tamed it with the help of a mahout for the past 141 days. Later, Shankar mellowed down, a source in the department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rogue-elephant-shankar-tamed-freed-from-enclosure-1004813.html
04-07-2021||South||Reputed Madurai NGO ‘sells’ two children, director arrested||Destitute mothers sought refuge at a home run by Idayam Trust in Madurai in the hopes that they and their children would be safe. But little did they know that the director and staff of the home for elderly, women and children would “sell” their kids to childless couples without their knowledge. In a classic case of the fence eating the crop, the NGO’s director and his personal staff have been arrested for “selling” a boy and a girl, who are children of two inmates. The reason given by the NGO’s director on being asked about the whereabouts of the one-year-old boy by an activist led to unearthing of the illegal child racket. What came as a shock for many was that the trust, now in the dock, enjoyed the reputation of being a safe abode for destitute mothers and the elderly, and had been recognised by the Tamil Nadu government for its “services” to the society more than once. The director, Sivakumar, and his aide Madarsha were arrested from the Tamil Nadu-Kerala border on Saturday evening, after being on the run for days together. The same day, authorities also rescued three children of a mother, said to be mentally challenged, who were given in adoption to different families illegally. With the incident sending shockwaves across the state, the Madurai District Administration has swung into action by inspecting all such homes in the district, closing illegal ones, and shifting inmates to government facilities from homes that are cramped and lack basic amenities. “We have formed special teams at the taluk level consisting of officials from revenue and social welfare departments and the Child Welfare Committee to inspect homes that are functioning in the district and check whether they have required permission. The teams also check their records,” Dr S Aneesh Sekhar, Madurai District Collector, told DH. The illegal racket came to light after the mother of the one-year-old child told an activist who rescued her that she has been informed that her son died of Covid-19. Not convinced, the activist, Azharuddin, dug deeper and found that Sivakumar had forged documents to show that the child died of Covid-19 but “sold” him to a rich childless couple in lieu of money. An inquiry led not just the recovery of the boy but also a two-year-old girl child of another inmate of the NGO. An activist, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said homes that enjoy “good name” among the people indulging in such activities is “unfortunate” and asked the government to take steps to prevent such incidents in the future. “This man was a hero for many, but what has happened? He went against the trust imposed by the people. And one should remember that this NGO received a couple of state government awards in the recent past. Good work on one side should not serve as a passport for committing wrong on the other side,” he said. The district collector said the incident has underlined the need for strict monitoring of homes as the director of the NGO in question enjoyed good personal reputation. “We have to strengthen intelligence gathering. The latest incident has created some awareness on the issue, and we intend to take forward from here. We will keep a close watch on homes that house destitute women and elderly,” Sekhar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/reputed-madurai-ngo-sells-two-children-director-arrested-1004828.html
04-07-2021||South||Kerala PSU to bring out medicines for transplant patients at reasonable rates||Kerala State Drugs and Pharmaceuticals Limited, a state public sector undertaking, is bringing out drugs for organ transplant patients at very reasonable prices. Mycophenolate, Tacrolimus and Azathioprine are the medicines that are expected to be brought out soon. The medicines developed at KSDP had already cleared the stability test and are being subjected to bioequivalence test at an agency in Bengaluru. Kerala former finance minister Thomas Isaac said during a talk on Public Sector Revival that some of the medicines that cost about Rs 250 in the market were expected to be brought for as low as Rs 40. A KSDP official said that once the bioequivalence test was cleared steps for production would be initiated. Then only the actual prices would be fixed. The medicines were developed by KSDP itself. A total of five medicines required for organ transplantation patients would be brought out in the due course. Established in 1974, KSDP is now producing 54 types of medicines and each medicine would be of different strengths. At present it is mainly supplying medicines to government agencies in Kerala as well as many other states like Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Tamil Nadu. The PSU that was loss making till two years back has recorded a profit of Rs 2.37 crore in 2019. KSDP's decision to bring out medicines for organ transplant patients would be a relief to scores of patients owing to the high costs involved in the procedure. Moreover, the state even witnessed a scarcity of these medicines during the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-psu-to-bring-out-medicines-for-transplant-patients-at-reasonable-rates-1004830.html
04-07-2021||South||Row erupts over police salute in Kerala||Kerala is witnessing a row over a police salute with a city mayor complaining that the police were not saluting him, while a woman MLA allegedly scolded a probationary sub-inspector for not saluting her. Thrissur Mayor M K Varghese wrote to the state police chief complaining that the police officials were not showing due respect to him and not even saluting him, though he comes after the governor and the chief minister in the protocol. Varghese, who contested as a Congress rebel independent candidate, became mayor with the left-front's support in the hung Thrissur city corporation council, said that he was raising the issue as the police were not disrespecting him personally, but disrespecting the mayor's post. The police higher-ups are looking into the mayor's complaint. Close on the heels of that, a fresh allegation came up that CPI(M) MLA C K Asha pulled up a probationary woman sub-inspector a few months back for not saluting her. The MLA summoned the police personnel to her house and made her salute, alleged a BJP local leader of Kottayam district. Incidentally, the woman officer involved was Annie Siva, who is now in the limelight after her struggle in life became viral and received much appreciation. Asha told a section of media that the incident that took place in April was out of some misunderstanding and it was settled cordially. She denied the allegation that she made the police official salute her. Meanwhile, a retired Director General of Police said that police personnel were supposed to salute only higher officials and ministers in the hierarchy. Mayors and MLAs will not come in this category. Only in cases where a police officer calls on a mayor for any official purpose, they would be saluted a matter of courtesy. A police personnel wearing a cap could salute any person as part of greeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/row-erupts-over-police-salute-in-kerala-1004833.html
04-07-2021||South||Kerala is one of the most investor-friendly states: CM Pinarayi Vijayan||Amid the row over ease of doing business in Kerala, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan tweeted on Sunday that the state is one of the most investor-friendly in India. Vijayan was replying to a tweet by RPG Group chairman Harsh Goenka that the group is the largest employer in Kerala and is getting the support of the state government. The comments were triggered by the decision of state-based garment manufacturer Kitex Garments to drop an Rs. 3,500 crore investment plan in Kerala, alleging frequent inspections by various agencies of the state government citing flimsy reasons. Kitex chairman and managing director Sabu M Jacob alleged that the government was settling political score after the Twenty20 forum headed by him contested in elections. Many known industrialists have been commenting on social media over the industrial climate in Kerala thereafter. In his tweet, Vijayan thanked Goenka for "allaying the apprehensions over Kerala's ease of doing business". He also said that the Left Front government would ensure that sustainable and innovative industries thrive in Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-is-one-of-the-most-investor-friendly-states-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-1004842.html
04-07-2021||South||Row over Kerala MLA talking roughly to student seeking assistance||Actor-turned CPM MLA in Kerala, M Mukesh, landed himself in a row after he spoke roughly to a student who rang him up seeking assistance. An audio conversation of the MLA with the Class 10 student has surfaced, in which Mukesh can be heard asking why the student was repeatedly calling him and disturbing him while he was in a meeting. The student said he was calling from Palakkad, to which the Kollam district MLA said he should have called the MLA in Palakkad and added that the one who gave him his number should be beaten. When the student said that he did not know who was the MLA of his region, Mukesh said that he would have beaten the student if he was in front of him. With the conversation triggering a row and certain organisations petitioning the Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, Mukesh came out with a clarification that he got irritated as he was in an online meeting over the mobile phone and the meeting got disconnected since the child had repeatedly called him. He also alleged that it could be a planned move to provoke him and that could be why the call was recorded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/row-over-kerala-mla-talking-roughly-to-student-seeking-assistance-1004891.html
04-07-2021||State||Forest dwellers stuck between dispossession, deprivation||Negotiating the muddy roads of Belagavi's Bhimgad Wildlife Sanctuary on his two-wheeler with his 58-year-old ailing father riding pillion, Dattatreya Arjun Ayyaur had just one thing on his mind — reaching the hospital in Khanapur, some 23 km from his home in Jamgaon, as soon as possible. It was for the fourth time in a week that Dattatreya was on his way to the hospital with his father, who was struggling to breathe. Given the condition of the road, made worse by the pre-monsoon showers, it took him two hours to reach the hospital.  By then, his father’s condition had worsened. A CT scan confirmed his father had contracted Covid-19. He passed away three days later, despite spending Rs 4 lakh on the treatment. “Had there been a primary health centre (PHC) near our village or a better road to drive to the nearest town, my father would be alive today,” an emotional Dattatreya said.  Similar stories of helplessness can be heard some 100 km away, from the residents of Dudmala inside the Kali Tiger Reserve in Uttara Kannada district. The nearest PHC is just 3 km away from their hamlet but no emergency vehicles reach there. Except for two days a week, the health centre does not have any doctors to attend to patients. “Every time we have a woman in labour or a sick person unable to walk, we have to carry them on a cot or a chair to the hospital, braving the dangers of the forest,” said Ajit Maharshi, a resident of Dudmala. Maharshi said that there is a proposal to shift their hamlet out of the tiger reserve and local residents too are interested in moving out and settling in a safer place. But the hardships that other rehabilitated communities have been facing in other parts of the state makes them apprehensive about leaving. “We are not sure if the government will give us fair compensation in return for our lands where we grow paddy now. We would be left in the lurch in case the compensatory land that the government would offer us does not turn out to be fertile. Just money won’t sustain us in the long term,” Ajit said, echoing the sentiment of forest dwellers.   While people from Jamgaon, Dudmala and many such hamlets want to shift out of the forest, Mare (54), Soudamma (64) and 10 other families from Shettihalli Rehabilitation Colony want to go back to their Haadi (a tiny forest settlement) lying within the Nagarhole National Park.  Mare and Soudamma were among the 42 families relocated from Bogepura Haadi in Kakanakote range of the national park in 2011. While 27 of the families received three acres of compensatory land as assured by the government, the others including Mare and Soudamma’s families did not get land compensation owing to problems with documentation, forcing their children to work as labourers. “We are unable to adjust to this hostile environment,” said Soudamma, who has approached the forest department seeking its approval to return to her Haadi which is 84 km away from her current home.  “It looks like our Forest Goddess is punishing us for deserting her. I lost three of my family members in quick succession. My children who worked as labourers had no jobs during the lockdown and we had to starve,” she said. Soudamma hopes to restart her life by collecting tubers, honey and other minor forest products once she returns to their Haadi. “While in our Haadi, we could have somehow survived by eating tubers, leaves and fruits. Here we are forced to depend on ‘government’ ration. Many of us are now suffering from blood pressure and diabetes which our ancestors hardly had. Unlike earlier, we do not have access to herbal medicines even for minor problems like head and stomach aches,” said Mare. Data from the forest department shows that from 2015 - 16, of the 10,898 families being considered for the rehabilitation schemes across five protected forest areas in Karnataka, just 684 have been rehabilitated.  And Dattatreya, Ajit, or Soudamma, who are in three different phases of rehabilitation, all have one thing in common — their right to life is at stake.   Forest dwellers who wish to relocate are mostly those who have been denied basic facilities like healthcare, education, road connectivity due to the Wildlife Protection Act, which restricts any kind of permanent construction within the protected area of the forest. Win-win situation Experts believe that done right, rehabilitation of tribals is a win-win situation for both the forest dwellers and forest conservation. But successive governments in the state ignored the issue, which is evident in the inadequate funds allocated to rehabilitation schemes, leaving the tribals in abeyance. For instance, there are 13 villages inside the Bhimgad Wildlife sanctuary and at least 11 of them are willing to relocate in Khanapur taluk if the government offers them fair compensation and fertile land equivalent to the current landholdings.  A proposal in this regard has been pending with the state government since 2015. Experts estimate that at least Rs 20 crore is required to relocate the 600 willing families and meet their basic requirements of land and financial aid. But the state government is ready to offer a package of Rs 15 lakh (a total package of Rs 10 crore) to each family, as per National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) guidelines. The villages feel this compensation is inadequate.  Professor Muzaffar Assadi, chairman of a three-member committee constituted by the Karnataka High Court to look into the ‘Tribal Issues of Rajiv Gandhi (Nagarhole) National Park’, said forest dwellers are not a priority for governments as they do not form a ‘large vote bank constituency’. The committee had recommended a ‘choice/option based’ relocation of the tribals and not forcible evacuation. It had advised the government to ensure that the rehabilitation process elevates the tribals from poverty, provides them employment, facilitates education through a dedicated tribal university that imparts native knowledge and allows the community to have a cultural connection with the forests. Administrative apathy “The Karnataka High Court had instructed the state government to implement our committee report within three months in 2016. But the majority of these recommendations have still not been implemented and this shows how much importance the government gives to tribal issues,” he said. Between 1960 and 2006, Nagarhole has seen a displacement of 250 tribal habitations. Nearly 11,000 people have been displaced for construction of the Kabini dam and laying of power lines, in addition to the voluntary rehabilitation schemes.  But the mismanagement of the rehabilitation process in the past makes the others — another 3,000 to 4,000 forest dwellers still inside the national park — hesitant to take up relocation under the current scheme. B Kavera, who was part of the 90-odd families relocated from Kumalgolikere in 1972 to make way for construction of the Kabini dam, claims that so far, only 65 families have received the compensation package including three acres of land at Udbueaadi in HD Kote taluk.  While the displaced families have now been provided with school and primary health care facilities, what worries them the most is finding an alternative livelihood. According to Assadi, when it comes to issue of the ‘Forest Dwellers Right (The Scheduled Tribes and traditional forest dwellers—Recognition of Forest Rights Act, 2006)’ verses the ‘Wildlife (Protection) Act of 1972’, preference should be given to the former as it has a holistic approach. “Unfortunately, the Wildlife Act is applicable only to tribals and not to the government, that allows laying railway lines/roads, taking up hydropower generation units and drawing power lines in the core areas also,” said Assadi. On the other hand, unlike some tribals who want to join the mainstream, a portion of the rehabilitated forest dwellers are now demanding to be allowed to return to the forests.  Dr S Sreekant, founder of the Mysuru-based Development through Education that is working for tribal rights said these demands are fuelled by inadequate facilities coupled with “psychological trauma” that comes with living in an unfamiliar location.   “Due to the lack of proper documents, the majority of these forest dwellers are denied Aadhar and ration cards. Nearly 40% of the families rehabilitated at Nagapur and Shettihalli rehabilitation camps in HD Kote do not have cards to procure ration,” Sreekant said.  Shortage of funds However, at the government’s end, there is not much clarity on who has to shoulder the responsibility of monitoring the financial aspect of rehabilitation, with the forest department, revenue department and the ST Development Corporation constantly passing the buck. “The responsibility of relocation of forest dwellers lies with the government, as the Forest Department does not have funds for this purpose,” said Principal Chief Conservator of Forest (Wildlife) Vijaykumar Gogi, while the Revenue Secretary Manjunath Prasad said allocation of funds for rehabilitation must be done by the Scheduled Tribe Development Department.  State Forest Minister Arvind Limbavali too admits that allocation of funds for relocation and rehabilitation from the Revenue Department is a bit challenging.  “We are convincing forest dwellers to move out of forest as providing basic facilities to them at their hamlets/villages is a costly affair and not sustainable for a longer period. At the same time, we are also pursuing the issue with the revenue department,” he said. “We are also tying up with the Housing Ministry to provide housing for the relocated forest dwellers. For those who do not wish to come out of the forest, we are contemplating providing eco-friendly sources of energy like solar power and LPG connection through various schemes,” he said. Canara Circle Chief Conservator of Forest Yatish Kumar, who is monitoring the rehabilitation of Kali Tiger Reserve, said, “The forest dwellers and tribal people have a strong connection with the forest. They are the ones who have been conserving the forest as they consider it as their God and mother. We have to devise such a programme that the tribals are neither disconnected from the forest nor become vulnerable to human-animal conflict.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/forest-dwellers-stuck-between-dispossession-deprivation-1004649.html
04-07-2021||State||Karnataka govt's move to use RTE funds for Covid aid opposed||The private unaided school managements have raised objection to the Karnataka government’s order to release Covid relief to unaided school staff using RTE reimbursement funds. Addressing a press conference on Saturday, D Shashi Kumar, general secretary of Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said, “We have welcomed the decision by the government to release Covid relief package for both teaching and non-teaching staff of private unaided schools, but the order issued by the department of primary and secondary education department directed to utilise the funds available under RTE reimbursement for private schools. For this, the department is cutting the RTE refund amount meant for schools.” According to the association, the officials of the department are not approving the reimbursement for admissions made under Right to Education Act. “All these years, the reimbursement was released following the auditors reports submitted by the schools, regarding the expenses. But now, officials are rejecting such expenses and utilising it to give packages,” said Shashi Kumar. The association has demanded that the department release the reimbursement dues which are pending for the previous academic year to private schools.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govts-move-to-use-rte-funds-for-covid-aid-opposed-1004651.html
04-07-2021||State||MLC Vishwanath seeks cancellation of SSLC examination||MLC A H Vishwanath slammed the state government for holding SSLC examinations amid the Covid-19 pandemic and called for cancellation of exams. The SSLC exams are scheduled for July 19 and 22. In a press conference, here, on Sunday, Vishwanath said, during the Covid-19 pandemic, what is the urgency for the Education department and Minister S Suresh Kumar to conduct exams. CM B S Yediyurappa should order cancellation of the examination, he demanded. The government can conduct the examinations once the pandemic subsides. He also said that many students in rural areas are deprived of classes due to certain reasons and are not ready for exams. The students are under pressure and also urged educationalists like retired vice-chancellors and professionals to raise voice against the government's move.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mlc-vishwanath-seeks-cancellation-of-sslc-examination-1004741.html
04-07-2021||State||Special grants: Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai to travel to Delhi||Days after Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman dismissed releasing special grants to the tune of Rs 5,495 crore to Karnataka, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that he would travel to Delhi soon to request that the grants are released. Bommai, who represents Karnataka in the GST Council, said that Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa has already written to the Central government requesting it to release the special grants. "In the coming days, I will also travel to Delhi to press for the grants," he said on Sunday. The 15th Finance Commission had recommended the special grants to Karnataka in its first report in February 2020, the grants were not part of the final report tabled in November 2020. The grants were provided to offset the decline in devolution and revenue deficit grants under the 15th Commission. "We will make every effort to ensure the state's right," he said. Last week, Sitharaman said that the final recommendations of the 15th Finance Commission did not provide for special grants to any state. Bommai said that there was scope to amend the recommendations, recalling that not all of the Commissions' recommendations were fully implemented in the past. Mekedatu project Bommai dismissed the objections of Tamil Nadu for the Mekedatu project as a 'political adventure' by the TN government. "Karnataka would fight for the implementation of the project legally," he said. "Tamil Nadu has always stirred dispute over Cauvery," he said, noting that the project was being implemented within the state borders. "It is for drinking water needs and we are not preventing any flow to Tamil Nadu," he said. The dispute, he said was a 'political adventure' of the newly elected DMK government. "We are legally correct (in implementing the project) and will fight it out legally," Bommai added. It can be recalled that Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa had written to his Tamil Nadu counterpart on Saturday, urging him not to oppose the project and offering to hold bilateral talks to address any issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/special-grants-karnataka-home-minister-basavaraj-bommai-to-travel-to-delhi-1004827.html
04-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Special court jolt to CM Yediyurappa in denotification case||A special court to deal with criminal cases related to elected representatives on Saturday rejected the closure report (B report) filed by the Lokayukta police in a case of illegal denotification of land against Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. The court directed the police to investigate the matter further. Special court judge Shridhar Gopalakrishna Bhat observed that the entire investigation by the investigating officer (IO) is in “perfunctory manner and against the approach of the prudent person”. The allegation was that Yediyurappa, as Deputy Chief Minister, illegally de-notified certain lands in 2006 that were acquired for the IT Corridor. Yediyurappa’s petition seeking quashing of the FIR was dismissed by the Karnataka High Court in December 2020. The high court had deprecated the Lokayukta police for not conducting investigation for almost four years. Following the high court’s directions, Lokayukta DySP M G Shankaranarayana (IO) filed the B report in January 2021.  The special court observed that the investigation by the IO is without application of mind on the relevant matters to be investigated. The court said the opinion of the IO is based on irrelevant and unconnected materials and therefore appears to be “ineffective, incomplete, defective and does not inspire the confidence of this court”. In his objection to the B report, complainant Vasudeva Reddy said the Lokayukta police have clubbed the materials concerning former minister R V Deshpande, who was accused No.1 in the case. The allegations made against Deshpande were quashed by the high court in October 2015. The court said that the investigation has not dealt with primary aspects as to whether Yediyurappa has abused his official position as a public servant while denotifying the acquired land, whether he has obtained for himself or for any other person any pecuniary advantage and whether the denotification was for any public interest. Observing that the investigation conducted by the IO was approved by the ADGP Lokayukta, the court directed the office to send the copy of the order to him for necessary action. The IO has been directed to submit a fresh investigation report by August 21. Reacting to the court order, AICC General Secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala in Delhi called for Yediyurappa’s resignation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/special-court-jolt-to-cm-yediyurappa-in-denotification-case-1004585.html
04-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's active Covid-19 cases fall below 50,000||The number of active Covid-19 cases in Karnataka fell below 50,000 on Saturday, with 48,116 active infections. Bengaluru accounts for 19,411 of these active cases. The state saw 2,082 infections and 86 deaths taking the total cases and fatalities to 28,52,079 and 35,308, respectively. As many as 7,751 patients recovered in the state, taking the total recoveries to 27,68,632. Bengaluru Urban district reported 481 infections, which is the highest in the state. The city also reported 10 deaths. Mysuru remained in the second spot, with 227 infections and seven fatalities. It was followed by Dakshina Kannada which reported 214 infections and 13 deaths, the highest among the districts. As many as 202 cases were reported in Hassan and 108 in Shivamogga. There were nine deaths in Ballari, seven in Belagavi, six each in Dharwad and Mandya, four in Hassan, three each in Bengaluru Rural, Chikkaballapur, Shivamogga and Uttara Kannada. Fatalities were reported in 11 other districts as well. There were no fatalities in Bagalkot, Bidar, Chitradurga, Kalaburagi, Kodagu, Raichur and Yadgir. The state conducted 1,54,655 Covid tests on Saturday. So far, 3.47 crore tests have been done. The positivity rate and the case fatality rate for the day were 1.34% and 4.13% respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-active-covid-19-cases-fall-below-50000-1004604.html
04-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka pvt engineering colleges demand 30% fee hike||Private engineering colleges in Karnataka have urged Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa for a 25% to 30% hike in fee for undergraduate engineering courses this year.  According to the sources in the Chief Minister’s Office, a group of representatives from private engineering colleges of coastal Karnataka met Yediyurappa recently. Admissions for the engineering courses are scheduled for October. The sources told DH, “The delegation was led by one of the MLCs from the coastal Karnataka region.” ‘30% hike not acceptable’ However, the Higher Education Department is not in favour of increasing the fee considering the Covid-19 pandemic situation in the state. “This issue has not been discussed yet. But there is no way to increase the fee as per their demand. Increasing the fee by 5% is acceptable, but 25% to 30% is not a just demand,” said an official from the department.  According to the private engineering college managements, the fee for engineering courses was hiked three years ago and they deserve a fee hike this year. Speaking to DH, Dr M K Panduranga Setty, secretary Karnataka Unaided Private Engineering Colleges Association (KUPECA), said, “We are demanding a fee hike this year and we have constituted a technical committee from the association to discuss our demands with the government.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-pvt-engineering-colleges-demand-30-fee-hike-1004605.html
04-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'One state, many worlds': Parties can’t sell identity politics in Karnataka||Kannada activists and political leaders from the state agitated last week against an alleged decision by Kerala to rename a few Kannada villages in Kasargod district to Malayalam.  While Kerala denied such a move, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah and JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy shot off letters to the neighbouring state’s CM Pinarayi Vijayan, protesting against the move.  A few weeks earlier, Karnataka’s political leaders strongly condemned a Google algorithm that showed Kannada as the “ugliest language”. These recent incidents also led to a backlash on social media against the state’s politicians for sporadic reactions and for not investing in sustained efforts for asserting regionalidentity.  A look into Karnataka’s political history shows that regional and linguistic assertion has never emerged as a strong election issue. One of the reasons why the state does not have a single, sustained linguistic or regional identity movement is its complex geographical history.   The Hyderabad-Karnataka (Kalyana Karnataka), Bombay-Karnataka, Old Mysore and coastal regions, came together to be administratively unified under one state. To this day, these regional differences remain, which makes it difficult to have a single regional or linguistic movement for the state, says former speaker K R Ramesh Kumar, a senior Congress legislator. “The state is also cosmopolitan in nature which probably is one of the impediments for making regional assertion an electoral focus,” he says.  Further Karnataka has more minor languages than any other state in the country. Even though the state unification was done administratively, the speakers of these minor languages have not considered Kannada as the mother tongue, says Kannada author Purushotham Bilimale. As a result, the unique language-centric Gokak movement in the 1980s, which was launched against the Centre’s three-language policy, did not find support from all regions of the state. “The Tulu-speaking community, for instance, could not relate to a Kannada movement,” he observes. According to him, the solution lies in creating a strong language policy for the state.  Kannada activist Vatal Nagaraj, who leads the Kannada Chaluvali Vatal Paksha, is one of the few activists to have led sustained language-centric political efforts in the state. Karnataka Rakshana Vedike (KRV) state organisation secretary Arun Javagal weighed in on the challenge to transition a pro-Kannada movement into electoral politics. “It’s not possible to fight elections solely on the basis on linguistic identity. We have to look at federalism as an issue and look at problems created by policies such as the GST,” he says. Also, for smaller regional parties, sustaining their efforts through multiple elections is important and not many can afford it. KRV, too, is contemplating contesting the next elections.  How can regional parties find a voice within India’s federal structure?  “We need to redefine Karnataka’s identity in the federal structure so as to benefit its people. This includes political, geographical and linguistic identities,” says K V Narayan, a linguist, critic and former chairman of Kuvempu Bhasha Bharathi Pradhikara. For instance, Karnataka has not been able to strengthen the rail network according to its requirement as it is controlled by Centre. People from Bidar find it easier to go to Hyderabad in search of job opportunities rather than come to Bengaluru, all because of connectivity, he explains, adding that political parties need to think on these lines to sustain any long-term movement asserting Karnataka’s identity. While the lack of strong regional identity politics in Karnataka is often held in contrast to Tamil Nadu’s politics, BJP national general secretary C T Ravi feels that the situation in both states is similar. “Even in Tamil Nadu, Tamil schools are finding it difficult to attract students,” says Ravi, who is in charge of the BJP in Tamil Nadu, Goa and Maharashtra. “Whether it is Tamil Nadu or Karnataka, regional assertion can sustain only by developing love for mother tongue, which should begin at home. Kannada pride should not be reduced to names and boards or burning tyres during a protest.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/one-state-many-worlds-parties-can-t-sell-identity-politics-in-karnataka-1004615.html
04-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Shivakumar 'challenges' Karnataka govt to vaccinate 80% adult population in 3 months||Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar on Sunday threw a "challenge" to the state government to vaccinate 80 per cent of the adult population with both doses by September-end, as he stated that doing so can save people from the third wave of Covid-19. "Experts are predicting that the third wave will hit us by October. However, if we fully vaccinate at least 80 per cent of the adult population by September-end, there may be no third wave. Even if there is, it will be very mild. That's why Im asking the Karnataka government if they are up for this challenge?" Shivakumar said. Emphasising the importance of vaccination, he said, the Karnataka government has so far given only around 7 per cent of the eligible population both doses. "The government should stop talking about how many doses it has given. What matters is double dose. With only a single dose, there is very little protection. With both doses there is very high protection. Studies from Mumbai, London, New York are all saying both doses will save us," he was quoted as saying by his office in a release. Noting that according to experts children could be the worst affected in the third wave and calling it a matter of great concern, the KPCC chief said, "We don't want the third wave. We can shoo away the third wave. All we have to do is to vaccinate 80 per cent of the population before the third wave begins." "...on behalf of the people of Karnataka, I plead to the government to vaccinate 80 per cent in 3 months with both doses. I hope they accept my challenge," he added. Shivakumar will also present a memorandum to the Governor in this regard. Stating that if the government fails to vaccinate 80 per cent of adults before September-end, it will be responsible for the third wave, he said, the target is not an impossible one, it is totally possible. "Now that we have stopped donating vaccines to other countries, we should be able to vaccinate our people really fast. The central government is also supposed to be providing 75 per cent vaccines free to the state. If BJP leaders don't obsess over doing their own small scams with private vaccination, we can easily achieve it," he added. The Congress leader further noted that the government may need to revise guidelines to administer the second dose of Covishield within 8 weeks as the international consensus seems to be that it is the best dosage gap to fight the Delta variant. "We are doing our bit in persuading people to get vaccinated and we will do more. The problem is not one of demand but supply, " he said, accusing the BJP of spreading the vaccine hesitancy so that it doesnt have to answer questions about the lack of vaccines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/shivakumar-challenges-karnataka-govt-to-vaccinate-80-adult-population-in-3-months-1004788.html
04-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Do not pursue Mekedatu project: Stalin to Yediyurappa||Tamil Nadu on Sunday lodged its strong protest over Karnataka’s move to construct a reservoir in Mekedatu across River Cauvery and nudged the neighbouring state not to pursue the project. Chief Minister M K Stalin, in reply to a letter written by his counterpart in Karnataka B S Yediyurappa asking Tamil Nadu not to oppose the project, said the reservoir would “definitely jeopardize” the availability of water to Tamil Nadu. He also contended that Karnataka’s logic to construct a major reservoir at Mekedatu, which is too far away from Bengaluru, aimed at fulfilling the drinking water needs of the state capital does not “sound valid.” Though Yediyurappa had proposed a meeting, Stalin did not mention either accepting or rejecting the request though he expressed the hope that “good cooperation and relationship” between the two states would prevail. The Tamil Nadu Chief Minister also took objection to Karnataka comparing the Mekedatu balancing reservoir with two hydropower projects undertaken by the state. “Let me clarify at the very outset that there is no consumption of water in these two hydropower projects, with the available water being just re-circulated by pumping to meet peak power demand. Since there is no additional usage created, both the projects do not affect the availability of water for irrigation or drinking usage in Tamil Nadu,” Stalin said. Construction of a reservoir in Mekedatu across River Cauvery is yet another source of friction between Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. While Tamil Nadu says no reservoir can be built without its concurrence and that it is against the orders of the Supreme Court, Karnataka argues that the project is aimed at fulfilling the drinking water needs of Bengaluru. Emphasising that optimal utilisation of Tamil Nadu’s share as allotted by the Supreme Court hinges only on efficient water use, Stalin said the efficiency of irrigation in Cauvery system in Tamil Nadu could not be improved much since litigation was on for long. “Many old structures need modernization and improvements to increase the water use efficiency. Unless these works are carried out, it would be impossible for us to meet the water demand at the rate of supply stipulated in the order of the Hon’ble Court. I request you to consider the above facts and the sensitivity of these issues and strongly urge you not to pursue the Mekedatu project,” Stalin wrote in the letter. Stalin said the proposed Mekedatu project would impound and divert the first component of uncontrolled flows due to Tamil Nadu and punched holes in the view that the implementation of Mekedatu project would not affect the interests of Tamil Nadu’s farming community. While the drawl of water from the river for drinking water usage in Bengaluru Metropolitan City has been permitted by the Supreme Court, citing that the reason for constructing such a major reservoir at Mekedatu, which is too far away from Bengaluru Metropolitan area, does not sound valid, Stalin said. “Further, when Karnataka already has adequate infrastructure for drawing drinking water to meet the demand of Bengaluru Metropolitan area even now, the justification of the need for a reservoir with a storage capacity of 67.16 TMC to utilize 4.75 TMC as drinking water is not at all acceptable. This would definitely jeopardize the availability of water to Tamil Nadu,” the Chief Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/do-not-pursue-mekedatu-project-stalin-to-yediyurappa-1004809.html
04-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 1,564 fresh Covid-19 cases, lowest in three-and-a-half months||The curve of the second wave of novel coronavirus infections in Karnataka dipped further on Sunday after the state posted the lowest new numbers of cases in three and a half months. Only 1,564 new cases were found on Sunday, despite the state conducting over 1.53 lakh tests, a quarter of which were conducted in Bengaluru Urban. The new numbers are the lowest since March 22, when 1,445 cases were posted.  The metropolis itself reported just 352 new cases on Sunday. Such low numbers have been seen since the first week of March when the second wave had not yet taken off.  While the state’s Covid-19 numbers had largely plateaued in June, the numbers have fallen dramatically from July 1 onwards. In the course of the last four weeks from June 7 to July 4, the number of cases being found statewide fell by 72%. In Bengaluru Urban, the decline was 68%. Sunday’s new numbers, coupled with 4,775 discharges statewide means that Karnataka’s active caseload is currently 44,846 cases. Meanwhile, Mysuru district posted the next highest daily numbers (162 cases), followed by Dakshina Kannada (152 cases) and Kodagu (150 cases).  Karnataka also reported 59 deaths, of which three were from Bengaluru Urban. The number of new death disclosures was the lowest it has been since mid-April, indicating that clinical management of the disease has improved. There was just one ‘brought-dead’ case listed among Sunday’s disclosures. This was a 47-year-old man in Ballari, who succumbed to the disease way back on May 4. Just nine of the new fatalities happened on Sunday. Twenty-one had happened on Saturday, with the remainder having happened in previous days and weeks.  The data suggests that the burden of Covid-19 mortality has now passed to rural areas and second-tier cities, such as Mysuru, Davangere and Ballari districts having a larger share of fatalities. The statewide test positivity rate, considering the last 15 days, is 2.23%.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-1564-fresh-covid-19-cases-lowest-in-three-and-a-half-months-1004879.html
04-07-2021||West||5 injured in fire after explosion at chemical plant in Maharashtra's Palghar||Five workers were injured in a fire following an explosion at the plant of a chemical company in Maharashtra's Palghar district, officials said on Sunday. The blast took place around 11.30 pm on Saturday at the chemical plant located in Boisar industrial area here, a fire official said. After being alerted, local firemen rushed to the spot and carried out rescue and relief operations. "Five workers received burn injuries due to the fire after the explosion. They have been admitted to a local hospital for treatment," an official from Boisar police station said. The cause of the explosion is not yet known, he said, adding that a probe is on into the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/5-injured-in-fire-after-explosion-at-chemical-plant-in-maharashtras-palghar-1004683.html
04-07-2021||West||194 crocodiles relocated from lake near Statue of Unity for safety of tourists||As many as 194 crocodiles have been relocated from a lake near the Statue of Unity in Gujarat's Narmada district in the last two years for the safety of tourists who come to enjoy boat rides there, officials said on Sunday. The Panchmuli lake, situated near the 182-metre tall statue of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel in Kevadia, a major tourist attraction, had a large number of crocodiles that posed a threat to visitors, they said. "In 2019-20 (October-March), we relocated 143 crocodiles. In 2020-21, another 51 crocodiles were shifted to two rescue centres in Gandhinagar and Godhra," Kevadia Range Forest Officer Vikramsinh Gabhania, told PTI. There are still many crocodiles in the lake, he said. The Panchmuli lake, also known as 'Dyke-3' of the Sardar Sarovar Dam, was developed for tourists visiting the Statue of Unity. Hence, the authorities decided to relocate crocodiles from the water body to prevent any harm to tourists, the official said. In 2019-20, 73 rescued crocodiles were released in the the Sardar Sarovar reservoir. The animals rescued later from the lake were shifted to the rescue centres at Godhra in Panchmahal district, and Gandhinagar, he said. "Some 60 cages are placed around the lake to trap the crocodiles. The part of the lake where sea planes (flying between Ahmedabad and Kevadia) land is completely safe," he said. In 2019, the Gujarat State Forest Development Corporation Ltd (GSFDC) started the boat ride in Dyke-3 (Panchmuli lake), which is rich in flora and fauna and surrounded by lush green forests, as part of the eco-tourism activity in the region surrounding the Statue of Unity, according to the state tourism department. A spokesperson of the Statue of Unity authority said the boat ride is a major tourist attraction in the area and witnesses a heavy rush of visitors, especially on weekends. The Statue of Unity, located near the Narmada river basin, was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on October 31, 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/194-crocodiles-relocated-from-lake-near-statue-of-unity-for-safety-of-tourists-1004710.html
04-07-2021||West||Mumbai gets a jumbo toilet with free Wi-Fi||The financial capital of Mumbai has got its biggest jumbo toilet complex. And a surprise - it has a free Wi-Fi facility as well! Beautifully designed and thematically coloured, the public toilet is located near the Tashkent Bakery opposite BMW showroom at Juhu Galli at Andheri West area of Mumbai. The two-storeyed public lavatory has 88 toilet seats spread across two floors – making it the biggest in the area under the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). It is spread in an area of 4,000 sq ft and is built on a municipal land. Thanks to the efforts of Congress corporator Meher Mohsin Haider, the toilet could be completed at a time when Mumbai is reeling under the Covid-19 pandemic. Mumbai Regional Congress Committee (MRCC) president Bhai Jagtap inaugurated the facility on Saturday. “It is the biggest such facility in Mumbai. It has all the modern facilities and an efficient cleaning system,” said Haider, who is also the BMC’sm member of works committee (suburbs). Elaborating further, Haider said that the upper floor is for men while the ground floor is reserved for ladies. Four toilet blocks are reserved for physically-challenged persons. “We have also created a small garden,” said Haider, adding that it was designed by Ridhi Associates. Known for innovative ideas, Haider has earlier built a 55-seater lavatory near the Gilbert Hill in Mumbai – which was so far the biggest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-gets-a-jumbo-toilet-with-free-wi-fi-1004751.html
04-07-2021||West||Interview affected by Covid-19 outbreak, MPSC aspirant kills self||A 24-year-old MPSC aspirant allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself in Pune's Hadapsar area reportedly out of depression as the final interview of the Maharashtra civil services exam had not taken place due to the Covid-19 outbreak, police said on Sunday. Swapnil Lonkar, a civil engineering diploma holder, had cleared the 2019 Maharashtra Public Service Commission preliminary and main exams, and was waiting for the final interview to take place. He had cleared the 2020 preliminary exam as well, an official from Hadapsar police station said. "He hanged himself on June 30 in his home. He left behind a suicide note which stated that a sense of negativity was creeping in as the interview was not being held and he was in danger of missing the age cut. He also stated he was depressed and that his family had a lot of expectations from him," Senior Inspector Balkrushna Kadam said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/interview-affected-by-covid-19-outbreak-mpsc-aspirant-kills-self-1004757.html
04-07-2021||West||Rough weather for Maha Vikas Aghadi government during Monsoon Session||The Monsoon Session of the Maharashtra Legislature will be held just for two days, but it is going to be like sailing in rough weather for the Maha Vikas Aghadi government amid mounting pressure from the Opposition BJP. The July 5-6 session would be crucial for the Uddhav Thackeray-led Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress dispensation as former home minister Anil Deshmukh and his son Hrishikesh Deshmukh will be questioned on July 5 by the ED. Besides, the ED has also attached a sugar mill linked to Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, the nephew of NCP supremo Sharad Pawar. As the Leader of Opposition, Devendra Fadnavis led the charge during the previous Budget Session. The MVA faced huge problems in the wake of the twin incidents of planting gelatin sticks laden in a Scorpio near the home of Mukesh Ambani and the murder of the SUV owner Mansukh Hiran. It may be recalled that assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze, who was dismissed in the wake of his arrests in the two cases, had alleged that Deshmukh, Ajit Pawar's contact person Dharshan Godawat and transport minister Anil Parab, a close aide of Thackeray, had asked him to collect money. Former Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh had alleged that Deshmukh fixed a collection target of Rs 100 crore for Vaze when he was heading the Crime Intelligence Unit of Crime Branch-CID of Mumbai Police. While Deshmukh is facing a probe by CBI and ED, state BJP president Chandrakant Patil has shot off a letter to Union Home Minister Amit Shah for a probe against Pawar and Parab. BJP is also looking to corner the government over the coronavirus pandemic and the lockdown. Fadnavis had alleged that the government has been fudging Covid-19 case figures and have failed in handling the pandemic. The quashing of the Maratha quota by the Supreme Court and the OBC reservation issue will also be a topic of friction between the MVA and BJP.   It may be recalled that on a plea by Fadnavis, Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari has written to Thackeray to conduct the elections to the vacant post of Speaker of Assembly. The post is vacant since the resignation of Nana Patole, who has taken over as Maharashtra Congress president.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rough-weather-for-maha-vikas-aghadi-government-during-monsoon-session-1004758.html
04-07-2021||West||BJP should let Maharashtra Monsoon Session to function in people's interest: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday said the opposition BJP should allow the two-day Monsoon Session of the Maharashtra legislature to function smoothly if it has the interest of the state's people in mind. The two-day Monsoon Session of the state legislature will begin on Monday. Talking to reporters here, Raut said the opposition should allow the legislature proceedings to go on smoothly for the two days. "Pandemonium is not the way to corner the government. Such tactics can be adopted by the other side as well. This will not solve problems of vaccination (against coronavirus), Covid-19, unemployment and economy," said Raut, whose party shares power with the NCP and Congress in Maharashtra as part of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) alliance. He said the Maharashtra government has several issues for discussion on problems being faced by people in the state. "If the BJP feels committed towards the welfare of the state, it will allow the legislature session to function. The people of the state want the two-day session not to be washed away in pandemonium," the Rajya Sabha member said. On reports that he met BJP leader Ashish Shelar on Saturday, Raut said "the more such rumours spread, the stronger the MVA alliance will become". "We may have political and ideological differences, but if we come face-to-face at public functions, we will cordially greet each other. I have had coffee with Shelar openly," the Sena's chief spokesperson said. To a query on the state government planning to bring a resolution in the legislature opposing three central farm laws, Raut said if the MVA is proposing such a resolution, it means all the three allies are in support of the resolution. NCP leader and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Saturday said the state government will pass a resolution during the Monsoon Session against the three central farm laws. Farmers have been camping at Delhi's borders since November 2020 with their demands that the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee minimum support price for crops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-should-let-maharashtra-monsoon-session-to-function-in-peoples-interest-sanjay-raut-1004782.html
04-07-2021||West||Inscriptions related to Lt Gen James Outram found in Maharashtra||Two inscriptions related to Lt Gen James Outram, an English general during the Indian Rebellion of 1857, have been found in Dharangaon in Maharashtra's Jalgaon district. While one inscription is in English, another is in Marathi. At the instructions of Jalgaon Collector Abhijit Raut, a team comprising Director of Heritage Foundation and eminent historian Bhujang Bobade, Dharangaon Naib Tehsildar Prathamesh Mohod GST  Assistant Commissioner Samadhan Mahajan and Sushilkumar Ahirrao from Chalisgaon researched the two inscriptions. The two inscriptions are in cylindrical forms – and were discovered during the renovation work at the Dharangaon rural hospital. “These are very important inscriptions and more studies are needed,” said Bobade, pointing out that he has already sent details to Dr Tejas Garge,  Director, Directorate of Archaeology & Museums, Government of Maharashtra. "The inscriptions are about his career as an army man in India," Bobade told DH on Sunday. Lt Gen Sir James Outram, 1st Baronet (January 29, 1803 – March 11, 1863) had served in India for several decades. He was known for his role during the relief and capture of Lucknow during the Indian mutiny (1857-1859), but he had enjoyed a long career as a soldier and political officer in India before this, including service in the 1st Afghan War (1839-1842) and Sind (1842-1843). In 1854 he was appointed resident at Lucknow and two years later carried out the annexation of Oudh, against the wishes of its inhabitants, on behalf of the East India Company. He became the first chief commissioner of the new province in which he was to play such a key role during the rising of 1857.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/inscriptions-related-to-lt-gen-james-outram-found-in-maharashtra-1004808.html
04-07-2021||West||BMC wants to widen road touching Amitabh Bachchan’s bungalow||The Shiv Sena-ruled Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has asked the Mumbai Suburban Collector to demarcate the portion of a road touching actor Amitabh Bachchan’s Prateeksha bungalow in posh Juhu area here, for widening work aimed at easing traffic woes. The BMC in May sent a letter to the Mumbai Suburban District Collector asking him to undertake “appropriate action on measurement and demarcation” of the Sant Dnyaneshwar Marg, on which the actor’s bungalow is located. Congress corporator Tulip Miranda said the BMC notified Bachchan in 2017 along with seven other property owners, which include filmmaker Rajkumar Hirani, about the widening work of the Sant Dnyaneshwar Marg. While the wall of the plot adjoining Bachchan’s bungalow was demolished, Bachchan’s bungalow was left untouched, the corporator said, bemoaning the “VIP treatment” accorded to the veteran actor. Interestingly, the BMC letter dated May 22, 2021 to the Suburban District Collector mentions that Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray, son of Shiv Sena president and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, has been repeatedly asking for this road widening work to be expedited. “If this road is widened, it will help ease the traffic congestion there and provide relief to the people,” the BMC letter said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bmc-wants-to-widen-road-touching-amitabh-bachchan-s-bungalow-1004851.html
04-07-2021||West||Gujarat ex-govt employee who claims to be Lord Vishnu incarnate warns of drought if his gratuity not released||Former Gujarat government employee Rameshchandra Fefar who claims to be the 'Kalki' avatar or the last incarnation of Lord Vishnu, and granted premature retirement for long term absence from office, has demanded that his gratuity be released immediately or else he will bring a severe drought on the world using his "divine powers" this year. Fefar was earlier granted premature retirement from the government service due to his absence from office following his 'avatar' claim. In his letter dated July 1 addressed to Secretary, Water Resources Department, Fefar stated "demons sitting in the government" are harassing him by withholding his "Rs 16 lakh gratuity and another Rs 16 lakh as the salary of one year". For the "harassment" meted out to him, Fefar said he will bring "severe drought on the earth" because he is the tenth incarnation of Lord Vishnu who rules 'Satyug' (the age of truth when humanity is governed by gods, according to Hinduism). Fefar was posted as the superintendent engineer with the Sardar Sarovar Punarvasvat Agency of the state's Water Resources Department, which looks after the resettlement and rehabilitation of families affected by the Narmada dam project, at its Vadodara office. He was served a show-cause notice in 2018 for attending the office for only 16 days in eight months. "Fefar is asking for the salary even without attending the office. He insists that he should be paid only because he is an incarnation of 'Kalki' and was working to bring rain on earth," said Secretary (Water Resources), MK Jadav. "He is full of nonsense. I have received his letter claiming gratuity and one-year salary. His gratuity is under process. There was an inquiry after he made the claim (of being the Kalki avatar) last time. The government had even approved his premature retirement considering his mental condition as a special case. Normally, a person facing inquiry does not get premature retirement," Jadav said. In his letter, Fefar also claimed India had received good rainfall in the last two decades because of his divine presence as the 'Kalki' avatar. "There was not a single drought for even a year in the country. India reaped a profit of Rs 20 lakh crore due to good rainfall over the last twenty years. Despite this, the demons sitting in the government are harassing me. Because of this, I am going to bring severe drought across the globe this year. That is because I am the tenth avatar of Lord Vishnu and I rule the earth in Satyug," he stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-ex-govt-employee-who-claims-to-be-lord-vishnu-incarnate-warns-of-drought-if-his-gratuity-not-released-1004893.html
