05-07-2021||First Edit||It’s daylight robbery; BDA, withdraw penalty||The Bengaluru Development Authority’s (BDA) decision to steeply increase penalty on site allottees who have failed to construct houses within the stipulated three-year period is condemnable and should be withdrawn immediately. In some slabs, the hike is as much as 150%. In many cases, owners complain they have not been able to construct houses even after a decade or more since the allotment of sites, as some BDA layouts are unliveable in the absence of even basic facilities like roads, water supply, electricity or sanitary connection. Many allottees who had invested their life’s savings and have even obtained bank loans are in the lurch as they have to pay their monthly EMIs. Instead of imposing an unrealistic penalty on the owners, wherever the layouts are incomplete, the BDA should compensate them for the loss suffered on account of payment of EMI. Nonetheless, the BDA is being extremely unreasonable at a time when people are suffering from job loss and salary cuts due to the pandemic, leading to a situation where many owners may not have the financial wherewithal to begin construction even if the layouts are fully functional. The three-year deadline itself should be put on hold till the economy stabilises. To add insult to injury, BDA has now imposed a maintenance fee in addition to the annual property tax. While this has been withdrawn in the case of Nadaprabhu Kempegowda layout following a public outcry, owners of other layouts are not as lucky. When amenities themselves are absent, the question is, what is the BDA going to maintain with the fees that it is collecting? Levying maintenance fee itself is untenable as the Authority has already collected huge development charges at the time of allotment of sites. Considering that absolutely no infrastructure has been created in some layouts, the BDA should explain where the crores of rupees already collected have disappeared. The BDA has remained a den of corruption since its inception in 1976 and though every chief minister promises to stem the rot, one scandal after another keeps tumbling out with unfailing regularity. The worst impacted are the common people, who pin their hopes on the Authority and aspire to own a house in Bengaluru where land rates are otherwise unaffordable. Instead of striving to turn their dreams to reality, BDA is known to throw a spanner in the works, as it has done now. Site owners who have already paid through their noses, should not be made to suffer anymore due to the inefficiencies and inadequacies of the authority. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa should immediately intervene and stop this daylight robbery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/it-s-daylight-robbery-bda-withdraw-penalty-1004927.html
05-07-2021||In Perspective||Why schools need to reopen soon||An expert panel headed by eminent cardiac surgeon Dr Devi Shetty has strongly recommended the reopening of schools in Karnataka. The panel also suggested that the government offer an insurance cover of Rs 2 lakh per student when schools open by way of a reassurance to parents during the transition period. The report ruled out the possibility of schools becoming infection hubs and asserted that no such instances have been proved anywhere in the world.  Schools have been open in many parts of the world.  They believe that children are safer in schools than at home. There was a speculation that children are likely to be affected more in future in the country. But it turned out to be a false alarm. A Stanford University panel of experts also refuted this and said there was no scientific evidence to show that children would be disproportionately affected by the virus. According to a World Health Organisation (WHO) report, social workers, counsellors and child advocates have raised an alarm that school closures have led to a surge in child abuse. Experts fear that this could lead to more accidents and injury among children left alone at home. It also results in deeper economic woes for parents who are forced to quit their jobs or cut back on their working hours to stay with the children. Meanwhile, WHO has announced a checklist to support the reopening of schools, which includes “38 essential actions to be considered by different stake-holders as they work together on school reopening plans”. Training of teachers, preparing parents to participate in safety measures and motivating students to follow safety guidelines are integral components of the reopening regime recommended by the WHO. Obviously, schools will have a much greater responsibility at hand. They need to guarantee enough safeguards such as face masks for teachers and staff, and children above 8 years, temperature testing, social distancing, decrease in classroom capacity, holding classes outdoors, regular virus testing etc. Schools will have to invest money for several sanitary accessories, safety tools and equipment.    Schools have remained largely closed during the last academic year. This has resulted in a huge dilution in learning and a noticeable decline in academic discipline in children. Online classes and their efficacy are questionable. Ask any teacher, and she will testify to the inadequacies of remote learning. No mode of learning can replace the living voice of the teacher in a live classroom. Most assuredly, there is no substitute for the real school. Children have lost an entire year of invisible learning which comes to them through their school interactions and activities.  Peer interaction itself plays a major role in developing their social skills.  Children learn social adaptability skills from school, something they will never get at home, especially from nuclear families which are the norm these days. Getting aggressive It is a fact that children turn aggressive when their natural instincts are curbed.  The crucial one is their play instinct.  When children are confined to their houses, they are being deprived of their natural urge to play. Parents also tend to lose their patience when dealing with their children, at times even leading to physical punishments bordering on brutality.  This is very unfortunate. The likelihood of school dropouts is yet another stark reality. The longer the schools remain closed, the larger the number of students walking out of schools for good.  It would be impossible to get them back, especially if they come from socially backward sections of society. Many of them are already engaged in child labour.  The parents would rather earn money from them working than spend money on them for their schooling.  Poverty can see only the immediate daily needs, not the dreams of a distant future. We have to be aware of the long-term implications of school closure. The sad fact is that those who take decisions do not seem to give a thought to these realities. They are tempted to settle for the default option of keeping everything shut, including schools. It doesn’t require much thinking or effort to close schools, but a lot of planning and thinking to open schools. Perhaps that is exactly why the authorities defer a decision casually and indefinitely. The government should not dither anymore, like last year.  They need to act decisively on the panel’s recommendations - that schools be allowed to reopen in a phased manner, starting with senior classes. Eventually, all classes including Kindergartens can follow suit. Parents should be reassured that all safety norms will be followed in schools and that their children will not only regain their learning rhythm but also remain cheerful and healthy.  School has a perennial influence on children during their formative years. Opening schools needs care and caution but there is a lot to gain. Keeping schools closed causes substantial losses that are invisible but far-reaching. (The writer is Director, Little Rock Indian School, Brahmavar, Udupi Dist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/why-schools-need-to-reopen-soon-1004930.html
05-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Ex gratia to be paid to families of Covid-19 victims in phases: Karnataka minister||Transport Minister Laxman Savadi on Sunday said that Rs 30 lakh compensation, announced for the dependent families of the RTC employees who died from Covid-19 while on duty, would be paid in phases. The KSRTC had announced the Rs 30 lakh compensation to the deceased staff during the first Covid wave, Savadi, also the deputy chief minister, told reporters. “Scores of RTC employees have lost their lives to Covid-19 during the first Covid wave. The compensation will be given to the families of the drivers and conductors who died of Covid-19 while on duty. However, the corporation will take a call on providing the ex gratia to the family members of those staff who’d succumbed to virus while at home,” the minister clarified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ex-gratia-to-be-paid-to-families-of-covid-19-victims-in-phases-karnataka-minister-1004952.html
05-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka's Manchanabele dam to be spruced up under PPP||The Karnataka government has shelved its plan to build an amusement park near the Manchanabele dam and has instead decided to develop tourism infrastructure in the area under the public-private partnership (PPP), making people pay for a glimpse of the scenic beauty of the reservoir and the valley. Last August, the government had announced to build an amusement park at Manchanbele dam at a cost of about Rs 150 crore. However, sources said the plan was put off due to the high cost of the project. “It was felt that spending hundreds of crore on such a project during the pandemic may not be a good idea as several emergency works needed funds. A decision was made at the government level to go for PPP so that we don’t have to lose money,” a senior official said. The dam built across river Arkavathi is located about 35 km from Bengaluru. It is a popular weekend getaway spot, especially among youths. “The idea is to develop infrastructure and improve connectivity so that it attracts people round the year. A detailed project report will be prepared within three months,” an official said. As per the available documents, the preliminary list of works to be taken up to spruce up the area around the dam proposes measures to generate revenue. Arrangements will be made for controlling entry and exit of tourists, who will have to buy tickets to visit the dam and to access other facilities. A waiting lounge, a garden, observation towers, a museum, food and art complex, a pond for water sports, multilevel car parking, police and security outposts, public toilets are among the new set of infrastructure planned. “More attractions will be part of the plan to provide a tourism experience in the middle of nature. Issues like entry fee will be decided in consultation with the private party and the government,” the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnatakas-manchanabele-dam-to-be-spruced-up-under-ppp-1004956.html
05-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Entry to Yellamma temple in Belagavi restricted||The restriction of entry of devotees to Renuka Yellamma temple in Saundatti of Belagavi district has been continued. The deputy commissioner issued an order to this effect on Sunday. Even the shops around the temples are prohibited from carrying out any business. However, the daily rituals in the temple are allowed to be performed. A large number of devotees from Maharashtra visit Yellamma temple. Since Covid and Delta+ cases are still high in Maharashtra, entry to the temple is restricted. However, other pilgrim centres and tourism spots across the state will be thrown open for public on Monday following the government’s Unlock 3.0 guidelines. Mysuru Palace will be open between 10 am and 5.30 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/entry-to-yellamma-temple-in-belagavi-restricted-1004960.html
05-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Vishwanath hails KPCC chief D K Shivakumar for his organisational skills||BJP MLC A H Vishwanath on Sunday lavished praise on KPCC president D K Shivakumar for his organisational skills.  “Shivakumar has invited 17 legislators from Congress and JD(S) who jumped the ship to BJP two years back to join the party.” “We will not go back. But I appriciate the courtesy shown by the KPCC chief. He reads the situation well, understands the inside-out...,” Vishwanath told reporters. “On the other hand, CLP leader Siddaramaiah has said time and again that the doors are shut for the defectors. Such stand doesn’t work in politics. Had anyone in the Congress opposed Siddaramaiah’s induction into the party? The senior Congress leaders then - Kharge, Parameshwara, Shivakumar, S M Krishna and I - had welcomed him to the party,” Vishwanath said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/vishwanath-hails-kpcc-chief-d-k-shivakumar-for-his-organisational-skills-1004954.html
05-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||B S Yediyurappa should be replaced as Karnataka CM: BJP MLA Yatnal||Despite warnings of strict action, disgruntled leaders have continued to embarrass the BJP and the government, with senior MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal on Monday reaffirming his stand that Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa should be replaced for the state and party to survive. His comments come a day after party colleague and Tourism Minister C P Yogeshwar on Sunday spoke on the issue of leadership change in the state by linking the CM post to that of the elephant that carries the 'golden howdah' during Mysuru Dasara, which are replaced from time to time, depending on their ability. "If the party and state have to survive, (CM) change should happen," Yatnal said. Speaking to reporters here, in response to a question whether the new Chief Minister will hoist the flag on August 15, he said, "...why do you want to go as far as August 15? you want to give an opportunity to loot till then? if it continues, per day Rs 100 crore will be looted." Stating that the leadership change will be decided by the central leadership, the Vijayapura City MLA said, it is natural that changes will happen from time to time due to reasons such as age, serious allegations, which the high command is considering, and "certainly good things will happen to the state soon". To a question as to how long his fight for leadership change in the state will continue, he said, "it will end soon. I'm not astrologer to fix a time...if the party has to survive in Karnataka the change has to happen." There are many alternative leaders to Yediyurappa in the party, the former union Minister said, adding, there is no such thing any more that that he is the leader of Veerashaiva Lingayats. The "current administration is going on in such a way that the Lingayats have to bow their heads down", he said. "A few Swamijis as they have got dakshina (money as offerings) are saying that the party will get destroyed if he (Yediyurappa) is made to step down.Why are a few Mutts and Swamijis indulging in politics? Let them do their duty of showing right path to the society..or else remove "kaavi" (saffron robes) and wear "khadi" like us (politicians)," he said. Yatnal, who visited Chamundeshwari temple here, said he had prayed to the goddess to free the state from Corona, end the evil elements and do good for Karnataka. He said that he has prayed for the end of evil elements such as those who indulge in corruption and looting and has caused disrepute. "The media is aware of who they are, they are both in ruling and opposition parties," he said and claimed that it is compromise and adjustment politics that is prevailing in the state and the opposition parties are "dead". "Where is the opposition? What are they doing? They too are business partners." Accusing Yediyurappa and team of targeting other leaders in the BJP who can pose a challenge to them, he alleged they had made Sriramulu and Ramesh Jarkiholi who are from Valmiki community "scapegoats". "They are not making good Lingayat leaders Ministers and a backward class leader like K S Eshwarappa is not being allowed to work freely," he said. On the arrest of a man who is said to be the personal assistant of Minister Sriramulu by the Central Crime Branch following CM's son Vijayendra's complaint for allegedly misusing his name to cheat people, he said "there is a drawing room behind Cauvery (official residence of the CM).. the chambers there are good compared to Cauvery, all business relating to loot happens there, CCB has to raid there." Yatnal has been openly demanding Yediyurappa's replacement and has repeatedly set dates for his removal, despite the party clarifying that the CM will continue. He has also accused Yediyurappa and his family members, more specifically son Vijayendra, who is state BJP vice president, of corruption and interference in administration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/b-s-yediyurappa-should-be-replaced-as-karnataka-cm-bjp-mla-yatnal-1005186.html
05-07-2021||Main Article||Political instability: Bane of small states||When BJP named its third chief minister in less than four months in Uttarakhand, Congress did not spare the opportunity to mock the ruling party saying, instead of ushering in development, BJP has thrown Uttarakhand into political instability and betrayed its people by repeatedly changing chief ministers. But a closer study of the tale of three states— Chhattisgarh, Uttarakhand and Jharkhand— created by the then A B Vajpayee-led NDA government in 2000, reveal that while Chhattisgarh saw stable administrations in the last 21 years with all its three CMs not only completed their terms but Raman Singh of BJP had three consecutive terms, the other two states repeatedly underwent pangs of uncertainty. In Chhattisgarh, the first chief minister, Ajit Jogi, completed the remainder over three year-interim term of the Madhya Pradesh Assembly in Chhattisgarh (after bifurcation in 2000). After this, Raman Singh remained CM from 2003 to 2018, and he was replaced by Bhupesh Baghel of Congress in 2018. None of the CMs had to step down mid way and no intervening spell of President’s Rule was there. In sharp contrast, both Uttarakhand and Jharkhand had a rocky ride of political instability. Former Jharkhand CM Shibu Soren, who occupied the chair thrice and never completed a full term, had the record of smallest tenure of just 10 days once. While Jharkhand came out of this six years ago with the Raghubar Das-led BJP government being the first one to complete its term between 2014-2019, the spectre of instability still looms large over 'Devbhumi’ Uttarakhand. The first interim Assembly of Uttarakhand for a period of less than one and half years (2000-01) saw two CMs— Nityananad Swamy and Bhagat Singh Koshiyari. The first full term Assembly for Uttarakhand between 2002 and 2007 saw a welcome change with Chief Minister Narayan Dutt Tiwari completing a full term. But the very next Assembly between 2007 and 2012 saw three changes, first B C Khanduri, followed by Ramesh Pokhariyal Nishank and then back to Khanduri (both being Brahmin candidates). In the third Assembly (2012-2017), it was the turn of the Opposition party Congress to face the music. It saw four CMs. What first started as internal tussle within Congress, became a BJP-Congress affair as the poaching game began. It also had connotations of a Brahmin-Thakur rivalry, a key political dynamic in the state. There were two spells of Presidents' Rule. Congress made a Brahmin leader, Vijay Bahuguna, as CM ignoring the claims of rebellious Thakur leader Harish Rawat, who many believed had the backing of more MLAs. Two years later, Bahuguna resigned and Harish Rawat became CM. Bahuguna avenged it later by engineering a split in the party with his supporters. Twice there was President’s Rule in March and April 2016 but Rawat came back as CM after each spell. The fourth Assembly that started in 2017 has had three CMs with Trivendra Singh Rawat of BJP for four years, Tirath Singh Rawat for four months and now, Pushkar Singh Dhami who has just begun his tenure. "BJP's high drama in Dehradun is an insult to the people of Uttarakhand. The prime minister had promised to give a double-engine government, but the state only received different chief ministers and no development. The BJP has not solved the problems of Uttarakhand and has added to the rising unemployment in the state. It has insulted the Devbhoomi (land of Gods) and the Congress condemns the BJP for giving political instability," said Harish Rawat. Local issues Political analysts feel the relatively smaller size of Assembly makes poaching and defections easier in smaller states and elections being fought on very local issues in the formative years of the state ensured that the representation is divided among smaller parties and local leaders, who acted as per their whims. While in Uttarakhand, political instability was more due to competing ambitions and caste rivalry within leaders of national parties, BJP and Congress, in Jharkhand both the national parties had to depend on regional parties like JMM, AJSU, RJD and JD(U) for close to 14 years to stitch up a government. Even later, defections continued. Jharkhand has seen 11 governments and six CMs in the last 21 years. It took Jharkhand 14 years to stabilise till 2014 when BJP under the Modi wave swept the state and Raghubar Das became CM for full five years. In 2019, JMM-Congress-RJD alliance defeated BJP and Hemant Soren became CM. Before 2014 Assembly polls, Jharkhand had seen nine governments and five CMs starting with the first interim tenure of the Assembly after bifurcation from Bihar in 2000. Babulal Marandi remained CM for a little more than two years followed by Arjun Munda little less than two years. Munda came to power as Marandi faced opposition from NDA allies there. The next Jharkhand Assembly (2005-2010) made a record of sorts in the history of politics when an independent Madhu Koda became CM replacing BJP's Munda after nearly one and half year in power. The same tenure saw Shibu Soren from the Opposition becoming CM with NDA allies and independents switching sides. The Assembly tenure finally ended with nearly one year of Presidents' Rule. The third Assembly was no better for Jharkhand with three CMs and two spells of President's Rule between 2009 and 2014. It started with Shibu Soren's chief ministership and ended with his son Hemant Soren's and in between, a nearly two-year tenure by BJP's Arjun Munda as allies and independents kept switching sides. In the 2014 Assembly polls, stability was a key poll plank and people, fed up with this spectre of political instability, voted in a big way for BJP, which got 37 (double of 18 it had got in 2009) seats in the 81-member Assembly and formed the government with allies. The stability came when it poached six of eight MLAs of rival party JVM (P) of Marandi in 2015. In the 2019 elections, an alliance of JMM-Congress-RJD won a clear majority.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/political-instability-bane-of-small-states-1004929.html
05-07-2021||National||DH Toon | Follow 'Rafale-appropriate behaviour'!||The BJP on Sunday hit out at the Congress for raising questions over the Rafale deal and sought to know why its government did not procure the fighter planes for 10 years despite a depleted squadron strength of the Indian Air Force.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-follow-rafale-appropriate-behaviour-1004972.html
05-07-2021||National||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat calls lynching in cow’s name 'anti-Hindutva'||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Sunday denounced cow vigilantes, saying those lynching people in the name of cows are against Hindutva and law enforcing agencies should act against such "oppressors". “If a Hindu says that no Muslim should live here, then that person is not a Hindu. Cow is a holy animal but the people who are lynching others in the name of cow protection are going against Hindutva. Law should take its own course against these oppressors (aattaayi) without any partiality," Bhagwat said addressing an event organised by the Muslim Rashtriya Manch on the theme ‘Hindustan First, Hindustani Best’. Speaking at the event also attended by other senior RSS leaders Krishna Gopal, Indresh Kumar and Ram Lal, Bhagwat also released a book  "The Meeting of Minds" penned by Khwaja Iftikhar Ahmed. Calling the pitch for Hindu-Muslim unity a "misleading" affair, he insisted they are the same and one entity and urged Muslims to "don't get trapped in the cycle of fear that Islam is in danger in India." The comments of the RSS chief at an event in Ghaziabad in UP come at a time BJP has gone into full throttle of preparations for the Assembly polls in the state nine months away. Bhagwat laced his comments on cow vigilantes by adding that there had, however, also been some "false cases" in the name of lynching incidents. Bhagwat's remarks are the second strong-worded denunciation of cow vigilantism by the saffron family four years after Prime Minister Narendra Modi had in his first remarks on the issue in June 2017 said that killing people in the name of protecting the cow (gau bhakti) was “unacceptable” and went against the ideals of Mahatma Gandhi and Vinoba Bhave. Sending out a message of unity, Bhagwat said that it has been proven that we’re descendants of the same ancestors from the last 40,000 years and the people of India have the same DNA. "Hindu and Musilm are not different but one. We are in a democracy. There can't be a dominance of Hindus or Muslims. There can only be the dominance of Indians," Bhagwat said but at the very outset clarified that he was attending the event neither for any image makeover nor for vote bank politics. "The RSS is not interested in party politics. It has a view and that is not in anyone's favour but of the country. The Sangh supports those who speak for the country," he said. Bhagwat sought to allay fears that majoritarianism is on the rise in India stressing that when atrocities take place against minorities, voices of protest come from the majority itself. The RSS chief said development is not possible without unity in the country and held that the only solution to Hindu-Muslim conflict is dialogue, not discord.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-calls-lynching-in-cow-s-name-anti-hindutva-1004973.html
05-07-2021||National||Moderna to be available in India by July 15: Report||Moderna Covid-19 vaccine is likely to reach India this week and will be available in a few government hospitals by July 15, ET reported. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) granted its approval to Mumbai-based pharmaceutical company Cipla to import Moderna’s Covid-19 vaccine last month. India now has four Covid-19 vaccines available with emergency use authorisation in the country. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/moderna-to-be-available-in-india-by-july-15-report-1004986.html
05-07-2021||National||Petrol nears Rs 100 in Delhi after yet another price hike||Petrol price on Monday neared Rs 100-a-litre mark in the national capital after the rate was hiked yet again. Petrol price was increased by 35 paise per litre while there was no change in diesel rates, according to a price notification from state-owned fuel retailers. In Delhi, the petrol price soared to Rs 99.86 per litre. Diesel rates were unchanged at Rs 89.36. Petrol price rose to Rs 99.84 a litre in Kolkata. Rates are already above Rs 100 mark in other metros. Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as value-added tax (VAT) and freight charges. In Mumbai, petrol is priced at Rs 105.92 a litre and it costs Rs 100.75 in Chennai. As much as 55 per cent of the retail selling price of petrol in Delhi is made up of taxes (Rs 32.90 a litre excise duty collected by the central government and Rs 22.80 VAT levied by the state government). Half of the diesel price is made up of taxes (Rs 31.80 central excise and Rs 13.04 state VAT). Petrol has crossed the Rs 100-a-litre mark in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Jammu and Kashmir, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Bihar, Punjab, Ladakh and Sikkim. Diesel, the most used fuel in the country, is above that level in some places in Rajasthan, Odisha and Madhya Pradesh. The hike on Monday is the 35th increase in the price of petrol since May 4, when state-owned oil firms ended an 18-day hiatus in rate revision they observed during assembly elections in states like West Bengal. In 35 hikes, the price of petrol has risen by Rs 9.46 per litre. During this period, diesel rates have soared by Rs 8.63 a litre in 33 instances of a price increase. Oil companies revise rates of petrol and diesel daily based on the average price of benchmark fuel in the international market in the preceding 15 days, and foreign exchange rates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-nears-rs-100-in-delhi-after-yet-another-price-hike-1004990.html
05-07-2021||National||India's new Covid cases fall below 40,000; 723 more deaths||India saw a single-day rise of 39,796 new Covid infections, which took the tally of cases to 3,05,85,229, while the death toll climbed to 4,02,728 with 723 more fatalities, the lowest in around 88 days, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The active cases have further declined to 4,82,071 and comprise 1.58 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid recovery rate has improved to 97.11 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed It said that there has been a decline of 3,279 active cases in a span of 24 hours. The ministry said that 15,22,504 tests were conducted on Sunday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted for detection of Covd in the country to 41,97,77,457. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.61 per cent. It has been less than five per cent for 28 consecutive days, it said. The weekly positivity rate has declined to 2.4 per cent, according to the health ministry. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily cases for 53 consecutive days, it said, adding that the number of people who have recuperated from the disease has risen to 2,97,00,430. The case fatality rate stands at 1.32 per cent, the data stated. The cumulative vaccine doses administered has reached 35.28 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive, the ministry said.    India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed 2 crore cases on May 4 and 3 crore on June 23. The 723 new fatalities include 306 from Maharashtra, 76 from Kerala and 72 from Tamil Nadu, the ministry said. It said that 4,02,728 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including  1,23,030 from Maharashtra, 35,367 from Karnataka, 33,005 from Tamil Nadu, 24,995 from Delhi, 22,640 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,799 from West Bengal and 16,110 from Punjab. The health ministry said more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-new-covid-cases-fall-below-40000-723-more-deaths-1004995.html
05-07-2021||National||PM Modi pays tributes to Ram Vilas Paswan||Paying tributes to Dalit leader and Lok Janshakti Party founder Ram Vilas Paswan on his birth anniversary, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday that his contributions to public service and empowering the downtrodden will always be remembered. A minister in the Modi government, Paswan died in October last year. He was among the most experienced parliamentarians and had served as a minister in governments led by different parties, ranging from socialist groups to the Congress and the BJP.  In a tweet Modi said, "Today is the birth anniversary of my friend, late Ram Vilas Paswan Ji. I miss his presence greatly. He was one of India's most experienced Parliamentarians and administrators. His contributions to public service and empowering the downtrodden will always be remembered." Today is the birth anniversary of my friend, late Ram Vilas Paswan Ji. I miss his presence greatly. He was one of India’s most experienced Parliamentarians and administrators. His contributions to public service and empowering the downtrodden will always be remembered. Paswan's death has led to factional fight within his party with both his son Chirag Paswan and his brother Pashupati Kumar Paras claiming to be representing the LJP.    Chirag is scheduled to launch a yatra from Hajipur, his father's traditional Lok Sabha seat, to rally the party's supporters around his cause.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-pays-tributes-to-ram-vilas-paswan-1005020.html
05-07-2021||National||What Sirisha Bandla's grandfather said about her space mission||Sirisha Bandla, soon to become the second Indian-born woman to go to space, after Kalpana Chawla, has been receiving a lot of appreciation for her space expedition from across the world. Back in India, her grandfather has expressed his happiness, calling Bandla “brave and strong in decision-making". “I, along with my friends and relatives, wish her a successful and happy return to the land after completion of her journey,” he added.  Bandla, born in Andhra Pradesh and raised in Texas, will be part of the six-member space travelling crew including Virgin Galactic’s founder Richard Branson.  Sirisha Bandla is the Vice President, Government Affairs and Research Operations at Virgin Galactic. As part of the space flight mission, Bandla will be evaluating the human-tended research experience, using an experiment from the University of Florida that requires several handheld fixation tubes that will be activated at various points in the flight profile. The crew will onboard Virgin Galactic’s ‘VSS Unity’ is scheduled to take off on July 11 from Mexico.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/what-sirisha-bandlas-grandfather-said-about-her-space-mission-1005028.html
05-07-2021||National||Tribal rights activist Fr Stan Swamy passes away hours before the hearing of his bail plea||India’s leading octogenarian tribal rights activist Father Stan Swamy – who was an undertrial-accused in the controversial Elgar Parishad-Koregaon Bhima case - passed away in Mumbai on Monday, hours before his bail plea on medical grounds was to be heard by the Bombay High Court. A Jesuit priest, Father Swamy (84), suffered from multiple old-age related issues including Parkinson’s disease and had just come out of the Covid-19 viral infection. The priest-activist had been behind bars for close to nine months since his arrest from Ranchi on 8 October 2020, by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which had more than a year ago taken over the case from the Pune police.  Father Swamy was shifted from the Taloja Central Prison to the Holy Family Hospital at Bandra on 28 May and was put on a ventilator on Saturday after his health deteriorated. During the hearing of bail plea around 2.30 pm, Swamy's counsel Mihir Desai brought to the notice of the court that he had passed away. “There was negligence on part of the Taloja prison authorities, who failed to provide immediate medical attention to him,” he informed the Bombay High Court bench comprising  Justice S S Shinde and  Justice N J Jamadar. “On Saturday, he (Father Swamy) suffered cardiac arrest at 4.30 am, we couldn’t revive him. He was put on a ventilator. After this, he did not regain consciousness and he was declared dead at 1.24 pm Monday,” Dr Ian D'Souza, Director of the Holy Family Hospital, informed the court in his report. “The cause of the death is a pulmonary infection, Parkinson's disease and post Covid-19 complications,” the court was informed. “With all humility at our command, we are sorry to learn that he has passed away… We are shocked...we had passed the order to take him to the hospital of his choice, we have no words to express our condolences..we are sorry to know that despite your best efforts he is not with us,” said the judges acknowledging the efforts of the hospital. Father Swamy, who NIA had claimed has links with Maoist groups, had challenged his arrest under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act and has sought bail on health grounds. In December, he was allowed a straw and a sipper in jail, which he had requested on account of Parkinson's disease. Born in Trichy in Tamil Nadu,  he studied theology and Masters in Sociology in the Philippines, where he was acquainted with a series of protests and demonstrations against the administration. During his further studies, he made friends with Brazilian Catholic Archbishop Hélder Câmara whose work with poor people influenced him. was a former Director of the Jesuit-run Indian Social Institute, Bangalore from 1975 to 1986.  He has questioned the non-implementation of the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution, which stipulates the setting up of a Tribes Advisory Council with members solely of the Adivasi community for their protection, well-being and development in the state. Desai also said that since Swamy does not have close family members, his mortal remains will be handed over to Father Frazer Mascarenhas, former principal of St Xavier’s College in Mumbai and the present Parish Priest of St. Peter’s Church in Bandra, who is Swamy’s friend. The court has agreed and it would be done after post-mortem and necessary formalities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tribal-rights-activist-fr-stan-swamy-passes-away-hours-before-the-hearing-of-his-bail-plea-1005065.html
05-07-2021||National||Poorer Indian women lost more jobs, ate lesser than men during the Covid-19 pandemic: Study||By Malavika Kaur Makol Women in India’s low-income households lost jobs more often compared to men, cut back on their food intake as well as rest and provided more unpaid care work, according to a study by consulting firm Dalberg. They are also taking longer to re-enter the workforce after the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic last year, the study found. The report, which covered the March-October period last year, found about a tenth of the women surveyed saying they ate less or had run out of food while 16 per cent had limited or no access to menstrual pads while more than 33 per cent of the married women couldn’t access contraceptives as the pandemic disrupted public health outreach programs. India pandemic worsens one of the world’s worst gender gaps India saw a devastating second wave in the past few months resulting in the region battling the world’s fastest-surging Covid outbreak that overwhelmed its hospitals and crematoriums. While the study captures how the pandemic upended lives in India before the worst hit, it underscores how women’s nutrition, health and employment is the first to suffer when household expenses need to be squeezed and probably the last to recover. “What we’re hearing from grassroots organisations is that the second wave has compounded the effects that we were seeing in the first wave in multiple ways,” said Swetha Totapally, partner, Dalberg Advisors and the author of the report. Child Marriages The society will pay a heavy price if the pandemic pushes more women out of the workforce, families deeper into debt and poverty and more girls drop out of school triggering possibly more child marriages, according to Totapally. Here are some of the other findings of the study, which surveyed about 15,000 women and 2,300 men from low-income households in 10 Indian states: The report suggested “enlistment drives” in government’s flagship rural job guarantee program targeted specifically at women and increase “total person-days offered” under it. Bundling menstrual pads with government’s free food distribution program will boost access and usage, it said as part of policy prescriptions. One of the well-documented fallouts of a higher unpaid work burden is reduced participation in the formal work force and that’ll not be an easy trend to reverse. “We believe that this increase in women’s household burden will make it difficult for them to re-enter the workforce, leading to economic consequences that may outlast the pandemic,” the report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/poorer-indian-women-lost-more-jobs-ate-lesser-than-men-during-the-covid-19-pandemic-study-1005067.html
05-07-2021||National||Avascular necrosis in Covid-19 patients due to steroids||Patients tend to develop avascular necrosis after their Covid-19 treatment. As of now, at least three scientifically-confirmed cases of avascular necrosis have been reported from Mumbai and doctors fear more cases will be seen in forthcoming months. Both mucormycosis and avascular necrosis develop due to the use of steroids, which is said to be the only drug that helps Covid-19 patients. Agarwala’s study on these cases, ‘Avascular necrosis as a part of long Covid-19’, was published in BMJ Case Studies. In the study, he has highlighted that these patients had a lower threshold for the steroids while reporting the disease earlier than usual. They were given 758 mg of corticosteroid prednisolone, which is lesser than the dose (200mg) known to trigger avascular necrosis. While it takes six months to a year for one to develop this condition, he said, “These patients developed early AVN at a mean of 58 days after their diagnosis.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/avascular-necrosis-in-covid-19-patients-due-to-steroids-1005071.html
05-07-2021||National||Government comes out with draft anti-trafficking bill; traffickers to be jailed, may face death if convicted||Human traffickers and abettors are likely to face a jail term of at least seven years that could be extended to life term and in extreme cases, death, according to a new draft law by the Centre to tackle trafficking of people. While it seeks to crack down on organised crime syndicates and defines "aggravated offences", the draft has said that a public servant, police officer, military or paramilitary personnel, doctor or lawyer who "misuses" the relationship with the victim will face life term in jail and a fine of up to Rs 30 lakh, which could be increased by the court. The stringent draft Trafficking in Persons (Prevention, Care and Rehabilitation) Bill, 2021, which has been put in public domain by the Ministry of Women and Child Development seeking comments from public by July 14, also assigns the elite National Investigation Agency as the main probe agency in human trafficking cases. Besides women and children, the draft also extends the protection to transgenders as well. The definition of trafficked victim has been changed and now one need not be transported from one place to another to be identified as a victim of trafficking. The Narendra Modi government had passed a similar bill in Lok Sabha in July 2018 but it lapsed as it was not brought to Rajya Sabha following concerns raised by a section of the civil society. The new draft will be placed before the Union Cabinet once the consultation process is over and brought to Parliament for passage, most likely in the upcoming Monsoon Session. According to the draft, an accused could face death sentence if he is convicted for a second time for aggravated form of trafficking law like acting against a child below 12 years or against a woman for the purpose of repeated rape. For the first offence, the accused will be punished with rigorous imprisonment for 20 years which can extend to life. Aggravated form of trafficking includes death or injury caused to a victim or their dependent, victim exposed to AIDS, silicosis or TB, administering chemical substances or hormones for the purpose of early sexual maturity, victim becoming mentally ill or disabled due to trafficking, forced labour and abusing one's position or authority among others. Trafficking committed in the garb of "apparently innocuous and legally permitted activities or enterprises" such as massage parlours, spas, placement agencies, travel agencies and circus as well as those subjecting victims to illegal bio-medical research and unauthorised clinical drug trial come under “aggravated” offences.  The 2018 Bill had identified 11 aggravated forms of trafficking while the new draft has a more elaborate definition by identifying 23 offences. While the earlier Bill has stipulated imprisonment of 10 years to life imprisonment and fine of at least Rs one lakh and life imprisonment, and fine of at least Rs two lakh for repeat offenders, the new draft has various punishments with enhanced fine ranging between Rs 10 lakh to Rs 50 lakh. Persons belonging to organised crime syndicates also will face life imprisonment or even death if a trafficked victim dies. For trafficking a child above 12 years, one may face rigorous imprisonment for a minimum ten years that may extend to life and with a fine of Rs 15 lakh while the punishment for trafficking of more than one child would lead one to a prison term of at least 14 years that could extend to life as well as fine of up to Rs 30 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-comes-out-with-draft-anti-trafficking-bill-traffickers-to-be-jailed-may-face-death-if-convicted-1005072.html
05-07-2021||National||Key takeaways from PM Modi's speech at Co-WIN Global Conclave||Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the Co-WIN Global Conclave on Monday as India will now offer the Co-WIN platform as a digital public good to other countries to run their own Covid-19 inoculation drives. About 50 countries, including Canada, Mexico, Nigeria, Panama and Uganda, have shown interest in adopting Co-WIN to run their vaccination drives, Dr R S Sharma, the CEO of the National Health Authority (NHA), had said. Here are key takeaways from the Prime Minister's speech: 1. At the outset, PM Modi conveyed his condolences for lives lost to coronavirus around the world. Calling it an unparalleled emergency in 100 years, Modi said, "Experience shows that no nation, however powerful, can solve a challenge like this alone." 2. PM Modi hailed India's willingness to share experience, expertise and resources with the world despite restraints and said India "remains eager to learn from global practices". 3. Hailing India's digital approach to the pandemic and vaccination from the beginning, PM Modi said, "Technology is integral to our fight against Covid-19. Fortunately, software is one area where there are no constraints." 4. PM Modi said that the Indian civilisation considers the whole world as one family, a philosophy made truer during the pandemic. "That's why, our technology platform for Covid vaccination — the platform we call Co-WIN — is being prepared to be made open-source," PM Modi said. 5. He also said that Co-WIN can be customised by a lot of countries according to their local details.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/key-takeaways-from-pm-modis-speech-at-co-win-global-conclave-1005073.html
05-07-2021||National||Stop torturing citizens by hiking fuel prices daily: V D Satheesan to Centre||With fuel prices being hiked daily, including a 35 paise increase in petrol price on Monday, Leader of Opposition in the Kerala Assembly V D Satheesan asked the Centre not to "torture" citizens in this manner. The Congress leader also urged the Kerala government to help citizens by providing a fuel subsidy. With the 35 paise increase in petrol rates, price of the fuel has breached the Rs 100 mark across the state. Satheesan said the benefit of drop in global crude prices was being denied to citizens or consumers here due to the continuous increase in the additional excise duty on petroleum by the central government. Based on the increase in excise duty, the taxes levied on fuel by the state governments also go up, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stop-torturing-citizens-by-hiking-fuel-prices-daily-v-d-satheesan-to-centre-1005098.html
05-07-2021||National||Indian scientists working on mRNA vaccine technology receive grant||Ignite Life Science Foundation has awarded its first grant award for "pandemic preparedness" research to a team of researchers at the Indian Institute of Science (Bengaluru) and the Translational Health Science and Technology Institute (Faridabad). The team comprises Professor Raghavan Varadarajan, Dr Mrinmoy De and Dr Siddharth Jhunjhunwala (IISc), and Dr. Amit Awasthi (Translational Health Science and Technology Institute-Faridabad). The grant, the amount of which was not disclosed, will support the research by them for developing for the first time in India the technology platform and reagents required to design, make and test novel mRNA vaccines, ILSF said. "We hope their work will form the basis for India's ability to respond quickly to future pandemics, as well as improve our ability to respond to new variants of SARS-CoV-2," it said. "The grant will be for three years and will fund research to develop the platform technologies for mRNA vaccine development," a statement from ILSF, founded by professional scientists, academics and entrepreneurs, said on Monday. According to Professor Shahid Jameel (Member Scientific Advisory Board, ILSF), mRNA vaccine development technology is vital for India to mount a rapid and effective response to future pandemics, and successful execution on this project will seed the creation of much-needed capabilities in mRNA vaccine development in India. "The investigators will not only work on developing a vaccine against new variants of SARS-Cov2, but also attempt to develop methods for the generation of thermostable RNA vaccines, which would be critical for resource-poor tropical regions of the world," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-scientists-working-on-mrna-vaccine-technology-receive-grant-1005103.html
05-07-2021||National||Delhi HC agrees to hear on July 9 plea on calculation of class 10 CBSE marks||The Delhi High Court on Monday agreed to hear on July 9 a petition concerning the calculation of marks of class 10 students of CBSE-affiliated schools here. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh advanced the date of hearing in the petition from August 28 after the NGO, 'Justice for All', moved an application for early hearing. Advocate Khagesh Jha, appearing for the NGO, said the petition was not adversarial but raised a serious issue of using “historical background as the biggest factor in marking scheme” for class 10 CBSE students. “My marks will depend on how my seniors have performed,” he told the court. The NGO, in its application, stated that once the process of uploading of students' marks and preparation of results was over, the petition would become infructuous. The Court also agreed to hear on July 9 a petition by NISA Education, a registered society comprising entities running private schools, concerning the constitution of a Results Committee for the assessment of Class 10 CBSE students. It was the society's concern that since the members of the Result Committee and other faculty and staff of the school would be required to be physically present for the deliberations, there would be a real danger to the health on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. The society's counsel Ravi Prakash Gupta argued that if the petition was not heard before the declaration of results, it would become infructuous.   Counsel for the CBSE, Rupesh Kumar, told the court however that nothing survived in the society's petition as the majority of schools had already uploaded the marks of their students. “His case is in view of lockdown, results committee can't be constituted. There are 21,000 schools. 62 are remaining to upload marks. Petition is infructuous”, he said. The high court had on June 2 sought response of the Centre, Delhi government and CBSE on the NGO's petition claiming that the policy of the board for calculating marks of class 10 students based on the internal assessment by schools was unconstitutional and required to be modified. In its petition, the NGO has said: "The policy of moderating the average marks assessed by the school, based on the historical performance of the previous average result of the school, in terms of the best overall performance of the school would be injustice to the students as the performance of school is not relatable in any manner with the performance of the student." It said moderating the marks in consonance with the overall average score of the district, national and state average "was absolutely unreasonable, illogical and punitive for the students of a school which would appear in the board exams for the first time", with no previous data of performance. The NGO has alleged that it can also lead to the manipulation of marks and exploitation, extortion of the students and parents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-agrees-to-hear-on-july-9-plea-on-calculation-of-class-10-cbse-marks-1005112.html
05-07-2021||National||SC refuses to discharge DoPT Secretary from contempt case for violating order on promotion||The Supreme Court on Monday declined to discharge Secretary, Department of Personnel and Training from contempt proceedings for alleged breach of its status quo order on the promotion of Central government employees. Attorney General K K Venugopal submitted before a bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose that there was material suppression of facts in the contempt petition as only "temporary and ad hoc promotions" were made. He said the contemnor, senior IAS officer Ajay Kumar Bhalla should be discharged in light of such facts. The court, however, refused to accept his plea and put the matter for consideration in the second week of August. On April 9, the court issued notice to the senior officers of the Union government on the contempt petition filed by Debananda Sahoo against them for violation of the top court's order of April 15, 2019.  The petitioner led by advocate Kumar Parimal contended that the court had on April 15, 2019, directed for maintaining the status quo as to the promotion of the officers. The DoPT made an application for permission to grant ad-hoc promotion, which was declined on July 22, 2020. However, the DoPT had on December 11, 2020, issued promotion orders in favour of 149 officers from selection grade (deputy secretary) of the central secretariat service to senior selection grade (director) on an ad-hoc basis. Of this, 55 deputy secretaries belonged to the reserved category and had taken benefit of reservation in promotion and consequential seniority in their career earlier.  "The promotion order was issued without reviewing the select list of undersecretary for the year 2003 and onwards and consequential review of deputy secretary select list of 2003 and onwards in terms of Constitution bench judgements in M Nagaraj and Jarnail Singh," the plea claimed. Thus, it is crystal clear that the contemnors have deliberately, willfully and dishonestly disobeyed the order of this court, making them liable for punishment under the Contempt of Courts Act, it contended. In the Constitution bench decisions of Nagaraj (2006) and Jarnail Singh (2018), the top court had laid down conditionalities like a collection of data on the inadequacy of representation, the overall effect on efficiency on administration and removing creamy layers in considering reservation in promotion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-to-discharge-dopt-secretary-from-contempt-case-for-violating-order-on-promotion-1005124.html
05-07-2021||National||India completely safe, Army prepared to face any challenge: Rajnath Singh||The country is completely safe and the Indian Army has the power to face any challenge, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said here on Monday. Asked about a recent attack on the Jammu Air Force Station by explosives-laden drones, the defence minister said, "We want to assure the countrymen that the country is completely safe. Whatever challenges come, our Army has the power to face it." He said there is no question of warning anyone regarding drones coming into the country. Singh also told reporters that justice and humanity have been the basis of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) politics. "The BJP never did politics on the basis of cast and religion," he said. Replying to a question, the senior BJP leader said, "There is no question on the working of (Uttar Pradesh) Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath." Earlier, Singh went to the Harihar Dham in Shyam Nagar to condole the death of Mithlesh Dwivedi, who was also popularly known as "Mamtamai Mata". Dwivedi died a fortnight ago.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-completely-safe-army-prepared-to-face-any-challenge-rajnath-singh-1005135.html
05-07-2021||National||No vaccine to spare now, but India ready to share Co-WIN app with world||Even though shortage of jabs forced it to suspend sending out Covid-19 vaccines, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government is set to share with the rest of the world the Co-WIN app it used for inoculation programmes in India. In line with India’s philosophy of considering the whole world as one family, the Covid vaccination platform Co-WIN is being prepared to be made open source. Soon, it will be available to any and all countries,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said. He was addressing the Co-WIN Global Conclave 2021. The conclave was organised to share the success story of Co-WIN digital platform, which formed the technological backbone of the Covid-19 vaccination drive in India. The Modi Government now offered the platform, which could be adapted and scaled up for health interventions across the world, to partner countries as a global public good. There is no parallel to such a pandemic in hundred years and no nation, however powerful, can solve a challenge like this in isolation, the Prime Minister said. Nearly 400 delegates from 140 countries attended the conclave, besides representatives from the European Commission and the United Nations Offices in India participated in the conclave. “The biggest lesson from the Covid-19 pandemic is that for humanity and the human cause, we have to work together and move ahead together. We have to learn from each other and guide each other about our best practices,” the Prime Minister said. The ministers from five countries attended the conclave. Given the importance of vaccination, India decided to adopt a completely digital approach while planning its vaccination strategy. This helps people in proving that they have been vaccinated, expediting the normalcy in the post pandemic globalised world, Modi said, adding: “A safe, secure and trustworthy proof helps people to establish when, where and by whom they have been vaccinated. Digital approach also helps in tracking the usage of vaccination and minimises wastage.” The Modi Government sent out 107.15 lakh doses of the Made-in-India vaccines to foreign nations as grant till April 16, in addition to the 357.92 lakh doses exported commercially and 198.628 lakh doses as contribution to the Covax initiative of the World Health Organization, Gavi – The Vaccine Alliance and others to ensure equitable access to anti-Covid-19 vaccines around the world. It, however, paused its “Vaccine-Maitri” initiative after the shortage of the jabs came to the fore and slowed down the inoculation programme in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-vaccine-to-spare-now-but-india-ready-to-share-co-win-app-with-world-1005144.html
05-07-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: States ease more curbs as cases continue to decline||States across the country eased more lockdown norms, as India continued its recovery trend from the devastating second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-states-ease-more-curbs-as-cases-continue-to-decline-1005153.html
05-07-2021||National||Twitter failed to comply with new IT rules, Centre tells Delhi High Court||The Centre on Monday told the Delhi High Court that Twitter has failed to comply with the new IT Rules and has thus lost its legal immunity from criminal prosecution for the content posted on the micro-blogging site. In its affidavit, the Union government said that Twitter being a Significant Social Media Intermediary (SSMI) was mandated to comply with Indian Information Technology (IT) Rules 2021, which were notified on February 25. It maintained that IT Rules are the law of the land and Twitter has to remove any unlawful information posted on the platform within 36 hours of an order by a court of law or a competent government authority. "The IT Rules, 2021 are the law of the land and Twitter is mandatorily required to comply with the same. Any non-compliance amounts to breach of the provisions of the IT Rules, 2021 thereby leading to it losing its immunity conferred under section 79(1) of the IT Act, 2000," the document said.  The micro-blogging site, for its part, failed to comply with the digital rules by May 26 despite being given three months to do so, it pointed out.  The government further pointed out that non-compliance with IT Rules amounted to the loss of immunity under Section 79(1), which granted conditional immunity to SSMI as long as they fulfilled conditions laid down under IT Rules. As of July 1, the government said Chief Compliance Officer has not been appointed by Twitter, the positions of the Resident Grievance Officer and Nodal Contact Person, (even on an interim basis), were vacant.  Further, the physical contact address, which was shown to be there on May 29, 2021 was once not again available on Twitter’s website. On Saturday, Twitter Inc said the platform was in its final stages of appointing a Resident Grievance Officer. It also said that the three-month period to comply with the new IT rules was not mandatory but only directory. The HC is expected to hear on July 6 a petition by advocate Amit Acharya, contending that the social media giant didn't act on his complaints against allegedly defamatory tweets and also failed to comply with IT rules.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twitter-failed-to-comply-with-new-it-rules-centre-tells-delhi-high-court-1005164.html
05-07-2021||National||Left parties condemn 'inhuman treatment' meted out to Stan Swamy||The Left parties on Monday called out the “inhuman” treatment meted out to activist Stan Swamy, who passed away at a Mumbai hospital after being in custody since last year following his arrest under the anti-terror law, in the Elgar Parishad case. The 84-year-old priest-activist died on Monday, in the middle of his fight for bail on health grounds. The Jesuit priest had been on ventilator support since Sunday, when his health worsened drastically. He was being treated at the Holy Family Hospital in Mumbai following a court order on May 28. "Deeply pained and outraged at the death of Father Stan Swamy. A jesuit priest & social activist he tirelessly helped the marginalised. Draconian UAPA custody, inhuman treatment since October 2020 with no charge established. Accountability must be fixed for this murder in custody," tweeted Yechury. The CPI, in a statement, alleged that Swamy was denied medical treatment and demanded that those responsible for his death be arrested. “The party demands the arrest of all those responsible for his death and proper punishment for the inhuman treatment meted out to him. The people at large take his death as institutional murder. The 84-year-old Jesuit priest from Jharkhand was actively mobilising tribals in the area and fighting for their welfare… “His death raises several questions regarding the judiciary, treatment in custody, denial of medical facilities, torture in custody... The party demands arrest of all those responsible for foisting false cases on him, his continued detention and inhuman treatment. They should be made accountable for his death and given proper punishment,” the statement said. The party calls upon the people to express their anger in protest and to fight for the fundamental rights guaranteed under the constitution, it said. The Left party also demanded the release of all those jailed in the Bhima Koregaon case. CPI(ML) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya called Swamy’s death an “institutional murder”. “An ailing octogenarian human rights activist arrested on false charges under UAPA, his bail applications denied repeatedly, passes away in jail. Is the court now going to grant him posthumous bail? Let India rise in unison to condemn the brazen institutional murder of Stan Swamy,” he said. In a statement, the CPI(M) said the activist was denied treatment for his various ailments, including the debilitating Parkinson’s. "It needs to be underlined that it is only after a campaign was conducted by various human rights and disability rights organisations that even a sipper to drink liquids was made available to him in jail. "The numerous appeals made to shift him out of the overcrowded Taloja jail that had seen a huge rise in Covid cases went unheeded. His appeals for bail and being sent home to were rejected. Thanks to the Bombay High Court’s intervention he was admitted to a private hospital when his condition started deteriorating after he was infected with Covid. But it was too late to prevent his death in custody," the party said. The party also demanded that all those jailed in the Bhima Koregaon case and other detenues under “politically motivated” cases, misusing draconian laws like UAPA, sedition, among others, be released forthwith.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/left-parties-condemn-inhuman-treatment-meted-out-to-stan-swamy-1005172.html
05-07-2021||National||Ruthless and callous government: Mehbooba on Stan Swamy's death||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Monday expressed shock over the death of 84-year-old tribal activist Stan Swamy, saying a "ruthless and callous” government deprived him of dignity and has blood on its hands. “Deeply disturbed by the passing away of 84 year old tribal activist Stan Swamy. A ruthless & callous government that deprived him of dignity even while he was alive has blood on its hands. Absolutely shocked & appalled. May his soul rest in peace,” Mehbooba wrote on Twitter. Jesuit priest Stan Swamy, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, died on Monday, an official of a hospital where he was being treated informed the Bombay High Court. Swamy, 84, died at 1.30 pm, Dr Ian D'Souza, director of the Holy Family Hospital in suburban Bandra, told the HC's division bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar. The tribal rights activist was admitted to the private hospital on May 29 from Taloja prison following the Bombay High Court order on a petition filed by him, seeking medical attention as he was then suffering from Covid-19 and Parkinson's disease. Deeply disturbed by the passing away of 84 year old tribal activist Stan Swamy. A ruthless & callous government that deprived him of dignity even while he was alive has blood on its hands. Absolutely shocked & appalled. May his soul rest in peace.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ruthless-and-callous-government-mehbooba-on-stan-swamys-death-1005176.html
05-07-2021||National||India is a democratic country, can't control political propaganda: Supreme Court||India is a democratic country and the courts cannot control forms of political propaganda, the Supreme Court said on Monday, while declining to consider a PIL for a direction for probe into 'toolkit' and suspend the registration of Congress party. The plea accused Congress of indulging in anti-national acts by tarnishing the image of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and playing with the lives of people during the Covid-19 pandemic.  A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah asked petitioner advocate Shashank Shekhar Jha how a petition under Article 32 could be entertained by the court against political propaganda. "If you don’t like the toolkit, ignore it," the bench told Jha who contended there was propaganda to use the term "Indian variant" for the coronavirus mutant and cited that Singapore had taken objection to the use of terms like "Singapore variant".  “Singapore had banned everything," he said. “But, India is a democracy, you know," the bench told him, adding the courts could not control the forms of political propaganda. The court cannot issue directions under Article 32 of the Constitution, the bench said, asking Jha to withdraw his plea with liberty to pursue remedies under appropriate law.  The bench also noted that precious time of the Supreme Court was being taken up by "frivolous petitions".  “All of these petitions take precious time of the Supreme Court," the bench said, pointing out a criminal investigation was already pending in the 'Toolkit' matter.   On this, Jha agreed to withdraw the petition. In May, this year, the BJP had alleged a ‘toolkit’ has been prepared by the Congress party to tarnish the image of PM Modi over handling of the Covid-19 pandemic.  However, the Congress party had accused BJP leaders of releasing a forged and fabricated letter and termed it as an attempt to divert the attention of the people and to hide the failure of the government in handling the health crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-is-a-democratic-country-cant-control-political-propaganda-supreme-court-1005177.html
05-07-2021||National||Father Stan Swamy deserved justice, humaneness: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi expressed condolences on Monday over the death of Father Stan Swamy and said he deserved justice and humaneness. "Heartfelt condolences on the passing of Father Stan Swamy. He deserved justice and humaneness," he wrote on Twitter. Jesuit priest Stan Swamy, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, died at a Mumbai hospital on Monday afternoon. The tribal rights activist was admitted to the private hospital from the Taloja prison on May 29 following high court orders on a petition filed by him, seeking medical attention as he was suffering from Covid-19 and Parkinson's disease. Swamy was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in October 2020 and was in jail since then. Heartfelt condolences on the passing of Father Stan Swamy. He deserved justice and humaneness.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/father-stan-swamy-deserved-justice-humaneness-rahul-gandhi-1005182.html
05-07-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Father Stan Swamy no more; India offers Co-WIN platform to other countries||In your evening news brief, Father Stan Swamy passes away; SBI Research report says India could face the third wave of Covid-19 as early as next month, with cases reaching the peak sometime in September; 12 BJP MLAs were suspended today from the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly, and India offers Co-WIN platform as a digital public good to other countries to run their own Covid-19 inoculation drives.  Tribal rights activist Father Stan Swamy, one of the accused in the Elgar Parishad- Koregaon Bhima case, passed away today. The 84-year-old activist had been suffering from multiple health issues and Parkinson’s disease. Father Swamy was arrested by the National Investigation Agency on 8th October 2020 from Ranchi. Following a court order on May 28th, Swamy was undergoing treatment at the Holy Family Hospital. He had suffered a cardiac arrest on Saturday, and doctors were unable to revive him.   An SBI Research report said today, India could face the third wave of Covid-19 as early as next month, with cases reaching the peak sometime in September. The SBI’s Economic Research Department said their report titled ‘Covid-19: The Race to the Finishing Line’ that global data showed that on an average, third wave peak cases were around 1.7 times the peak cases at the time of the second wave.   Amid tense moments and pandemonium, 12 BJP MLAs were suspended today from the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly for using abusive language against the Presiding Officer. The MLAs were suspended for the remainder of the year. Shiv Sena’s Bhaskar Jadhav, who is a member of the Speaker's panel, was in the Chair.   Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the Co-WIN Global Conclave today as India will now offer the Co-WIN platform as a digital public good to other countries to run their own Covid-19 inoculation drives. CEO of the National Health Authority (NHA) Dr R S Sharma said, about 50 countries, including Canada, Mexico, Nigeria, Panama and Uganda, have shown interest in adopting Co-WIN to run their vaccination drives. That's all for today. For more news and updates log on to deccanherald.com. Have a great evening.   Source: DHNS/PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-father-stan-swamy-no-more-india-offers-co-win-platform-to-other-countries-1005183.html
05-07-2021||National||Mamata writes to PM Modi, urges him to reduce tax charged by Centre on petrol and diesel||Expressing concern over the rising fuel prices, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to lower the taxes charged by the Centre on petrol and diesel "to check the overall inflation" in the country. Noting that petrol and diesel prices were hiked eight times since May, of which six times were in June alone, she said the fuel price hike have adversely affected common people and directly impacted the inflation in the country. "I would like to draw your attention to the government of India policy which has brought great distress among the common people of the country. Shockingly, the retail price of petrol in many states across the county has crossed an unprecedented Rs 100 per litre," she wrote. "It is my earnest request that the taxes charged by the Centre on petrol and diesel are substantially reduced to give much-needed relief to people and check the overall inflation trend in the country," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-writes-to-pm-modi-urges-him-to-reduce-tax-charged-by-centre-on-petrol-and-diesel-1005185.html
05-07-2021||National||Stan Swamy: A life dedicated to Adivasis||"I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race". The Biblical words seem to sum up the life of Stanislaus Lourduswamy. The Jesuit priest from Jharkhand who was popularly known as Stan Swamy, died on Monday in Mumbai hours before his appeal for bail in a case where he is ironically accused of being an 'Urban Naxal' was to be heard in court. Swamy or 'Stan', as his friends called him, had spent long years working among his beloved Advisasis in this eastern Indian tribal state. In 2016, moved by the plight of Adivasi prisoners in the tribal state, many of whom were falsely branded as 'Naxalites', Swamy did a research on them which was published as a report titled "Deprived of rights over natural resources, impoverished Adivasis get prison: A study of Undertrials in Jharkhand". His study found that 31 per cent of undertrials and a little over a third of the convicts were tribals. The percentage of tribals in jail was far higher than their proportion of the population. Among other key findings were that 97 per cent of undertrials interviewed said that allegations that they were linked to Maoists were false, and 96 per cent of them earned less than Rs 5,000 a month, underlining the fact the poorest and the most vulnerable in the state were the among the ones arrested under stringent anti-terror laws. His study, coming after three decades of work among the tribals which focussed on their community, land and forest rights, was considered authoritative but also discomfited the powers that be. Swamy, who was born in Trichy in Tamil Nadu according to his friends, studied theology and did a Masters in Sociology at the University of Manila in the 1970s. Later he studied at Brussels where he struck up a friendship with Archbishop Holder Camara, whose work among Brazil's poor influenced him. He later worked as Director of the Jesuit-run Indian Social Institute at Bangalore from 1975 to 1986. As an activist for tribals in Jharkhand some thirty years ago, he worked for the release of tribal youths from imprisonment, often in cases where they were falsely accused. He took up the causes of tribals marginalised after their lands ha been taken over for dams, mines and townships, often without their consent. Two days before NIA took him into custody in connection to the Bhim Koregaon case, the Jesuit priest claimed stringent laws such as UAPA were being misused to arrest tribals "indiscriminately" in a video message. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on October 9 last year had filed a chargesheet against eight people, including Father Stan Swamy, for their alleged involvement in inciting a mob to violence in Bhima Koregaon near Pune on January 1, 2018. Swamy who was arrested from his home in Ranchi on October 8, 2020 had said he has never been to Bhima Koregaon. However, he was taken to Mumbai where he was produced before a court and remanded to judicial custody. He is possibly the oldest person to be charged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), officials had then said. NIA officials had said investigations established he was actively involved in the activities of the CPI (Maoist). The NIA also alleged that he was in contact with "conspirators" -- Sudhir Dhawale, Rona Wilson, Surendra Gadling, Arun Ferreira, Vernon Gonsalves, Hany Babu, Shoma Sen, Mahesh Raut, Varavara Rao, Sudha Bharadwaj, Gautam Navlakha and Anand Teltumbde -- to further the group's activities. The agency alleged that Swamy had also received funds through an associate for furthering the agenda. Besides, he was convenor of the Persecuted Prisoners Solidarity Committee (PPSC), a frontal organisation of the CPI(Maoist), the officials had claimed. They allaged literature, propaganda material of the CPI (Maoist) and documents related to communications for furthering the group's programmes were seized from his possession. Ahead of his arrest, Swamy had posted a video saying the NIA had been interrogating him and had questioned him for 15 hours during a span of five days. "Now they want me to go to Mumbai, to which I have said that I won't go," he had said, citing the pandemic. The video, posted on YouTube, was recorded two days before his arrest. "I have never been to Bhima Koregaon for which I am being made an accused," he had said. He had added that he had asked for questioning through video conference and hoped that better "human sense" would prevail. "...what is happening to me is not something unique happening to me alone, it is a broader process taking place all over the country. We all are aware how prominent intellectuals, lawyers, writers, poets, activists, student leaders are all put in jail because they have expressed their dissent or raised questions about the ruling powers of India," Swamy had said in the video. He had said he is part of "the process" and in a way happy to be so because he was not a silent spectator and is part of the game. "I am ready to pay the price, whatever be it," Swamy had said. The Bhima Koregaon case was taken over by the NIA on January 24 last year. Pune Police has alleged that the violence was caused following speeches given by members of the group Elgar Parishad on December 31, 2017. Violence broke out the next day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stan-swamy-a-life-dedicated-to-adivasis-1005195.html
05-07-2021||National||Public parks can't be used for cultural functions: NGT||The National Green Tribunal on Monday said public parks cannot be used for social, cultural, commercial, marriage, or other functions. The Principal Bench of the NGT headed by its Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel made this observation while hearing a plea against the allotment of space by the Delhi Development Authirity (DDA) to a temple in District Park here. The NGT formed a committee and asked it to submit a report. The matter is listed for the next hearing on November 8. The NGT was hearing a plea filed by city resident A K Malik against the allotment of an open park by DDA to Agrani Matri Mandir in District Park, Sector 14, Rohini. The petitioner alleged that this has affected the right of the residents to open space and also created a source of noise pollution. "Loudspeakers and DJs are played at full volume even after 10:00 pm. Commercial activities are also carried out in the form of holding functions. It is well settled that a public park cannot be used in the manner alleged in the application," the plea said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/public-parks-cant-be-used-for-cultural-functions-ngt-1005203.html
05-07-2021||National||BCD suspends lawyer's licence for 'forceful conversion' to Islam, performing nikah from chamber||The Bar Council of Delhi on Monday suspended the licence of a lawyer for allegedly using his court chamber for performing religious conversions and Muslim marriages. The secretary of lawyers’ body has sent a communication to the lawyer, Iqbal Malik, claiming that illegal activities in the chamber of an advocate negated the dignity of legal profession. "The alleged activities are not permissible nor are part of the professional activities of an advocate and your conduct in performing a Nikah and issuance of certificate of conversion and Nikahnama/Marriage certificate is totally disgraceful and negates the dignity of legal profession," a letter issued by Secretary Piyush Gupta stated. The allegation was reported by one, Sohan Singh Tomar who claimed Malik's chamber was being used for illegal activities, where Nikah (Muslim marriage) and religious conversions were being performed at Karkardooma Court premises. The communication sent to Malik added that has also been revealed from the documents that a conversion trust is being run by him from his chamber and address of a Quazi has been mentioned as F-73 Karkardooma court. “The complainant has also alleged that his daughter was forcibly converted as Muslim and was married from your chamber, which is also shown as mosque," it added. The BCD said since there are different numbers mentioned in the documents, i.e. F-322 and F-73, the matter requires investigation to ascertain complete facts and truths. Prima facie, the activity of performing Nikah in the chamber or court premises, cannot be permitted and it calls for urgent action by the Bar Council, the lawyers’ regulatory body said. The BCD ordered constitution of a special disciplinary committee comprising Himal Akhtar (Vice Chairman, BCD), KC Mittal (Former Chairman, BCD) and Ajayinder Sangwan (Former Secretary, BCD), to immediately investigate the entire matter to save the dignity and credibility of the institution. The BCD also suspended the license of the lawyer as a temporary measure and directed Malik to submit his response within seven days and appear (in-person) before the Disciplinary committee on July 16 at 4.00 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bcd-suspends-lawyers-licence-for-forceful-conversion-to-islam-performing-nikah-from-chamber-1005208.html
05-07-2021||National||Nandan Nilekani to be advisor to government's open network initiative||The government has set up a nine-member advisory council, including Nandan Nilekani from Infosys and National Health Authority CEO R S Sharma, on steps required to design and accelerate adoption of open network for digital commerce (ONDC). The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) in an order said it has initiated a project on ONDC and the task has been assigned to Quality Council of India. "ONDC aims at promoting open networks developed on open sourced methodology, using open specifications and open network protocols independent of any specific platform," it said. It is expected to digitise the entire value chain, standardise operations, promote inclusion of suppliers, derive efficiencies in logistics and enhance value for consumers. "It has been decided to constitute an advisory council to advise the government on measures needed to design and accelerate adoption of ONDC," DPIIT said. The other members of the council are QCI Chairman Adil Zainulbhai, Avaana Capital Founder Anjali Bansal, Digital India Foundation Co-Founder Arvind Gupta, National Payments Corporation India CEO Dilip Asbe, NSDL e-Governance Infrastructure Ltd. MD and CEO Suresh Sethi, CAIT Secretary General P Khandelwal, and Retailers Association of India CEO Kumar Rajagopalan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nandan-nilekani-to-be-advisor-to-governments-open-network-initiative-1005209.html
05-07-2021||National||Railways to hold NTPC last phase exam from July 23||The Indian Railways on Monday said the last phase of railway recruitment examinations for various Non-Technical Popular Categories (NTPC graduate and undergraduate) posts will start from July 23. "The 7th i.e. the last phase of 1st Stage Computer Based Test (CBT-1) is scheduled on 23rd, 24th, 26th and 31st July 2021 for approximately 2.78 lakh candidates," the Railways said in a statement. The CBT will be held in 76 cities in about 260 centres under strict Covid-19 protocol using SD-50 module permitting utilization of 50% capacity available at centres to ensure adequate social distancing, the statement said. A help desk has already been provided on all RRB official websites. Candidates are advised to use this help desk for seeking clarifications. Downloading of E-Call letters will start four days prior to the exam date mentioned in Exam City and date intimation link, the statement said. The Railways invited applications to fill 35,281 vacancies in the non-technical category.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-to-hold-ntpc-last-phase-exam-from-july-23-1005211.html
05-07-2021||National||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar set to visit Russia this week||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar is set to visit Moscow this week to prepare the ground for the annual India-Russia summit and discuss the fast-evolving situation in Afghanistan, people familiar with the development said on Monday. Ways to boost cooperation under the framework of the India-Russia Intergovernmental Commission for Trade, Economic, Scientific and Cultural Cooperation as well as ties in the defence sector are also likely to figure in his talks in Moscow. The external affairs minister is scheduled to hold extensive talks with his Russian counterpart, Sergei Lavrov. The annual India-Russia summit was postponed last year because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Both countries have a mechanism under which India's prime minister and the Russian president hold a summit meeting annually to review the entire gamut of ties. So far, 20 annual summit meetings have taken place alternatively in India and Russia. Russia has been a time-tested partner for India and the country has been a key pillar of New Delhi's foreign policy. The people cited above said a key focus area of the discussions will be the evolving situation in Afghanistan in the face of the withdrawal of the US forces from the country. Afghanistan witnessed a series of attacks in the last few weeks as the United States looked to conclude the withdrawal of its forces from the war-ravaged country by September 11, ending nearly two decades of its military presence there. India is concerned over the increasing levels of violence in Afghanistan as well as the Taliban's efforts to expand its influence in the country. Last month, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said the Taliban's relentless pursuit of power through violence has created an uncertain environment in Afghanistan and the situation in the country is "fluid" at this point in time. There has been a renewed push in the Afghan peace process including by Russia and it has been in touch with the key players and stakeholders in that country. Lavrov visited India in April during which both sides discussed the preparations for the summit as well as other key bilateral and regional issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/external-affairs-minister-s-jaishankar-set-to-visit-russia-this-week-1005219.html
05-07-2021||National||Unruly behaviour of lawmakers can’t be condoned: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Monday said the unruly behaviour of lawmakers in Parliament and Assembly cannot be condoned and they should face trial for destroying public property inside the House. “There has to be a modicum of decorum in legislative bodies," a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah told senior advocate Ranjit Kumar, appearing for the Kerala government. The Kerala government moved the top court for its nod to withdraw cases against CPI(M) leaders, including education minister V Sivankutty, for vandalism in the state Assembly in 2015, when the current ruling party was in the Opposition.   "What we're trying to tell you is that we cannot condone the behaviour of this kind of MLA who throws mic and destroys public property while a Bill is being laid," the bench further told the counsel. As Kumar responded that he will bring everything on record, the bench said, “What behaviour are you presenting to the public? What is the larger public interest in shielding an MLA who created a ruckus while a financial bill was being laid?”  The court stressed that the presentation of the Finance Bill was of utmost importance. The bench also pointed out that the decision to withdraw the case has to be taken by the public prosecutor and not by the state government.  “State cannot decide if it is to be withdrawn or not. It is only the prerogative of the public prosecutor," the bench said. The bench put the matter for consideration on July 15, giving time to file additional documents. The Kerala High Court, in an order passed on March 12, had refused to give its nod saying that the elected representatives are expected to uphold the prestige of the House or face consequences.  The MLAs had vandalised Speaker's dais, uprooted his chair, pulled out the mic, computer etc.  The state government, for its part,  referred to certain privileges and immunities conferred to the members of the Parliament and State Legislature under the Constitution. The current government maintained that it was not proper for the Secretary of Legislative Assembly to file cases against the MLAs about an incident that happened on the floor of the House during the protest made by the Opposition members. The FIR was lodged without the consent of the Speaker of the Assembly, it claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/unruly-behaviour-of-lawmakers-can-t-be-condoned-supreme-court-1005227.html
05-07-2021||National||India offering Co-WIN to world as tech tool that can be used for greater public good: Vardhan||India is offering the Co-WIN platform to the world as a technology tool that can be used for greater public good as the need of the hour is to speed up the pace of vaccinating people against Covid-19, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Monday. Addressing the virtual Global Co-WIN Conclave, he said India is inching closer to administering 36 crore Covid vaccine doses, a feat achieved in less than six months since the launch of its vaccination drive, while asserting that "we are committed to inoculating our entire adult population by December". The conclave was attended by dignitaries from 142 countries, including Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Maldives, Guyana, Antigua and Barbuda, St Kitts and Nevis and Zambia. Noting that the shared challenges like the current public health crisis can only be addressed through shared actions and resources, Vardhan said the fact that vaccinating everyone is key to containing and ending the pandemic cannot be emphasised enough. "The need of the hour is to speed up the pace of vaccinating people across the world. For this, we are excited to offer the Co-WIN platform as a technology tool that can be used for greater public good around the world. I hope all your countries are able to gain value and benefit from our offering," he said.   "Our Co-WIN platform is a mirror of the success of the Digital India programme, which has witnessed a consistent upward growth trajectory, achieving numerous milestones and dotted with flagship initiatives," Vardhan added. The conclave was jointly organised by the ministries of health and external affairs and the National Health Authority (NHA). "My government is more than glad to share with our extended global family the pathbreaking, next-gen digital platform, Co-WIN, which has been indigenously developed in India and is powering the rapid progress of one of the world's largest vaccination drives against Covid-19," Vardhan said. Co-WIN is the crown jewel of the Digital India initiative, he added. "Throughout this pandemic, with the aid of technology, we have been able to execute large-scale surveillance to effectively implement our 'test, track and treat' strategy, helping us attain one of the lowest fatality rates in the world," Vardhan said. With two vaccines against the coronarius becoming available as India launched the vaccination drive in mid-January, "With a country of more than 1.3 billion (130 crore) people, we faced a mammoth challenge of ensuring a fair and equitable distribution of the vaccines as well as their last-mile delivery," he said. For a successful vaccination programme, active participation of the country's health infrastructure across the public and private sectors was needed. Further, there was a need to develop a robust system that could prevent rent-seeking, black-marketing and other malpractices, the minister said. The backbone of this drive had to be a comprehensive platform that would ensure an equitable coverage across the states and continuous tracking of Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFIs). Finally, the platform needed to ensure ease of use while also offering a multilingual access. Experts from the ministries of health and electronics and information technology came together to co-create Co-WIN in coordination with various other stakeholders. "As we speak, India is inching closer to administering 360 million (36 crore) Covid vaccine doses. A feat achieved in less than six months since the launch of our vaccination drive and we are committed to inoculating our entire adult population by December," Vardhan said. NHA CEO R S Sharma said past experiences and current developments have shown that extreme speed, smooth coordination and vaccine efficiency are paramount to counter a pandemic. "We foresaw the need to balance these three, while also providing individual agency and flexibility to vaccination centres and people alike. This is tricky for any country, but it is even trickier for India, given our population size of over 1.3 billion, along with the cultural and geographical diversity, with the federated structure. "This is where Co-WIN stepped in. Co-WIN or the Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network has been serving as the tech backbone of one of the largest vaccination programmes in the world," he said. "It fills me with pride to proclaim that Co-WIN became the fastest tech platform in the world to amass over 200 million (20 crore) registrations in a record four months and then 300 million (30 crore) registrations in a mere five months, yet another record," Sharma said. Co-WIN has been instrumental in influencing the vaccine administration policy as well. Early learnings from implementing Co-WIN taught that a supply-driven approach may inevitably result in lowering the efficiency of the vaccination centres, he said. "This helped us take a demand-driven distribution approach and also make booking second appointments flexible at any centre. As a result, we have achieved an administration of over 350 million (35 crore) vaccine doses, with at least 284 million (28.4 crore) Indians receiving at least one dose. This means that almost every third Indian above the age of 18 years has received at least one dose," Sharma added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-offering-co-win-to-world-as-tech-tool-that-can-be-used-for-greater-public-good-vardhan-1005229.html
05-07-2021||National||CBSE announces assessment scheme for class 10, 12 board exams for 2021-22||With the Covid-19 pandemic still prevalent, the CBSE on Monday decided to divide the upcoming academic session for classes 10 and 12 into two terms – with board exams at the end of each term. The Special Scheme of Assessment for the 2021-22 academic session would follow the “rationalised syllabus”, which would be notified later this month, and efforts would be made to make internal assessment, practical, project work more credible and valid as per the guidelines. A moderation policy will be announced by the board to ensure fair distribution of marks. The first term exams will be held in November-December, 2021, based on the 50 per cent syllabus allocated, while the second term exams will be conducted in March-April, 2022, covering the remaining part of the rationalised syllabus.  “This has been done to increase the probability of having a board conducted classes X and XII examinations at the end of the academic session,” Joseph Emmanuel, Director (Academic), CBSE said in a circular to all affiliated schools. For classes 9-10, internal assessment would include three periodic tests, student enrichment, portfolio and practical work/speaking listening activities/project. The internal assessment for class 11-12 would include end-of-topic or unit tests/exploratory activities/practicals/projects. “Schools would create a student profile for all assessments undertaken over the year and retain the evidence in digital format. The CBSE will facilitate schools to upload marks of Internal Assessment on the CBSE IT platform,” the circular said. The first term examinations would include multiple choice questions (MCQ) – both case-based and assertion-reasoning types. The duration of the exams would be 90-minutes and cover the syllabus earmarked for the first term. The second term exams would be of two-hour duration and will have questions in different formats including case-based, situation-based, open-ended, short answer/long answer-type. “In case the situation is not conducive for normal descriptive examination a 90-minute MCQ-based exam will be conducted at the end of the term II also,” the circular said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-announces-assessment-scheme-for-class-10-12-board-exams-for-2021-22-1005231.html
05-07-2021||National||ICMR-NICED submits proposal for oral Covid-19 vaccine||The ICMR-National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases (NICED) has submitted a proposal to the Department of Biotechnology under the Union Ministry of Science and Technology for research on an oral Covid-19 vaccine. The director of ICMR-NICED Shanta Dutta said that the project will be undertaken in collaboration with a German firm that has been shortlisted for presentation. “We have submitted a proposal to the Department of Biotechnology for research on an oral Covid-19 vaccine. The research will be conducted in collaboration with a German firm. Work will start once the project is approved and funded,” said Dutta. She also said that it will take five to six years to develop the oral Covid-19 vaccine adding that it will first be tested on animals as per the usual testing method for all vaccines. “All stages and rules for developing a vaccine and phases of safety will be followed and the vaccine will first be tested on animals. It will take five to six years to complete the entire process and then only the vaccine will be available in the market,” said Dutta.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-niced-submits-proposal-for-oral-covid-19-vaccine-1005233.html
05-07-2021||National||Domestic airlines can now operate at 65% capacity||Airlines can now operate a maximum of 65 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights instead of the 50 per cent allowed till date, the Civil Aviation Ministry said on Monday. The carriers have been operating only 50 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights since June 1 in accordance with a May 28 order of the ministry. Before June 1, the cap was at 80 per cent. The May 28 decision to bring down the cap from 80 to 50 per cent was taken "in view of the sudden surge in the number of active Covid-19 cases across the country, decrease in passenger traffic and the passenger load (occupancy rate) factor", the ministry had said. It issued a fresh order on Monday, wherein it modified the May 28 order stating that "50 per cent capacity may be read as 65 per cent capacity". Monday's order also stated that the 65-per cent cap will be applicable till "July 31, 2021, or until further orders, whichever is earlier". When the government had resumed the scheduled domestic flights on May 25 last year after a two-month break, the ministry had allowed the carriers to operate not more than 33 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic services. The cap was gradually increased to 80 per cent by December.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/domestic-airlines-can-now-operate-at-65-capacity-1005234.html
05-07-2021||National||Stan Swamy death: Activists express anguish, call for fixing accountability for 'custodial murder'||Activists on Monday expressed anguish over the death of the Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist Stan Swamy and demanded that the government fix accountability for this "custodial murder". Swamy, 84, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, died at a Mumbai hospital on Monday afternoon. He was waiting for interim bail on medical grounds in the case. The Elgar Parishad case is related to alleged inflammatory speeches made by some activists at a conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which, the police claim, triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the outskirts of the western Maharashtra city. The police have claimed the conclave was organised by people with alleged Maoist links. Kavita Krishnan, a member of the Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) politburo, tweeted, "It is not Father Stan we mourn for... We condole the death of the judicial process, Constitution in India today". "It's over. Modi and Shah have accomplished the custodial killing of the gentle Jesuit social worker Fr Stan Swamy, who spent his life serving the oppressed. I hope the judges who denied him bail never get to sleep at night: they have blood on their hands," she said in another tweet. Social activist Harsh Mander called Swamy's death a tragedy for the nation. "Devoted to selfless defence of Adivasi rights. Gentle, brave, even from prison he grieved not for himself but injustice to poor prisoners. A cruel state jailed him to silence his voice, the judiciary did nothing to secure his freedom. A tragedy for the nation," he said. Anti-graft crusader and RTI activist Anjali Bhardwaj termed Swamy's death an "institutional murder". "With UAPA, the process is the punishment. The death of 84-year-old Father Stan Swamy should be recognised for what it is - institutional murder. RIP Father Stan," she tweeted. Rights activist Shabnam Hashmi spoke in the same vein. "#StanSwamy passes away. Fr. Stan Swamy passes away as undertrial in state custody under fake charges under UAPA, NIA, sedition. This is not death, this is custodial murder. Government has to be held accountable," she tweeted. Karwan-e-Mohabbat, a people's campaign devoted to equality, freedom and justice said, "Father Stan Swamy has died. He is now free. The state that inflicted cruelties on this brave, noble soul has murder on its hands". The National Platform for the Rights of the Disabled (NPRD) also expressed profound grief and anguish over Swamy's death. "A Jesuit priest and activist who worked tirelessly for the marginalised, the 'Adivasis, in remote areas of Jharkhand, Stan was jailed on trumped-up charges. Eighty-four-year-old Stan Swamy had, apart from other ailments, been afflicted with Parkinson's, a disabling condition," the NPRD said in a statement. "The ruthless and brutal manner in which he was treated is evident," it said. The NPRD alleged that Swamy was denied treatment and medication. It said a campaign had to be launched to ensure that he was provided with something as basic as a sipper, which was so essential for him for the intake of liquids, it added. Tribal Army, a rights group, said the only crime Swamy committed was that he stood with the oppressed tribal people of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stan-swamy-death-activists-express-anguish-call-for-fixing-accountability-for-custodial-murder-1005257.html
05-07-2021||National||Detailed plans being made for upcoming farmers protest at Parliament: Samyukta Kisan Morcha||Detailed plans are being made by the farmers protesting the new farm laws for their upcoming agitation outside Parliament every day during the monsoon session, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha said on Monday. We want the opposition parties to ensure that the farmers' agitation and their demands become the main issue and that the government is brought under pressure to fulfil them, the SKM said in a statement. The umbrella body of over 40 farmer unions had announced on Sunday that a group of around 200 farmers will protest the Centre's three farm laws outside Parliament every day during the monsoon session, which is scheduled to begin from July 19. It had said five people from each farmer union would be taken to join the protest. "Detailed plans being made by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha for the protest at Parliament. Starting from July 22, every day, five protestors from each organisation associated with SKM will protest outside Indian Parliament," the statement said. The SKM has said it will also write to opposition parties to ensure that the farmers' demands are heard. "We want the opposition parties to ensure that the farmers' agitation and its demands become the main issue and that the government is brought under pressure to fulfil our demands. "We do not want the opposition to create ruckus or just walk out from the proceedings, but engage constructively inside Parliament, while farmers protest outside," the SKM said. The Morcha has also called for a nationwide protest on July 8 against the rising fuel prices, with their main demand being "Halve the prices of diesel, petrol and cooking gas", alongside the farmers' original demand of repealing the three farm laws and a legal guarantee for the minimum Support Price for their crops. "At designated public places, protestors are expected to come with their vehicles that are to be parked on the roadside, with empty cooking gas cylinders. Here, they will protest with posters, placards and banners. This will be done between 10 am and 12 noon," SKM said. On July 1, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar had asserted that the three central agriculture laws would bring revolutionary changes in the lives of farmers, and made it clear that the government was ready to hold talks with the protesting cultivators, except on the demand of the repeal of these laws. Farmers have been camping at Delhi's borders since November 2020, demanding that the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee minimum support price for crops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/detailed-plans-being-made-for-upcoming-farmers-protest-at-parliament-samyukta-kisan-morcha-1005264.html
05-07-2021||National||Indian Army chief M M Naravane arrives in UK for high-level interactions||Chief of Army Staff Gen M M Naravane arrived here for high-level interactions with his UK counterpart and senior military leaders and a tour of the British Army formations during a two-day visit starting on Monday. During the UK leg of his European tour, Gen Naravane is scheduled to meet UK Secretary of State for Defence Ben Wallace and the UK’s Chief of Defence Staff General Sir Nick Carter and the Chief of General Staff General Sir Mark Carleton-Smith. Gen Naravane has arrived on a visit to the United Kingdom from July 5 to 6, the Indian High Commission here said in a statement. “During his visit, the COAS will interact with the Secretary of State for Defence, Chief of Defence Staff, Chief of General Staff and other dignitaries. He will visit British Army formations and engage on subjects of mutual interest,” the statement reads. During the second leg of his Europe tour on Wednesday and Thursday, Gen Naravane will be holding important discussions with the Chief of Defence Staff and the Chief of Staff of the Italian Army. “Additionally, the Chief of Army Staff will also inaugurate the Indian Army Memorial in the famous town of Cassino and will be briefed at the Italian Army's Counter IED Centre of Excellence at Cecchignola, Rome," the Indian Army had said in a pre-visit statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-army-chief-m-m-naravane-arrives-in-uk-for-high-level-interactions-1005265.html
05-07-2021||National||Stan Swamy’s death nothing less than custodial killing: AKIS||“AIKS believes that Father Swamy’s death is nothing less than a custodial killing committed by the union government and its agencies which, despite knowing his precarious health condition, arrested him, put him under harsh prison conditions and repeatedly opposed his bail and denied him crucial treatment. It demands that all persons responsible for Father Swamy’s death, should be held accountable and tried for their criminal acts,” AKIS President Dr Ashok Dhawale and General Secretary Hannan Mollah said in a statement. According to AIKS, the NIA, working under the instructions of the Narendra Modi government had obstructed supply of essential medical support to Father Swamy on several occasions in the past as well, and it had opposed his shifting to a hospital until the last moment. “In hospital, Father Swamy got infected with Covid-19 and was put on a ventilator,” they said. “There are hundreds of other political prisoners in the country who are forced to stay in jails without trial for years now. Most of them are facing completely false and trumped up charges due to their vocal opposition to the undemocratic policies of the government. They are systematically denied bail and vilified through the misuse of the media,” they said. According to them, the death of Father Swamy should make the courts in the country realise their constitutional duty of protecting the rights of citizens. They should follow the example set by the Delhi High Court in the case of Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita and Asif Iqbal Tanha last month and put an end to political persecution of the democratic voices in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stan-swamy-s-death-nothing-less-than-custodial-killing-akis-1005269.html
05-07-2021||National||Anil Kumble calls on Andhra CM, discusses sports development||Former captain and coach of the Indian cricket team Anil Kumble called on Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy here on Monday. A release from the Chief Ministers office said the two held discussions on development of sports. Kumble told the Chief Minister that he would extend support if a sports university is set up in the State. Also, the ace leg-spinner urged the Chief Minister to focus on establishing a sports material-manufacturing factory. Cities like Meerut and Jalandhar currently have such facilities and it would be of great help if a similar factory is set up in Andhra, the release quoted Kumble as saying. He offered to help in this regard, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anil-kumble-calls-on-andhra-cm-discusses-sports-development-1005271.html
05-07-2021||National||Over 35.71 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India so far||The total number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country so far has exceeded 35.71 crore, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday. According to a provisional report published at 7 pm, more than 41.34 lakh vaccine doses have been administered on Monday. In the age group of 18-44 years, 18,30,741 people got first dose of the vaccine and 1,40,368 received the second dose on Monday. Cumulatively, 10,25,96,048 people in the age group of 18-44 years have received their first dose and 29,19,735 their second jab since the start of the third phase of the vaccination drive. Eight states -- Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra -- have administered more than 50 lakh first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in the age group 18-44 years. Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 10 lakh people in the 18-44 years age group for the first dose, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-3571-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-so-far-1005275.html
05-07-2021||National||'Antilia' bomb scare: Accused Soni recorded confessional statement before magistrate, NIA tells court||The National Investigating Agency (NIA) on Monday told the special court that Manish Soni, arrested in connection with the recovery of an explosives-laden SUV from outside the south Mumbai residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani and the subsequent murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran, has given a confessional statement before a magistrate. However, the magistrate "inadvertently" remanded the accused to judicial custody, the court was told. Soni was supposed to be produced before the special court on Monday. "However, as Soni could not be produced till 5.30 pm, they (the NIA) applied to remand him to judicial custody as the accused had been produced before a magistrate for recording a statement under section 164 (confession statements) of CrPC. He was remanded to jail custody wrongly," Soni's lawyer Rahul Arote said. "This is illegal. We have put this on record before the court that they (NIA) have not produced him and hence cannot seek his (judicial) remand," he added. Earlier in the day, the NIA didn't produce Soni before the special court. The investigation agency instead told the court that the accused had been produced before a magistrate for recording a statement. The NIA further said the magistrate, after recording Soni's statement, "inadvertently", remanded him in judicial custody. Soni and Satish Mothkuri were arrested on June 17, along with former "encounter specialist" police officer Pradeep Sharma. The duo was remanded to the NIA custody till July 5 by the special court. The NIA produced Mothkuri before the special court on Friday and sought his custody, which the judge allowed. The NIA had earlier told the court that Soni and Mothkuri had killed Hiran, who purportedly owned the explosives-laden SUV, and dumped his body with the help of the other accused. Mumbai Police officers (now dismissed) Sachin Waze, Riyazuddin Kazi and Sunil Mane, former policeman Vinayak Shinde, and cricket bookie Naresh Gor, had been arrested by investigators. They all are currently in judicial custody. The SUV was found abandoned near Ambani's south Mumbai residence 'Antilia' on February 25 this year. Hiran was found dead at a Mumbra creek in the Thane district on March 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/antilia-bomb-scare-accused-soni-recorded-confessional-statement-before-magistrate-nia-tells-court-1005279.html
05-07-2021||National||FM Nirmala Sitharaman shares India's response to Covid-19 with G20 panel||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday attended a meeting of the G20 High-Level Independent Panel (HLIP) and shared India's preparedness and response to Covid-19 while highlighting the slew of measures undertaken to support the economy during the pandemic. The meeting, held virtually, was also attended by Singapore Senior Minister Tharman Shanmugaratnam, former US treasury secretary Lawrence H Summers and World Trade Organisation (WTO) Director-General Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, the finance ministry tweeted. The meeting discussed the panel's work which will be presented during the Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors (FMCBG) meeting to be held later this month. "FM Smt. @nsitharaman shared India's #preparedness and #response to #CoVID19 and highlighted the slew of measures undertaken by the Government in strengthening the #healthsystem and supporting the #Indianeconomy in the fight against the pandemic," the ministry said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fm-nirmala-sitharaman-shares-indias-response-to-covid-19-with-g20-panel-1005281.html
05-07-2021||National||Jailing Stan Swamy inexcusable: UN Special Rapporteur||The United Nations Special Rapporteur on Human Rights Defenders, Mary Lawlor, termed the death of incarcerated 84-year-old priest-activist Stan Swamy as ‘devastating’ and said that jailing human rights defenders like him was “inexcusable”. “The news from #India today is devastating. Human Rights Defender & (and) Jesuit priest Fr Stan Swamy has died in custody, nine months after his arrest on false charges of terrorism,” Lawlor posted on Twitter. “Jailing HRDs (Human Rights Defenders) is inexcusable.” Swamy was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on October 8, 2020, for his alleged involvement with violence during January 2018 events to mark the 200th anniversary of the Battle of Bhima Koregaon. He continued to be in the custody of the NIA while breathing his last at a hospital in Mumbai on Monday – weeks after being tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 infection. “Horrible news to learn that Indian HRD (Human Rights Defender) Fr. Stan Swamy is in very serious condition & (and) was put on a ventilator last night. He's spent 9 months in jail on unfounded charges. I’m deeply saddened & expect that every possible specialist treatment will be provided to him,” Lawlor had posted on Twitter on Sunday. After Swamy’s death on Monday, Eamon Gilmore, the European Union’s Special Representative for Human Rights, too mourned his death. “India: I am very saddened to hear that Fr #StanSwamy has passed away. A defender of indigenous peoples’ rights. He was held in detention for the past 9 months. The EU had been raising his case repeatedly with authorities,” Gilmore posted on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jailing-stan-swamy-inexcusable-un-special-rapporteur-1005282.html
05-07-2021||National||Rijiju launches portals, publications on Ayurveda-based clinical trials||Marking a significant step towards worldwide visibility for Ayurveda-based clinical trials, five portals and four publications were launched by Union Minister of Ayush Kiren Rijiju on Monday. The minister noted that AYUSH is going to play a big role in the National Digital Health Mission to provide health security to Indian people, an AYUSH ministry statement said. He launched the Clinical Trials Registry-India (CTRI) portal pertinent to Ayurveda Dataset along with AMAR, RMIS, SAHI and e-Medha portals at a virtual event. Rijiju also released four publications related to the Traditional Indian Medicine System of India and lauded the collaborative efforts of the ICMR and the Archaeological Survey of India for these initiatives, the statement said. "After the inclusion of dataset pertinent to Ayurveda in CTRI portal, the Ayurveda clinical trials will have worldwide visibility and will further the cause of strengthening Ayurvedic research. Similarly, SHAHI portal incorporates authentic resources and will be of immense help in showcasing historical veracity of Ayurveda," the statement said. With the help of e-Medha portal, anyone can have online access to more than 12,000 books. These books are related to the Indian medical heritage and can be accessed through NIC's e-granthalaya platform. AMAR portal is a repository for Ayurveda, Yoga, Unani, Siddha and Sowa- Rigpa manuscripts and catalogues, it said. Another portal CCRAS- Research Management Information System or RMIS in short, is a research guidance platform. While lauding the efforts of the AYUSH team in developing the portals, the minister said the Indian Digital Health Mission is going to be the biggest programme in the country’s health sector and every effort is done to maximise the role of Ayush in it, the statement said. The minister also termed the portals as “revolutionary, robust and momentous” and said as Indians, we all should take pride in our national heritage, customs and traditions. “There is a mindset to look down on traditional knowledge systems, referring to them as a thing of the past, or of no modern significance and unscientific. We need to counter this and celebrate our success in rediscovering our past, national heritage and our traditional medicine system,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rijiju-launches-portals-publications-on-ayurveda-based-clinical-trials-1005296.html
05-07-2021||National||Manual scavenging still remains stinking truth of our nation: NHRC chief||NHRC chairperson justice (retd) Arun Mishra on Monday said manual scavenging still remains a "stinking truth of our nation" and called for adopting a more scientific and innovative technique to end this inhumane and discriminatory practice. He was chairing an online meeting of different stakeholders on 'Manual Scavenging & Hazardous Cleaning' organised by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), officials said. Mishra expressed serious concern over the continuance of manual scavenging today and said the "widespread persistence" of this practice, despite laws and guidelines for its elimination, not only goes against the values of our Constitution but also violates numerous national and international rights.  "Manual scavenging and hazardous cleaning still remain a stinking truth of our nation," he was quoted as saying in a statement issued by the NHRC. He said that "it is high time we make fundamental shift in our approach and adopt more scientific and innovative technique to end the inhumane, discriminatory and hazardous practice of manual scavenging". The NHRC chief also said that the toilets constructed as part of Swachch Bharat Mission were expected to help in the eradication of the manual scavenging, "but these also suffer from several shortcomings". "According  to the National Annual Rural Sanitation Survey 2019-20, only 27.3 per cent of the toilets surveyed have a double leach pit; 1.1 per cent goes into a sewer while all others empty into some form of a septic tank or single pits which requires manual cleaning," he was quoted as saying in the statement. Justice P C Pant, member, NHRC, said the toxicity of the society in the form of denials of basic human rights of manual scavengers needs to be nullified. The meeting was also attended by Bimadhar Pradhan, Secretary General; R K Khandelwal, Additional Secretary of the NHRC; and representatives from the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment, municipal corporations of Hyderabad, Chennai, Kolkata, Mumbai; civil society organisation members and NGOs. Other key point raised in the meeting were, replicating best practices across selected municipal corporations (Hyderabad, Chennai); and evaluating the impact of mechanisation and technology on the practice, officials said. The NHRC has on many occasions expressed grave concern on the persistence of the practice of manual scavenging in the past through its various letters, national seminars and regional workshops, urging stakeholders to take adequate steps towards eradicating this hazardous practice, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/manual-scavenging-still-remains-stinking-truth-of-our-nation-nhrc-chief-1005305.html
05-07-2021||National||Indian state killed Stan Swamy: Opposition||Opposition parties on Monday condemned the “inhuman treatment” meted out to undertrial tribal rights activist Stan Swamy who died at a Mumbai Hospital awaiting court hearing of his bail plea. “Heartfelt condolences on the passing of Father Stan Swamy. He deserved justice and humaneness,” former Congress President Rahul Gandhi said. “How unfortunate that a person who served the poor and tribals throughout his life and became the voice of human rights was denied justice and human rights even at the time of death,” Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said. “My tearful farewell to Father Stan Swami. His death is a murder and we know who is responsible,” Trinamool Congress Vice President Yashwant Sinha said. “Who in the apparatus of the Indian state will be held responsible for this tragedy? Make no mistake — it is the Indian state that killed Fr. Stan Swamy, who was such a passionate crusader for social justice,” senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said. The Left parties called for fixing of accountability for the death of Swamy. “A Jesuit priest & social activist he tirelessly helped the marginalised. Draconian UAPA custody, inhuman treatment since October 2020 with no charge established. Accountability must be fixed for this murder in custody," CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-state-killed-stan-swamy-opposition-1005311.html
05-07-2021||National||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan condoles death of Fr. Stan Swamy||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday condoled the death of Father Stan Swamy. Vijayan tweeted, "Deeply saddened by the passing of Fr. Stan Swamy. Unjustifiable that a man who fought all through his life for our society's most downtrodden, had to die in custody. Such travesty of justice should have no place in our democracy. Heartfelt condolences!" Deeply saddened by the passing of Fr. Stan Swamy. Unjustifiable that a man who fought all through his life for our society's most downtrodden, had to die in custody. Such travesty of justice should have no place in our democracy. Heartfelt condolences! Vijayan had earlier flayed the arrest of Fr Stan Swamy. He had said that it was an attempt to suppress voices of dissent using muscle power.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-condoles-death-of-fr-stan-swamy-1005312.html
05-07-2021||National||Centre should be held accountable for Stan Swamy's 'custodial murder': Opposition leaders and activists||Opposition leaders and activists hit out at the Centre after the death of Jesuit priest and activist Stan Swamy on Monday, saying it should be held accountable for the "ruthless" and "inhuman treatment" meted out to the 84-year-old who was suffering from multiple ailments and awaiting bail on medical grounds. They termed Swamy's death a "custodial murder" and alleged that the Centre and the judges who repeatedly denied bail to him had "blood on their hands". Swamy was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) from Ranchi in October 2020 under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) in connection with the Elgar Parishad case and lodged at the Taloja Central Jail in Navi Mumbai. He died at the Holy Family Hospital, where he was admitted on May 29, in Mumbai on Monday, a day after he suffered a cardiac arrest and was put on ventilator support. Taking to Twitter, senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said Swamy deserved justice and humaneness. Expressing shock over Swamy's death, Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren said the central government should be held accountable for its "absolute apathy" towards the octogenarian. "Shocked to learn about the demise of Father Stan Swamy. He dedicated his life to working for tribal rights. I had strongly opposed his arrest & incarceration. The Union government should be answerable for absolute apathy and non-provision of timely medical services, leading to his death," he said in a tweet. Left parties too alleged that "inhuman treatment" was meted out to Swamy and demanded that all those responsible for his death be arrested. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said he was "deeply pained and outraged" over Swamy's death. "A jesuit priest & social activist he tirelessly helped the marginalised. Draconian UAPA custody, inhuman treatment since October 2020 with no charge established. Accountability must be fixed for this murder in custody," he tweeted. The Tamil Nadu state committee of the CPI(M) announced that it would hold state-wide demonstrations on July 8 to protest the injustice that Swamy faced. All those arrested in Bhima Koregaon and other cases with "political motives" should be released, CPI(M) state secretary K Balakrishnan said in a statement. In a statement, the CPI alleged that Swamy was denied medical treatment. "His death raises several questions regarding the judiciary, treatment in custody, denial of medical facilities, torture in custody... The party demands arrest of all those responsible for foisting false cases on him, his continued detention and inhuman treatment. They should be held accountable for his death and given proper punishment," it said. The Elgar Parishad case relates to alleged inflammatory speeches made by some activists at a conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017. Police claim these speeches triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the outskirts of the city and that the conclave was organised by people with alleged Maoist links. Kavita Krishnan, a member of the Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) politburo, tweeted, "It's over. Modi and Shah have accomplished the custodial killing of the gentle Jesuit social worker Fr Stan Swamy, who spent his life serving the oppressed. I hope the judges who denied him bail never get to sleep at night: they have blood on their hands." Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said it was unjustifiable that a man who fought all through his life for our society's most downtrodden had to die in custody. "Such travesty of justice should have no place in our democracy. Heartfelt condolences!" he tweeted. Anti-graft crusader and RTI activist Anjali Bhardwaj termed Swamy's death an "institutional murder". "With UAPA, the process is the punishment. The death of 84-year-old Father Stan Swamy should be recognised for what it is - institutional murder. RIP Father Stan," she tweeted. Rights activist Shabnam Hashmi spoke in the same vein. "#StanSwamy passes away. Fr. Stan Swamy passes away as undertrial in state custody under fake charges under UAPA, NIA, sedition. This is not death, this is custodial murder. Government has to be held accountable," she said in a tweet. Karwan-e-Mohabbat, a people's campaign devoted to equality, freedom and justice said, "Father Stan Swamy has died. He is now free. The state that inflicted cruelties on this brave, noble soul has murder on its hands". On Saturday, the Bombay High Court extended Swamy's stay at the hospital till July 6 after his lawyer Mihir Desai informed a bench of justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar that he was still undergoing treatment at the ICU of the Holy Family Hospital. Swamy had challenged in the court a provision of the UAPA dealing with the grant of bail, contending that it created an "insurmountable hurdle" for those seeking relief. According to Desai, Swamy was the oldest among the 16 accused arrested in the Elgar Parishad case and, possibly the oldest in India be charged under the UAPA. Others arrested in connection with the case include some of India's most respected scholars, lawyers, academicians and activists. Desai told the HC on Monday that he had no grievances against the court and the private hospital where Swamy was treated, but he could not say the same for the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is probing the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, and the state prison authorities. He alleged the NIA had been negligent in providing timely and adequate medical aid to Swamy and asked the HC to initiate a judicial inquiry into the circumstances that led to the undertrial activist's death. "The NIA did not seek Swamy's custody even for a single day, but kept on opposing his bail pleas," he said. Swamy suffered from Parkinson's disease and several other ailments. During his custody, he had also tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-should-be-held-accountable-for-stan-swamys-custodial-murder-opposition-leaders-and-activists-1005316.html
05-07-2021||National||Are you getting fake SMS? Now the sender will attract a hefty fine||To curb fraudulent SMSes with fake headers, the  Department of Telecommunications (DoT) has proposed to impose a fine of up to Rs 10,000 per violation and permanent disconnection of all telecom resources of commercial SMS senders if they are found duping customers by sending fake messages. A sender, if caught sending an SMS using an invalid header, will be fined in the range of Rs 1,000 to Rs 10,000 per violation, plus permanent suspension of the mobile number used or sender ID, depending on the number of violations, a DoT notice issued on Monday said. The government also said a web-based system and a mobile app will also be created to enable the public to complain about unauthorised connections. The DoT also said it will set up Data Intelligence Unit (DIU) at the central level and Telecom Analytics for Fraud Management and Consumer Protection (TAFCOP) at service area field units of the department. Both units will coordinate with different government departments to detect fraud using telecom services, monitor user complaints, identify fake SIM cards with fake ID proofs, detect mobile number portability frauds etc. and ensure timely redressal of all customer grievances.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/are-you-getting-fake-sms-now-the-sender-will-attract-a-hefty-fine-1005319.html
05-07-2021||National Politics||Digvijaya challenges Bhagwat to stay true to his words, remove BJP leaders who harassed Muslims||A day after RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat asserted that the DNA of all Indians is the same, senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Monday said if Bhagwat is true to his words, he must give directions that all those BJP leaders who "harassed" innocent Muslims be removed from their posts. Singh, however, added that Bhagwat will not do so, alleging that there is a difference between his words and actions. In his address at an event 'Hindustan First Hindustani Best' organised by the Muslim Rashtriya Manch in Ghaziabad on Sunday, Bhagwat also took on those indulging in lynching. "Cow is a holy animal, but those involved in lynching are against Hindutva," he had said. Bhagwat had also said that though at times, some "false cases" of lynching have been registered against some people. AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi hit back at Bhagwat over his remarks, saying those criminals who carried out lynching may not know the difference between a cow and a buffalo but the names of Junaid, Akhlaq, Pehlu, Rakbar, Alimuddin were enough for them to kill. This hatred is the product of Hindutva and these criminals have the patronage of a government backing Hindutva, the president of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) alleged. "Cowardice, violence and murder are an integral part of Godse's Hindutva thinking. The lynching of Muslims is also the result of this thinking," he said in a series of tweets in Hindi. Tagging a report on the RSS chief's remarks that the DNA of all Indians is the same and those asking Muslims to leave the country cannot call themselves Hindus, Singh said, "Mohan Bhagwat ji, will you pass on these views to your disciples, preachers, Vishwa Hindu Parishad/Bajrang Dal workers also? Will you pass on these teachings to Modi-Shah ji and BJP chief minister also?" "Mohan Bhagwat ji, if you make it obligatory for your disciples to follow this thought, I will become your admirer," the former Madhya Pradesh chief minister said. Alleging that the RSS had instilled "hatred" between Hindus and Muslims, Singh said it was now not easy to remove the "seeds of hatred" sown against Muslims from "Saraswati Shishu Mandir to the intellectual training provided by the Sangh." "If you are honest with the views you expressed, then issue directions to remove all those leaders in the BJP, who have harassed innocent Muslims, from their posts immediately. Start with (Prime Minister) Narendra Modi and (UP Chief Minister) Yogi Adityanath," the Congress leader said. Referring to Bhagwat's remarks giving primacy to being Indian, Singh asked Bhagwat to explain this to his disciples first as they "advised me to go to Pakistan many times."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/digvijaya-challenges-bhagwat-to-stay-true-to-his-words-remove-bjp-leaders-who-harassed-muslims-1005027.html
05-07-2021||National Politics||Centre should take cognisance of Rafale deal corruption allegations, says Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati on Monday said that Centre should take cognisance of the alleged "corruption" in the Rafale deal. "The news of a judicial inquiry set up by the French government on allegations of corruption in the purchase of Rafale fighter jets by the Indian government has made headlines again and is the subject of public discussions. It would be better if the central government also takes proper cognisance of it," Mayawati said in a tweet in Hindi. "However, the allegations of commission in defense deals and its investigation are not new. It is an old burning issue since the time of the Congress government. The BSP believes that it would be better if the present government at the Centre puts an end to this issue by settling the Rafale dispute according to public satisfaction," the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister added. A French judge has been appointed to lead a "highly sensitive" judicial probe into suspected "corruption" and "favouritism" in the Rs 59,000 crore Rafale fighter jet deal with India, French investigative website Mediapart has reported. Following this, the Congress has demanded a Joint Parliamentary Committee(JPC) probe into the Rafale deal, and said such an investigation is the only way forward to find the truth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-should-take-cognisance-of-rafale-deal-corruption-allegations-says-mayawati-1005033.html
05-07-2021||National Politics||PM Modi's Cabinet reshuffle soon; performance in polls, pandemic among major concerns||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's much-anticipated Cabinet reshuffle, beckoning a generational change and seeking to address the poll performance and pandemic concerns, is likely to happen this week itself. While there is a strong buzz that it could happen on July 7, there is no official confirmation. There are nearly twenty vacancies in the Cabinet and PM Modi may like to augment his team and reach out to various sections before the state polls. By making 45-year-old Pushkar Singh Dhami, a two-term MLA as Chief Minister of the poll-bound Uttarakhand, Modi dispensation has indicated that it will put its stake in young new leadership, a trend which may also reflect in Cabinet expansion. Modi had chaired a five-hour-long meeting with the Union Council of Ministers on June 30, the second such meeting within three months. BJP chief J P Nadda also had held several interactions with Union Ministers and party office bearers amid the possibility of Cabinet reshuffle coinciding or being closely followed by organisational changes, including in the party's all-powerful BJP Parliamentary Board, where several positions are vacant. Jyotiraditya Scindia, who delivered Madhya Pradesh to BJP after defecting from Congress last year, former Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, former Bihar Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Modi, who could not get the portfolio after state polls last year and former Union Minister Suresh Prabhu are among the big names who could find a place in the reshuffled Cabinet. The buzz has gone louder about changes in Ministries of Health and Information and Broadcasting. Ahead of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, where Yadavs solidly back Samajwadi Party, the party may consider inducting BJP in-charge for Bihar Bhupendra Yadav, who is close to Home Minister Amit Shah. BJP UP chief Swatantra Dev Singh, Madhya Pradesh party leader Kailash Vijayvargiya, Pashupati Kumar Paras from LJP in Bihar, Anupriya Patel from Apna Dal in UP are other names in contention. Appeasement of the allies will reflect in inductions from JDU and Apna Dal. Inductions from Gujarat and Karnataka are also likely, where there is a clamour for a leadership change. The last Cabinet reshuffle in 2017 during Modi's first tenure was a big exercise, bringing in Nirmala Sitharaman as the second woman to take charge of one of the government's top four ministries. The other woman minister was the then External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj. Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, Dharmendra Pradhan, Piyush Goyal got promoted and there are indications that the 2021 Cabinet rejig will also seek to focus on creating a new second rung leadership before 2024. The government would also seek to address the criticism about the deficit in the talent pool of the ministry and could include some technocrats as it had done in past--S Jaishankar and Hardeep Singh Puri. A number of ministers, who have more than one portfolio, some up to four, may be asked to shed some of them to make the Cabinet a fighting fit force ahead of 2022 state polls, which is being considered sort of a semi-final ahead of 2024 Lok Sabha polls. Prabhu is in contention for Commerce and Industry Ministry. It is currently with Piyush Goyal, who is also saddled with multiple portfolios like Railway, Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distributions (the last two came to him after the demise of Ram Vilas Paswan October last year). Former Railway Minister Dinesh Trivedi, a Brahmin leader who joined BJP from TMC this year, could be another such induction. Some of the ministers going out of Cabinet can be accommodated in gubernatorial positions later. Performance during the Covid-19 pandemic is expected to be a key factor behind the rejig as well as the importance of the portfolios in question. Unlike in his first tenure when PM Modi had carried out three minor and major reshuffles in 2015, 2016 and 2017, the last being a major rejig, this will be the first reshuffle in the Modi 2.0 government. The reshuffle, if carried out soon, will give some time to the new ministers to settle down before a probable stormy Monsoon Session in Parliament beginning July 29, where the Opposition has planned to grill the government on issues like Covid-19, unemployment and rising petrol price. Also, from July 20 begins the 'Chaturmas' extending up to mid-November, which some consider to be an inauspicious time during which political parties including BJP have generally avoided carrying out such exercises. Besides, October and November will be festival months, having Dussehra and Diwali while state elections including UP will begin in March next year and Gujarat polls are supposed to be held towards the end of next year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modis-cabinet-reshuffle-soon-performance-in-polls-pandemic-among-major-concerns-1005244.html
05-07-2021||National Politics||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh likely to meet Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday||Amid infighting in the Punjab Congress, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh is likely to meet party president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday, sources said. Singh is likely to leave for Delhi on Tuesday morning, they said. Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu has been at loggerheads with the chief minister, attacking him on issues like the alleged delay in the completion of a probe into the 2015 desecration of Sikh texts and the subsequent police firing on protesters. The party high command has been trying to resolve the internal rift in the Punjab unit and there is talk of its revamp, with just months to go before the next assembly polls. There is some speculation that Sidhu may get an important role in the planned revamp. A few days back, Sidhu met Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in Delhi. On June 22, Amarinder Singh appeared before a three-member AICC panel headed by leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, set up to resolve the infighting in the Punjab Congress. But he returned to Chandigarh without an audience with party president Sonia Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi. The panel had then asked Amarinder to deliver on 18 pending promises, including on the 2015 sacrilege issue and power purchase agreements signed by the previous government. The panel had earlier met other party leaders and has submitted a report to the party high command. Rahul Gandhi has also met several party leaders, including legislators from Punjab, for their views on what is needed to strengthen the party ahead of the 2022 assembly polls. On June 23, AICC general secretary and party's Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat had said that Congress president Sonia Gandhi would resolve all issues related to the state unit by early July and a united party would fight the next assembly elections. Sidhu had begun criticising Amarinder Singh again after the Punjab and Haryana High Court in April quashed a probe into the 2015 Kotkapura firing case. The CM has called his outbursts "total indiscipline". Sidhu had resigned as a minister in Punjab after being divested of the Local Bodies portfolio in 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-likely-to-meet-sonia-gandhi-on-tuesday-1005253.html
05-07-2021||National Politics||Bhagwat's remarks on Muslims, cow lynching stir political pot; Opposition alleges 'doublespeak'||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat's Sunday remarks lambasting lynching in the name of cow protection and about "same DNA" of all Indians has stirred the political pot, with Opposition parties daring the Sangh to testify to his words by taking action against those spreading hatred in its backyard and BJP lapping up the remarks that were interpreted by critics as the softening of its stand just six months before the UP polls. Congress, SP, BSP and AIMIM took potshots at the RSS chief. AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi dismissed Bhagwat's remarks, asking whether he has accepted that the majority community has been radicalised due to the RSS & Hindutva ideology. "Is RSS & Hindutva ideology not responsible for radicalisation?", Owaisi asked, saying those criminals who carried out lynching may not know the difference between a cow and a buffalo but the names of Junaid, Akhlaq, Pehlu, Rakbar, Alimuddin were enough for them to kill. "This hatred is the product of Hindutva and these criminals have the patronage of a government backing Hindutva," he said. "Start with (Prime Minister) Narendra Modi and (UP Chief Minister) Yogi Adityanath", Singh said, reminding the RSS chief how the Congress leader, himself was "advised" to "go to Pakistan" many times. Addressing an event organised by the Muslim Rashtriya Manch on the theme ‘Hindustan First, Hindustani Best’ in Ghaziabad in poll-bound UP, Bhagwat had said, "Anyone who says Muslim should not live in India is not a Hindu. We are in democracy. There can't be dominance of Hindus or Muslims. There can only be dominance of Indians." On cow lynching he said, "Cow is a holy animal but the people who are lynching others in the name of cow protection are going against Hindutva. They are oppressors. They should be tackled legally." The RSS chief's statement was like "Muh me Ram, bagal me chhuri", she said using a Hindi proverb that means action of a person being contrary to his speech. Samajwadi Party said RSS should stop all anti-Muslim statements coming from BJP leaders in that case. Minority Affairs Minister of Modi government Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, however, hit out at the Opposition, flagging "full of harmony" ideology of RSS and rejecting its criticism as "propaganda by the Bharat-bashing brigade". Bhagwat also got the backing from Shiv Sena's Sanjay Raut who said that his party agrees with what Bhagwat said that everyone's DNA is Indian "'Everyone's DNA is Indian'. We agree with what Mohan Bhagwat Ji has said. However, there were also angry outbursts on social media by many from the Hindutva brigade, who felt Bhagwat has changed narrative and what he said did not espouse Hindu cause," Raut said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bhagwats-remarks-on-muslims-cow-lynching-stir-political-pot-opposition-alleges-doublespeak-1005261.html
05-07-2021||National Politics||PM Modi holds meeting with Shah, Santhosh amid buzz of Cabinet expansion||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has held marathon meetings with Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP general secretary (organisation) B L Santhosh in what is being seen as the final touches being given to the details of a likely expansion of the Union Cabinet. Sources said Shah and Santhosh confabulated with Modi at his residence for several hours on Sunday amid a "strong possibility" that the Cabinet reshuffle may happen very soon. Some sources said the swearing-in may happen as early as Wednesday. However, there was no official word on it. If the prime minister goes ahead with the exercise, he will be expanding his Council of Ministers for the first time since assuming the charge in May 2019 for his second innings. BJP leaders Sarbananda Sonowal, the former Assam chief minister who made way for Himanta Biswa Sarma in the state, Jyotiraditya Scindia and Sushil Modi are seen as strong ministerial probables amid indications that some allies of the saffron party may also get berths. The states which will go to the assembly polls early next year, including the all-important Uttar Pradesh, may figure high. West Bengal may also see its representation in the Union Council of Ministers go up, the sources said. It is believed that the BJP's allies like JD(U) and Apna Dal can also get representation. Presently, Republican Party leader Ramdas Athawale, a junior minister, is the only ally in the government after parties like the Shiv Sena and the Shiromani Akali Dal severed ties with the BJP. Lok Janshakti Party founder Ram Vilas Paswan, a Cabinet minister, had died last year and all eyes are on whether his brother Pashupati Kumar Paras will be part of the expansion. Paras is engaged in a bitter battle with Paswan's son Chirag Paswan for the control of the party and has been recognised as the LJP leader in Lok Sabha after five of its six MPs lent their support to him. The current strength of the Council of Ministers is 53, besides Modi, and its maximum number can be 81. For the last few weeks, Modi has been meeting Union ministers in groups with BJP president J P Nadda also being present in the exercise to review their works and gather feedback. The BJP brass has also held organisational meetings in different states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-holds-meeting-with-shah-santhosh-amid-buzz-of-cabinet-expansion-1005276.html
05-07-2021||National Politics||Haryana Congress MLAs meet senior leader Venugopal, seek 'leadership change'||A group of Congress MLAs from Haryana met senior party leader K C Venugopal on Monday, apparently lobbying for former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda. The meeting comes a few days after some MLAs sought a "strong leadership" for the party in the state when they had met another senior Congress leader in the capital. The two meetings indicate rumblings in the Haryana Congress, even as the party's top leadership deals with factionalism in neighbouring Punjab. On Monday, the meeting was held at Hooda's Delhi residence. Hooda is the Leader of Opposition in the Haryana Assembly, while Kumari Selja is the state Congress president. Barring Hooda, 22 MLAs visited AICC headquarters to meet Venugopal, the Congress general secretary in charge of organisation. Later, some of the 22 legislators held a meeting with him, party sources said. All the MLAs who held a meeting at the Delhi residence of Hooda are considered loyalists of the former chief minister. Four days ago, 19 Congress MLAs from Haryana had met AICC general secretary and party's Haryana affairs in-charge Vivek Bansal in Delhi seeking a "strong leadership" for the party in the state and favouring a key role for Hooda. The Congress has 31 MLAs in the state. "We discussed organisational matters pertaining to the state unit as for many years district unit presidents have not been appointed… political situation in the state in the backdrop of ongoing farmers' agitation, upcoming panchayat polls… all these issues were discussed,” Congress MLA Kuldeep Vats told reporters on Monday. Replying to a question of reporters in Delhi after the meeting, B B Batra, who also went to meet Venugopal, denied that there was any infighting in the state unit. Senior Haryana Congress leader Kiran Choudhary, who is a sitting MLA and a former minister, met Venugopal separately. Choudhary, however, described her meeting as a routine one. "He is our general secretary and in-charge organisation. He is a senior leader, I keep meeting him from time to time. There was no specific agenda of my meeting today. In routine, I keep meeting the senior leadership," she said. During the two meetings, the MLAs stated that the party has not had district unit chiefs for the past eight years and stressed on the need to strengthen the state unit, the sources said. They have sought a key role for Hooda in the state unit and a greater say in organisational matters, with some of them saying this was necessary in the present scenario as farmers' agitation is going on and former chief minister Om Prakash Chautala, who was serving a 10-year term in the teachers' recruitment scam, has been released from the prison. The legislators were of the opinion that only a "strong leader" could counter any advantage which the INLD might get owing to Chautala's release from jail. After his meeting with the MLAs on Thursday, Bansal had told reporters that as the legislators had not met for a long time due to the Covid pandemic, it was decided to take their feedback about the political situation in the state and seek suggestions about the party's organisational structure and upcoming panchayat polls. However, a senior Haryana Congress leader, who had attended the meeting with Bansal, said the MLAs conveyed that there should be a "change of leadership at the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC)-level" to strengthen the party. Reacting to the meeting of the legislators with Bansal, Selja on Friday had said, "The MLAs can meet their party in-charge. I don't see any indiscipline if party legislators go and meet the party's state unit in-charge and say something. It is their right. Bansal sahab later clarified what the meeting was all about." Selja had also separately met the senior leadership of the party after the legislators' meeting with Bansal on Thursday. The developments in the Haryana Congress have come amid infighting in the Punjab unit of the party, where senior leader Navjot Singh Sidhu is at loggerheads with Chief Minister Amarinder Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/haryana-congress-mlas-meet-senior-leader-venugopal-seek-leadership-change-1005293.html
05-07-2021||National Politics||Modi government trying to bury Rafale scam: Congress leader A K Antony||Senior Congress leader and former Defence Minister A K Antony on Monday claimed that the Modi government's refusal to order a probe into the fresh revelations of the Rafale deal is a “concerted attempt to bury the scam.” Antony alleged that “prima facie corruption in the Rafale deal is now apparent”, as the French Public Prosecution Services has appointed a judge to investigate "corruption, influence peddling and brazen favouritism" in the deal of 36 aircraft. “The intriguing silence of the Modi government points towards mal-intent to hush up the corruption. The refusal of the BJP government to probe and punish the guilty is even more astonishing, pointing towards a concerted effort to bury the scam,” the former defence minister said. He said the series of events and documents in public records have now affirmed the stance of the Congress party about “wrongdoing and corruption” in the Rafale deal. “Can Modi government escape accountability for corruption allegations by its intriguing silence? Is it not the responsibility of the government to come forward and accept the truth,” Antony asked. The senior Congress leader said this is even more important as 36 aircraft are being purchased by India under an inter-governmental agreement and one party to the agreement – the French government has proceeded to order an investigation through a judge. “The only way forward is to accept accountability and order a free and fair JPC probe into the entire set of facts, evidence and allegations of corruption in the Rafale deal,” he said. Antony alleged that Prime Minister Modi went to Paris on April 10, 2015, and unilaterally announced the purchase of 36 Rafale aircraft “without going through any tender process and in complete derogation of the Defence Procurement Procedure.” He claimed that every defence expert was shocked by this unilateral order which is India’s biggest defence deal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-government-trying-to-bury-rafale-scam-congress-leader-a-k-antony-1005326.html
05-07-2021||North and Central||Ex-UP CM Kalyan Singh admitted to ICU in Lucknow||Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh was admitted to the intensive care unit of the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences on Sunday evening, according to an official statement. The statement from the institute said that a panel of experts, from the nephrology, cardiology, neurology, endocrinology and neuro-otology departments, has been formed to attend to Singh. The former Rajasthan governor was admitted to the intensive care unit of Critical Care Medicine of the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences on Sunday around 5.30 pm. He was feeling unwell for the past two weeks, it said. "On his arrival here, his blood pressure and heartbeats were found normal, but the level of consciousness was a bit low. Keeping in mind his earlier ailments, he has been admitted to the ICU of the CCM," the statement said. Prior to this, the 89-year-old veteran leader of the BJP was admitted to the Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences. Earlier in the day, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, his deputy Keshav Prasad Maurya and UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh visited Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences and enquired about the well being of Kalyan Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ex-up-cm-kalyan-singh-admitted-to-icu-in-lucknow-1004964.html
05-07-2021||North and Central||1.5 months on, seriously-ill doctor awaits help; Delhi govt says process underway||A coronavirus positive doctor, who contracted the infection while working at Satyawadi Raja Harishchandra Hospital, has not received any financial help from the Delhi government so far despite an assurance from Health Minister Satyendar Jain, family members claimed on Sunday, while the government said the process was underway. "The Delhi government is standing besides Dr Amit Gupta and his family. We are with them in this difficult time. The process of providing financial assistance to the family is underway," a statement said. The 39-year-old doctor is on ECMO support at a Hyderabad-based hospital since May 22. Around Rs 1.5 crore has already been spent on his treatment, a family member said. The Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO) procedure costs around Rs 2 lakh a day. ECMO is a machine that mimics the functions of the heart and lungs. It helps in pumping and oxygenating the blood outside the body, allowing the lungs and the heart to rest. The family, including the wife, a six-year-old son, parents and a sister, shifted to a rented accommodation in Secunderabad in May. “We had submitted medical bills totalling Rs 84 lakh to the Delhi government around a month ago. We have been following up with the officials, but no help has come our way so far,” the family member claimed. Fighting against time, the family started a crowdfunding project and has been able to collect Rs 26 lakh. “We have taken loans worth more than Rs 1 crore from friends and relatives. All our savings have dried up,” the family member said, adding the work contracts of Gupta and his wife have not been renewed. “We have no option but to keep fighting. We are urgently looking for a donor for lung transplant now,” she said. Gupta had worked in the Covid ward of the Satyawadi Raja Harishchandra Hospital for over a year. He first experienced Covid symptoms on April 19 and tested positive two days later. Since there was no bed available at the hospital, his colleagues treated him in the duty room and did their best, the family member said. He was taken to Shri Agrasen International Hospital when his condition deteriorated and later to Medanta Hospital in Gurgaon on May 11. Later, he was flown to Yashoda Hospital in Hyderabad. On May 18, Health Minister Satyendar Jain had tweeted that the Delhi government will take care of the medical expenses of Gupta. “Our corona warriors are our strength and the Delhi government stands with them in these tough times,” the minister had said. Citing Gupta's case, the Federation of Resident Doctors Association (FORDA) had also written to Jain, requesting him to provide cashless treatment facility for infected doctors admitted in hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/15-months-on-seriously-ill-doctor-awaits-help-delhi-govt-says-process-underway-1004966.html
05-07-2021||North and Central||PAGD leaders meet for first time after PM's all-party meeting||A meeting of the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) was held on Sunday, the first such meet after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's all-party meeting on Jammu and Kashmir in New Delhi on June 24. The meeting of the leaders of the alliance, which seeks the restoration of the special status of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir that was revoked by the Centre in August 2019, also came ahead of the visit of the members of the Delimitation Commission to the Union Territory. A PAGD leader said the meeting was held at the residence of alliance chairperson and National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah at the Gupkar locality of the city. All the leaders of the alliance, including People's Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti, and its chief spokesperson M Y Tarigami, were present at the meeting, he said, adding that NC vice-president Omar Abdullah was also present. The leader said it was the first meeting of the alliance after the prime minister's all-party meeting with the leaders of the mainstream political parties of Jammu and Kashmir in New Delhi on June 24. "The meeting was actually scheduled on June 29, but was postponed because of some personal commitments of alliance vice chairperson Mehbooba Mufti. So it was held on Sunday," he said. He said the leaders discussed Modi's all-party meeting and the current situation in Jammu and Kashmir. "The alliance is committed to its core agenda -- for which it was formed -- and we reiterated what we stand for and what we seek," the leader said. He, however, refused to share further details, saying the alliance's chief spokesperson will brief the media about the meeting. When contacted, CPI(M) leader Tarigami said the details of the meeting will be shared on Monday. Another PAGD leader and NC's Member of Parliament Hasnain Masoodi said the meeting dispelled the rumours of some differences within the alliance. "I can only share that the meeting took place and every member attended it. This should dispel the rumours that were going on. There are no differences within the alliance and everyone is on the same page," he told PTI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pagd-leaders-meet-for-first-time-after-pms-all-party-meeting-1004967.html
05-07-2021||North and Central||In Bihar, Covid-19 vaccination now available only 4 days a week: Report||This decision comes after the regular vaccination programme started getting affected due to the Covid-19 drive.  As per the new guidelines, Covid vaccination will be carried out on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday. Wednesday and Friday are reserved for regular vaccinations; no vaccination activities will be carried out on Sunday. Thousands of frontline workers, who have been working endlessly to vaccinate the population, will also get some relief with the new schedule. Meanwhile, the Bihar government will have to accelerate its vaccination drive to achieve its target of inoculating 60 million people in the next six months. Bihar government’s mass vaccination programme 'Maha Abhiyan' was launched on June 21. As per the revised schedule, the government will now have to vaccinate 5,70,000 people per day to achieve its target. During a health department review meeting on Saturday, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar instructed the authorities to boost the Covid-19 vaccination drive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-bihar-covid-19-vaccination-now-available-only-4-days-a-week-report-1005017.html
05-07-2021||North and Central||Use of Section 66A of IT Act shocking, terrible, distressing: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday said it is "shocking, distressing, terrible and amazing state of affairs" that Section 66A of the IT Act was still being used against citizens for offensive online posts, though it was struck down in the Shreya Singhal case in 2015. A three-judge bench presided over by Justice R F Nariman, issued a notice to the Union government on an application by PUCL, highlighting the abuse of the provision. Senior advocate Sanjay Parikh appeared for the NGO, which stated that as many as 745 cases were still pending and active before the districts courts in 11 states, wherein the accused persons were being prosecuted for offences under Section 66A of the Information Technology Act. The plea pointed out 1,307 new cases were registered after the law was declared unconstitutional. Maharashtra registered the highest at 381 cases followed by Jharkhand 291 and Uttar Pradesh 245 cases. Karnataka registered 14 such cases after 2015 and three were pending over there. "There has to be some kind of method to ensure compliance of the apex court's direction. People are suffering," he said. Attorney General K K Venugopal said the Bare Act should, after Section 66A, mention within a bracket that it has been struck down and declared unconstitutional, instead of mentioning so in the footnote. A police officer must be going by the provision, ignoring the footnote, he said. The court, however, asked him to file a response in the matter. "It is amazing, what is going on is quite terrible, distressing and shocking," the bench said. Justice Nariman also referred to his "hard-hitting" Sabrimala dissent judgement and referred to Article 144 of the Constitution, which stated that all authorities had to act in aid of the Supreme Court. The bench, also comprising Justices K M Joseph and B R Gavai, decided to consider the matter two weeks after. The top court had on March 24, 2015, held that “Section 66A is struck down in its entirety being violative of Article 19(1)(a) (freedom of speech) and not saved under Article 19(2) (reasonable restrictions).” Section 66A of the Information Technology Act, 2000  made posting "offensive" comments online a crime punishable by a jail term of three years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/use-of-section-66a-of-it-act-shocking-terrible-distressing-sc-1005021.html
05-07-2021||North and Central||Resuming tourism, Char Dham Yatra absolutely necessary for Uttarakhand: CM Pushkar Dhami||Khatima MLA Pushkar Singh Dhami was sworn in on Sunday evening as the state's 11th chief minister — the third in four months — in what was a shock move that left a handful of BJP MLAs miffed. Dhami, also the state's youngest-ever CM, spared no time in listing out his priorities, from improving the state's Covid-19 management to providing jobs to unemployed youths. He said he would also revive the battered tourism sector, a major source of revenue for the state. "I have been working among youngsters and I understand the issues very well. Covid has impacted their livelihood. We will try to make the situation better for them and will try to appoint youngsters for the vacant posts in the state,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. The 45-year-old BJP MLA also said he would resume tourism and the recently-suspended Char Dham Yatra, something he described as "absolutely necessary". "There are difficulties but resuming tourism and Char Dham Yatra in the state is absolutely necessary for us,” he said. Amidst the frenzy over his appointment, Dhami also found himself mired in controversy when Twitter users dug up an old tweet of his from 2015, where he shared an image of the map of 'Akhand Bharat', albeit with an incorrect version of India's borders. The image shared by the new CM had left out PoK and Ladakh, which drew sharp criticism from all corners. Such misrepresentation has previously landed the likes of Twitter, WHO, and the BBC in a soup. Jawhar Sircar, a former IAS officer and CEO of Prasar Bharti, slammed Dhami, sarcastically suggesting that the BJP should have made the Uttarakhand CM Foreign Minister instead. "Shouldn’t BJP be making this man Foreign Minister of India rather than CM of a tiny state like Uttarakhand? Then, we can all move to 3rd World War!," he tweeted. Uttarakhand, along with a handful of states, is set to go to polls in 2022. Given the political instability, Dhami's completion of term is anything but certain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/resuming-tourism-char-dham-yatra-absolutely-necessary-for-uttarakhand-cm-pushkar-dhami-1005022.html
05-07-2021||North and Central||Outcome of recent meeting with PM on J&K disappointing: PAGD||Making their stand public for the first time after their meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi last month, the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) on Monday expressed disappointment at the outcome of the Delhi parleys. The PAGD leaders, who held a closed door meeting at the Gupkar residence of National Conference president Farooq Abdullah on Sunday evening, said in the absence of any substantial confidence building measures, “such as releasing of political and other prisoners and taking concrete steps to end the siege and atmosphere of suppression that has choked J&K since 2019, the outcome of Delhi meeting has disappointed them.” They reiterated their commitment to fight together to reverse the “unconstitutional and unacceptable” changes foisted on the people of J&K on August 5, 2019. The meeting which besides Abdullah was attended by PDP President Mehbooba Mufti, CPI (M) senior leader Mohammad Yusuf Tarigami, NC leader and MM Justice (retd) Hasnain Masoodi and NC vice-president Omar Abdullah, vowed to use all constitutional, legal and political means at its disposal to restore the erstwhile state’s special status. “The PAGD’s struggle for undoing unconstitutional and unacceptable changes of August 5, 2019 will continue as long as it takes while striving to achieve this objective as early as possible,” Tarigami, who is also spokesperson of the PAGD, told DH. “As far as the restoration of statehood is concerned, it has been BJPs commitment on the floor of the Parliament and they must honour their word. So any assembly election must be held only after restoration of full statehood for J&K,” he said and added to this end the PAGD has decided to reach out to other political parties in J&K with a view to take a common position over the issue. It was the first meeting of the PAGD after meeting the PM on June 24 in New Delhi. The meeting also assumes significance as it came just two days ahead of visit of the Delimitation Commission to the Union Territory (UT). The PAGD is an alliance of NC, PDP, CPM, Peoples Movement and ANC - formed in October last by Kashmir centric leaders with the pledge towards restoration of the special status of J&K revoked by the Center in August 2019. Four PAGD leaders including Farooq Abdullah, his son Omar, PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti and Tarigami were among 14 J&K leaders who held a meeting with the PM in Delhi on June 24.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/outcome-of-recent-meeting-with-pm-on-jk-disappointing-pagd-1005032.html
05-07-2021||North and Central||CBI registers fresh case in Gomti riverfront project irregularities; conducts searches at 41 locations||The CBI has registered a second FIR in the Rs 1,437-crore Gomti riverfront development project in Lucknow undertaken during the Akhilesh Yadav-led government during 2012-17 and has named 189 officials and contractors. The latest FIR, which was registered last Friday following a preliminary enquiry, also led to searches at 41 locations in 13 districts of Uttar Pradesh, Alwar in Rajasthan and Kolkata in West Bengal. While the first FIR covered work orders worth over Rs 1,031 crore, the second FIR deals with work orders of Rs 407 crore. Sixteen officials, including chief engineers and superintending engineers, and 173 contractors and companies are named in the second FIR. The Gomti River Front Project for beautification and channelisation of Gomti river started in 2014-15 and continued till March 2017 and the cost was pegged at Rs 1,513 crore out of which Rs 1,437 crore was spent. The first FIR dealt with work worth Rs 1,031 crore while the second dealt with 661 work orders worth Rs 407 crore. According to the CBI, some tenders were awarded on the basis of forged documents and forgery in publication of notices inviting tender. The preliminary inquiry also showed that 27 work orders each over Rs 1 lakh, including one for import of an international standard musical fountain worth over 55.95 lakh Euros from France, were issued without any tender. The CBI said it was in violation of government orders that stipulate that no order of above Rs one lakh can be awarded without a tender. Searches were conducted in Lucknow, Sitapur, Raebareli, Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar, Aligarh, Gorakhpur, Bulandshahar, Agra, Etah, Moradabad, Meerut, Etawah (all in Uttar Pradesh), Alwar (Rajasthan) and Kolkata (West Bengal). The premises searched included those of the then chief engineers, then superintending engineers, the then executive engineer, the then assistant engineer and the private contractors, firms and companies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cbi-registers-fresh-case-in-gomti-riverfront-project-irregularities-conducts-searches-at-41-locations-1005041.html
05-07-2021||North and Central||No grand event for the Dalai Lama's 86th birthday this year: Report||Though people can’t be a part of the celebrations physically, the Central Tibetan Administration (CTA) has planned to broadcast the official Trungkar celebrations for the Dalai Lama’s 86th birthday via Tibet TV for the people to be a part of it virtually. The Dalai Lama’s birthday celebrations usually lasted for eight to 10 days with thousands of tourists visiting Dharamshala. As there will be no tourists coming this year, the hotel industry of Dharamshala will roughly suffer a loss of around Rs five to six crore, the report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-grand-event-for-the-dalai-lamas-86th-birthday-this-year-report-1005046.html
05-07-2021||North and Central||BJP will win over 60 seats in 2022 Uttarakhand polls under Dhami: State party president||Uttarakhand BJP President Madan Kaushik has said the party will win more than 60 seats in the state assembly elections in 2022 under the leadership of young Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami. "Through development works done over the past four-and-a-half years in the state, the BJP has proved that it is the only positive thinking party dedicated to development. A constitutional crisis did lead to a change of guard in the state but it has had no impact on development works. They are going on at an uninterrupted pace," Kaushik said at a meeting held on Sunday with ministerial colleagues. The 45-year-old Dhami, a two-time MLA from Khatima, took over on Sunday as the new chief minister of Uttarakhand which has few months to go for the next assembly polls early next year. Kaushik said the BJP's victory in the Salt assembly bypoll in May this year was a confirmation of the people's growing faith in the party.  Appointment of a young and energetic CM has enthused the BJP cadres and it will help the party win an even bigger mandate than in the 2017 assembly polls, he said.   The BJP had stormed to power bagging 57 out of a total of 70 assembly seats in the state. "Unlike the opposition, the BJP does not look for opportunities in a crisis. The party and the government together grappled with the challenges arising out of the Covid pandemic and we have been successful in reining in the crisis to a large extent. We are also preparing for a possible third wave," Kaushik said.  The BJP government has been able to address the basic problems by providing better facilities in health and education sectors besides generating more employment opportunities through self-employment schemes like the Mukhya Mantri Swarojgar Yojana, he said.   Chief Minister Dhami, all his cabinet colleagues, BJP National general secretary in-charge of party affairs in Uttarakhand Dushyant Kumar Gautam and Pradesh BJP general secretary Ajay Kumar attended the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-will-win-over-60-seats-in-2022-uttarakhand-polls-under-dhami-state-party-president-1005060.html
05-07-2021||North and Central||Restore Jammu and Kashmir’s statehood before polls: PAGD||The People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) on Monday said assembly elections should be held only after restoration of statehood to Jammu and Kashmir and asked the BJP-led central government to honour its commitment made on the floor of Parliament. “As far as the restoration of statehood is concerned, it has been BJPs commitment on the floor of Parliament and they must honour their word,” alliance spokesperson and CPI(M) leader M Y Tarigami said in a statement. Tarigami said the assembly election "must be held only after restoration of full statehood" to Jammu and Kashmir. “To this end, the PAGD has decided to reach out to other political parties in Jammu and Kashmir with a view to take a common position on the issue,” he said. The PAGD’s statement comes a day after the alliance meeting on Sunday under the chairmanship of Farooq Abdullah – the National Conference (NC) president — at his Gupkar residence here. The meeting was attended by alliance vice-chairperson and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti, Tarigami, NC leader Hasnain Masoodi, Peoples Movement chief Javed Mustafa Mir and Awami National Conference senior vice president Muzaffar Ahmed Shah. The meeting was called to discuss the all-party meeting chaired by the Prime Minister in Delhi on June 24, the PAGD spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/restore-jammu-and-kashmir-s-statehood-before-polls-pagd-1005063.html
05-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt closes Lajpat Nagar market till further orders due to Covid-19 norms violation||The Delhi government has closed the popular Lajpat Nagar market in south Delhi till further orders and the Rui Mandi in Sadar Bazar till July 6 for violation of Covid norms, officials said on Monday. The order to close the markets was issued on Sunday by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM), South East District, Padmakar Ram Tripathi said that an inspection was carried out by the Covid-19 appropriate behaviour enforcement teams at the Lajpat Nagar Central Market wherein "gross violations" of guidelines was observed. "It is, hereby, directed that the above market (Lajpat Nagar Central Market) is closed with immediate effect until further orders," the DDMA order said. It also directed that the market's association take all measures to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour is followed and that this be done within a day from the order being issued. "Whereafter a review shall be taken regarding opening of this segment of the market. Officials of MCD (municipal corporations of Delhi) and the Delhi Police are directed that no street side or unauthorised shops are functional within the Lajpat Nagar market area," the order said. SDM, Kotwali, Arvind Rana issued the order for closure of the Rui Mandi in Sadar Bazar. "Market shopkeepers, vendors and general public in Rui Mandi, Sadar Bazar, are not following Covid appropriate behaviour. Due to large footfall, market association and shopkeepers are unable to ensure Covid protocols," it said. "Covid protocols are being contravened in the Rui Mandi, Sadar Bazar which may cause super spreading of coronavirus. Therefore I, Arvind Rana, Incident Commander, Sub Division Kotwali… hereby order shutting down of entire Rui Mandi, Sadar Bazar, market from July 5 to July 6 or further orders," the order stated. Delhi was under lockdown from April 19 to May 30 during the second wave of the Covid pandemic. Restrictions are being eased in a phase manner, and markets were allowed to open from June 7. This is not the first time when a market has been shut by the district administration after the second wave. The DDMA on June 30 ordered shutting down of main Laxmi Nagar market, Mangal Bazar, Gandhi Nagar market — all in east Delhi — and Nangloi market in west Delhi for not following Covid protocols. The DDMA had on June 20 also issued notices to three prominent markets in Kamla Nagar, Sarojini Nagar and Sadar Bazar after observing violations of norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-closes-lajpat-nagar-market-till-further-orders-due-to-covid-19-norms-violation-1005066.html
05-07-2021||North and Central||PM Modi congratulates Pushkar Singh Dhami on taking over as Uttarakhand CM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday called Uttarakhand's new chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami to congratulate him on his appointment to the post.  "Respected Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji today spoke to me telephonically to give his blessings and wish me all the best," Dhami tweeted in Hindi.   Thanking the prime minister, he said it will inspire him and his team to work hard and steer the state on the path of development. "A personal congratulation from you is a source of inspiration for me. Under your guidance and leadership, I, my colleagues and hard-working party workers are committed to make Devbhoomi Uttarakhand an exemplary state in terms of development," Dhami said. "I thank you again from the bottom of my heart," the chief minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-congratulates-pushkar-singh-dhami-on-taking-over-as-uttarakhand-cm-1005077.html
05-07-2021||North and Central||Police use water cannon, tear gas to disperse BJYM activists trying to lay siege to Punjab CM's house||The police on Monday lobbed tear gas shells and used water cannon to disperse BJYM activists trying to lay siege to the official residence of Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh here over his alleged failure to curb drug menace in the state. Leaders and several activists of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) -- the youth wing of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) – were detained by the police. Protesters led by BJYM's Punjab chief Bhanu Pratap Rana raised slogans against the Congress-led dispensation and alleged that the chief minister had “failed” to wipe out drug menace from Punjab. The Chandigarh Police had deployed police personnel and put up barricades to prevent the BJYM activists from heading towards the chief minister's residence. But when the protesters tried to force their way through the barricades, police used water cannon to disperse them at sector 17 here. Police also used teargas shells to stop the protesters. Earlier, talking to the media, Rana slammed the Amarinder Singh-led government in Punjab for not being able to curb the drug trade in the state which has “flourished” under Congress rule. He said before coming to power in 2017, Amarinder Singh had promised to wipe out drug menace from the state. But he has completely “failed” in doing so. In fact, drug trade has “flourished in the state”, Rana claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-use-water-cannon-tear-gas-to-disperse-bjym-activists-trying-to-lay-siege-to-punjab-cms-house-1005086.html
05-07-2021||North and Central||Third Covid-19 wave likely next month, peak in September: SBI Research report||India could face the third wave of Covid-19 as early as next month, with cases reaching the peak sometime in September, the SBI Research said in a report on Monday. “…based on historical trends, the cases can start rising by the second fortnight of August ‘21 with peak cases at least a month later,” the SBI’s Economic Research Department said in a report titled ‘Covid-19: The Race to the Finishing Line’. It said global data showed that on an average, third wave peak cases were around 1.7 times the peak cases at the time of the second wave. The report said global experience showed that countries with high per capita GDP have been associated with higher Covid-19 deaths per million, while low per capita countries are associated with low Covid-19 deaths, revealing high income countries suffered more during the pandemic. The trend has held true in India as states such as Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh – all high per capita income states – witnessed high deaths per million, the report said. “Bihar, Jharkhand, UP, Assam, Odisha, Rajasthan all lie in the 2nd quadrant, showing low per capita income and low deaths per million,” it said. States such as Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Telangana, Haryana were some high per capita states that reported low deaths per million. The report also found that the beginning of the second Covid-19 wave resulted in significant deposit outflows from the banking system in alternated fortnights, the pace of which has now again moderated. One of the worrying features is rising household debt stress. Household debt – after taking into account retail loans, crop loans and business loans from financial institutions like commercial banks, credit societies, NBFCs and HFCs – has sharply increased to 37.3% of GDP in FY21 from 32.5% of GDP in FY20. “The decline in bank deposits in FY21 and concomitant increase in health expenditure may result in further increase in household debt to GDP in FY22,” said the report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/third-covid-19-wave-likely-next-month-peak-in-september-sbi-research-report-1005099.html
05-07-2021||North and Central||New Excise Policy to be uploaded on website today, Delhi government tells High Court||The Delhi government told the Delhi High Court on Monday that the new Excise Policy 2021-22, which was approved in June, will be uploaded on its website today. The government’s submission came on a petition by liquor traders association seeking direction to the AAP government to make public the new Excise Policy. The court was also informed that the last date of submission of bids for the tender floated by the government is July 12. Considering the submissions, Justice Rekha Palli said no order is called for and the petition is disposed of by binding the authorities to their statement. Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, representing Delhi government, contended that the petition was not maintainable as the tender was enough and policy was not required for e-bid. Senior advocate Arun Mohan, appearing for the petitioner association, submitted that the new Excise Policy has been approved by the government but has not been made public and it cannot be kept secret. The plea said that on June 28, the government floated tender inviting e-bids for grant of 32 zonal retail licenses for the 2021-22 through e-tendering process in the form of L-7Z/L-7V for sale of Indian and Foreign Liquor (except country liquor) in the national capital on the basis of the new policy. It said that despite floating the tender publicly on the basis of approved new Excise Policy 2021-22 for Delhi, the policy is yet to be made public or available on the internet/ or government’s website and as per the schedule of the tender, the last date for the pre-bid queries is July 5. The plea, filed through advocate Siddharth Sharma, said while the pre-bid meeting is scheduled to be held on July 6, and the submission of the e-bid is between July 12 to 20. In order to prepare financially viable and attractive e-bids for the tender, it is necessary that the approved new policy should be made available to all prospective stakeholders and public in general, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/new-excise-policy-to-be-uploaded-on-website-today-delhi-government-tells-high-court-1005102.html
05-07-2021||North and Central||Over 2.01 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses still available with states, private hospitals: Centre||More than 2.01 crore balance and unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states, UTs and private hospitals to be administered, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday. Over 36.97 crore vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far through all sources. Of this, the total consumption including wastage is 34,95,74,408 doses, the ministry said. The Centre is committed to accelerating the pace and expanding the scope of Covid-19 vaccination throughout the country. The new phase of universalisation of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from June 21. The vaccination drive has been ramped up through availability of more vaccines, advance visibility of vaccine availability to states and UTs for enabling better planning by them, and streamlining the vaccine supply chain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-201-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-still-available-with-states-private-hospitals-centre-1005116.html
05-07-2021||North and Central||Bhagwat's DNA remark exposes RSS chief's 'two-faced' nature: Mayawati||Reacting to RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat's remarks that the DNA of all Indians is the same, BSP supremo Mayawati on Monday said it did not go down well as there is difference in what the Sangh Parivar, BJP and the government says as compared to their actions. "RSS chief Bhagwat's remarks that the DNA of all Indians is the same and violence is against Hindutva at a programme in Ghaziabad on Sunday is not going down well as there is a difference in the words and actions of the Sangh, BJP and the government that is there for everyone to see," Mayawati said in a statement in Hindi here. She also said the RSS chief's statement was like "Muh me Ram, bagal me chhuri", a Hindi proverb that roughly translates to showing a two-faced nature. Bhagwat is cursing the country's politics by calling it divisive but that is not right, the former chief minister said. It is the result of the blind support of RSS to BJP and its governments that the poison of casteism, political hatred and communal violence is plaguing normal life, she added. The BSP president said Bhagwat had said "big things" in his statement in Ghaziabad. "Without the cooperation and support of the RSS, the existence of the BJP is nothing. Why is the RSS not able to get what it wants implemented by the BJP and its governments?" she added. In his address at an event 'Hindustan First Hindustani Best' organised by the Muslim Rashtriya Manch in Ghaziabad on Sunday, Bhagwat had said that the DNA of all Indians is the same and those asking Muslims to leave the country cannot call themselves Hindus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bhagwats-dna-remark-exposes-rss-chiefs-two-faced-nature-mayawati-1005125.html
05-07-2021||North and Central||MP man forges Covid-19 report to stay away from wife; booked||A 26-year-old man allegedly forged a Covid-19 report to show he was infected in order to stay away from his wife in Indore in Madhya Pradesh, police said on Monday. The man, a resident of Mhow, had got married in February this year but, in order to stay away from his wife due to some personal matter, downloaded a Covid-19 positive report of another person from the website of a private laboratory and penciled in his name, Chhoti Gwaltoli police station in charge Sanjay Shulka said. "He sent the forged report through Whatsapp to his father and wife and then disappeared from his home. However, family members got suspicious as he had not shown any symptoms of the infection. When they contacted the private laboratory, the accused's fraudulent act was revealed," he said. On the complaint of the laboratory, the man was booked under IPC provisions for forgery and other offences, and he has been served a notice to appear before police as per the requirement of the probe, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-man-forges-covid-19-report-to-stay-away-from-wife-booked-1005130.html
05-07-2021||North and Central||Five Samajwadi Party workers arrested for indecent sloganeering against UP minister||Five Samajwadi Party workers were on Monday arrested for allegedly indulging in indecent sloganeering against Uttar Pradesh Sports Minister Upendra Tiwari, police said. The state police had on Sunday registered a case against 10 people, including a newly-elected chairperson of Zila panchayat and his father, for allegedly indulging in indecent sloganeering against Tiwari. "Five SP workers -- Shailendra Yadav, Manish Yadav, Tinkal Singh, Shivpal Singh and Vikas Kumar Ojha have been arrested from the party’s office today (Monday)," Additional Superintendent of Police, Sanjay Yadav said. Newly-elected Ballia Zila panchayat chairperson Anand Chaudhary, his father Ambika Chaudhary and hundreds of unidentified people were booked by police, Yadav said. One of the accused was arrested on Sunday, he added. According to police, a video in which SP workers can be purportedly seen indulging in sloganeering against Tiwari went viral on social media following which BJP leaders of the district met the Superintendent of Police Vipin Tada at his residence. Meanwhile, Tiwari had alleged that the SP workers had abused his mother and sister. "In the video, expletives were hurled at my mother and sister. Ambika Chaudhary is trying to join the SP through his son. In 75 districts of the state, elections for the Zila panchayat chairpersons were held, but this situation did not come up in the 74 other districts," the minister had said. Reacting to the charges levelled against him, Ambika Chaudhary said, "Tiwari had hurled expletives at my family members, but I did not say anything. Yesterday, after the elections, we came back home directly from the collectorate. My son Anand also reached home in police protection, and no victory procession was taken out by us." He said SP leaders were framed in a fake case to defame the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/five-samajwadi-party-workers-arrested-for-indecent-sloganeering-against-up-minister-1005131.html
05-07-2021||North and Central||HC extends interim protection to woman who wilfully converted to Islam||The Delhi High Court Monday extended the interim protection till July 22 granted to a woman who claimed that she and her family are facing life-threats and being witch hunted by the UP police, media and vigilante groups after her wilful conversion from Hinduism to Islam. Justice Rekha Palli noted that no one appeared on behalf of Director General of Uttar Pradesh Police and the UP government, against whom the woman has raised grievances and said it needs to hear them before passing any orders. “Despite service of advance notice, none appeared Respondent no 4 and 5 (UP authorities). It appears that the primary grievance raised by the petitioner (woman) is against respondent no. 4 and 5 who are situated beyond the territorial jurisdiction of this court. “Before passing any orders, it is deemed appropriate to hear them,” the court said and directed the woman’s counsel to serve a copy of the petition to the counsel for UP in Supreme Court. “List on July 22. In the meantime, interim orders to continue,” it said. The high court had on July 1 granted interim protection till July 5 to the woman and had asked Delhi Police to take appropriate steps to protect her, noting that she was a young woman who has expressed apprehension regarding her security. Advocate Tanya Agarwal, representing the woman, submitted that the petitioner was 29-year-old and has willfully converted to Islam from Hinduism in Delhi and that she apprehends that she will be forcibly taken to to Uttar Pradesh and will be reconverted to Hinduism. Advocate Sameer Vashisth, representing Delhi Police, said the woman has stated that she has no grievance against Delhi Police and her issue is only against the UP authorities. The court was hearing the plea by the woman, who is working in Delhi. She is from Shahjahanpur in Uttar Pradesh and seeking protection for her and her family as also her right to privacy, saying that because of her conversion she and her family are being targeted and malicious content is being published in media which should be stopped immediately. “The petitioner (woman) is an adult and she is protected by the Constitution to choose her own faith and she cannot be targeted and harassed for the choice she makes with regard to the religion she follows,” said the petition, filed through advocate Kamlesh Kumar Mishra and Nitin Kumar Nayak. The plea said Renu Gangwar alias Ayesha Alvi converted to Islam on May 27 in Delhi and since June 23, when she was in Shahjahanpur, she started getting calls from media persons requesting for a meeting which she refused. It said media persons came to her place without her permission and took her photographs and videos and she started getting calls threatening that her conversion news will be published in media and she would be arrested and demanded money. Thereafter, one of them forcibly took Rs 20,000 while others too tried to extort money from her and her family, the plea alleged, adding that absurd and imaginary details are being reported in media regarding her conversion. The woman, in her plea, said she gave a complaint to the Delhi Police Commissioner on June 24, seeking immediate intervention for her protection with regard to her conversion to Islam on her own free will and without any threat or coercion from anyone but no action has been taken on her complaint yet. “There is no other option other than approaching this court for immediate directions to stop the harassment of the petitioner,” the plea said. It sought to direct the authorities to ensure that the woman is not taken away from Delhi by force or coercion by any government agency or person and she and her family be granted protection and not harassed or interrogated regarding her conversion. The plea further sought direction to the media not to publish or broadcast any malicious content regarding her and not to divulge her personal details and also remove the contents already shown. It sought to direct the UP agencies to not harass the woman or any other person who have not converted in the state of UP and on whom the provisions of the UP Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion Ordinance, 2020 does not apply. The petition has made Commissioner of Delhi Police, SHO of Jamia Nagar Police Station, Delhi government, Director General of UP Police, UP government as parties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-extends-interim-protection-to-woman-who-wilfully-converted-to-islam-1005139.html
05-07-2021||North and Central||India 'father' of Pakistan, says Karni Sena chief Suraj Pal Amu; BJP distances itself from remark||Suraj Pal Amu, BJP Haryana spokesperson and Karni Sena president, on Sunday implored a mahapanchayat in Gurgaon district to "make history" and “not become history”, so that “no Taimur, Aurangzeb, Babur and Humayun are born”. The mahapanchayat Amu called discussed religious conversion, 'love jihad', and a population control law. Targeting Saif Ali Khan and Muslims, he said no Taimur — the name of Saif Ali Khan and Kareena Kapoor's son — Aurangzeb or Humayun should be born if one were to create history in India and not become history. “Agar desh ke andar itihaas banana chahte ho, itihaas banna nahin hai, itihaas banana hai, na Taimur paida hoga, na Aurangzeb Babar Humayun paida honge, hum sau crore hain, aur wo bees crore hain," Amu was quoted as saying by the publication. A top leader of the saffron party in Haryana told the publication that the remark was Amu's personal comments and the party had nothing to do with it. Amu, a BJP spokesperson from 2013, served as the party's chief media coordinator in Haryana from 2014 to 2019. He was appointed again as a spokesperson last month. The Karni Sena chief is by no means new to such controversial statements, having previously announced a reward of Rs 10 crore for anyone willing to behead Deepika Padukone and Padmaavat director Sanjay Leela Bhansali ahead of the movie's release back in 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-father-of-pakistan-says-karni-sena-chief-suraj-pal-amu-bjp-distances-itself-from-remark-1005143.html
05-07-2021||North and Central||Nishad community wants to see me as deputy CM if NDA wins 2022 UP Assembly polls: Sanjay Nishad||Nishad Party president Sanjay Nishad has claimed that his community wants him to be made the deputy chief minister of Uttar Pradesh if a BJP-led alliance wins the state assembly elections next year. He also said the BJP was pushed to the fourth spot in the UP panchayat polls because the Nishad community is angry with the party for not fulfilling its promise of granting reservation to it. Sanjay Nishad was speaking to reporters here on Sunday during a party programme. "It is the demand of the (Nishad) community that I am made the deputy chief minister (of UP). The chief minister is from a community that has fewer numbers. Our numbers are more. If the BJP puts up our face, then it will easily form the government in the state. We are friends who are partners in good and bad times," he said. Asked if the BJP will accept his demand to be made the deputy CM, Sanjay Nishad said, if the BJP feels that it will gain by granting reservation to the Nishad community, it will accept the demand. If the BJP feels that it will face a loss by granting reservation to the Nishad community, then the party may meet the same fate as it did in the West Bengal Assembly elections. Sanjay Nishad further said, "Our alliance with the BJP will continue. We were with the BJP, we are with the BJP today as well, and we will stay with it. However, our community is moving away from the BJP. The Congress, the SP and the BSP have cheated our community and now it feels that the BJP is also cheating them." The intention of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath was right earlier and he had even promised to grant reservation to the Nishad community. "There is a BJP government at the Centre now but there is no discussion on the reservation," he said. "It was due to the anger of our community that the BJP was pushed to the fourth spot in the panchayat elections. I want that the community gets reservation at the earliest and cases registered against them are withdrawn," he added. Asked about his next step if the BJP does not accept his demand to be made the deputy CM, Sanjay Nishad said, "The community will decide on this. The BJP has seen our strength in Gorakhpur. The BJP lost the bye-election to Gorakhpur Lok Sabha constituency when Yogi Adityanath was the chief minister." Responding to a question about the possibility of a tie-up with the Samajwadi Party in the future, Sanjay Nishad said he was with the SP earlier but the party did not give him any chance. Currently, the NISHAD party has one MLA in the UP Legislative Assembly. Sanjay Nishad's son Praveen is the BJP MP from Sant Kabir Nagar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nishad-community-wants-to-see-me-as-deputy-cm-if-nda-wins-2022-up-assembly-polls-sanjay-nishad-1005152.html
05-07-2021||North and Central||Three-year-old girl saves life of pregnant mother in UP||She is being hailed as a 'Nanha Farishta' (little angel) by the netizens and she indeed is. The three-year-old girl is said to have saved the life of her mother, who was pregnant and had fainted at the Moradabad railway station in Uttar Pradesh, about 350 kilometres from here. According to reports, a woman, who hailed from the neighbouring state of Uttarakhand and was travelling to her native place, fainted at platform number one of the station on Saturday. The woman, who was four months pregnant, fainted while climbing the stairs of the foot over bridge, reports said. The girl stood there for a while and tried to wake up her mother without any success. She then started walking on the platform, perhaps, looking for some help.  Fortunately a lady police constable, who happened to be passing by, saw her. The little girl, though could not tell her anything, held the hand of the constable and tried to drag her to the spot where her mother lay unconscious, the reports said. The lady constable could sense that the girl wanted to take her somewhere. After walking a little further, she saw the woman. She called for help and the woman was rushed to the district hospital. The doctors said that the woman might have been starving and had fainted because of weakness. She regained consciousness a little later and was discharged on Sunday after her condition improved, reports said. A picture of the little girl climbing the stairs holding the hand of a constable has gone viral on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-year-old-girl-saves-life-of-pregnant-mother-in-up-1005155.html
05-07-2021||North and Central||Monsoon likely to reach Delhi around July 10; most-delayed in 15 years: IMD||The Southwest Monsoon will reach Delhi around July 10 this year, the India Meteorological Department said on Monday, adding it will be the most-delayed monsoon in the capital in the last 15 years. "The monsoon is likely to advance over remaining parts of west Uttar Pradesh, some more parts of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan and Delhi around July 10," the IMD said in a statement. The weather system is very likely to increase rainfall activity over northwest and central India from July 10, it said. According to Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, the monsoon had reached the capital on July 7 in 2012 and July 9 in 2006. In 2002, Delhi received its first monsoonal showers on July 19. The city had recorded the most-delayed monsoon arrival on July 26 in 1987, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/monsoon-likely-to-reach-delhi-around-july-10-most-delayed-in-15-years-imd-1005161.html
05-07-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh tribal family killings: Kamal Nath seeks CBI probe||Madhya Pradesh Congress chief Kamal Nath on Monday demanded a CBI inquiry into the murder and burial of five members of a tribal family in Nemawar town here. The bodies of Mamata Balai (45). her daughters Rupali (21) and Divya (14) as well as relatives Puja (15) and Pawan (14), missing since May 13, were found buried 10 feet deep in an agricultural field on June 29, Dewas Superintendent of Police Shivdayal Singh said, adding that seven people had been arrested so far in connection with the crime. Nath, along with party colleagues Arun Yadav, Kantilal Bhuria, Sajjan Singh Verma, Jitu Patwari and Nakul Nath, on Monday met the kin of the deceased and announced financial help of Rs 25 lakh on behalf of his party. "Today, I met the victim's family and this brutal murder has pained me a lot. The family members are still in fear and there was dilly-dallying in filing their report. Efforts were made to hide the incident and the accused were roaming without any fear and misleading the police. The matter should be probed by the CBI," he told reporters after meeting the kin of the deceased. As per the police, their probe zeroed in on one Surendra Rajput, who confessed that he and one of the deceased, Rupali, were in a relationship and his marrying another girl had angered her. Rajput has told police that he got angry after Rupali wrote a post containing wrong information about the girl he was about to marry, and gathered his brother Virendra and friends Vivek Tiwari, Rajkumar, Manoj Korku and Karan Korku and killed the five and buried them in a field, the SP said. "Their bodies have been found in the spot which was revealed to us by Rajput during questioning. Brothers Surendra and Virendra, as well as Vivek Tiwari, Rajkumar, Manoj Korku and Karan Korku, along with one Rakesh Nimore, to whom the accused had given Rupali's mobile phone, have been arrested," the official added. Congress leader and former minister Sajjan Singh Verma claimed those arrested were close to the BJP, adding that the incident took place near Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan's constituency, which just showed the poor state of law and order in MP. However, state BJP spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal said the main accused, as well as co-accused, were associated with the Congress, adding that the opposition party's plan to make it a "tribal versus upper caste" issue would not materialise as two of those arrested were tribals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-tribal-family-killings-kamal-nath-seeks-cbi-probe-1005167.html
05-07-2021||North and Central||Sandhu replaces Om Prakash as Uttarakhand chief secretary||A day after Pushkar Singh Dhami took over as Uttarakhand's new chief minister, senior IAS officer SS Sandhu was appointed as the state's new chief secretary on Monday, replacing Om Prakash. A 1988-batch Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer, Sandhu was on deputation at the Centre as the chairman of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). He has a reputation of being an efficient officer. Om Prakash has been relieved from his duties and made the chief resident commissioner, Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sandhu-replaces-om-prakash-as-uttarakhand-chief-secretary-1005168.html
05-07-2021||North and Central||Three-year-old girl raped in Madhya Pradesh; accused arrested||A three-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a 20-year-old man in a village in Madhya Pradesh's Guna district, a police official said on Monday. The accused was arrested by the police a few hours after the crime, they said. The incident occurred on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday, said Guna Superintendent of Police (SP) Rajiv Kumar Mishra. He said the three-year-old victim was sleeping with her grandparents in the verandah of her house. Her grandmother woke up at around 12.30 am on Monday and found the girl missing and raised an alarm, the SP said. Mishra said the victim's family members launched a frantic search for the child and after sometime they found her crying near a crematorium on outskirts of the village. The family informed the police at about 2.30 am and they immediately swung into action and formed three teams to nab the accused, he said. The police rounded up 3 to 4 suspects and interrogated them, Mishra said. A 20-year-old man residing in the same village admitted to the crime during the interrogation and was arrested, he said. He was booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and further investigation was underway, Mishra said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-year-old-girl-raped-in-madhya-pradesh-accused-arrested-1005193.html
05-07-2021||North and Central||Biography controversy: Rajasthan Governor orders legal action against those responsible||A day after controversy erupted over vice-chancellors of Rajasthan universities receiving an alleged unsolicited package of 19 copies of Governor Kalraj Mishra's biography and a bill of Rs 68,363, he directed officials to take legal action against those involved in the incident, according to an official statement. The governor has taken cognisance of news reports regarding the sale of the book 'Kalraj Mishra: Nimmit Matr Hoon Main' and expressed deep displeasure over the incident, it said. The VCs of all the 27 state universities had attended the unveiling of the book by Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot at the Raj Bhavan on July 1, according to official sources. While they attended the event, the books were kept in their vehicles and the bills were given to the drivers by the representative of the publisher, which is a research organisation. The bill contained the names of five books including Mishra's biography. The publisher said that the bill of Rs 68,383 was for all the five books mentioned in the bill while one of the VCs claimed that no book other than the biography was there in the package. The governor has instructed his secretary to seek an explanation from those involved in the incident and take legal action against them, the statement said. After the matter came to light on Sunday, the Raj Bhavan clarified that it had no role in the marketing of the book. The publisher, International Institute of Management and Entrepreneurship, said the books were given as per the order of the VCs, a claim refuted by some of them who spoke on condition of anonymity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/biography-controversy-rajasthan-governor-orders-legal-action-against-those-responsible-1005197.html
05-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi records 54 fresh Covid-19 cases, lowest since April 15 last year||The national capital on Monday recorded 54 fresh Covid-19 cases, the lowest since April 15 last year, and two more deaths while the positivity rate dropped to 0.09 per cent, according to data shared by the health department here. Delhi has recorded 14,34,608 coronavirus cases since the pandemic began last year. So far, over 14.08 lakh patients have recovered, the health department bulletin said. The death toll stands at 24,997, it said. On Sunday, Delhi had recorded 94 cases of Covid-19 with a positivity rate of 0.13 per cent and seven deaths. It was also the first time the number of active cases in the city dropped below 1,000 since April last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-54-fresh-covid-19-cases-lowest-since-april-15-last-year-1005201.html
05-07-2021||North and Central||Slight improvement in condition of ex-UP CM Kalyan Singh: Hospital||The condition of former UP chief minister Kalyan Singh improved slightly on Monday and he is stable, the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) here said. Singh had been unwell for the past two weeks and was hospitalised on Sunday evening. In a statement, the SGPGIMS said Singh was admitted to the ICU on the evening of July 4 due to infection and reduced consciousness levels. Since admission, his condition is stable and all his parameters are being monitored closely by a panel of senior doctors. All relevant initial investigations have been done and his condition is being managed accordingly. "There is a slight improvement in his condition today (Monday) as compared to yesterday (Sunday)," it said. Prior to this, the 89-year-old veteran BJP leader and former Rajasthan governor was admitted to the Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/slight-improvement-in-condition-of-ex-up-cm-kalyan-singh-hospital-1005213.html
05-07-2021||North and Central||No joint decision taken on participating in proceedings of delimitation commission: PAGD||The People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) on Monday said no joint decision has been taken over participating in the proceedings of the delimitation commission and it was left to the individual parties of the alliance to decide whether to meet the members of the body or not. "As far as the PAGD is concerned, our stand is that these are autonomous bodies and the respective political parties will decide over it. Whatever the parties think is suitable for them, they will take steps accordingly," PAGD spokesperson and CPI(M) leader M Y Tarigami told reporters here. The delimitation commission has invited the leaders of all national, regional and registered political parties of Jammu and Kashmir for separate meetings during its visit to the Union Territory from Tuesday. The commission, led by Justice (retd) Ranjana Prakash Desai, will undertake a four-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir from July 6-9 and interact with the leaders of political parties and officials to gather first-hand inputs on the conduct of the mega exercise to carve out new electoral constituencies in the Union Territory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-joint-decision-taken-on-participating-in-proceedings-of-delimitation-commission-pagd-1005224.html
05-07-2021||North and Central||Policeman injured in grenade attack in J&K’s Doda||A policeman was injured on Monday when some unidentified men hurled a grenade in Jammu and Kashmir's Doda district, officials said. The incident took place when the victim Zahoor Ahmed (45) working with SOG of J&K Police, along with another jawan, was on duty at the district police lines (DPL) at Doda, said SP (Operation-Doda) Raj Kumar. He said the attack took place in an under-construction building outside DPL at Doda. “Though Doda is militancy-free, it could be the work of active over ground workers (OGWs) who want to revive the militancy in the area,” the officer stated. The injured cop was shifted to a government medical college hospital at Doda, where his condition is stated to be stable, police said. The Medical Superintendent of the hospital Yudhvir Singh said the cop have an injury in his leg. "He is stable and out of danger,” Singh said. Meanwhile, Kumar said additional police and Army personnel have been rushed to the area to take stock of the situation. "Extra personnel of security forces have been deployed and search operation is going on as the area has been cordoned off," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/policeman-injured-in-grenade-attack-in-jk-s-doda-1005272.html
05-07-2021||North and Central||New Excise Policy: Labels with high-end security features among steps to check duty evasion and sale of spurious liquor||Special excise adhesive labels, inspection teams and a state-of-the-art lab are some of the steps planned by the Delhi government to regulate the conduct of retail liquor vends and check tax evasion and sale of spurious alcohol. The new Excise Policy 2021-22, which was approved in June, was uploaded on the Excise department's website on Monday. According to the policy, the Excise Department has introduced Excise Adhesive Labels (EALs) with high-end security features manufactured by Security Printing and Minting Corporation of India Limited (SPMCIL) to avoid tax evasion and plug leakages in the supply chain. These EALs have necessary clauses regarding advanced technology and high-security features like anti-counterfeiting special tag printing ink, mark with 3-D features and online verification of labels with Checko App used in the printing of EAL, developed by IIT Kanpur. The EALs manufactured by SPMCIL shall be implemented in a timely manner. "The new labels have high-end security features which cannot be cloned and duplicated, thereby extenuating the chances of duty evasion. Further, till the implementation of the new barcodes, the present system of bar-coding and ordering through Excise Supply Chain Information Management System (ESCIMS) will continue," it says. The policy also states that Special Inspection Teams will be set up to constantly check and examine the conduct and operation of retail vends and warehouses to ensure that none of the licensing terms are being violated. "This will be done to maintain the quality standard that is expected of any shop being set up in Delhi," according to the policy document. An officer will be appointed as Deputy Commissioner (Wholesale Operations), it said. The policy also states that teams will be set up to systematically pick up samples from bonded warehouses, retail vends, hotels, clubs and restaurants across all brands and the report of the same will be published on the website. "Any L-1 license holder or retail shop owner found in possession spurious liquor will lose their entire licence and will be subject to criminal proceedings as per applicable laws. "They will be permanently blacklisted and barred from operating in Delhi, and in good faith, the information of the same will be provided to the Excise Department of all other states (sic)," the document said. While stating that the supply of spurious liquor is a serious public health hazard, the policy states that the Delhi government will set up a state-of-the-art lab that will specialise in detecting spurious and counterfeit liquor. The government will work with the industry to set the safety standards and practices for it, the policy says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/new-excise-policy-labels-with-high-end-security-features-among-steps-to-check-duty-evasion-and-sale-of-spurious-liquor-1005278.html
05-07-2021||North and Central||Delimitation Commission to arrive on a four-day visit to J&K on Tuesday||The Delimitation Commission led by Justice (retd) Ranjana Prakash Desai will arrive here on a four-day visit on Tuesday to interact with political leaders and civil society groups, among others, to gather first-hand inputs to carve out new constituencies in Jammu and Kashmir, officials said. The commission's visit comes within a fortnight of the high-level meeting of eight political parties from Jammu and Kashmir with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi on June 24. Barring the Congress and the BJP, all other major political parties including the National Conference (NC), the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the CPI(M) and the National Panthers Party (NPP) are indecisive about meeting the commission's members. People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), an amalgam of six parties including the NC and the PDP, on Monday said no joint decision has been taken on taking part in the proceedings of the commission and it was left to the individual parties to decide whether they want to participate. "As far as the PAGD is concerned, our stand is that these are autonomous bodies and the respective political parties will decide about it (participating in commission's meeting). Whatever the parties think is suitable for them, they will take steps accordingly," PAGD spokesperson and CPI(M) leader M Y Tarigami said. The commission has invited the leaders of all national, regional and registered political parties of Jammu and Kashmir for separate meetings during its visit to the union territory. J&K Pradesh Congress Committee (JKPCC) has announced that it would send delegations to both Srinagar and Jammu to meet the commission, which was constituted in March last year with a one-year time frame. Seven districts of the Jammu region have been allotted one hour each while five districts of Kashmir half hour each, JKPCC chief spokesperson Ravinder Sharma said, adding that the commission should consider giving reasonable time and space to all. The commission members are also likely to hold separate meetings with civil society groups and similar organisations after they obtain prior approval and are allotted time slots by their respective deputy commissioners (DCs). During the June 24 meeting with 14 leaders from Jammu and Kashmir, PM Modi had said the delimitation exercise has to happen quickly so that polls can be held to install an elected government in the union territory that will give strength to its development trajectory. The delimitation, therefore, has attained an urgency amid indications that the Centre is keen to hold early assembly elections in Jammu and Kashmir. There is speculation that the polls could be held in the next six to nine months. Officials said the commission has asked JK chief electoral officer to ensure that representatives of each registered, national and regional political party are provided a separate time slot so that separate discussions can be held with each of them. The commission will meet leaders of political parties in Srinagar on July 6 and in Jammu on July 8. The three-member commission, with the JK CEO being the third member, will also hold separate interactions with the DCs, the officials said. Earlier, the Delimitation Commission had said in a statement that during its visit, it will interact with political parties, public representatives and union territory administration officials including district election officers/deputy commissioners of 20 districts to gather first-hand information and inputs concerning the ongoing process of delimitation as mandated under the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019. The commission expects that all stakeholders will cooperate in this endeavour and provide valuable suggestions so that the task of delimitation is completed timely, it said. Once the delimitation exercise is completed, the number of assembly seats in Jammu and Kashmir will go up from 83 to 90. Twenty-four seats of the assembly continue to remain vacant as they fall under Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delimitation-commission-to-arrive-on-a-four-day-visit-to-jk-on-tuesday-1005314.html
05-07-2021||North and Central||3.7-magnitude earthquake hits Jhajjar, tremors felt in Delhi, adjoining areas||A medium-intensity earthquake hit Jhajjar in Haryana on Monday night, tremors of which were felt in Delhi and nearby areas, the National Centre for Seismology (NCS) said. According to the NCS, the earthquake of magnitude 3.7 occurred at a depth of 5 kilometres at 10.36 pm. On June 20, a low-intensity quake of magnitude 2.1 hit the Punjabi Bagh area in the national capital. Since last year, the Delhi-NCR has reported a few quakes, most of them of lower intensity. The NCS has deployed additional earthquake recording instruments for close monitoring of seismic activity in and around Delhi after the NCR region witnessed a series of tremors from April to August last year. Based on the analysis of satellite imageries, signatures of active faults have been observed at various locations like Wazirabad, Timarpur and Kamla-Nehru-Ridge in Delhi; Jhunjhunu and Alwar district of Rajasthan; Sonipat, Sohna, Gurugram, Rohtak, Rewari and Nuh districts in Haryana; and Baghpat district in Uttar Pradesh. The National Capital Region of Delhi and its surroundings had experienced minor and small magnitude earthquakes from April to August 2020. The epicentres of these earthquakes were located in areas of northeast Delhi, Rohtak, Sonipat, Baghpat, Faridabad and Alwar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/37-magnitude-earthquake-hits-jhajjar-tremors-felt-in-delhi-adjoining-areas-1005318.html
05-07-2021||Oasis||We need to learn resilience from animals||To deal with the pandemic, we require the capacity to recover from challenges that are both inevitable and unpredictable. In the animal world, resilience is the byword when it comes to recovering from a stressful scenario and improving evolutionary fitness. It is hard to imagine the ants surviving a hurricane. But the South American fire ants beat the disaster by forming clusters of together creating a ‘living raft’, which is water repellent and can float on water, till they reach dry land.  Salmons hatch in fresh water but migrate to the ocean to mature. In about five years, the adult salmons return by swimming upstream to spawn and lay eggs. The resilience with which they journey against rushing water, wild predators and fishermen’s nets is remarkable. With the singular commitment to reproduce, they make the journey with the aid of olfactory cues, environment and salinity of water. During breeding season, the male emperor penguins group together in freezing temperature of -70 degrees Celsius in the Antarctic region and keep the eggs warm underneath their body. These incubation shifts last for several weeks as the females would have gone to feed at sea. By the time the females return, the males have not eaten anything and have lost half their body weight. The females then take charge and relieve the males, who now head towards the sea for food. The female penguins bring a belly full of food that they regurgitate for the newly hatched chicks. Camels can live for months without a food and water whilst surviving in harsh conditions of scorching dry desert. The web of a spider is never made in a single attempt. Every time that it is destroyed, the spider untiringly rebuilds it. Birds are known to make epic journeys across oceans during their migration period.  Covid-19 has necessitated the human race to embrace the resilience and adaptability shown by animals in order to survive. Let us bend not break and develop that inner trait to adapt to changing situation and keep moving forward.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/we-need-to-learn-resilience-from-animals-1004922.html
05-07-2021||Opinion||BJP in Bengal: Inconsistent and incoherent||Its inconsistencies make it appear almost politically incoherent. However, to conclude that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) 's moves would add up to an organisation that has lost its way because the leadership is distracted is virtually impossible to contemplate. Its reputation of being a lavish well-oiled fighting machine and with a superb command and control hierarchy must, axiomatically, nullify that impression. But looking at its ad hoc decisions in other states and comparing it to the narrative and tactics of the BJP and its factions in Bengal in its effort to trash the Mamata Banerjee government, it does seem as though the party is rudderless. Its insistence that Banerjee, elected for a third term with a convincing mandate, is an illegitimate chief minister because the BJP's Suvendu Adhikari defeated her from Nandigram did not cut it with the public. The incoherence is in the BJP's actions. It applies one yardstick to measure the validity of its own decisions and uses an entirely different one to measure the actions of its opponents, seen from the perspective of West Bengal. That the visit would be seen by sceptics and critics as "influencing the investigation" was a foregone conclusion. The BJP and Adhikari forgot that the same 'use of influence' argument was used by the party to demand the locking up of two Trinamool Congress ministers, one MLA and one ex-BJP now edging towards the Trinamool. The incoherence and inconsistency become glaring over the BJP's favourite demand – the immediate imposition of President's Rule under Article 356 in Bengal and the dismissal of the Banerjee government, sworn in two months ago, on May 5. The party is consistent in condemning violence and holding the Banerjee government responsible for failing to bring it under control. The BJP, however, overlooks the targeted violence by vigilantes against cattle traders from the Muslim community, as happened recently in Moradabad. The party instead applauds the police for arresting four people involved in the assault and the victim. The BJP's exercise in creating a narrative of victimhood in Bengal has not garnered it the sympathy it needs to convert it into support. The reason is it is not perceived as a victim in the state. Incidents like Moradabad and Hathras have already prepped informed voters that the BJP is not an innocent victim of violence; its supporters elsewhere are capable of using violence to deliver a political message. The other thing that undermines the BJP's victim image is the heavy weaponry deployed against the newly elected government. In public perception, the use of central agencies and institutions, which the BJP government at the Centre controls, contradicts its claim to victimhood. By pursuing this campaign, the party has eroded its efficacy as the only elected opposition. The party's latest move is to complain that the Centre is ineffectual because it has declined to act on the evidence, endorsed by Governor JP Dhankar, of the political violence directed against the BJP. It has said the Banerjee government has failed to contain the violence by curbing the police from acting on the complaints lodged by the party. It has argued that this is a case of breakdown of constitutional machinery and justifies the imposition of President's Rule. However, this has not been convincing enough to turn it into a victim. To be convincing, at least in public perception, the BJP has to sort out the divergent views of the different factions visibly at loggerheads in the party's Bengal unit. The open differences and turf wars have reached a point where the state party boss, Dilip Ghosh, went on record stating that there is a unified command structure in the BJP. At a training camp for newly elected legislators, most of whom elected for the first time, it was striking that the leader of the opposition in the Assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, was missing. Some party leaders believe that the demand for President's Rule and dragging in the governor undermines the local capacity to politically respond to violence andvictimisation of supporters by the Trinamool Congress. The overuse of the Centre, its institutions and its agencies, including the National Human Rights Commission that sent a team to investigate complaints of violations, has compromised the local leadership's capacity to protect its flock. The effect of the differences in strategy within the Bengal BJP is converting the political space into a pressure cooker. For everyday politics to resume, with its usual load of tensions and face-offs, protests and pushbacks, the BJP has to figure out how to control the heat it piles on against the Trinamool Congress. Volatile as West Bengal's politics has been in the past, restoring normalcy and then creating a new normal of peaceful politics is not the job of Banerjee alone. The BJP has to figure out how it plans to survive the next few years in the state, to begin with, as the principal opposition and then as the party in waiting, for which it needs to stop floundering. Playing victim in Bengal will not serve the larger purpose of winning the 2024 Lok Sabha elections and giving Narendra Modi a third term. The party has already initiated gearing up the organisation and oiling the machinery for the General elections. Even though the BJP lost in the recently concluded Assembly election, Bengal is a territory it needs to add to remain in power at the Centre. To do so, it needs to redesign its state strategy, resolve the internal conflicts that look ready to break out into an open war between factions and convince voters that it is an alternative, something it failed to do in the just concluded elections. (The writer is a Kolkata-based senior journalist.) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/bjp-in-bengal-inconsistent-and-incoherent-1005075.html
05-07-2021||Opinion||For a 90% haircut, try India’s bankruptcy salon||By Andy Mukherjee Five years ago, India came up with a legal answer to its perennial economic challenge of rescuing the money stuck in zombie firms. Unlike China, which has the cushion of high savings, India’s inefficient use of limited domestic capital has meant a chronic inability to put its swelling ranks of youth to work. After toying with the idea for more than a decade, the solution New Delhi hit upon was a modern bankruptcy code.  The numbers have been a mixed bag. According to an analysis by REDD Intelligence, of the 4,300-plus stressed debtors that have been taken through the 2016 corporate insolvency law, 48 per cent were liquidated, half of them under 314 days. Of the 13 per cent that got sold to bidders, half exited bankruptcy in less than 425 days. These, as the REDD researchers note, aren’t bad outcomes, considering that wait times previously were five-years-plus. However, if the insolvency law did indeed lead to timely extraction of meaningful sums, one should also see redeployment of credit in new ventures. The evidence on this front is weak. At 6 per cent, loan growth is anemic. Companies don’t want to borrow even at negative real interest rates; corporate leverage is at an all-time low of 0.46 times equity, according to the Boston Consulting Group. Incomplete bankruptcy reform isn’t the only reason Indian banks aren’t lending more to new firms, choosing instead to finance unsecured personal credit, which doesn’t create many more new jobs. Over the past year, it could be seen as a confidence issue. As a deadly second bout of the pandemic recedes, firms probably need assurance that the economy won’t be hit by lockdowns again. That would require a far greater proportion of the population to be fully vaccinated than the less than 5 per cent at present.  Yet the bankruptcy code doesn’t deserve the full benefit of the doubt. Its biggest failing is its institutional infirmity. Leaving aside a few big-ticket sales, mostly of steelmakers such as Essar Steel India Ltd., the recovery rate for creditors has been just 24 per cent, according to Macquarie. While India is perhaps able to extricate capital faster than before, it still can’t get much out of dead firms.  Even the insolvency tribunal is surprised that metals magnate Anil Agarwal is “paying almost nothing” to wrest control of Videocon Industries Ltd., after creditors accepted just 4 cents on the dollar for their Rs 64,800 crore ($8.7 billion) exposure to the consumer-appliance maker and its 12 group companies. Bankers to Siva Industries and Holdings Ltd. approved a one-time settlement with the controlling shareholder of the investing firm, taking a 93.5 per cent hit on their outstanding claims of $650 million. In the case of Ruchi Soya Industries Ltd., lenders first agreed to a harsh haircut. Then they gave money to Yoga guru Baba Ramdev’s Patanjali Ayurved Ltd. to take over the bankrupt edible-oil maker.  The low recovery rate isn’t doing any favors to India’s state-run banks, which hold most of the soured loans. Several of them will now own a stake in Jet Airways India Ltd., which last flew more than two years ago. The airline’s landing slots at airports have been given to other carriers, and the pandemic has ravaged the economics of aviation. All this drama to recoup 5 per cent of loans when creditors had only to oust Naresh Goyal, the founder of what was once India’s dominant airline, in time. They didn’t. Even now, Vodafone Group Plc’s India joint venture is struggling to stay afloat because of extractive government demands, but bankers aren’t doing much to protect their exposure to the debt-laden telecom operator. Political constraints have never allowed India’s public institutions to save capitalism from powerful capitalists, something that a tough bankruptcy law was supposed to change. It hasn’t. So employees and vendors suffer, as do taxpayers who fill state-run banks’ capital hole. For nine years, Punjab National Bank, the second-largest of them by assets, has only fleetingly traded above its book value, a reflection of what investors make of the asset quality of public-sector lenders. In hindsight, giving poorly governed state-run banks the power over assets was a bad idea. A US-style debtor-in-possession bankruptcy may have been far more suitable to India’s on-the-ground reality. Abusing productive capital to benefit a small, politically connected capitalist class has exacerbated unfairness, and loaded the dice against workers in a labor-surplus country.   As Observatory Group analyst Ananth Narayan notes, India’s employment-to-population ratio, which was a steady 55 per cent in 2005, has fallen to 43 per cent. Bangladesh and Vietnam have fared better. Not all of the blame for inhibited employment can be laid on the doorstop of a flawed bankruptcy law. By ignoring low-skill textile and shoe manufacturing and overemphasizing high-skill software, India has scored an own goal. Still, the large-scale gaming of insolvency resolution has cost India. Even before the pandemic, the financial system was creaking, Now, it’s just being kept in a holding pattern. Banks have the assurance of government guarantees on loans to pandemic-hit small businesses. The interest they need to pay savers is also being kept artificially depressed by the central bank in the face of persistently stubborn inflation. Even then, 9.8 per cent of their loan book could sour by March 2022, the central bank has warned. The plan now is to shift at least $11 billion in dud corporate loans from commercial lenders to a newly created bad bank.    A junkyard for firms that have very little salvageable capital won’t do much for new investments. Rehabilitating assets that still have some value will require an urgent fix to the law. A bankruptcy salon offering 90 per cent haircuts is a sad joke on on India’s taxpayers, savers and workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/for-a-90-haircut-try-india-s-bankruptcy-salon-1005117.html
05-07-2021||Opinion||Bhowanipur bypoll: The incongruous Bengal-Uttarakhand parallel||It is incongruous enough to compare Uttarakhand and West Bengal. The hill state has a small 70-member legislature and sends a meagre five MPs to the Lok Sabha. On the other hand, Bengal has the country's second-largest legislative assembly with 294-seats and elects 42-members to the Lok Sabha, the third-highest for any state in the country. Such a comparison is more odious when the leadership change of a government facing severe anti-incumbency in Uttarakhand with elections round the corner is portrayed as an excuse to deny Mamata Banerjee an opportunity to get elected to Bengal's legislative assembly. The speculation attempts to distract from the mess that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has on its hands in Uttarakhand. It also flies in the face of facts to suggest the BJP's actions in the hill state have to do with some obtuse plan the party has in Bengal. According to the law, a minister must quit if they fail to get elected to their state legislature within six months of their appointment. There is speculation that the BJP booted out Tirath Singh Rawat as the Uttarakhand chief minister before the expiry of his six months to queer the pitch for Banerjee in Bengal. After the BJP replaced Trivendra Singh Rawat with Tirath Singh Rawat in March, he is the third chief minister in the state. However, let alone six months, Tirath Singh Rawat, appointed on March 10, could not complete four months in the chair. In his stead, the BJP has appointed Pushkar Singh Dhami. Corruption allegations and Covid-19 mismanagement, including allowing the Kumbh festival to occur, have marred the performance of the BJP government in Uttarakhand. The BJP did not field Tirath Singh Rawat for the by-poll in April to the Salt assembly constituency and has changed three chief ministers since March. All of this betrays the unpopularity of its government in Uttarakhand, and an unnerved BJP camp was averse to risk a potential electoral loss for its sitting chief minister.  The BJP is projecting Dhami, the 45-year-old new CM and son of an ex-serviceman, to attract the youth and ex-servicemen. These are both sizable chunks of the electorate in Uttarakhand. The BJP leadership argues that Dhami is relatively young, and his appointment will appeal to the 44 lakh youth of the state. The government is promising to recruit 20,000 government jobs. But Dhami's appointment has upset several Uttarakhand leaders of the BJP. Some of them had threatened to not turn up for his oath-taking ceremony before the BJP leadership reached out to them to diffuse the situation. Uttarakhand, since it was created in the year 2000, is known not to return a government. If the BJP's hopes of returning to power in Uttarakhand are looking bleak, its attempts to become a potent opposition in Bengal to Banerjee's Trinamool Congress are falling flat. The Trinamool Congress believes it can persuade the Election Commission to hold the by-polls in Bengal to the seven vacant seats in the state assembly before November when Banerjee's six months as chief minister get over. She is not an MLA but plans to contest and win from the Bhowanipur seat. Moreover, or so the Trinamool Congress has taken to argue, the Covid-19 spread has subsided in the state for now. The infection rate has declined from 33 per cent in April to a little under two per cent now. The leadership is confident the EC will take note of this rather than waiting for the third wave. According to sources in the Trinamool Congress, Banerjee is planning to campaign against the BJP in the forthcoming Assembly elections to five states, particularly in Uttar Pradesh. She plans to travel across the country to flag issues of joblessness and inflation. The Trinamool Congress is also confident that the perception of BJP denying her the opportunity to get elected would further fan Bengali sub-nationalism and lose BJP support in the state. It is determined to make the upcoming monsoon session of Parliament a stormy one for the Narendra Modi government at the Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/bhowanipur-bypoll-the-incongruous-bengal-uttarakhand-parallel-1005199.html
05-07-2021||Opinion||Race, evolution and the science of human origins||By Allison Hopper, After a year of lockdown, museums, libraries and bookstores across America are reopening. This cultural reawakening’s beginning coincided with both the Juneteenth holiday and the one-year anniversary of the one of the largest protests in American history against racial injustice. As bookstores reopen, many are organising displays of children's books that celebrate Black history. What you won’t find in even the biggest collections of books is the story of the dark-skinned early people who launched human civilisation. The global scientific community overwhelmingly accepts that all living humans are of African descent. Most scientific articles about our African origins focus on genetics. The part of the story that is not widely shared is about the creation of human culture. We are all descended genetically, and also culturally, from dark-skinned ancestors. Early humans from the African continent are the ones who first invented tools; the use of fire; language; and religion. These dark skinned early people laid down the foundation for human culture. Considering the short life span of our early ancestors, these original innovators were probably also very young. No one who follows artistic trends will be surprised to learn that, from the beginning, human culture was essentially invented by teenagers. And by culture I don’t just mean the arts, I mean the whole shebang. I want to unmask the lie that evolution denial is about religion and recognise that at its core, it is a form of white supremacy that perpetuates segregation and violence against Black bodies. Under the guise of “religious freedom,” the legalistic wing of creationists loudly insists that their point of view deserves equal time in the classroom. Science education in the US is constantly on the defensive against antievolution activists who want biblical stories to be taught as fact. In fact, the first wave of legal fights against evolution was supported by the Klan in the 1920s. Ever since then, entrenched racism and the ban on teaching evolution in the schools have gone hand in hand. In his piece, What We Get Wrong About the Evolution Debate, Adam Shapiro argues that “the history of American controversies over evolution has long been entangled with the history of American educational racism.” At the heart of white evangelical creationism is the mythology of an unbroken white lineage that stretches back to a light-skinned Adam and Eve. In literal interpretations of the Christian Bible, white skin was created in God's image. Dark skin has a different, more problematic origin. As the biblical story goes, the curse or mark of Cain for killing his brother was a darkening of his descendants' skin. Historically, many congregations in the US pointed to this story of Cain as evidence that Black skin was created as a punishment. The fantasy of a continuous line of white descendants segregates white heritage from Black bodies. In the real world, this mythology translates into lethal effects on people who are Black. Fundamentalist interpretations of the Bible are part of the “fake news” epidemic that feeds the racial divide in our country. For too long, a vocal minority of creationists has hijacked children’s education, media and book publishing. Statistics on creationist beliefs in the US vary. Depending on the poll, up to 40 percent of percent of adults believe that humans have always existed in their present form (i.e., they believe in an unbroken human lineage stretching back to Adam and Eve). We have seen some progress in the classroom. From 2007 to 2019, the percentage of teachers who present evolution without a creationist alternative grew dramatically, from only 51 percent to 67 percent. But it’s still not enough. My hope is that if we make the connection between creationism and racist ideology clearer, we will provide more ammunition to get science into the classroom—and into our culture at large. It’s common knowledge that some school boards, especially in the South, have fought long and hard to keep evolution out of school textbooks. What you might not know is how the policing of educational content morphs into what might be called “self-censorship” within the children’s book industry as a whole. Scientific findings about human origins have been slow to trickle down into books written for young people. This major omission reflects the outsize effect that science-denying voices have on the books that find their ways not just into classrooms, but also into libraries, bookstores and children's homes. Fear of economic punishment within the publishing industry creates a self-perpetuating lack of teaching materials about evolution. If you go on Amazon and look up “children’s books on evolution” you will find about 10–15 relevant titles. This is in contrast to the hundreds of children’s books on other scientific subjects such as chemistry, astronomy and other less controversial subjects. I found only one book on evolution for preschoolers, called Grandmother Fish. The author had to self-fund the book through Kickstarter. On the other hand, there are hundreds of children’s books available on Amazon that focus on biblical origin stories. Science deniers are pumping money into a well-funded antievolution machine. In 2007, the creationists built their own Bible-themed museum and amusement park. What they understand is that to reach young children you need music, colourful characters and celebration. In the Adam-and-Eve scenario, the Creator bestows both physical and cultural humanity on the first people. From the get-go Adam knows how to name the animals. No one has to invent language or figure out how to make tools. Science, of course, tells us otherwise. The process of natural selection shaped our bodies and capacities. Our humanity emerged over the millennia as creative ancient people figured out the crucial skills—from storytelling to cooking to rope making—that we now take for granted. And yet, even in the current literature about human origins that we do have, the end point of evolution is often depicted as a white man carrying a spear. This image not only eliminates our African heritage but also erases women and children from the picture. Because evolution is foundational knowledge, we need the story to be told in many different ways, by many different voices. As we move forward to undo systemic racism in every aspect of business, society, academia and life, let’s be sure to do so in science education as well. Embracing humanity’s dark-skinned ancestors with love and respect is key to changing our relationship to the past, and to creating racial equity in the present. These ancient people made the rest of us possible. Opening our hearts to them and embracing them as heroic, fully human and worthy of our respect is part of the process of healing from our racist history. This is an opinion and analysis article; the views expressed by the author or authors are not necessarily those of Scientific American.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/race-evolution-and-the-science-of-human-origins-1005241.html
05-07-2021||Panorama||High-stakes oil diplomacy puts future of OPEC+ deal at risk||By Javier Blas, A high-stakes game of oil diplomacy has pit Saudi Arabia against long-time ally Abu Dhabi. And the result of their fight will shape not just the price of oil for the next year but the future of the global energy industry. The United Arab Emirates (UAE) blocked on Friday an OPEC+ (Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries) deal that cartel leaders Russia and Saudi Arabia hashed out to increase output, demanding better terms for itself. After two days of bitter talks, and with the UAE the only holdout, ministers halted negotiations until Monday, leaving markets in limbo as oil continued its inflationary surge above $75 a barrel. Abu Dhabi is forcing its allies into a difficult position: Accept its demands or risk unravelling the OPEC+ alliance. Failure to reach a deal would squeeze an already tight market, potentially sending crude prices sharply higher. But a more dramatic scenario is also in play— OPEC+ unity may break down entirely, risking a free-for-all that would crash prices in a repeat of the crisis last year. As in all negotiations, there may be an element of bluff. Late last year, Abu Dhabi even floated the idea of leaving OPEC. While this time the UAE hasn’t repeated the threat, no one even at the heart of the talks is sure what could happen if negotiations fail on Monday. An exit would almost certainly trigger a price war— and in that scenario everyone loses. The bluff is to show your country is ready to take the pain better than the others. But there’s also a more subtle poker game playing out, and in that hand, the UAE has some cards. The country wants to pump more oil after spending billions to increase production capacity. At some point, the others in the alliance will probably have to recognise Abu Dhabi’s new status, redrawing the terms of engagement to allow it to pump more. “The UAE will push hard at this juncture to use this meeting to get their excess capacity recognised and brought back online,” said Roger Diwan, oil analyst at consultant IHS Markit Ltd. “Compromise exists, but it is just how they bring their capacity, not if.” OPEC math At the center of the dispute is a word key to OPEC+ output agreements: Baselines. Each country measures its production cuts or increases against a baseline. The higher that number, the more a country will be allowed to pump. The UAE says its current level, set at about 3.2 million barrels a day in April 2020, is too low, and says it should be 3.8 million. “This was an inevitable fight,” said Ben Cahill, a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. “The differences are real and the UAE will continue to make noise until it achieves a higher baseline.” The current OPEC+ production deal ends in April 2022, when every country will be able to re-negotiate its baseline. But now Saudi Arabia and Russia, with the support of everyone else at OPEC+, want to extend the agreement to the end of next year. The UAE has rejected the idea of extending the broader accord unless its baseline is changed, effectively killing the proposal negotiated by Moscow and Riyadh. In April 2020, Abu Dhabi accepted its current baseline, but it doesn’t want the straightjacket to stay on for even longer. Abu Dhabi has spent heavily to expand production capacity, attracting foreign companies including French oil giant TotalEnergies SE. With Iran potentially returning to the oil market soon if it reaches a nuclear deal, patience for getting new terms is wearing out. Good cards Claiming a higher baseline is different to having one. Often countries make outlandish declarations of how much oil they can produce— just to get a better deal. Few take those assertions seriously. But last year, the UAE proved it had the extra barrels. During the price war, it pumped a record of 3.84 million barrels a day, according to OPEC estimates. Abu Dhabi says it produced more than 4 million. Before then, it had never produced more than 3.2 million and few believed it was able to produce much more. Now it can prove that it has the barrels, that strengthens its hand in the negotiation. The Emirate proposal would even benefit Saudi Arabia, which could also secure for itself a higher baseline. But Riyadh has rejected it. The biggest loser would be Russia, which would see a much lower output target. And Saudi Arabia needs Russia onside. Aside from cartel arithmetic, geopolitical tensions are also in play. The country’s de facto ruler, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed, once enjoyed close relations with the Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. But the relationship between the two heirs appears to have cooled in recent months. And Abu Dhabi is flexing its muscles beyond the oil market, with bold geopolitical moves from Yemen to Israel. In another sign of tension as the OPEC standoff intensified on Friday night, Saudi Arabia moved to restrict citizens’ travel to the UAE, citing the pandemic. Bad timing OPEC has been here before. There’s often friction in member countries between the oil ministry, which deals with the cartel and commits to quotas, and the national oil companies, whose priority often is to expand production capacity. In this case, Sultan Al Jaber, the head of the Abu Dhabi National Oil Co., led the charge to increase capacity. In the 1990s, it was Petroleos de Venezuela SA, the state-owned company of the Latin America country, which pushed ahead with an aggressive capacity expansion. With oil demand growing slowly in the 1990s, Caracas and Riyadh clashed, and the fight ultimately triggered a price war in 1998 that saw Brent crude plunge below $10 a barrel. In the 2000s, Algerian national energy giant Sonatrach SpA did the same, but benefited from better timing:Booming Chinese oil demand allowed it to lift production 60% from 1996 to 2006 with the tacit consent of OPEC. Adnoc’s push was hindered by two factors: US shale production and the coronavirus pandemic, both of which dented demand for OPEC barrels over the last five years. Al Jaber misread the market or was unlucky with the timing. Who wins the standoff this time may depend on luck, a bit of bluffing, and who fears he has the most to lose from OPEC unravelling.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/high-stakes-oil-diplomacy-puts-future-of-opec-deal-at-risk-1004924.html
05-07-2021||Panorama||The paradox of global financing of climate change||Among the global environmental issues, climate change is the biggest challenge for the humanity triggered by the mounting Green House Gases (GHGs) and consequent increase in earth’s average temperature by 0.18°C in the last one decade. The UN is striving to restore earth’s ecosystems by 2030 with the active support and commitment of investors, business, government and communities. However, this largely depends on the commitment of countries in achieving climate targets as per the international agreement under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). The failure to achieve the targets of Kyoto Protocol and lack of consensus among the countries in the Paris agreement shows collective failure of the international community. The World Economic Forum’s Report on Global Risk, 2020, observes that “climate action failure” is a threat to economic stability of the world countries which witnessed unprecedented extreme weather and intense and more frequent natural disasters. Even though economic development has made the world economy richer with $83 trillion, it has made the world environmentally poor due to emission of GHGs and consequent global warming which imposes $100 billion economic and environmental cost on the society at large. The impact of climate change is ubiquitous and more frequent worldwide concerning extreme events of temperature, intense droughts and floods, insect outbreaks and health impacts like Covid-19, depletion of biodiversity and ecosystem services, declining water resources, recurring wildfire, dwindling agricultural yields, coastal submergence etc. The root causes for global warming and emission of GHGs are, undeniably, rapid industrialisation, urbanisation, transportation and mass consumerism under the economic model of capitalism which has squarely undermined the ecosystem services of the earth. Climate change is global and obviously affects everyone. However, economic development benefits a few due to inequal distribution of income or benefits. In contrast, industries and corporate companies which largely contribute to climate change, hardly spend on the efforts of mitigating climate change. The planetary emergency is apparent as ‘privatising the profits and universalising pollution’ has been continued. In other words, the cost towards mitigation and adaptation of climate change is largely borne by the government and people and profits are appropriated by the business. The main sources of global climate finance available under the UNFCCC are: Global Environment Facility replenishment; Special climate change fund; Least developed countries fund; Bilateral and multilateral sources etc. As per the Climate Policy Initiatives on the Global of Climate Finance, 2019, which tracked the total global finance of  $579 billion, 44% and 56% respectively, constitute public and private finances. The main concern is that about 93% of the total public and private finances flow to mitigation activities while adaptation activities receive less than 7%. Further, the private finance coverage of various sectors is limited to transport and renewable energy, whereas public finance covers energy efficiency, adaptation, land use and others apart from transport and renewable energy. The geographical distribution of global finance shows that developed countries source their finance from private sources whereas developing countries rely on public funding. This clearly indicates the grave situation of global governance failure of climate financing in the world and India in particular. India’s economy is facing unprecedented effects of climate change and frequent occurrences of natural disasters which cost nearly 3% of the GDP. India’s 40% poor continue to suffer the impact of climate change with their limited economic resilience. The poverty reduction programmes continue to fail due to the frequent onslaught of natural disasters like Amphan and Yass cyclones and Covid-19 which has pushed millions of people under poverty line and further rise the income inequality. The estimated cost of damage in West Bengal caused by recent cyclone Amphan was $13.2 billion. India’s agriculture sector is highly vulnerable to frequent floods and deficient monsoons which drastically altered the crop cycles and reduced productivity causing loss of income to millions of farmers, agricultural labourers and fishermen. Water shortage The shortage of drinking water, and heat waves are highly prevalent in several parts of the country making the poor highly vulnerable. The loss of biodiversity, forests and habitats affect the forest dependent communities. A World Health Organisation study (1995) shows that seasonality, distribution, and prevalence of vector-borne diseases are influenced significantly by climate change. There is a strong association between frequent changes in weather and rise in infections such as cold, fever, headache, vomiting, tiredness, breathlessness, asthma etc. The spread of new infectious diseases involves humans and animals; scientists have observed that about 60% of all infectious diseases are zoonotic in nature and animals infect humans due to habitat fragmentation influenced by land use and climate change.  India is committed to the Paris Agreement; post-2020 climate goals state that the country will reduce 33-35% in the emission intensity of its economy by 2030 compared to the 2005 levels and increase forest cover aimed at reducing CO2 levels equivalent to $2.5 billion to 3 billion by 2030. However, deficient climate finances may limit realising the climate targets. As per the estimates, India’s Nationally Determined Contribution to achieve the climate targets demand Rs 11 lakh crore or $170 billion annually whereas, the actual dedicated climate finance was 12% or Rs 1,37,000 crore ($21 billion) during 2018. The institutional financing policy towards mitigation and adaptation of climate change remains a challenge, given the poor financial resources made available in India.  Most of the funds are targeted to achieve energy efficiency, investment on renewable energy and sustainable transport but afforestation and adaptation receive a raw deal. The UN commits to “putting ecosystem restoration on a pedestal” but its realisation largely lies on active support of investors in financing of climate change in developing countries especially in cash-strapped South Asia and African countries. (The writer is Professor, Institute of Socio-Economic Change, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-paradox-of-global-financing-of-climate-change-1004926.html
05-07-2021||Right in the Middle||Quarantined queens||Our house in Kanchipuram had a separate room meant for women of the household passing through their monthly menstrual period of three days. In houses where no separate room was available, women had to remain in a corner behind a screen. They were not allowed to roam around and they were forbidden to even look at the kitchen. Women of those days liked and loved these three days of "privilege leave" which gave them freedom from having to cook for a big family, freedom from having to perform the back breaking chores of washing clothes including nine-yard sarees of in-laws. No one was supposed to come in contact with the "quarantined house-queens."  An exclusive plate and brass tumbler were given to them and these were not to be placed with other utensils. Coffee was poured into the tumbler from a height of 12 inches. Even cruel mothers-in-law would not allow their daughters-in-law to work on these days. It was quite a sight to watch the mothers-in-law carry food three times a day, on time, to their daughters-in-law as the latter sat leisurely stretching out their legs, leaning against the wall of their pleasure cell. The women used to spend these days reading magazines and novels and listening to transistors. My mother utilised this monthly opportunity to read and reread all her favourite Tamil novels. It was a big joint family which she entered in. She was made to cook and wash clothes for a huge joint family comprising a dozen children. There were no washing machines and no overhead water tanks to supply water through taps. She had to draw umpteen bucketfuls from the backyard well. "But for those three days break, I would have died long ago" she once observed.  My mother was happy when she was confined to the room, but we children were most unhappy having to endure our father’s horrible cooking. He not only cooked badly but also expected us to eat what he cooked and compliment him too. The worst of his stuff was 'Sambar'. My father used to make his own 'Sambar' powder, mixing disproportionately various ingredients. Sometimes his 'Sambar' would turn out bland and insipid and sometimes it would burn like lava. While we children suffered, our mother had no complaints. “Only on these days three I am, though confined to this coot, totally free,” she told once a friend of hers who wanted her to rebel against this orthodox practice of imprisoning menstruating women.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/quarantined-queens-1004916.html
05-07-2021||Second Edit||Uttarakhand: 4 months, 3 Chief Ministers||The resignation of Tirath Singh Rawat as chief minister and the appointment of Pushkar Singh Dhami as the new leader of Uttarakhand brings into stark focus the failure of the BJP to provide a stable government in the state where it has got an overwhelming strength of 57 MLAs in a 70-member Assembly. Rawat was in office for only 114 days and had been selected by the party’s central leadership to replace Trivendra Singh Rawat who had become unpopular with his style of functioning, lack of contact with MLAs and some controversial decisions. The party decided that it should go into the Assembly elections to be held next year under a new leader. But Tirath Singh Rawat exited last week with nothing much to show other than a reversal of some of his predecessor’s decisions and some embarrassing statements.  The ostensible reason for Tirath Singh’s resignation is that he would not have been able to meet the constitutional requirement of getting elected to the Assembly within six months. But there was a by-election in the state in April which he did not contest for unknown reasons. Just like his predecessor, he was also considered an imposition from the Central leadership. Handpicking leaders and foisting them on states has become the norm for the BJP, as in the case of the Congress which started the practice some decades ago. This has coincided with the rise of Narendra Modi as the supreme leader. Many leaders who had roots in their states have been eclipsed and the new leaders owe their positions to the top leadership. This has set the party back in states like Maharashtra, Haryana and Jharkhand. When state governments and parties are run by remote control from Delhi, they become weak. Dhami is also a central nominee, and does not even have ministerial experience. There are already reports of unhappiness about his selection.  Uttarakhand has its special political and social circumstances that made governments unstable. Ever since its formation in 2000, the state has had 10 chief ministers, and only ND Tiwari completed a full term. It has especially been vulnerable because of its caste and regional fault lines. The divide between the Garhwal and the Kumaon regions and the rivalry between Brahmins and Rajputs has been a problem for the BJP in the state. When it selected Tirath Singh as chief minister in March, it tried a communal balance with a Brahmin from the plains as party president. Dhami is a Rajput, and it is to be seen whether he can lead the party to success in the Assembly elections in which it will face stiff contests from the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/uttarakhand-4-months-3-chief-ministers-1004928.html
05-07-2021||South||Ex-AIADMK minister took 1.5 tonnes of sweets home, alleges Tamil Nadu Dairy Minister||K T Rajenthra Balaji, Minister during the AIADMK regime, had last year taken away nearly 1.50 tonne sweets from the manufacturing unit of state-run milk producer, 'Aavin', Dairy Minister S M Nasar alleged here on Sunday. Nasar said he has adequate documents to support his claim and the government would take action after an enquiry. "Balaji has taken away 1.50 tonnes of sweets during last year's Deepavali festival season. We have adequate proof for that," he claimed while addressing reporters. Balaji was Dairy Minister during the previous AIADMK regime. "There are enough details, he has taken the sweets from here (manufacturing unit) without making any payment. We will be taking action after conducting a proper investigation", he said. Earlier, he inspected the manufacturing unit of Tamilnadu Co-operative Milk Producers' Federation. Meanwhile, Nasar's claim echoed in the social media and the former AIADMK minister was targeted over the allegation. 'Aavin' is the popular brand name of several products of TNCMPF and the federation is also commonly referred to as 'Aavin.' Nasar said some 'irregularities' have also taken place over job appointments at the dairy unit. Jobs were secured through brokers or middle men, he alleged. "We will investigate the matter and suitable action will be taken..", he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ex-aiadmk-minister-took-15-tonnes-of-sweets-home-alleges-tamil-nadu-dairy-minister-1004965.html
05-07-2021||South||Krishna river board biased towards Telangana, claims AP CM Jaganmohan reddy||Andhra Pradesh chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy has alleged that the Krishna River Management Board is discriminating against the interests of his state. Amid the standoff between AP and Telangana due to Reddy's Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Project (RLIS) to draw Srisailam reservoir water and K Chandrasekhhar Rao's decision to use Krishna waters for power generation, the AP CM wrote another letter to union water resources minister Gajendra Shekhawat accusing Rao government of showing a “belligerent attitude.” Referring to his earlier letter on 1 July, Reddy said that Telangana is producing hydel power at Srisailam, Nagarjuna Sagar and Pulichintala, and “water is being wasted into the Bay of Bengal due to the surplus at Prakasam Barrage.” “Telangana is not allowing water levels to build up in Srisailam reservoir and has utilized 19 TMC for power generation out of the 26 TMC inflows since 1 June. In view of this adamant attitude, reaching 854 feet level seems Herculean, which is essential for drawing water through gravity for schemes dependent on Pothireddypadu Head regulator. This will cause severe distress to the chronically drought prone Rayalaseema, Nellore, Prakasam districts and also Chennai city, as they depend on Srisailam for drinking water and irrigation needs.” Reddy further said that the KRMB, “supposedly a neutral body to safeguard the interests of both states” is acting with a bias towards Telangana. “KRMB acts swiftly on the false complaints of Telangana and ignores the genuine complaints of Andhra Pradesh,” charged the CM in his missive on Monday. “KRMB is repeatedly proposing for site visit of RLIS under the guise of NGT order ignoring the prior requests of AP to visit the unauthorized project sites of Telangana.” Reddy said that Rao government is constructing “the unauthorized” Palamuru RangaReddy, Dindi etc lift irrigation schemes, in spite of repeated complaints to KRMB. Reddy asked Shekhawat to direct the board to function neutrally and that “it may be directed to first visit Telangana's unauthorized projects under execution before visiting RLIS.” The CM has restated his demand for immediate notification of KRMB jurisdiction and for “all the off takes including water for irrigation, power generation, drinking water on common reservoirs kept under KRMB control with CISF security for effective operation and maintenance in the interest of both states.' In another letter to the minister for environment, forest and climate change Prakash Javadekar, Reddy has sought swift environmental clearances for RLIS, “as it does not involve land acquisition, forest area, wildlife sanctuary and is located 10 kms beyond the eco sensitive zone.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/krishna-river-board-biased-towards-telangana-claims-ap-cm-jaganmohan-reddy-1005070.html
05-07-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh govt announces further Covid curfew relaxations||Cinema halls, dine-in restaurants, gymnasiums and marriage halls will reopen from July 8, albeit with half capacity, as the Andhra Pradesh government on Monday decided to further relax the Covid curfew following a drastic decline in the infection spread. Only in the two Godavari districts, East and West, curfew will be relaxed from 6 AM to 7 PM daily as the Covid-19 positivity rate continues to be over five per cent. In the remaining 11 districts, only night curfew from 10 PM to 6 AM will be in place. In these 11 districts, businesses could run from 6 AM to 9 PM and in the Godavari districts till 6 PM. The revised curfew hours will come into force from July 8, a release from the Chief Minister's Office said. The decision to further relax the curfew was taken at a high-level review meeting on Covid situation, chaired by Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, here on Monday. The release said the Chief Minister directed the officials concerned to take necessary steps based on the infection spread. Restrictions would be in place till the positivity rate drops below five per cent, it said. Cinema halls could run the shows with alternate seating arrangement. "All establishments should strictly follow the Covid protocols. Covid Appropriate Behaviour like wearing of facial masks, hand sanitisation and physical distancing are a must," the CMO release added. The Covid curfew has been in force in AP since May 5 following the spurt in coronavirus cases in the second wave. From time to time since then, the government had been relaxing the curfew duration as the cases started declining in June. Till July 7, curfew will be in force from 9 PM to 6 AM in eight districts and from 6 PM to 6 AM in the remaining five, including the two Godavari districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-govt-announces-further-covid-curfew-relaxations-1005080.html
05-07-2021||South||E-pass must to for tourists enter Nilgiris from these Karnataka and Kerala||Tourists and general public coming from Kerala and Karnataka must have e-passes to enter Nilgiris district, Collector J Innocent Divya said here on Monday. Besides, the decision to open the famous tourist places in the district will be taken after the directions from the State government, the Nilgiris Collector told reporters here. She was speaking on the sidelines of the opening of a Rs 65 lakh Government Sait Memorial Maternity Hospital. The state government had on Friday removed requirement of e-pass, mandated for purposes like travel in 11 specific districts, as it announced relaxations in Covid-19 restrictions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/e-pass-must-to-for-tourists-enter-nilgiris-from-these-karnataka-and-kerala-1005081.html
05-07-2021||South||Knowledge of zoonotic diseases important, says Kerala Health Minister Veena George||With two-thirds of communicable diseases being animal-borne, they can be prevented only if there is knowledge about zoonotic diseases, Kerala Health Minister Veena George said on Monday. In a statement released on the eve of World Zoonoses Day, the minister said that among new and recurring diseases which pose a challenge to public health all over the world, animal-borne infections have an enormous effect. "Two-thirds of communicable diseases are animal-borne," she said in the statement. She further said that besides the common zoonotic diseases, likeleptospirosis, scrub typhus, monkey fever, Nipah, rabies, Japanese fever and West Nile fever, which are commonly reported in Kerala, Covid-19 also poses athreat to publichealth. George said that human-animal interactions were unavoidable, but precautions can be taken to prevent transfer of viruses, bacteria or parasites from animals to humans. "Humans, knowingly or unknowingly, interact directly with wildlife in many areas, such as employment, food, animal husbandry, education, recreation, and forest and wildlife conservation.Therefore, they can be prevented only if there is knowledge about zoonotic diseases," she added. Some of the precautions suggested by her were — being careful while interacting with animals or their body fluids, washing hands with soap after any contact with animals, preventing pets from licking on the face or lips and ensuring they are immunized timely. She also said that people under the age of 5 years and over 65, who have weak immune systems, and pregnant women should be careful when interacting with animals. Besides that, those going for work or recreation in forest areas should take personal safety measures, she said. "Only through collective action in the areas of health, animal husbandry, forestry, environment, agriculture, education, economics, communication and information technology can animal diseases, including Covid-19, be prevented and controlled," she said in the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/knowledge-of-zoonotic-diseases-important-says-kerala-health-minister-veena-george-1005119.html
05-07-2021||South||Turning obstacle into an opportunity: How a Tamil Nadu village solved its problem||Varadharajapuram, a peri-urban area very close to Chennai, had a peculiar problem. With nearly 400 cattle and bereft of any vacant land, villagers began dumping cow dung in its large water body, thereby polluting it. Cut to July 2021. The water body is not just clean but the street lights in the village are now being powered by electricity that is generated out of the cow dung from its large cattle population and food waste. Not just that, the residual manure is now used to grow chilli and bananas in an area of 2 acres in the district. The bio-gas plant set up at Rs 60 lakhs by Carbon Loop, a start-up, in collaboration with the Tiruvallur District Rural Development Agency now produces 200 units of electricity per day that is enough to light up the street lights in the village near Poonamallee off the Chennai-Bengaluru Highway. Though the plant was inaugurated in January this year, the production and powering of street lights took some time due to the Covid-19 lockdown. The lights were switched on to clean energy last week and buoyed by the success, the district administration is planning to replicate the model in at least two more villages. “Our village has always had a huge cattle population as the primary occupation of our people is to sell milk. Since the village lacked a drainage facility, people began dumping cow dung on the water body polluting it completely. Today we are generating electricity from the cow dung and powering our village lights,” V Kalaiarasu, President of Varadharajapuram panchayat, told DH. The village, which has 920 households and a population of 4,300 persons, will now save nearly Rs 1 lakh in electricity bills as Carbon Loop plans to power borewells and other equipment through clean power. The village panchayat pays nearly 1.30 lakh as charges monthly for the electricity it consumes. “We are happy that the street lights in Varadharajapuram are now powered through clean energy generated out of waste, especially cow dung. The biogas plant has now lit up the entire village and we are elated that the residual manure is being used to grow bananas and chilli,” Kern Agrawal, Director, Carbon Loop, told DH. The biogas plant can handle two metric tonnes of waste at a time. The cow dung that is flushed in the village is collected and dumped at the biogas facility by sanitary workers every day which is then converted into clean energy. Agrawal added that the residual manure generated from the waste will be helpful for 100 farmers in the district to take up organic farming.  Alby John, Tiruvallur District Collector, told DH: “It is a great initiative where a long-standing local problem was solved with technology. Such local solutions will help us a lot in addressing the bigger issue of solid waste management.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/turning-obstacle-into-an-opportunity-how-a-tamil-nadu-village-solved-its-problem-1005157.html
05-07-2021||South||Gold Smuggling case: Swapna Suresh moves bail plea in Kerala HC||The prime accused in the gold smuggling case through diplomatic channel, Swapna Suresh, on Monday moved the Kerala High court seeking bail in the case registered by the National Investigation Agency. Suresh approached the court against the NIA court order denying bail. In her bail application, Suresh said the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act case against her will not stand the test of law.She also said the trial in the case was prolonging endlessly. The bail applications of seven accused in the case, including Suresh, K T Ramees, Sandeep Nair and P S Sarith, were dismissed by the NIA Special court on March 22. Various central investigating agencies are probing the gold smuggling case after nearly 15 kg of gold was seized at Thiruvanathapuram airport on July 5 last year from a diplomatic baggage addressed to the UAE consulate there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/gold-smuggling-case-swapna-suresh-moves-bail-plea-in-kerala-hc-1005158.html
05-07-2021||South||Job loss and row over ease of doing business put NRIs from Kerala in catch-22 situation||The ongoing row in Kerala over ease of doing business seems to have triggered concerns among the scores of NRIs from the state who lost their jobs owing to Covid and were exploring self-employment options. Among the 15 lakh NRIs from Kerala who returned after the pandemic started, 10.73 lakh had mentioned job loss as the reason for returning. Apart from this, scores of NRIs who came down on leave are now unable to return owing to the entry restrictions imposed by many countries. The Kerala government has been wooing the skilled returnees to invest in Kerala. However, the ongoing row over ease of doing business in the state, which was triggered by an announcement of Kitex Garments chairman Sabu M Jacob to backtrack from a Rs 3,500 crore investment proposal in Kerala, has reportedly led to concerns among many NRIs who were planning investments in Kerala. This was reflected at a webinar on 'Industrial friendly Kerala' organised by the Central Travancore Chamber of Commerce (CTCC) on Saturday. CTCC president Fr Abraham Mulamoottil told DH that many NRIs who already returned or who were planning to return attended the webinar. Many of them were expressing serious concerns over investing in Kerala, especially in the backdrop of the recent row over the allegations raised by Kitex Garments regarding the ease of doing business here. "Majority of the NRIs who lost jobs were middle aged or above. Hence the chances of getting fresh jobs for them is very bleak, and many were planning some investments in Kerala. But owing to the concerns over ease of doing business, many are now exploring the option of getting any sorts of job or some small-scale investment," he said. The job loss of NRIs from Kerala is also a major cause for concern for the state's economy as NRI deposits of the state come to around Rs 2.3 lakh crore. Though there was a slight dip in the NRI deposits to Kerala during the onset of the pandemic, the annual figures of 2020 had show a 14 per cent increase. However, the state's economy already started feeling the pinch of the crisis among the NRIs as the real estate and construction sectors, which were the areas were NRIs used to make maximum investment, is already witnessing a fall in the investments. Thiruvananthapuram Chamber of Commerce and Industry president S Raghuchandran Nair said that the state's real estate and construction sector is in deep crisis as major chunk of the customers were NRIs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/job-loss-and-row-over-ease-of-doing-business-put-nris-from-kerala-in-catch-22-situation-1005169.html
05-07-2021||South||Kerala records 8,037 fresh Covid-19 cases, 102 deaths||Kerala on Monday recorded 8,037 fresh Covid-19 cases, pushing the infection caseload to 29,81,721, while 102 fatalities took the toll to 13,818. As many as 11,346 people have recovered from the infection, taking the total recoveries to 28,66,806 and the number of active cases in the state was 1,00,626, a state government release said. Thrissur topped in the number of cases (922), followed by Palakkad (902), Malappuram (894), Kozhikode (758), Thiruvananthapuram (744), Kollam (741), Ernakulam (713), Kannur (560) and Alappuzha (545). Of the new cases, 37 are health workers, 15 had come from outside the state and 7,361 were infected through contact with the source of contact not being clear in 624 cases, the release said. In the last 24 hours ending 2 PM, 80,134 samples were tested and the Test Positivity Rate (TPR) was 10.03 per cent. So far, 2,36,36,292 samples have been tested. There are currently 3,94,627 people under surveillance in various districts of the state. Of these, 3,70,055 are in home or institutional quarantine and 24,572 in hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-records-8037-fresh-covid-19-cases-102-deaths-1005205.html
05-07-2021||South||Six-year-old child killed after three years of sexual assault in Kerala||A youth held for murdering a six-year-old girl child in Kerala's Idukki district has confessed to the police that the child was sexually abused several times over the last three years. A child of a plantation worker couple at Vandiperiyar in Idukki was subjected to brutal sexual assault, leading to death. The child was found dead in her house on June 30 when the parents returned after work. A rope was found tangled around her neck, and hence it was assumed to as an accident death while playing. But further investigation found that the child was sexually abused and the accused Arjun, 22, who was a neighbour, was held on the basis of scientific evidence. On quizzing, he confessed that he was sexually abusing the child over the last three years. He killed the child using rope after she became unconscious, police sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/six-year-old-child-killed-after-three-years-of-sexual-assault-in-kerala-1005207.html
05-07-2021||South||HC refuses to quash I-T notices against Karti Chidambaram||The Madras High Court on Monday refused to quash the show cause notice of the Income Tax department issued against Karti Chidambaram, son of former Union Finance minister P Chidambaram and Sivaganga MP and others, for the assessment years 2014-15 and 2015-16. The charge against Karti was that he had sold 5.11 acres to Agni Estates and Foundations Private Limited and in the deal Rs 6.38 crore had escaped the assessment for 2014-15. The Assessing Officer initiated proceedings against him under Section 148 of the I T Act. Karti and others involved in the deal sought to quash the proceedings as "illegal, without jurisdiction and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution." Dismissing the petitions, Justice S M Subramaniyan pointed out that the writ petitions were filed challenging the show cause notices issued under Section 153C of the IT Act. "The procedures for assessment/reassessment are yet to commence. The petitioners are expected to avail the opportunity and defend their case in the manner known to law." The judge said the scope of judicial review under Article 226 of the Constitution is to scrutinize the processes and procedures through which a decision is arrived at in consonance with the provisions of the Statutes by the competent authority, but not the decision itself. In the present case, the competent authority must be allowed to scrutinize the searched and impounded materials and provide an opportunity to the assessees to defend their case. Such an adjudicatory process alone would provide justice to the parties and therefore, this Court is not inclined to interfere at the stage of 'show cause notice' as far as the present writ petitions are concerned. "The factual controversies and intricacies involved are to be adjudicated elaborately for the purpose of culling out the truth and such an adjudication is the dictum of law. Thus, any interference at this stage would cause prejudice to the due process of law to be undertaken by the authorities," the judge said and directed the IT officials to proceed with the assessment/reassessment by following the procedures as contemplated and by affording opportunity to the petitioners and complete the same as expeditiously as possible.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hc-refuses-to-quash-i-t-notices-against-karti-chidambaram-1005255.html
05-07-2021||South||CPM to stage protests in Tamil Nadu seeking action against those 'responsible' for Stan Swamy's death||Demanding action against those 'responsible' for the death of Jesuit priest Stan Swamy, the CPI(M) Tamil Nadu state committee on Monday announced that it would hold state-wide demonstrations on July 8, opposing 'injustice' and seeking action. Appropriate action should be taken against those who were "responsible for Swamy's death through acts like foisting a false case and treating him inhumanely," the Marxist party said. The human rights activist was a native of Tiruchirappalli in Tamil Nadu who tirelessly worked for the rights of tribal people in Jharkhand, the CPI(M) said, condoling Swamy's death. All those arrested in Bhima Koregaon and other cases with 'political motives',besides those imprisoned under 'draconian' laws should be released, CPI(M) State secretary K Balakrishnan demanded in a statement. People should raise their voice against Swamy's death, "which is an injustice," and they must protest against usurpation of freedom of expression and filing "false cases" and imprisoning those who criticised the government, he said. Expressing shock over the priest's death, Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi chief Thol Thirumavalavan alleged that Swamy was arrested in a "false case." Swamy's death was a "murder committed by the BJP government with the help of the law and cannot be regarded as a coronavirus death," the VCK chief said. An accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, 84-year old Swamy died in custody at a hospital in Mumbai on Monday and he awaited bail on medical grounds. Swamy was arrested by the National Investigation Agency in October 2020 and was lodged in Taloja prison in Maharashtra. Later, he was admitted to the private hospital on May 29 following an order of the Bombay High Court on a petition filed by him, seeking medical attention as he was then suffering from Covid-19 and Parkinson's disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cpm-to-stage-protests-in-tamil-nadu-seeking-action-against-those-responsible-for-stan-swamys-death-1005262.html
05-07-2021||South||Rs 18 crore raised through crowdfunding for Kerala boy's treatment||A crowdfunding initiative for an 18-month-old child in Kerala requiring Zolgensma, the medicine prescribed for the disease, costing around Rs. 18 crores has been achieved in a few days' time. Mohammed, son of Rafeeq and Mariam hailing from Mattool in Kannur district in Kerala, has been suffering from Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA), a genetic disease affecting the central nervous system. The medicine Zolgensma was prescribed for him, costing around Rs 18 crore for a single dose, which the middle-class family could not afford. The couple's elder daughter Afra, who is 15, is also infected with the same disease, and owing to delay in diagnosis and treatment she is paralysed below the waist. Hence she could move around only in a wheelchair. Some local people who came across the plight of the family initiated crowdfunding a few days back. In the initial few days itself, the family received around Rs. 4 crores. With the social media campaign for the child going viral over the last two days, the family received a call from their bank by Monday afternoon alerting that already Rs 18 core reached the account. Rafeeq told a section of media that he never ever dreamt of raising such a huge amount. The family also appealed that since they already got the money required for treatment people may stop contributing further.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rs-18-crore-raised-through-crowdfunding-for-kerala-boys-treatment-1005280.html
05-07-2021||South||Will quit politics if allegations are true: Sudhakaran||Congress president in Kerala K Sudhakaran alleged that a vigilance enquiry against him was a politically motivated one by the left front government. He told reporters that he would quit politics if the allegation against him were proved. The Kerala Vigilance and Anti Corruption Bureau initiated a quick verification into a petition alleging the misappropriation of party funds. Sudhakaran said that the probe was based on a petition filed by a person who was expelled from the Congress party earlier. Apart from a series of allegations of fund misappropriation, the petitioner also alleged that Sudhakaran constructed a house worth Rs. 6 crore and purchased many vehicles using the illegal wealth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/will-quit-politics-if-fund-misappropriation-allegations-found-true-kerala-congress-president-1005285.html
05-07-2021||South||Petitions filed against Kerala CPM MLA M Mukesh at child rights commissions||Various outfits including the Youth Congress filed petitions against actor-turned Kerala CPM MLA M Mukesh for allegedly speaking arrogantly to a class 10 student who rang him up seeking assistance. Petitions were filed both at the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights as well as as the Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights. Though Mukesh alleged that the call was part of a political ploy against him, the student hailing from Ottapalam of Palakkad district told the local media that he had called the MLA seeking assistance for the education of some of his friends. Mukesh's justification for talking arrogantly was that the boy repeatedly called while he was in an online meeting. Mukesh even told the boy that the one who gave the boy his phone number should be beaten. He also said that the boy should be also beaten as he did not know who is the local MLA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/petitions-filed-against-kerala-cpm-mla-m-mukesh-at-child-rights-commissions-1005297.html
05-07-2021||State||Karnataka to continue legal battle on Mekedatu project across Cauvery river||Karnataka will continue its legal battle on implementation of the Mekedatu project across river Cauvery, Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Monday, as Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's letter to his Tamil Nadu counterpart urging him not to object to it, did not elicit a positive response. However, the Opposition Congress has termed Yediyurappa's move of writing a letter to Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin regarding Mekedatu project as "wrong". "Tamil Nadu has objected to all our projects from KRS to till now.As the government has changed there, our intention was to make them aware that this project was aimed at drinking water and power to Karnataka, and to manage water between both states during distress year," Bommai said. Speaking to reporters here, he said the tone and tenor of the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister's response to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's letter was not appropriate. "We have been fighting for Karnataka's rights in the Cauvery basin and have been successful, this matter is also before the Supreme Court, we are putting forward our case.We will continue our legal battle for our rights.We are confident of winning it and completing the Mekedatu project," he said, adding that the state will also get required approvals and clearances from the Centre. Yediyurappa on Saturday wrote to his Tamil Nadu counterpart Stalin urging him not to oppose the Mekedatu project "in the right spirit" and offered to hold a bilateral meeting to address any issues. In response, Stalin on Sunday urged Yediyurappa not to pursue the Mekedatu project, as he rejected Karnataka's stand that implementation of the project would not affect the interests of Tamil Nadu farmers. Stating that Tamil Nadu has the right to ask for its share of water as per the tribunal's order, Leader of Opposition in the state assembly, Siddaramaiah said: "However, we need not ask for their permission to construct a "balancing reservoir within our territory". "Yediyurappa writing a letter to Stalin (TN CM) was wrong, he (TN CM) will naturally oppose it. We need not ask them, without asking we can go ahead with our work. While we (Congress) were in power, we had sent to the Centre (seeking necessary approvals), put pressure on the centre, take necessary approvals and go ahead," he added. State Congress President D K Shivakumar too termed Yediyurappa writing a letter to Tamil Nadu Chief Minister as "outrageous" and reflection of a lack of political will. "After Hon'ble SC had unequivocally stated in its Constitutional Bench judgement that a State need not seek permission from another riparian State for its projects, Karnataka CM seeking permission from TN CM is outrageous.It is a clear reflection of a lack of political will," he tweeted. "When Congress was in power in Karnataka, we had already begun the process of floating tenders for Mekedatu project.Why couldn't the CM simply carry on with the same process and give out tenders? Being misinformed is one thing, lacking intent is another," he added. JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy asked the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister to take a decision on the Mekedatu project with a sense of magnanimity considering Kannadigas as brothers, and thereby cooperate in ensuring cordial relationship between both states. "It is the responsibility of Karnataka to provide TN's share of water as per the tribunal's order.It is our opinion that we should be like brothers.They (TN) also should not forget that farmers of both states are like brothers. The intention behind the Mekedatu project is to store excess water that is going into the sea and it will be beneficial to both states," he said. Mekedatu is a multipurpose (drinking and power) project, which involves building a balancing reservoir, near Kanakapura in Ramanagara district. Tamil Nadu has been vehemently opposing it, raising apprehensions that the state will be affected if the project takes shape. The project once completed is aimed at ensuring drinking water to Bengaluru and neighbouring areas (4.75 TMC) and also can generate 400 MW power. The estimated cost is Rs 9,000 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-to-continue-legal-battle-on-mekedatu-project-across-cauvery-river-1005259.html
05-07-2021||State||PM Modi, US V-P Kamala Harris to be invited for tech summit ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US Vice-President Kamala Harris will be invited to the Karnataka government's flagship annual event Bengaluru Tech Summit-2021 (BTS-2021) from November 17-19. Announcing this on Monday, Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan said the summit would be held in hybrid format. Narayan, who also holds the IT/Bt and S&T portfolio, convened a preparatory meeting with officials of the Department of Electronics, IT/Bt and S&T, and Chairpersons of the Vision groups today. Kris Gopalakrishna, Chairperson, State Vision Group for I-T, Dr Kiran Majumdar Shaw, Chairperson, State Vision Group for BT, Prashanth Prakash, Chairperson of State Vision Group for Start-ups, virtually attended the meeting. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be invited to inaugurate the conclave and US Vice-President Kamala Harris will be invited to participate in the event," Narayan said. In view of the possible third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the conclave Driving the Next would be organised in the hybrid format comprising more of virtual and a part of the physical model, the Deputy Chief Minister was quoted as saying by his office in a release. Last year, the event held in virtual mode for the first time evoked an overwhelming response from experts and delegates, and more than 25 countries had participated. This is expected to further increase in the forthcoming event, he added. According to the release, the first day of the summit would be Thought Leadership Day (Hall of Fame), the second day would be 'Technologies and Strategies Day (Hall of Techies) and the third StartUps Day (Hall of Future). Prior to these, Beyond Bengaluru events would be conducted in Mysuru, Hubballi, and Mangaluru during September and October. The dates would be decided upon shortly. Central Ministers Nirmala Sitaraman, Ravishankar Prasad, Harsha Vardhan and Nitin Gadkari, among others, would be invited to participate in the programmes, Narayan said. During the Beyond Bengaluru events, the reports pertaining to Karnataka Digital Economy Mission (KDEM), Engineering R&D, and IESA (Indian Electronics and Semi-conductor Association) would be released, he said. To give prominence to academic participation in the events, it has been decided to involve Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) and Higher Education Council, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pm-modi-us-v-p-kamala-harris-to-be-invited-for-tech-summit-1005274.html
05-07-2021||State||Stage dharna for special grants, Siddaramaiah tells CM||Opposition leader Siddaramaiah, on Monday, dared Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to stage a dharna in front of Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman's residence demanding the release of special grants to Karnataka. He accused Yediyurappa of being "meek" in front of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Nirmala, adding that the CM portrayed himself as powerful only in Karnataka. His situation was akin to the proverbial "dog" behaving like a "tiger" in his locality, Siddaramaiah said, quoting the Hindi proverb "Hamara kutta hamare galli mein sher". Siddaramaiah was speaking at a kit distribution event in Bengaluru. The Congress leader has also objected to the move by Yediyurappa to write to his Tamil Nadu counterpart M K Stalin over the Mekedatu project. "Writing the letter was a wrong move. Why do we need permission from Tamil Nadu for the project? We should do our work based on court orders," he said.  Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/stage-dharna-for-special-grants-siddaramaiah-tells-cm-1005290.html
05-07-2021||State||HC sets December 31 deadline for augmenting infrastructure at anganwadi centres||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday directed the state government to ensure electricity supply and fans at anganwadi centres by December 2021. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka directed the authorities to connect 14,948 centers with electricity and 18,974 centres with fans. The court was hearing a suo motu petition on the issue of providing infrastructure to anganwadi centres in the state. In respect to construction of toilets in the anganwadi centres, the bench said that insofar as 3,524  centres there will not be any impediment since the centres are in government buildings. The court directed the state government to commence construction of toilets in these centres and complete it by December 31, 2021. The bench has granted time till June 30, 2022 to construct toilets in remaining centres. Pointing out the observations made by the committee headed by Justice A N Venugopala Gowda, retired judge of the High Court, the court said the condition of anganwadi centres in the state “appears to be far from being satisfactory.” The report of the committee had stated severe shortage of staff at anganwadi centres. As per the report, 1,448 posts of anganwadi workers and 2,188 posts of helpers are vacant across the centres in the state. “Successful and efficient functioning of anganwadi has direct nexus with the constitutional obligation of the state government under the provision of The National Food Security Act,” the bench said.  In the previous hearing the state government had informed the court that out of 65,911 anganwadi centres in the state, 14,948 centers lack electricity connection,18,974 centers do not have fans and 13,690 centers require toilets.  In an additional affidavit, the state government said that around 6,700 anganawadi centers will be provided with electricity, 8,300 centers with fans and 3,524 centers with toilets, with funds available. The government said that work on the construction of toilets in 1,700 centers housed in government buildings will be taken up after obtaining permission from the Finance department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hc-sets-december-31-deadline-for-augmenting-infrastructure-at-anganwadi-centres-1005300.html
05-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka private schools dispute claim of record admission in govt schools||Private school managements have disputed the Karnataka government’s data about the record admissions in government schools, stating that they have not issued such a large number of transfer certificates (TCs). According to the data provided by the Department of Public Instruction, more than 16 lakh students have been enrolled at state government schools in the last 15 days since the admissions started for the current academic year. The private school management representatives called it “false data”. According to them, none of them has issued so many transfer certificates so far and even during the previous academic year. They said many schools, including the private schools, have not uploaded admission data on the Students Achievement Tracking System (SATS) as the admissions were ongoing. D Shashi Kumar, general secretary of the Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said, “If the state government is claiming 16 lakh admissions in the last 15 days, then we, the private schools, should have issued that many transfer certificates. But, that is not true.” According to Shashi Kumar and other representatives of the private schools, the 16 lakh includes those promoted to the next class at government schools during the previous academic year. “While saying admissions have increased, the government must show the new admission data and not calculate on those who have been promoted last year,” the principal of a private unaided school in Bengaluru said. The private schools even urged the government not to mislead the parents by giving such false data. “Some government school teachers have gone to the extent where they are provoking parents to get the transfer certificate from the private school, and they are even trying to rob the one available on the digital platform of the department,” the private school representatives alleged. However, the private school managements said a few parents took transfer certificates from private schools. “These cases are reported mainly in rural areas where the private schools have been closed, and students from Kannada medium private schools are migrating to government schools. Apart from this, the parents, who have not paid the previous year fees, are trying to take advantage by withdrawing their kids from private schools. But these numbers will definitely not be 16 lakh,” Shashi Kumar mentioned. Commissioner of the Department of Public Instruction Anbu Kumar was not available for comments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-private-schools-dispute-claim-of-record-admission-in-govt-schools-1004943.html
05-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Beneficiaries shy away from LPG schemes after price hike||Soaring LPG cylinder prices have now hit the Karnataka government’s Anila Bhagya scheme, pushing many BPL families away from the project. Of the 97,256 beneficiaries in the state under the scheme, over 13,000 people have not even booked a single cylinder this year, while another 20,000 beneficiaries have stopped at a single cylinder after prices crossed Rs 800. According to officials, a similar response is being observed under Centre’s Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana since last year. In Karnataka, Food and Civil Supplies Department is proposing giving five kg cylinders under Anila Bhagya to make it more affordable to the beneficiaries. After free cylinders offered by the government are exhausted, beneficiaries are not refilling them as they struggled to pay the full cylinder cost up front in rural areas despite Direct Benefit Transfer of subsidies, say officials. Anila Bhagya was launched in 2018 with an aim to cover 30 lakh BPL families. The government subsequently restricted the number of beneficiaries to one lakh. At the beginning of the year, there were 97,256 active beneficiaries under the scheme. Data shows that over 13.8% of the beneficiaries (13,461 people) have not even applied for a single cylinder, this year. The numbers dwindled further when it came to booking the second free cylinder offered after LPG prices skyrocketed from April. As many as 32,462 people have not booked a second cylinder yet. “LPG cylinders tend to last longer in rural households benefiting from the scheme, due to which refills are not done monthly,” an official from Food and Civil Supplies Department said. However, from the last two years, beneficiaries stop refilling after exhausting the free cylinders, which can last around six to seven months. B H Anil Kumar, Additional Chief Secretary, Food and Civil Supplies Department acknowledged the trend. The Department he said was mulling measures to address the problem faced by BPL families looking to refill. “We are mulling a proposal to provide 5 kg cylinders to make them more accessible to rural BPL households, and are in talks with oil companies for the same,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/beneficiaries-shy-away-from-lpg-schemes-after-price-hike-1004944.html
05-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Campaign to get official status for Tulu gains steam||A campaign to include Tulu in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution was triggered in social media on Sunday, after several politicians and language activists tweeted with the hashtag ‘#TuluTo8thSchedule’. BJP general secretary C T Ravi noted that the language spoken primarily in coastal districts of Karnataka, had its own script in the 15th century and possessed advanced grammar and vocabulary. “With nearly 19 lakh people speaking it, Tulu is a language of the masses. Inclusion of Tulu in 8th schedule will result in promoting language, culture & identity of its speakers,” he said in a tweet. Tulu language that had its own script in 15th century is said to have advanced grammar & vocabulary. With nearly 19 lakh people speaking it, Tulu is language of the masses. Inclusion of Tulu in 8th schedule will result in promoting language, culture & identity of its speakers. Congress MP G C Chandrasekhar said that Tulu should be accorded the status it deserves. JD(S) IT wing head Prathap Kanagal expressed solidarity with the campaign, tweeting, “As Kanndigas it’s our duty to stand with Tulu speakers and demand governments to bring Tulu (under) 8th Schedule”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/campaign-to-get-official-status-for-tulu-gains-steam-1004948.html
05-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Strengthen legal defence teams to protect govt land: KARC to Karnataka govt||Raising alarm over significant losses to the Karnataka exchequer due to numerous litigations over government land in Bengaluru Urban and Rural districts, the Karnataka Administrative Reforms Commission (KARC) has recommended that the government strengthen its legal defence teams in the districts.  It has also highlighted severe discrepancies in mobile number database of Revenue department bodies, such as Stamps and Registration department, as close to a quarter of the numbers were wrong as they were either dummy numbers or provided by middlemen.  The KARC report submitted to the government noted that if government lands in the twin districts “were not saved by proper legal defence, great loss would be caused to the government.” It suggested appointing a retired judge at district level as legal advisor, apart from offering such advisors to each of the tahsildars in the said districts. In its recommendations for Stamps and Registration Department, KARC noted that “20% to 25% of numbers entered in the database are wrong numbers. The feedback is that many mobile numbers are entered by middlemen either as dummy numbers or of the middlemen themselves.” Though insisting on OTPs sent to mobile numbers could cause delay in providing services, ensuring correct numbers is essential, it said. Highlighting the need to reduce delays and systemise land acquisition process, KARC said that a land acquisition management software system should be developed by the Revenue department. The Bhoomi cell has initiated steps in this regard, the report said, adding that linking all softwares concerned with land acquisition could prevent many litigations and disputes. KARC found that an average applicant visited a government office thrice or more to obtain a service. The reasons: Officer asking to re-submit documents, urgency over the documents, document applications rejected, applications misplaced and delay in providing service. “Documents once submitted for any other purpose may be stored in a database and should be auto-fetched in case of applying for any other service. Similarly, applications with any deficiencies should not be rejected summarily,” the KARC, under former chief secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar, has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/strengthen-legal-defence-teams-to-protect-govt-land-karc-to-karnataka-govt-1004950.html
05-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||KPCC to write to Guv Vajubhai Vala over vaccination||Karnataka Congress will petition Governor Vajubhai Vala urging him to direct the state government to provide two doses of vaccine to 80% of the population by the end of September. "Experts have warned of a third wave in October. If 80% of the adults are vaccinated with two doses by September 30, people can be protected as its intensity will be less (due to the vaccines)," KPCC president D K Shivakumar said. If the government fails in reaching this target, it will solely be responsible for the consequences, he said. He alleged that the BJP government has failed to secure enough vaccines for the state, despite the same party being in power at the Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kpcc-to-write-to-guv-vajubhai-vala-over-vaccination-1004953.html
05-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Temples, malls reopen in Bengaluru; confusion over pubs||The third phase of Unlock in Karnataka, starting Monday, includes the opening of temples, malls and bars. Pubgoers, however, have to wait. The bar and restaurant industry said it is yet to receive official notification about serving liquor up until Sunday night. Manu Chandra, president of the National Restaurants Association of India (NRAI), Bengaluru Chapter, said, “There is some ambiguity as the order says pubs should remain closed and bars and restaurants could open. There are people who have dual licenses (pubs and bars and restaurants). We are going to wait till Monday morning for the notification and decide what to do.” On Sunday, priests started sanitising temple premises to welcome the public. “We will allow only four devotees at a time to maintain social distancing. We have also instructed our priests to wear masks at all times and keep sanitisers inside the premises,” said K S N Dixit, president, Akhila Karnataka Muzrai Archakara Okkuta.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/temples-malls-reopen-in-bengaluru-confusion-over-pubs-1004958.html
05-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bannerghatta set for baby boom of jumbos||The Bannerghatta Biological Park (BBP) has now become the best elephant breeding zoo in the country, even amidst the pandemic-induced economic crisis. The jumbo-friendly ambience and proper nutritional care of the gentle giants by the BBP staffers has resulted in successful conceiving of elephants in recent times. Barring a couple of calves among the 14 female jumbos, most have conceived, officials said. According to veterinarians, BBP has seen good birth rate among elephants due to the utmost care and better herd management techniques. Dr Umashankar, assistant director of veterinary services at BBP, said, “There are a number of factors responsible for this. BBP is the only zoo in the country attached to a national park. Also, we are the only zoo to allow elephants to roam in the wild. We release them into the forest during night and bring them back to the zoo in the morning. This ensures semi-wildness and also a chance to mingle with the wild herd.” Interestingly, while it takes about 12 to 14 years for an elephant in other camps or zoos to attain the conceiving stage, in Bannerghatta, elephants are conceiving as early as nine years of age, officials said. “It is the nutritional care, proper herd management and stress-free ambience which allows them to conceive early. Further, all of them are healthy and doing well,” Umashankar said. Vanashree Vipin Singh, executive director of BBP, said, “There are about 14 females and 11 male jumbos at BBP. The zoo has one of the best facilities for elephants as they forage on natural fodder in the forest during night. They are also fed nutritious meal, including green fodder and seasonal fruits, at the zoo during the day. Zoo-keepers along with mahouts and kavadis attend to elephants all through the day, providing the best of facilities.” Education officer at BBP and animal behaviour analyst Amla M Anil has worked on closely understanding the behaviour of rescued jumbos and helping them to adapt to the scenario. Some of the antics similar to humans, like using twigs as ear buds, by these elephants, especially 21-year-old tusker Sunder rescued from a temple in Kolhapur, has left experts puzzled. BBP already has the distinction of housing the largest concentration of carnivore animals. In the last one year, alongside elephants, the park has witnessed several births including two tiger cubs and about 10 lion cubs. BBP had even gifted lion cubs to other zoos in Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bannerghatta-set-for-baby-boom-of-jumbos-1004959.html
05-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt to promote all II PUC students||The Karnataka government on Monday submitted before the High Court that it will promote all II PU students, including repeaters. Earlier, the Department of Pre-University Education (DPUE) had announced its decision to promote regular/fresher students of II PU while holding examinations only for repeaters. The state government submitted that it will promote regular/fresher II PU students by considering 45 per cent of their SSLC marks, 45 per cent of the I PU marks and 10 per cent of the internal assessment marks of II PU. The government also said that it will promote all the repeaters by giving grace marks to the marks obtained by such candidates in the earlier attempt in the respective subject.  However, private candidates who are appearing for the II PU were excluded from the policy of promotion without examination. Recording this statement, a division bench headed by Justice B V Nagarathna disposed of the PIL filed by S V Singre Gowda. The petition claimed that repeaters/failed II PU candidates are being forced to write examinations, whereas fresh candidates have been promoted without any examination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-to-promote-all-ii-puc-students-1005068.html
05-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Kumaraswamy meets CM against leasing out 'MySugar', targets Mandya MP Sumalatha Ambareesh||JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy on Monday met Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa requesting him not to permit the leasing out to private industries the state-owned "MySugar" (Mysore Sugar) factory in Mandya. The former Chief Minister also made personal attacks against Mandya MP Sumalatha Ambareesh in connection with the issue, which elicited sharp reaction from the actor-turned politician. "I met the Chief Minister along with our MLAs and MLCs from Mandya district, as farmer leaders from Mandya district had met me recently regarding discussion at the officials level to hand over the MySugar factory to private players," Kumaraswamy said. He pointed out that the factory built during the time of "Maharajas" of Mysuru and Sir M Visvesvaraya has a history and "it is the wish of every one" that it should be under the government's control. "I met the Chief Minister today and requested him that the MySugar factory in Mandya should not be given to private hands for any reason, as it has its own history. The Chief Minister has assured me that he will not permit the factory to go into private hands.I thank him on behalf of the people of Mandya," he told reporters. The JD(S) leader along with his party legislators met Yediyurappa at the latter's official residence, which the CMO said was a "courtesy call". Similar visits by the former Chief Minister to Yediyurappa's residence in September and November last year had then created a flutter in political circles, triggering speculation about possible political realignments. Further, noting that there was a proposal before the government to give the MySugar factory on a 40 years lease to a private party, he requested the Chief Minister not accept it for any reason, and hit out at Mandya MP Sumalatha Ambareesh, without taking her name. "You have to ask her...probably Mandya district never had such a Member of Parliament and will never have one," he said in response to a question on who was pushing for the proposal. Citing Sumalatha's recent statement expressing concerns about the safety of KRS dam at a meeting, he said, the MP has spoken as though she will protect the dam. "Probably if she is made to sleep at the doors of KRS everything will be tightened and the water won't flow. Without knowing about the work that is to be done, making unnecessary statements out of personal grudge won't work," the JD(S) leader said. Claiming that the MP got elected on the basis of sympathy, Kumaraswamy said, "such opportunities will not come often; the opportunity that she has got because of the sympathy should be utilised properly by working for the people or else they will teach her a lesson". Hitting back at Kumaraswamy for personal attacks against her, Sumalatha said, it shows his "culture and personality." "Parliament election results in Mandya have proved as to whom the people wanted to teach a lesson, she said, "Leave aside that I'm a MP- making personal attacks against a woman- what kind of culture is this? You were a former CM, don't you have control over your language? Don't you have basic knowledge about how to speak in public," she said. Rejecting charges that she was pushing for handing over MySugar factory to private industries, the MP said she had only requested the Chief Minister to open the factory in "some model" following an appeal by the farmers, and had said that it is left for the government as to which model it opts for. Noting that illegal mining was happening near KRS dam and it may cause damage to it, Sumalatha said she has not personally accused anybody behind it and, following her initiative, action was taken and a fine was imposed against those who indulged in such activities. "...why is someone worried about it, is the question you (media) have to ask them," she added. Nikhil, the son of then Chief Minister Kumaraswamy, was defeated by Sumalatha, an independent candidate, by 1,25,876 votes in the 2019 polls in Mandya Lok Sabha constituency, which had seen a bitterly contested campaign. During the election campaign, several JD(S) leaders had indulged in personal attacks against Sumalatha, the widow of popular actor-turned politician M H Ambareesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kumaraswamy-meets-cm-against-leasing-out-mysugar-targets-mandya-mp-sumalatha-ambareesh-1005127.html
05-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Let Sumalatha lie down at KRS gates to stop water seepage: HDK makes jibe at Mandya MP||JD(S) leader and former Chief Minister HD Kumaraswamy courted controversy on Monday by asking Mandya MP Sumalatha to "lie down" at the KRS gates to stop water seepage. Speaking to media persons after meeting Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa here, Kumaraswamy alleged that Sumalatha who was in power only because of people's "sympathy", had failed as an MP. Referring to alleged illegal mining near KRS raised by the MP in a recent District Development, Coordination and Monitoring Committee (DISHA) meeting, Kumaraswamy said these meetings were meant to review the implementation of the Centre's schemes at the district-level but the MP was speaking about cracks in the dam because of illegal mining.  "We should make her lie down at the KRS gates to stop water seepage from the dam," Kumaraswamy said. Officials have already examined it and have said there are no cracks in the dam, he claimed. People will give a befitting reply to Sumalatha in the next election, he added.  In a sharp retort and demanding an apology for his derogatory comment, Sumalatha said his statement reflected his "culture". As a former Chief Minister, Kumaraswamy should know better not to make such personal comments on women. It seems he has no control over his words, she countered.  She had flagged concerns about the illegal mining around KRS several times and had even brought it to the notice of Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani. "Illegal mining is a threat to the dam. It is also causing huge losses to the state exchequer. I have never pointed out any names concerning this issue. But some people get agitated when I talk about illegal mining," Sumalatha further stated.  As for Kumaraswamy's indirect jibe that she wanted Mandya's MySugar factory to be privatised, Sumalatha said all she wanted was for the factory to reopen and the ultimate decision remained with the government. "It is immaterial to me whether the government runs it or privatises it. In the interest of farmers, the factory must reopen," she told reporters.  On Monday, both Kumaraswamy and Sumalatha met Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa. Kumaraswamy urged the government not to privatise MySugar factory. Sumalatha submitted a representation with regard to the illegal mining around KRS, reopening of MySugar factory, and Covid management in Mandya district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/let-sumalatha-lie-down-at-krs-gates-to-stop-water-seepage-hdk-makes-jibe-at-mandya-mp-1005236.html
05-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Tamil Nadu river linking project: Karnataka yet to file appeal in Supreme Court||Despite Karnataka's legal team preparing a petition to file in the Supreme Court against Cauvery-Vellaru-Vaigai-Gundar linking scheme in Tamil Nadu, the state government is yet to give its nod. "The legal team has prepared and submitted a draft petition to the state government two months back. But the state government is yet to give approval to to file it in Supreme Court," sources in the state government said. "If the state government is serious about its objection, they should have taken quick decision on draft petition. The greater the delay in filing, the lesser would be chance to win the case," said a lawyer. Earlier, Karnataka apprehended that Tamil Nadu may lay a claim on surplus water in Karnataka's side of Cauvery basin if the neighbouring state goes head with its Cauvery-Vellaru-Vaigai-Gundar linking scheme. Karnataka feels that Tamil Nadu, which is opposing the Mekedatu project near Kanakapura, may demand more water from Karnataka once its river linking project is completed. The then-Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi along with officials of Water Resources Department in February held meeting with legal experts in Delhi and announced that Karnataka would approach the Supreme Court against Tamil Nadu's project. Jarkiholi also met Union Water Resources Minister Gajendra Shekhawat to appraise the state's concerns on the project. The then Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami laid the foundation stone for the first phase of Cauvery-Vellaru-Vaigai-Gundar linking scheme in February this year, which will be built at Rs 6,900 crore to provide water to Southern region of Tamil Nadu by utilising surplus Cauvery water. The entire 262-km river- linking project, built on a cost of Rs 14,000 crore, aims to divert 6,300 cubic feet of surplus Cauvery water during floods and increase groundwater levels. The project is being implemented under Centre's river linking scheme. Karnataka is worried that once the project is completed, the neighbouring state may put legal hurdles to Karnataka to utilise its share of excess water generated in its part of the basin in coming days, said an official in Karnataka. According to Karnataka, after ensuring 177.25 tmc feet to Tamil Nadu at Biligundlu water gauging centre in a normal year, the rest belongs to Karnataka, which includes its share of 284.75 tmc feet and surplus water whenever available. However the Tamil Nadu government has been opposing Karnataka's view. "If Tamil Nadu says Karnataka should not utilise its surplus water, then the neighbouring state also does not have right to utilise its any surplus water coming from upper riparian state (Karnataka)," said an official. Out of 740 tmc feet estimated by Supreme Court in entire Cauvery basin, 483 tmc feet is generated up to the Karnataka - Tamil Nadu border at Biligundlu. There could be another 45 tmc of surplus above 483 tmc in the Karnataka side of Cauvery basin, sources said. When Karnataka proposed to build a balancing reservoir at Mekedatu to utilise surplus water to provide drinking water to Ramnagar and Kanakapura towns, Tamil Nadu filed a petition in Supreme Court opposing the project.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/tamil-nadu-river-linking-project-karnataka-yet-to-file-appeal-in-supreme-court-1005239.html
05-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Raksha Ramaiah to be Karnataka Youth Cong President till Jan 2022, Nalapad to take over later||After months of internal tussle, the Congress party has finally arrived at a compromise with regard to the Youth Congress election results in Karnataka. The Indian Youth Congress (IYC) has decided that Raksha Ramaiah, who was declared as the President of the Karnataka Pradesh Youth Congress Committee in January this year, will continue to hold the post for one year until January 31, 2022. After this period, Mohammed Haris Nalapad, the other contender for the post, will take over, according to an official statement issued by IYC president B V Srinivas on Monday. The tenure of the Youth Congress President is for three years. A conflict arose soon after the election results were announced in January this year as Nalapad, who had secured more votes (64,203) than Raksha Ramaiah (57,271) was disqualified over an assault case against him earlier in 2018. According to the power sharing formula announced on Monday, Ramaiah will hold the post for one year while Nalapad gets a two year tenure. It was earlier expected that both the contenders would get an opportunity for eighteen months each. The tussle between the two Youth Congress leaders is also seen as a reflection of power struggle between senior Congress leaders Siddaramaiah and D K Shivakumar. While Ramaiah's candidature is believed to have been backed by Siddaramiah, Nalapad is backed by Shivakumar. It is said that the ‘compromise’ happened after AICC general secretary in charge of Karnataka, Randeep Singh Surjewala, held talks with both Siddaramaiah and Shivakumar to arrive at a truce, which was followed by him convincing Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to okay this settlement in the interest of the leaders' public image. Last week, a meeting was held to resolve the conflict in which Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar, B V Srinivas, Ramaiah and Nalapad took part.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/raksha-ramaiah-to-be-karnataka-youth-cong-president-till-jan-2022-nalapad-to-take-over-later-1005256.html
05-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt's role in ZP, TP reservation is nil: Eshwarappa||Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa stated that the government's role in fixing reservation for zilla and taluk panchayat seats is nil. The disgruntled politicians can submit objections to the state election commission, he added.  Speaking to media persons after inspecting Bhadra dam in Bhadravathi taluk on Monday, he said politicians of all parties have objected to the draft reservation list for taluk panchayat and zilla panchayat constituencies. Some have criticised the government. But they must remember that the state election commission does not announce reservation list after taking opinions from the government. There was no political interference in it, he added. The minister said there were objections to the reservation in the past and even now some leaders have expressed their disappointment over it. They could approach the court if they are not satisfied with the final list of reservation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govts-role-in-zp-tp-reservation-is-nil-eshwarappa-1005263.html
05-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||2,848 new Covid-19 cases, 67 deaths in Karnataka||Karnataka on Monday reported 2,848 new Covid-19 cases and 67 deaths, taking the total number of infections to 28.56 lakh and the toll to 35,434. The day also saw 5,631 discharges, continuing to outnumber the fresh cases, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 27,79,038. Out of 2,848 new cases reported on Monday, 520 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 3,136 discharges and 7 deaths, the health department said in a bulletin. The total number of active cases in the state is 41,996. While the positivity rate stood at 1.94 per cent, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 2.35 per cent. Out of 67 deaths reported on Monday, 12 were from Dakshina Kannada, Ballari (9), Bengaluru Urban (7), Mysuru (6), followed by others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 520, Hassan 383, Mysuru 371, Dakshina Kannada 265, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,16,181, followed by Mysuru 1,68,157 and Tumakuru 1,15,578. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 11,85,110, followed by Mysuru 1,62,270 and Tumakuru 1,13,216. Cumulatively a total of 3,50,35,219 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,46,575 were done on Monday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/2848-new-covid-19-cases-67-deaths-in-karnataka-1005267.html
05-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||II PU repeaters too will be promoted sans exams, state tells HC||The government on Monday submitted before the High Court that it will promote even repeater students of II PU. Earlier, the Department of Pre-University Education (DPUE) had announced plans to promote regular/fresher students of II PU, while holding examinations only for repeaters. The government informed a division bench headed by Justice B V Nagarathna that all repeater students will be promoted by giving grace marks to the marks obtained by such candidates in the earlier attempt in the respective subject.   The DPUE had constituted an expert committee headed by the joint director (exams) which deliberated on various aspects of examinations, including promoting the repeater candidates. The committee recommended promoting all the enrolled repeater candidates. The memo filed by the government said all the repeaters will be promoted by giving minimum passing marks along with 5% grace marks. However, for private candidates enrolled directly to the II PU examinations of 2021, the promotion scheme will not apply. All those candidates who had not appeared for the II PU exams in the previous attempt will have to appear for the examination which will be conducted by the DPUE after the Covid-19 situation improves. The court was told that the DPUE will promote regular/fresher II PU students by considering 45% of their SSLC marks, 45% of the I PU marks and 10% of the internal assessment marks of II PU. Recording this statement, the bench disposed of the PIL filed by S V Singre Gowda.  The petition claimed that repeaters/failed II PU candidates were being forced to write examinations, whereas fresh candidates have been promoted without any examination. The petition had prayed for a direction to the government to treat repeaters equally by determining their merit based on marks obtained in I PU. The petition claimed there are about 95,000 students who may have to appear for the examinations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ii-pu-repeaters-too-will-be-promoted-sans-exams-state-tells-hc-1005301.html
05-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Mekedatu: Tamil Nadu minister to meet Jal Shakti minister in Delhi on July 6||Tamil Nadu Water Resources Minister Durai Murugan will on Tuesday meet Union Minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat to demand that the union government not accord permission to Karnataka for construction of a reservoir across River Cauvery in Mekedatu. The minister is also expected to take up the issue of Karnataka “unilaterally” constructing a dam across Markandeya river “affecting” flow of water into the state. The Tamil Nadu government has already announced that it would seek the help of a water disputes tribunal to solve the problems arising out of the new reservoir across Markandeya river. Durai Murugan will raise Tamil Nadu’s concerns on Karnataka’s proposed reservoir at Mekedatu. “We have several issues. We will raise the Mekedatu and Markandeya river issues with the (Union) minister,” Durai Murugan told reporters in Chennai, without elaborating further. Sources in the government said the minister will register Tamil Nadu’s “strong protest” against Karnataka’s attempts to secure permission to construct a dam across Cauvery in Mekedatu. Tamil Nadu feels construction of a reservoir in Mekedatu across River Cauvery will obstruct the natural flow in the intermediate catchment areas before the river makes its way into the state. The government also contends that construction of a new reservoir across the river is against the final award by the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal and the 2018 verdict by the Supreme Court that reduced the state’s quantum of water and increased Karnataka’s share. “We are clear the project is against the interests of Tamil Nadu. The minister will explain the state’s stand very clearly and we will not budge from our stand,” a senior official said. The meeting comes after Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin and his Karnataka counterpart B S Yediyurappa exchanged their views on the project through letters. While the Karnataka CM asked Stalin to give up opposition to the project, Stalin told Yediyurappa to drop the plan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mekedatu-tamil-nadu-minister-to-meet-jal-shakti-minister-in-delhi-on-july-6-1005307.html
05-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Female teachers outnumber male teachers in school education: Report||For the first time in the country, female teachers have outnumbered their male counterparts in schools. The female dominance, however, is only in primary school (1-5 class) level, while the male teachers continue to dominate the upper (6-8 class) and secondary (8-12 class) school teaching. This is one of the several findings of the Unified District Information system for education Plus (USISE+) 2019-20 report released by the Union government recently. According to the report, India has 96.87 lakh teachers in more than 15 lakh schools catering to the educational needs of over 26.5 crore students. The 96.87 lakh teachers is an increase of more than 2.5 lakh teachers compared to 2018-19 (94.3 lakh). Of the total teachers, 49.2 lakh are female while the remaining 47.7 lakh are male teachers. In 2012-13 the country had 35.8 lakh female teachers and 42.4 lakh male teachers. The report also says that there has been an increase of 1.6% in enrolment of students at schools compared to last year. A total of 25.09 crore students had enrolled for primary to higher secondary education in 2019-20. Of this, 13.01 crore are boys and 12.08 are girls. Compared to last year more than 26 lakh students have enrolled in schools. According to the report, upper primary, secondary and higher secondary school enrolment has increased, showing an improvement in the ability of the system to retain more children in school education. The report states that one of the main reasons for the improvement in the enrolment of students is the improvement in facilities at schools. The report claims that 96.97% of schools in India have girls toilets, which has increased from 67.8% in 2012-13. However, access to computers and the internet remains worryingly low in the country as only 38% of the schools have computers (22.2 % in 2012-13) and 22.3% of schools have internet access, which was just 6.2 in 2012-13. Seventh in country With 77,166 schools, Karnataka ranks seventh at the national level in the total number of schools, which is topped by Uttar Pradesh (2.54 lakh), Madhya Pradesh (1.33 lakh,) Maharashtra (1.10 lakh), Rajasthan (1.06 lakh), West Bengal (95K) and Bihar (90K). Of the total schools in the state, 49,834 are government schools, 7,244 are government-aided schools and 20,069 are private schools. A total of 1.21 crore students are studying in these schools, of which 58.80 lakh are girls and 62.58 lakh are boys. A total of 4.50 lakh teachers are engaged in imparting lessons in these schools, of which 2.10 are government teachers, 46,366 teachers at government-aided schools, and 1.93 lakh are private school teachers. Of the total school teachers in State, 2.5 lakhs are women.   The state’s pupil to teacher ratio is also higher than the national average in the primary and upper schools. There is one teacher for every 20.9 primary school students (India 26.5); a teacher for every 16.1 upper school students (India 18.5). However, in higher schools, there is one teacher for every 31.1 students whereas the national average is 26.1. The report also paints a happy picture for government schools in State. Of the total 49,834 government schools in State 99.46% of schools have electricity connections, 99.75 % have drinking water facilities, 98.46 % have boys toilets and 99.51 % have girls toilets. 46817 have a library, 49,522 schools conducted medical check-up while 18,174 schools have computer facility while only 3862 government school has an internet connection. The report says that 1.2% of the students drop out of school at primary level, 2.5% at upper school level, while 16.8 at higher secondary school level. Nearly 19.4% of boys do not make it to college.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/female-teachers-outnumber-male-teachers-in-school-education-report-1005321.html
05-07-2021||West||Shiv Sena-BJP relationship like Aamir Khan-Kiran Rao, not India-Pakistan: Sanjay Raut||A day after BJP’s stalwart and trouble-shooter Devendra Fadnavis seemed to extend an olive branch to Shiv Sena saying that they are “not enemies”, it was Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena President Uddhav Thackeray’s Man Friday Sanjay Raut who likened the party's dynamics with the saffron party to Aamir Khan-Kiran Rao's relationship. On Monday, Raut, the Shiv Sena chief spokesperson, known for his sense of humour, said, “We are not India-Pakistan. Look at Aamir Khan and Kiran Rao, it is like them. Our (Shiv Sena and BJP) political ways are different but the friendship will remain intact”. Raut, was, however, quick to add that the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress tri-party alliance would last its full five-year term. On Sunday, Fadnavis, stated, "Our friend (Shiv Sena) contested the 2019 (Lok Sabha and Vidhan Sabha) polls with us... After the Vidhan Sabha polls, they joined hands against whom (NCP and Congress) we contested the elections…we are not enemies…” Raut’s statement came on a day when the BJP clashed with the Maha Vikas Aghadi government during the Monsoon Session of the Maharashtra Legislature. Last week, Aamir Khan and Kiran Rao, a celebrity couple, had announced separation but said – “…we would like to begin a new chapter in our lives — no longer as husband and wife, but as co-parents and family for each other”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sena-bjp-relationship-like-aamir-khan-kiran-rao-not-india-pakistan-sanjay-raut-1005016.html
05-07-2021||West||Anil Deshmukh ducks ED date again, fearing lack of 'transparency' in investigation||Even as he moved the Supreme Court seeking protection against coercive action by the Enforcement Directorate, former Maharashtra home minister and senior NCP leader Anil Deshmukh refrained from appearing before the agency saying that the probe against him was not transparent. In a letter to ED’s Mumbai-based assistant director Tassine Sultan, Deshmukh said: “…I have devoted my entire life to public service and will not hesitate to render any assistance that may be required in the conduct of the ongoing investigations. However, a series of events have given rise to a bonafide apprehension in my mind that neither the procedure of law is being followed nor any objective, impartial or transparent investigations are being carried out.” This is the third time that Deshmukh has failed to appear before the ED, which is probing money-laundering charges vis-à-vis a complaint made by former Mumbai Police commissioner and now commandant general of home guards Param Bir Singh. The former police chief had alleged that the then minister fixed a monthly collection target of Rs 100 crore for now dismissed and arrested assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze. Deshmukh (72), who has been active in Maharashtra politics for a quarter of a century, is close to NCP supremo Sharad Pawar. The veteran politician, in the 8-page letter, said that he apprehends invasion of his liberty by circumventing the process of law. Deshmukh said that he has moved a petition in the Supreme Court which would be listed in few days and urged the ED to wait till the apex court delivers a judgment. "I am sanguine that your good self will in fact dispel the impression of any bias or prejudice that has accumulated in my mind by carrying out investigations in a more transparent and objective manner. I am only taking recourse to my legal remedies in view of the peculiarities of the circumstances," he said. While Deshmukh was summoned to appear on Monday, his son Hrishikesh Deshmukh has been called on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/anil-deshmukh-ducks-ed-date-again-fearing-lack-of-transparency-in-investigation-1005030.html
05-07-2021||West||Red-necked phalarope spotted in Boisar||In a rare sighting, a pair of Red-necked phalarope — a wader — has been spotted in a salt-pan in Boisar in Palghar district, nearly 120 km from Mumbai. The pair was spotted by Ashish Babre, a bird enthusiast, and his son Avinash Babre on June 28. “It’s a rare sighting,” Babre told DH.  “It might have been here during migration/reverse migration,” he said. He said two birds in non-breeding plumage were spotted earlier in Dahanu in Palghar district on October 30, 2016. This phalarope breeds in the Arctic regions of North America and Eurasia. It is migratory and unusual for a wader, winters at sea on tropical oceans. The red-necked phalarope is about 18 cm (7.1 in) in length, with lobed toes and a straight, fine bill. The breeding female is predominantly dark grey above, with a chestnut neck and upper breast, black face and white throat. They have a white wing stripe which helps distinguish this bird from the similar Wilson's phalarope. The breeding male is a duller version of the female. They have lobed toes to assist with their swimming. Young birds are grey and brown above, with buff underparts and a black patch through the eye. In winter, the plumage is essentially grey above and white below, but the black eyepatch is always present. They have a sharp call described as a whit or twit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/red-necked-phalarope-spotted-in-boisar-1005034.html
05-07-2021||West||Stan Swamy's health critical, won't move Bombay HC for urgent hearing on his medical bail plea, says his lawyer||The health condition of tribal rights activist Stan Swamy, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, continues to be critical, his lawyer Mihir Desai said on Monday. Till late Sunday night, the 84-year-old Jesuit priest was on ventilator support, the senior counsel told PTI. Swamy has been undergoing treatment at the Holy Family Hospital, following a court order on May 28. The cost of his treatment at the private hospital is being borne by his associates and friends. On Saturday, advocate Desai told a bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar that Swamy's health was critical and that he was still in the hospital's intensive care unit (ICU). The bench had then adjourned the hearing on Swamy's medical bail plea to Tuesday and extended his stay at the hospital till then. Last week, Swamy also filed a fresh plea in the HC, challenging section 43D(5) of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), that imposes stringent bars on the grant of bail to an accused charged under the Act. On Monday, Desai said he will not be moving the HC for any urgent hearing on either the bail plea or the fresh plea challenging provisions of the UAPA. "I don't have any morning updates on his (Swamy's) health. But, till late last night, he was on ventilator support," Desai said. "So, the priority now is his medical treatment. Even if he is acquitted by the court tomorrow, what can happen? His health condition is such that he will continue being in the hospital," he said. The senior lawyer also said he didn't have any complaints against the high court and the private hospital. "The high court bench did all that was possible to secure the best medical treatment for him. And at the hospital, the best cardiologists and specialists are looking after him. Our only complaint is against the Taloja prison superintendent and against the NIA (the prosecuting agency in the case)," he said. The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Sunday issued a notice to the Maharashtra government in the wake of a complaint alleging serious health condition of the imprisoned activist. In the notice sent through the state's chief secretary, the NHRC called upon him to ensure every possible effort is made to provide proper medical care and treatment to Swamy as part of life-saving measure and protection of his basic human rights. The commission also called for a report in the light of the allegations made in the complaint, and the treatment record of the activist. Swamy and his co-accused in the Elgar case have repeatedly complained of inadequate health facilities at the Taloja prison in neighbouring Navi Mumbai, where they were lodged as undertrials. Through their pleas filed in the HC as well as oral and written statements made in the HC, they have complained several times of neglect on part of the Taloja prison authorities in ensuring medical aid, timely tests and maintaining hygiene and social distancing. In May this year, Swamy told a vacation bench of the high court via video-conferencing that his health had consistently declined at the Taloja prison. He had urged the HC to release him on interim bail at that time and said if things continued the way they were, he "would die soon". Last week, the wives of activists Anand Teltumbde and Vernon Gonsalves, who are also accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, moved the HC saying the Taloja prison superintendent had been withholding letters and communications to and from all the accused in the case following a magazine article published by Teltumbde in March this year. On Monday, advocate Desai said the superintendent had reportedly been transferred out of the Taloja prison, though the reasons for his shifting were yet to be made public. In the Elgar-Parishad case, Swamy and his co-accused have been charged by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) as being members of frontal organisations working on behalf of the banned CPI (Maoists). Last month, the NIA had filed an affidavit before the HC opposing Swamy's bail plea. It had said there did not exist a "conclusive proof" of his medical ailments. It alleged that Swamy was a Maoist, who had hatched a conspiracy to create unrest in the country. The Elgar Parishad case is related to inflammatory speeches made at a conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which, the police claimed, triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the outskirts of the western Maharashtra city. The police had claimed the conclave was organised by people with alleged Maoist links. Swamy, who claims to be suffering from several ailments, including the Parkinson's disease, had moved the high court earlier this year through advocate Desai, seeking medical treatment and interim bail on health grounds. He had tested positive for coronavirus at a private hospital last month and was subsequently shifted to the ICU.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/stan-swamys-health-critical-wont-move-bombay-hc-for-urgent-hearing-on-his-medical-bail-plea-says-his-lawyer-1005045.html
05-07-2021||West||OBC resolution to be moved by Maharashtra govt in Legislature 'misleading': Fadnavis||Leader of Opposition in the Maharashtra Assembly Devendra Fadnavis on Monday termed as "misleading" the resolution to be moved by the state government in the Legislature asking the Centre to furnish population data of OBCs based on the 2011 census, so that political reservations for members of the OBCs in local bodies can stay. The Supreme Court earlier this year quashed quota for the Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in local bodies after observing that the total number of seats earmarked for various communities, including the SCs sand STs, should not exceed 50 per cent of its total strength. Talking to reporters ahead of the commencement of the Maharashtra's Legislature's monsoon session, Fadnavis said the SC had asked for an empirical inquiry (into the issue of OBCs population) through the State Backward Class Commission. "The apex court has not asked for census data. The resolution is time pass, face saver and misleading, and will not yield anything. But, we will support the resolution as we want to stand by the OBCs," the BJP leader said. The resolution, to be moved in both Houses of the Maharashtra Legislature, says the State Backward Class Commission has been set up and it requires social, economic and caste-based census data of 2011, to prepare an empirical data of the OBC population. This data is required for restoring reservations to the OBCs in local bodies elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/obc-resolution-to-be-moved-by-maharashtra-govt-in-legislature-misleading-fadnavis-1005052.html
05-07-2021||West||12 BJP MLAs suspended for one year over ruckus in Maharashtra Assembly||Amid tense moments, chaos and pandemonium, 12 BJP MLAs were suspended for a year’s time from the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly for using “abusive language” and “misbehaving” with Bhaskar Jadhav, who was the Presiding Officer. The ruckus started when the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government brought in a resolution seeking empirical data on the OBCs from the Centre. However, Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis raised a point of objection before Food and Civil Supplies Minister Chhagan Bhujbal of NCP could present the resolution. Fadnavis, a  former Chief Minister, claimed that the Maharashtra government did not follow the Supreme Court's directions for 15 months, which resulted in the scrapping of political reservation for OBCs. “Ultimately it would have a repercussion all over India including in BJP-ruled states...and we are moving the resolution after due diligence,” said Bhujbal trying to reason on seeking data from the Central government. After Bhujbal, Jadhav, a former minister, who is a member of the Speaker's panel, and was in the Chair, allowed Fadnavis to speak. Thereafter, he asked Bhujbal to reply and table the resolution even as BJP MLAs rushed to the podium and tried to snatch the mike asking time for a response from Fadnavis.  The resolution was passed by voice vote and the House was adjourned for 10 minutes. Then it saw three adjournments – two of 15 minutes each and another for 30 minutes. During the adjournments outside the House, there was a heated exchange between Shiv Sena members and BJP members at the chamber of the Deputy Speaker Narhari Zirwal. Thackeray also separately spoke to Jadhav and heard him out on the sequence of events that took place. When the House reassembled, Fadnavis said that the statements of misbehavior were one-sided. “I may be aggressive, but I never compromise on Parliamentary ethics.. the allegation that some Shiv Sena members and I made uncharitable remarks and I am ready to face any punishment if it was proven true,” Jadhav said and sought the protection of the Chair.  He accused the BJP MLAs of speaking out "uncharitable words". Parliamentary Affairs Minister Anil Parab of Shiv Sena moved a resolution to suspend 12 MLAs, which was passed by voice vote even as Fadnavis led the walkout by opposition BJP. The MLAs are Parag Alavani, Ram Satpute, Sanjay Kute, Ashish Shelar, Abhimanyu Pawar, Girish Mahajan, Atul Bhatkalkar, Shirish Pimple,  Jaykumar Rawal, Yogesh Sagar, Narayan Kuche, Kirtikumar Bagadia. “It is murder of democracy,” Fadnavis, said, adding that the government is targetting opposition as it was raising issues of public importance and highlighting their failures. Fadnavis said that Shelar apologised and everyone shook hands and the matter ended in the chamber. "But now it is being brought here," he said. Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik and Shiv Sena member Sunil Prabhu demanded that action be taken against the opposition members for their behaviour with Jadhav. "What happened in your chamber is not right," Malik told Zirwal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/12-bjp-mlas-suspended-for-one-year-over-ruckus-in-maharashtra-assembly-1005069.html
05-07-2021||West||Opposition targets Maharashtra govt over MPSC aspirant's suicide, short duration of monsoon session||The two-day monsoon session of the Maharashtra Assembly got off to a stormy start on Monday with Leader of the Opposition Devendra Fadnavis targeting the state government over an MPSC aspirant's suicide and the short duration of the session. The BJP leader demanded that House members be allowed to use all legislative tools to highlight various issues and all questions submitted be answered. As soon as the House assembled, Fadnavis raised a Point of Procedure, saying never before it happened that questions submitted by members lapsed and legislative tools freezed, in the wake of the short duration of the monsoon session. The BJP leader said earlier whenever questions were not discussed on the floor of the House, they were marked as "unstarred". To this, state Parliamentary Affairs Minister Anil Parab said the questions submitted by members will be considered as 'unstarred'. When senior BJP leader Sudhir Mungantiwar rose to speak, Shiv Sena member Bhaskar Jadhav objected to it said he also wanted to speak. Angered by this, Mungantiwar made some remarks to which Nana Patole (Congress) and Nawab Malik (NCP) objected. Both members of the ruling parties demanded that the remarks by expunged. Subsequently, Deputy Speaker Narhari Zirwal expunged the remarks. Jadhav said he wanted to inform through a Point of Information that Fadnavis's Point of Procedure was wrong, as the Chair had not called out for any business after the House assembled. Later, Fadnavis moved an adjournment notice, asking for a debate on the functioning of the Maharashtra Public Service Commission in the wake of the suicide of Pune-based MPSC aspirant Swapnil Lonkar. The 24-year-old Maharashtra government job aspirant allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself at his house in Pune's Hadapsar area on June 30, police earlier said. Lonkar, a civil engineering diploma holder, had cleared the 2019 MPSC preliminary and main exams and was waiting for the final interview to take place. He had also cleared the 2020 preliminary exam as well. He left behind a suicide note in which he termed the MPSC exams as a "mayajaal" and appealed not to get into it. In the House, Mungantiwar claimed 430 MPSC candidates have threatened self-immolation. "There is desperation among the youth. The need of the hour is to extend the age limit for appearing for the MPSC exam. The government should announce a compensation of Rs 50 lakh for Lonkar if you are not stone-hearted," he said. The BJP leader further said the vacancies of information commissioner, Lokayukta and members of the MPSC have not been filled. Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, however, said the MPSC issue was discussed in detail and the government has taken it very seriously. "The vacant posts will be filled by July 31, 2021. The MPSC exam was held in 2019 in which Swapnil Lonkar appeared and cleared in July 2020. He was among the 3,671 eligible candidates who cleared the exam for 1,200 posts. On September 9, 2020, the Supreme Court ordered an interim stay on the SEBC quota, after which the interview process was stopped by the MPSC, which is an autonomous body," he said. Pawar said the apex court gave its final verdict on the SEBC (Socially and Economically Backward Classes) quota on May 5, 2021. The MPSC cancelled examinations and the government had questioned its chairman about the decision, but the commission informed that the exams were cancelled because of the Covid-19 pandemic, he said. Pawar said the government was initiating a process to fill the MPSC vacancies by July 31 this year. "We stand by the Lonkar family and will take steps for giving financial aid (to his kin)," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/opposition-targets-maharashtra-govt-over-mpsc-aspirants-suicide-short-duration-of-monsoon-session-1005084.html
05-07-2021||West||Gujarat discontinues gazette printing; online mode to save 35 tons of paper annually||The Gujarat government on Monday decided to discontinue printing of all kinds of gazettes and said they would be made available online as part of an initiative towards paperless governance. Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Monday launched a website where government gazettes will be available for free download, leading to saving of some 35 metric tons of paper annually, a release informed. The traditional process of gazette printing that has been going on for years will now come to an end with the availability of this digital-online gazette website, it added. "The practice of QR code has been implemented for the authenticity of the copies of downloaded e-gazette. Within a month, all gazettes available for the last three decades will be put up on the website," the release further said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-discontinues-gazette-printing-online-mode-to-save-35-tons-of-paper-annually-1005109.html
05-07-2021||West||Maharashtra passes resolution asking Centre to bring amendment to remove 50% ceiling on quotas||The Maharashtra Legislative Assembly on Monday passed a resolution urging the Centre to bring a Constitutional amendment to remove the 50 per cent ceiling on caste-based reservations set earlier by the Supreme Court as it is coming in the way of granting quota to the SEBC category comprising Marathas. As per the resolution moved by state PWD Minister Ashok Chavan on the first day of the monsoon session, without relaxing the 50 per cent limit on caste-based reservations, the quota for the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) cannot be granted. The Supreme Court on May 5 struck down the Maharashtra government’s 2018 law granting reservation to the Maratha community in admissions and government jobs while hearing a batch of petitions that challenged the Maharashtra State Reservation for Socially and Educationally Backward Classes Act, 2018. The SC had said it would breach the ceiling of 50% quota limit imposed by itself in a landmark verdict in 1992. Members of the BJP were not present in the House when Chavan moved the resolution. Members of the Maratha community have been staging protests across Maharashtra demanding that the SEBC reservation be restored.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-passes-resolution-asking-centre-to-bring-amendment-to-remove-50-ceiling-on-quotas-1005146.html
05-07-2021||West||Hospital with 4 robotic surgical machines inaugurated in Pune||The state-of-the-art Lokmanya Hospitals For Special Surgery, which has four robotic surgical devices, was inaugurated over the weekend in Pune. The Lokmanya HSS is the only hospital in India with 4 robotic-assisted joint replacement technology like Rosa, Navio, Brainlab and Cori. NCP supremo Sharad Pawar inaugurated the hospital in the presence of Dr Narendra Vaidya, Managing Director and Dr Meetali Vaidya, Director, according to a statement of Lokmanya Hospitals.  As a part of its expansion plan, this is Lokmanya Group's 5th super specialty hospital in Pune. "Pune is well-known for Education, IT and now for medical services. During the Covid pandemic war, Pune medical fraternity contributed a lot. We need many such hospitals like Lokmanya Hospitals to help patients lead a healthy life, reduce mortality and morbidity rates,” said Pawar. The newly launched Lokmanya HSS, spread in 47,623 square feet area having latest technological advancements, 20 bedded ICU, 9 modular operation theatre that follows international standards for treating critical patients The hospital has facilities for arthroscopic and minimally invasive surgery, sports medicine department, comprehensive spine treatment, foot and ankle treatment, cosmetic and reconstruction surgery, oncology, general and laparoscopic Surgery, eyecare and specialty ophthalmic surgery, general medicine and cardiology treatment, critical care department, dental & facio- maxillary surgery and radio imaging and pathology. Each department has highly experienced and skilled doctors, well-trained nurses to provide round-the-clock patient care. “To help patients get back on their feet as quickly as possible you need to adopt newer advanced technology in our reach. The surrounding region in Pune has been developing at a rapid pace, and to access high-quality medical care you need a quality health service,” said Dr Vaidya. “We have plans to create awareness amongst people for early detection of diseases and ailments by organizing health check-up camps in neighbourhood societies. Interior parts of the city don't have access to quality medical facilities, hence many patients avoid long-distance traveling for treatment. To reach out them we started super specialist OPD’s in Nashik, Jalgaon, Aurangabad, Sangli, Satara, Karad, Belgaum, Solapur and many other cities are in pipeline to screen the patient and provide them medical services with  world-class technology,” added Dr Vaidya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hospital-with-4-robotic-surgical-machines-inaugurated-in-pune-1005147.html
05-07-2021||West||'You have given us out in no ball', says Maharashtra BJP after 12 MLAs suspended||Describing the Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government as “Talibani-raj” and “Mughalai-sarkar”, a rattled BJP said that it has given them out on a “no ball” and warned them of “spin attack” in the days to come. “Its murder of democracy…this is against the traditions of Maharashtra,” said Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis reacting to suspension of 12 BJP MLAs. “I wonder whether this (Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress-government) is a ‘Mughalai-sarkar’…it is a sad day for us,” he said. Senior BJP leader Ashish Shelar, who too was suspended, said that what happened today is an example of “Talibani-raj”. “It is not good…you have given us out on a no ball,” he said. “But let me tell you …..I have been the President of MCA (Mumbai Cricket Association)…(we) will bowl off-spin and leg-spin…watch out and be cautious (during the spin attack),” he said. The vexed issue The Supreme Court had earlier this year quashed quota for the Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in local bodies after observing that the total number of seats earmarked for various communities, including the SCs and STs, should not exceed 50 per cent of its total strength. Fadnavis said the Supreme Court had asked for an empirical inquiry (into the issue of OBCs' population) through the State Backward Class Commission. "The Supreme Court has not asked for census data. The resolution is time pass, face-saver and misleading, and will not yield anything. But, we will support the resolution as we want to stand by the OBCs," the BJP leader said. The resolution moved by Chhagan Bhujbal states that the State Backward Class Commission has been set up and it requires social, economic and caste-based census data of 2011, to prepare an empirical data of the OBC population. This data is required for restoring reservations to the OBCs in local bodies elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/you-have-given-us-out-in-no-ball-says-maharashtra-bjp-after-12-mlas-suspended-1005200.html
05-07-2021||West||Fr Stan Swamy worked single-mindedly for the poor: CBCI||Expressing shock over the death of Father Stan Swamy, the Catholic Bishops' Conference of India (CBCI), said that he single-mindedly worked for the poor despite challenges. Cardinal Oswald Gracias, the Archbishop of Bombay and President of CBCI, in a statement, said: “Fr Stan worked tirelessly for the underprivileged and downtrodden, giving them a sense of dignity and upliftment. I witnessed his dedication to the exploited tribals. This work had its own challenges, but Fr Stan worked single-mindedly for the poor.” He said Fr Stan’s arrest was very painful. “Under the Indian criminal law, one is innocent until proven guilty. Fr Stan’s case did not even come up for hearing. We were eagerly waiting for the case to be taken up and the truth to come out,” he said. “I do hope that the truth will come out soon and his name will be cleared of all criminal conspiracy. We pray that God reward him for his good work. May his soul rest in peace,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fr-stan-swamy-worked-single-mindedly-for-the-poor-cbci-1005218.html
05-07-2021||West||Sadiq encounter: Petitions filed in Gujarat HC challenging discharge of four accused ex-policemen||The brother of Bhavnagar youth Sadiq Jamal Mehtar, killed in a police encounter in 2003, has approached Gujarat High Court, challenging the orders of a special CBI trial court, which discharged four accused ex-policemen including retired Deputy Superintendent of Police Tarun Barot, formally known as "encounter specialist." Shabbir, brother of Sadiq, has moved four petitions through advocate Y M Thakkar, which are likely to come up for hearing later this week. The petition has been filed against Barot, Chhatrasinh Chudasama, who were discharged in February this year and previously R L Mavani and Ajaypal Singh Yadav had been discharged by the court. The discharge plea of two more accused cops-I A Saiyed and GH Gohil- are pending a hearing in the special CBI court, while the seventh accused K M Vaghela's discharge plea is pending in high court. The eighth accused J G Parmar was abated of charges after his death. 19-year-old Sadiq was killed in the outskirts of Ahmedabad on January 13, 2003, on suspicion of being a Lashkar-e-Taiba operative, whose mission was to kill the then chief minister Narendra Modi and other BJP leaders to avenge 2002 post-Godhra riots. After Shabbir's petition for a probe, the CBI found that Sadiq was killed in cold blood in police custody after he was brought from the custody of Mumbai policemen. This is the first case in which the role of Intelligence Bureau officials was revealed for allegedly generating fake input on Sadiq. The CBI filed its first chargesheet in December 2012 while telling the trial court that the investigation was still on. The list of suspects included several senior policemen from Gujarat police as well as IB officials. However, even after eight years, the CBI hasn't concluded the investigation. Earlier in February, the trial court while discharging Barot and Chudasama observed that the CBI didn't record statements from several persons figured in the investigation including ex IPS officer D G Vanzara, who was then Deputy Commissioner of Police, Ahmedabad Detection of Crime Branch (which carried out the encounter), among others. The order states that names of several other officers were mentioned in the statements of witnesses but the CBI never recorded their statements. According to the CBI probe, it was the Subsidiary Intelligence Bureau (SIB), Mumbai which first generated an intelligence input claiming that Sadiq was a member of Dawood Ibrahim Kaskar's gang and was allegedly planning to kill BJP leaders. The CBI chargesheet stated that before handing over Sadiq to Barot, he was arrested “in a stage-managed joint operation” conducted by the SIB, Mumbai and Central Intelligence Unit, Andheri, of Mumbai Crime Branch. Sadiq worked as domestic help for Tariq Parveen, a close associate of fugitive gangster Dawood Ibrahim, at his home in Mumbai and then in Dubai between 1996 to October 2002. The CBI has said that Sadiq left Dubai following an altercation with Parveen’s associate, a Pakistan-based gangster Salim Chiplun and within months of his arrival back home, Sadiq was killed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sadiq-encounter-petitions-filed-in-gujarat-hc-challenging-discharge-of-four-accused-ex-policemen-1005266.html
05-07-2021||West||Maharashtra sees significant drop in fresh Covid-19 cases, deaths||In a sign of improvement from the sweeping second wave of the pandemic, the Covid-19 cases and deaths in Maharashtra dropped significantly on Monday. In the last 24 hours, the state recorded 6,740 cases and 51 deaths, while 13,027 patients recovered. So far, 58,61,7209 patients have recovered in the state. The progressive total of Covid-19 cases now stands at 61,04,917, while deaths at 1,23,136. There are a total of 1,16,827 active cases in the state, according to the Public Health Department. Mumbai reported 436 cases and 10 deaths, the lowest in several months. However, experts said that high cases in half a dozen districts in Konkan and Western Maharashtra are a matter of concern .||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-sees-significant-drop-in-fresh-covid-19-cases-deaths-1005277.html
05-07-2021||West||Maharashtra: Gas truck suffers tyre burst, deviates towards railway tracks; major tragedy averted||A gas truck passing on the Mumbai-Nashik national highway in Maharashtra suffered a tyre burst and hurtled on the parallel railway tracks on Monday evening, forcing authorities to suspend railway traffic, officials said. Fortunately, no train was passing when the incident occurred near Atgaon station, around 95 kms from here, they said, adding trains on both Up and Down tracks were just a station behind. Central railway said the incident occurred between Asangaon and Atgaon stations around 7.30 pm. "One gas tanker truck from the road entered on the tracks between Atgaon- Asangaon section.For safety reasons the Up and Down lines in the north east section have been suspended for traffic from 7.40 pm onwards," said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, Central railway. Sutar said the help of the Maharashtra Disaster Control was sought for removal of the gas tanker from the tracks, apart from sending railway's relief cranes and vehicles to the spot. "Road cranes and other relief trains/vehicles have been moved to clear the section as soon as possible," Sutar said. The tanker was removed from the tracks, as per the latest details. Meanwhile, officials said police will investigate the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-gas-truck-suffers-tyre-burst-deviates-towards-railway-tracks-major-tragedy-averted-1005292.html
05-07-2021||West||Villagers, Gujarat police clash over proposed zinc smelter plant||Hundreds of agitated protesters from over three dozen villages of Songadh taluka in tribal-dominated Tapi district, south Gujarat allegedly attacked policemen and vandalised dozens of vehicles during a public hearing organised for a proposed zinc smelter plant at Doswada village by Hindustan Zinc Limited Company of Vedanta group. The police responded with lathi-charge and teargas shells to control the situation. In the clash, at least ten policemen were injured due to stone pelting while dozens of vehicles were damaged. Senior police officers said the incident happened during a public hearing organised by the Gujarat Pollution Control Board and Tapi collector office in Doswada village to hear grievances of villagers who are protesting against the upcoming plant. The plant-affected tribal villages have been protesting the government's move of allowing the multinational firm to set up the plant. The villagers, mostly tribals, have been opposing it citing environmental and livelihood issues. A number of tribal organisations have been protesting against the move ever since it was announced back in 2020 following an MoU with the company and the state government. Hindustan Zinc Limited had announced an investment of nearly Rs 10,000 crore for setting up 3,000 Kilo Tonnes Per Annum Zinc smelter plant at Dosawada for which it would require over 400 acres of land. Hours after the incident, Neelam Rani, Managing Director of Industrial Extension Bureau (iNDEXTb), an investment promotion agency of Gujarat government, released a statement, saying, “It is unfortunate what happened today at Doswada in Tapi district. The need of the hour is to create jobs, bring employment and strengthen economic development in the state, especially in the post-pandemic world. We are committed to creating a conducive environment for industry to grow and will extend support to ensure ease of business. As a responsible government body, the welfare of our communities and focus on the environment will always remain a top priority and we will ensure that best standards are followed.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/villagers-gujarat-police-clash-over-proposed-zinc-smelter-plant-1005328.html
