06-07-2021||First Edit||Stan Swamy's death and institutional murder||The passing away of the 84-year-old Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist Stan Swamy, who was suffering from multiple ailments and was on ventilator support in a hospital in Mumbai, is an indictment of the Indian State and its agencies which have hounded him for months and failed to provide him the minimum human consideration due to a sick old man. He was arrested in the Elgar Parishad violence case last year and charged under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), which gives little scope for bail, and has languished in jail ever since. The case itself is dubious, and the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which took it over from the Maharashtra police, has claimed that a number of persons, including Stan Swamy and other rights activists, were responsible for the violence and charged all of them under the draconian law.  Swamy suffered from Parkinson’s disease, and could not hold a glass in his hand. He also had other ailments and contracted Covid while in jail. Physical disabilities and ailments of accused persons do not attenuate a crime but Stan Swamy’s case should be seen differently. It would need an impossible stretch of imagination to believe that an 84-year-old sick man who served tribals and Adivasis for decades and had no record of any crime in his life would work for the violent overthrow of the Indian State. Swamy’s claim of innocence is more credible than the State’s charges against him, especially because there are convincing grounds to believe that he and the other accused were deliberately implicated in the case. One of his co-accused has produced evidence to show that incriminating evidence was planted in his computer to implicate him and the others. Stan Swamy’s plea for bail was rejected many times. His health deteriorated in jail and he did not get proper treatment there. He found it difficult to eat, take a bath and walk without help from others. He said a few weeks ago that he would “rather suffer, possibly die very shortly, if this were to go on’’. The dire words have come true, but he died not because his heart stopped but because of the heartlessness of the State and its institutions and agencies. It is custodial killing and institutional murder, and the State is guilty and culpable of it. The State is a human institution, and it should not be so insensitive as to throw a sick old man in jail and let him die there, denying him care and aid, which is his due even if he were a criminal. It should shame all, and the blood is on all hands. Stan Swamy is a martyr to human rights and will remain a living question mark on the nation’s conscience.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/stan-swamys-death-and-institutional-murder-1005356.html
06-07-2021||Hubballi-Dharwad||KRIDL officials collecting 30% commission: Minister||District In-charge Minister Arvind Limbavali said Karnataka Rural Infrastructure Development Limited (KRIDL) officials are completely submerged into ‘commission’ business. The officials instead of looking after the quality of work, have stooped to collecting bribes. Chairing a review meeting of various departments at the deputy commissioner’s office in Kolar on Tuesday, he said the majority of works implemented by the KRIDL are substandard, as the officials are collecting nearly 30% of the total project cost as their commission. “Then how can you expect quality work,” he questioned. “If the KRIDL officials collect 16% of commission from the contractor, they have to provide cut to MLAs, MPs and others. Officials have resorted to poor quality of work and collecting commission. This is why I have stopped giving projects to this department,” he said. He took KRIDL Executive Engineer Ravishankar to task and asked him how much commission do officials from his department take officially and unofficially. When the officer tried to justify that the quality of all the projects is up to the mark, the minister retorted and said as a civil engineer he could conduct a test on the projects and judge quality of work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/kridl-officials-collecting-30-commission-minister-1005671.html
06-07-2021||In Perspective||Why the EU is divided over Russia||Since the Russian annexation of Crimea in 2014, relations between Moscow and Brussels have deteriorated rapidly. Recently, the crisis in Belarus and the imprisonment of Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny further escalated the tensions. The Geneva Summit between US President Joe Biden and Russian President Vladimir Putin raised hopes of a similar re-engagement between the EU and Russia. France and Germany proposed a bilateral summit with Putin. But the proposal was quashed in the recently concluded European Council Summit after the Baltic States and Poland objected. That the Macron-Merkel proposal conflicted with the sensitivities of the Baltic States and Poland reveals the deep divisions in the EU over Russia. The Baltic States and Poland are particularly vulnerable to rising security threats from an assertive Russia. With sizeable Russian-speaking minority populations and the enhanced presence of the Russian military on their eastern borders in Kaliningrad, these states perceive the Russian threat more gravely than their EU counterparts. Kremlin has used the presence of the Russian-speaking population in post-Soviet republics to increase its power and influence. Moscow used the pretence of protecting the Russian-speaking minority while annexing Crimea in 2014 and, more recently, in the simmering conflict in the Donbas region of Ukraine. Moreover, the presence of a significant Russian-speaking population in the Baltic States make these countries vulnerable to the influence of Russian media. In 2020, Latvia and Lithuania banned Russian broadcast channel RT (Russia Today) for its alleged control by Dmitri Kiselyov, whom the EU sanctioned for promoting Russian propaganda during the Ukraine crisis. With their unique geographic position and ethnolinguistic ties with Russia, the Baltic States are deeply vulnerable to the Kremlin’s tactics. A precarious security situation has pushed these states towards vociferously promoting a tough stance vis-à-vis Russia within EU. France and Germany have been collectively offering to ease the diplomatic pressures on Russia, surprising the other member-states of the EU. Macron’s push for reinstating talks with Russia is driven by the competition with the US. Biden’s high-stakes meeting with Putin last week renewed some unease within French diplomatic circles on a possible shift of dynamics between the US and Russia. This is not the first time that France has proposed continued engagement with Russia. President Macron has been calling for more realistic cooperation with Moscow to foster long-term stability in the region. Similarly, Berlin wants to tread carefully on Russia as it fears a possible fallout on the Nord Stream 2 pipeline project connecting the two countries, which is nearing completion. While the EU has become more estranged from Russia in the last few years, Germany has kept its economic decisions separate from political developments on the Nord Stream 2 project. The EU’s Russian dilemma presents a daunting challenge to the internal unity of the bloc. Recently, the EU High Representative Josep Borrell had proposed a new framework for Russia. The approach consisted of three elements: Push back, constrain and engage. Under this approach, the EU intends to push back on human rights violations and anti-democratic values. The increasingly repressive environment in Moscow, coupled with the deteriorating situation of civil society organisations, human rights defenders and the media has deeply affected EU-Russia relations. The EU is determined not to slack off on its core values, making it clear that these are no longer domestic affairs of nations. It will also continue to raise objections to the breach of international law in Georgia and Ukraine, calling on Russia to implement the Minsk agreement fully and assume its responsibility as a party to the conflict. At the same time, the EU will constrain Russian efforts to undermine the bloc’s collective interest by becoming more robust and resilient. For this, the EU needs to strengthen its cybersecurity and defence capacities, ensure energy security, and counter hybrid threats by coordinating with NATO and G-7 members. While pushing back and constraining, the EU also intends to selectively engage with Russia on issues such as Covid-19, climate change, trade, energy, and people-to-people connectivity. The EU’s balancing between pushback, constrain, and engagement needs to be coupled with assertive policies. Otherwise, these policy prescriptions are not new, and they hold very little significance in mending EU-Russia ties in the short term. Moreover, any strategic engagement will be effective only if the EU itself remains coherent. The EU’s experience in dealing with Russia has made it evident that an appeasement policy towards Russia will not yield the necessary result. The EU must resort to a tougher stance vis-à-vis Russia, coupled with dialogue only if Kremlin shows moderation in behaviour. The EU needs to unify its position vis-a-vis Moscow and demand a reciprocal restraint in the Russian position for a possible change in the status quo. (Kachiar is Assistant Professor and Poojary is Lecturer at Manipal Centre for European Studies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/why-the-eu-is-divided-over-russia-1005359.html
06-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Miscreants damage glass case of memorial resembling Amar Jawan Jyothi||Miscreants have damaged the glass casing of a memorial that resembles Amar Jawan Jyothi in front of Mini Vidhana Soudha in Puttur. The memorial of Amar Jawan Jyothi was sponsored by Nattoja Foundation Trust and Ambika Group of Educational Institutions. The flame which burns at Amar Jawan Jyoti memorial is kept alive throughout. The memorial, set up in 2017, was damaged when miscreants threw a coconut at the glass casing. The incident came to light when the manager of the educational institutions went to clean the memorial in the morning. Condemning the act, Ambika Group of Educational Institutions Secretary Subrahmanya Nattoja said, “The act of miscreants is an insult to the sacrifice of our soldiers.” A complaint has been submitted to the Puttur Police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/miscreants-damage-glass-case-of-memorial-resembling-amar-jawan-jyothi-1005497.html
06-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah to contest next Karnataka Assembly polls from Badami||Amid continued speculation about the constituency from where he will contest the 2023 assembly polls, senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah on Tuesday reaffirmed he will contest from the Badami segment that he currently represents. Heaping praise on the people of Badami for accepting him, who had come from Mysuru and electing as their MLA in the 2018 polls, the former Chief Minister said he will always be indebted to them. "You have come here asking me to contest the next election from Badami..have I ever said that I will not contest from Badami? It is true that people are inviting me to contest from other constituencies like Koppal, Chamarajpet, Kolar, like you out of respect," Siddaramaiah said. Addressing his followers and party workers, who had come from Badami, he said the election is still one year and ten months away and he has already said in the state assembly, about contesting the next polls from Badami and won't go back on it. "I'm the legislator from Badami constituency and as per the wish expressed by all of you and the people I will once again contest from Badami," he declared, amid cheers of his supporters, who even called him the next Chief Minister. There have been speculations within the party for some time now that the leader of the opposition, who represents Badami in north Karnataka, may return to his home turf of the old Mysuru region or somewhere in Bengaluru for the next general election. His loyalist and Chamarajpet legislator B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan, who has been openly projecting him as CM face for the next assembly polls causing some differences within the party, has even offered to vacate the constituency for the Congress Legislature Party leader. Pointing out that Zameer Ahmed Khan has been asking him to contest from his Chamarajpet constituency in Bengaluru, as it is closer, Siddaramaiah maintained that he has never said he will contest from Chamarajpet or Kolar or Koppal. "I had come from Mysuru, you the people of Badami have accepted and elected me. With what margin I won is not the question, despite me visiting Badami only twice ahead of elections, you elected me.. can I contest from elsewhere without asking you?" he said. Siddarmaiah has already announced that he will not contest again from the Chamundeshwari assembly constituency in Mysuru, where he had tasted defeat during the May 2018 assembly polls. Siddarmaiah, the then sitting Chief Minister, had lost in Chamundeshwari to JD(S) G T Deve Gowda by a margin of over 36,042 votes. He, however, won Badami, the other constituency from where he had contested, defeating BJPs Sriramulu by a margin of just 1,696 votes. Noting that he had to face defeat in Chamundeshwari in Mysuru from where he had won five times, as some political leaders got together against him out of malice, Siddaramaiah said, it is the people of Badami who trusted him, though he had come from elsewhere and got him elected. "I can't forget the people of Badami.How much ever I thank you it will be less," he said, pointing out that the only disadvantage is he cannot meet the people of the constituency on a daily basis as he will have to attend the duties of the Leader of Opposition and that of the party in Bengaluru and other parts of the state. When his supporters cried out there were no shortcomings despite his absence and they want him as their legislator again, Siddaramaiah said, "you the people of Badami have never complained, but there should not be any dereliction of duty from my side.I have done whatever I can and will continue to do whatever needs to be done for the constituency." Making his debut in the Assembly in 1983, Siddaramaiah had got elected from Chamundeshwari on a Lok Dal Party ticket.He has won five times from this constituency and tasted defeat thrice. After neighbouring Varuna became a constituency in 2008 following delimitation, Siddarmaiah represented it till he vacated the seat for his son Dr Yatindra in the 2018 assembly polls last year and went back to his old constituency of Camundeshwari. Ahead of the May 2018 assembly polls, Siddaramaiah had said it would "most likely" be his last election. Earlier, during the 2013 assembly polls too, he had said that it was his last election and went on to become chief minister after the polls. It is no secret that Siddaramaiah is nursing his ambition to become chief minister for a second term if the party wins the next assembly polls in 2023. With State Congress President D K Shivakumar too having similar ambitions, it has triggered a game of one-upmanship between the two leaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiah-to-contest-next-karnataka-assembly-polls-from-badami-1005564.html
06-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Delay in action emboldens disgruntled BJP leaders to flay CM Yediyurappa, son||BJP general secretary and Karnataka incharge Arun Singh’s effort to impart discipline in the state party unit by warning of action against disgruntled leaders seems to have had little effect. The party leadership’s delay in initiating disciplinary action promised against leaders making public remarks against the state government appears to have emboldened the disgruntled leaders, who have restarted their tirade against the B S Yediyurappa administration. Leading the charge - yet again - was Vijayapura MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal. Speaking in Mysuru earlier this week, Yatnal said that the process of changing the CM was ‘ongoing’ as the high command was very serious about it. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is not able to perform due to age-related issues. “If the party has to survive, changing the CM is essential,” he said, while accusing Yediyurappa’s son and BJP vice president B Y Vijayendra of being involved in a series of scams. His attack against the government continued on Tuesday too, and had to face protests from a section of Lingayat seers in Chamarajanagar. Yatnal, who has been relentless in his criticism against the government throughout 2020, was served a notice in February this year. Last month, Singh warned of action against anyone issuing statements that show the government in poor light. Tourism Minister C P Yogeshwar was more subtle in his criticism, where he reiterated that all was still not well within the state BJP unit and the Cabinet. Vijayendra targeted His bitterness about Vijayendra was reflected in the statement: “the Dasara elephant carries the Ambari (golden howdah) doesn’t mean its calf can carry it too.” Sources in BJP said disciplinary action against disgruntled leaders making public remarks against the government appeared very unlikely, considering that the party leadership hasn’t yet acted against them. “Singh had assured of action within two days or a week. The fact that there is no communication about any action appears to have emboldened some leaders to make such remarks again,” a senior BJP leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/delay-in-action-emboldens-disgruntled-bjp-leaders-to-flay-cm-yediyurappa-son-1005650.html
06-07-2021||Main Article||A lot else died with Father Stan Swamy||Father Stan Swamy has died. He has found peace and eternal rest and has at last been freed of the tyranny unleashed on him by a hate-filled power machinery that thinks the only way to silence resistance is to lock up people, to browbeat them with the might of the State and to try and break them into submission.  The nation should never forget that an octogenarian, peace-loving activist, who devoted years working for tribals in Jharkhand, who lived a simple life and stood up for what he thought was right, has died after spending nine months in jail as an undertrial, with poor medical attention that led him to suffer from Covid-19 and brought on a deterioration in his health. He was later shifted to the Holy Family Hospital in Mumbai from the Taloja Central jail and died on a ventilator at the hospital on Monday, only hours before another hearing on his bail application was scheduled to come up in the Bombay High Court. This is a case that will remain a blot on the police team that investigated it, the political masters who undoubtedly thought it fit for this kind of harassment of a 83-year-old to continue for so long and the judiciary which, in a glaring instance of insensitivity, did not routinely and immediately direct that a sipper be provided to a man suffering from Parkinson’s disease so that he could drink water without spilling it; the National Investigation Agency instead asked and got 20 days to reply to the demand for a sipper. The legal back-and-forth on a request of an ailing senior citizen whose hands would shake because of Parkinson’s underlined that pain, suffering, humiliation and disregard for minimum courtesies are a part of the Indian system where punishment is meted out long before the trial. In the India of today, this is heaped on activists, never mind if the activist is elderly, ailing and fighting it by himself in the midst of a pandemic. In fact, the trial may fail but the sentence is already served as an undertrial. And in this case, it was no less than the death sentence. The predicament of Father Stan Swamy is a fit case for a full-fledged judicial investigation into the conduct of various arms of the State, to fix responsibility for the conditions that led to his death, and for setting out exemplary punishment to all those who had a hand in what is nothing short of a heinous crime. Like it or not, it will be difficult to escape the charge that Father Stan Swamy was killed by a system that was out to get him for his views, his work and his passion in standing against exploitation and for justice to the poor. In many ways, Father Stan Swamy’s suffering reflected the suffering of the people of India. His case represents the crossing of all boundaries of sanity and sense, and signals that India is in territory it has not seen before. A hate-filled dagger has been drawn deep into the heart of India and all that the nation stood for – democracy, secularism, a free press, and space for diverse and dissenting voices. In other ways, Father Stan Swamy, by going through the suffering he did, may have even served us in his last days. For one, his case will never be forgotten. It must be and will be studied, recounted and discussed again and again across schools and colleges, civil society institutions, in our courses on law and politics, in our training manuals for the police and the judiciary. It must stand out as the case that lowered India like never before. It will keep telling us that ‘Emergency’ was not a one-off – that this danger and the danger of it getting worse is ever present, only on the edge, waiting to snatch away a young nation and its aspirations to standing tall for its values and its constitutional guarantees in the comity of nations. The case also highlights the tyranny of the Unlawful (Activities) Prevention Act, the UAPA, and the way the law is being applied in cases that are related to anything but terrorism. As has been well reported, Swami’s arrest was based on seizure of electronic records from his computer. Father Swamy himself asked many questions on the material so seized. He never received any replies to those simple questions. He was never present at the site that led to what has come to be called the Elgar Parishad case. Yet, he became the 16th activist to be arrested in the case and was accused by the NIA of being involved in the activities of the banned CPI (Maoist) organization and receiving funds through an associate for furthering the Maoist agenda. But for so many who knew the person and his work, Father Swamy stood out as a picture of service. Even if we take the extreme prosecution case and assume that the charges carried any merit, there was no justification for keeping an ailing grandfatherly figure behind bars for so long; there was nowhere he would run or escape. There was nothing he could keep or hide. Father Swamy could not walk well; he could not hear; he reportedly fell in jail. His condition deteriorated while he was behind bars. A case as shameful as this may yet become a lightning rod and allow the nation to see where we have landed. There are many who will still not be able to see this fall. In an India divided, every attempt is being made to break the nation, to divide between “them” and “us”. More such attempts may follow the passing of Father Stan Swamy. It is becoming easier to see these attempts. Yet, these divisions will continue to take their toll before they halt. Till these prejudices are not seen and called out, and brought to a halt and the guilty brought to book, India will continue to bleed.  (The writer is a senior journalist and a faculty member at SPJIMR. Views are personal) (Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/a-lot-else-died-with-father-stan-swamy-1005358.html
06-07-2021||Mysuru||MES governing council president R Vasudevamurthy passes away||R Vasudevamurthy, president of the governing council of Mahajana Education Society (MES), passed away on Tuesday due to age-related ailments. He was 91. The mortal remains have been brought to his residence near Panchavati Circle, Jayalakshmipuram, Mysuru, so that people can pay homage. The last rites will be performed at 5 pm. Vasudevamurthy was the son of philanthropist and businessman Rattehalli Ramappa, from Sagar in Shivamogga district. He was born on March 28, 1928. The family was into various businesses and industries like oil mill, rice mill and cinema theatre, before founding educational institutions. The family owns the Prabha theatre, on Old Bank Road, near Gandhi Square, in Mysuru. Vasudevamurthy’s son R Ganesh predeceased him a few years ago. He is survived by wife R V Saraswati, daughter Vijayalakshmi Bhagavat and son-in-law Muralidhar Bhagavat. The staff and students of colleges and schools of Mahajana Education Society have mourned the death of Vasudevamurthy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mes-governing-council-president-r-vasudevamurthy-passes-away-1005430.html
06-07-2021||Mysuru||No entry for devotees at Chamundi Hill on Ashada Fridays due to ongoing Covid-19 pandemic||With the district administration issuing orders restricting the entry of people to Chamundeshwari temple atop the hill and Tripurasundari temple in Uttanahalli, devotees will not be able to offer prayers on Ashada Fridays this year. The administration has taken the decision keeping in mind the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, as more than 60,000 people visit the temple every year on Ashada Fridays. Mysuru recorded 371 Covid positive cases, out of 10,903 tests on July 5. It was more than 13% out of the total positive cases of 2,848 cases recorded in all of Karnataka on July 5. This will be the second consecutive year the temple has barred the entry of devotees during the auspicious Ashada Fridays. The temple was closed for the public last year as well, due to the pandemic. According to an order issued by the Deputy Commissioner, the rituals and other customs will be performed in the presence of only priests, officers and staff, on Fridays, in the month of Ashada. Ashada month begins from July 9. Ashada Fridays fall on July 16, 23, 30 and August 6. The vardhanti of goddess Chamundeshwari also falls on July 30. Bheemana Amavasya is celebrated on August 18. The entry of devotees has been restricted on August 18 as well. Apart from Fridays, there will also be restrictions on weekends and general holidays during the period, according to the release. Besides, devotees will not be allowed to visit the temple via climbing the stairs. Mass feeding and distribution of prasada by devotees in the temple are not allowed. Except residents or villagers residing atop the Chamundi Hill, the vehicles of any other devotee will not be allowed to enter the hill, during the period, the release added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/no-entry-for-devotees-at-chamundi-hill-on-ashada-fridays-due-to-ongoing-covid-19-pandemic-1005459.html
06-07-2021||National||DH Toon | Father Stan Swamy passes away, straw, sipper remain||Swamy, 83, who suffered from various health issues including Parkinson's disease, was arrested on October 8 and was lodged at the Taloja prison in Navi Mumbai. "Not just sipper and straw, we are providing him other facilities too like a wheelchair, walking stick, walker, and two attendants were also provided to him," the official said last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-father-stan-swamy-passes-away-straw-sipper-remain-1005350.html
06-07-2021||National||Insurmountable hurdle: Stan Swamy had moved court against a stringent UAPA section 2 days before death||Two days before his death under state custody, tribal activist Stan Swamy — termed as accused in the Elgar Parishad case — had challenged a provision of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), terming it as an insurmountable hurdle for the individual accused of the same. Swamy's lawyer Mihir Desai had on July 3 told the Bombay High Court that Section 43D(5) of the UAPA was violative of an individual's fundamental right to life and liberty as guaranteed by the Constitution. The section, Desai said, creates an "insurmountable hurdle" for anyone seeking bail and as a result, violated an individual's fundamental right to life and liberty that is guaranteed by the Constitution. While the prevalent practice under the criminal justice system is to presume an accused person's innocence unless charges against him or her are proven by the prosecution, Section 43D(5) of the UAPA "inverts on its head, the principle of presumption of innocence," according to Swamy's lawyer. Section 43D (5) of the UAPA mandates that if a court has reasonable grounds to believe that the accusation against someone charges under the Act is prima facie true, then the accused shall not be released on bail. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/insurmountable-hurdle-stan-swamy-had-moved-court-against-a-stringent-uapa-section-2-days-before-death-1005409.html
06-07-2021||National||Stan Swamy: The oldest person to be accused of terrorism in India, he fought till his last breath||Awaiting a bail on medical grounds, 84-year-old Father Stan Swamy died in hospital on July 5, just hours before his hearing at the Bombay High Court. He was in jail for eight months in connection with the Elgar Parishad Bhima Koregaon Case. Suffering from Parkinson's disease, Swamy was put on ventilator support on July 4 at Holy Family hospital, where he was undergoing treatment. Earlier this year in May, he had also tested positive for Covid-19. In his bail application, his lawyers said he had suffered a heart attack early Sunday morning and never regained consciousness. In October 2020, at the time of his arrest, his health was already waning, and it just deteriorated further in Mumbai's Taloja jail. Who was Stan Swamy? Born on April 26, 1937 in Trichy, Tamil Nadu, Father Stan Swamy was a Roman Catholic priest, and a member of the Jesuit order. He went to school at St Joseph's School in Trichy, which inspired him to join the Jesuit order, in Bihar. In May 1957, he pursued religious studies and thus began his 20-year-long career committed to the fight for tribals and adivasis in Jharkhand.  In 1965, he joined the St Xavier’s High School Lupungutu, Chaibasa, West Singhbhum in present-day Jharkhand where he completed his regency, a two-year time period in which Jesuit trainees take one or two works of the order.  In 1971, he went to Philippines, where he got his Masters in Sociology at the University of Manila. It was during this time that much of his activism was seeded. Upon his return, he became the Director of Indian Social Institute in Bangalore for over a decade from 1975-1986. Swamy is also a  founder member of Vistapan Virodhi Janvikash Andolan (VVJA). This is a nation-wide platform that campaigns against human rights violation caused due to displacement of Adivasis, Dalits and farmers. Throughout his career, spanning more than two decades, he moved the high court seeking release of over 3,000 people who were branded as Maoists. He also trekked to tribal villages to educate people of their rights. He informed them about how governments and corporations were taking advantage of them and building townships, dams or mine without their consent, and often not even being provided with compensation.  In 2018, he openly sympathised with a rebellion of tribal people, who were asserting their rights over common land and resources.  In January 2021, Swamy was awarded the Mukundan C Menon award 2020 for human rights. A timeline of his arrest and health conditions On December 31, 2017, the Bhima Koregaon violence broke out in Pune, and an FIR was filed in January 2018. However, it was only in 2020, after NIA took over the probe, that Stan Swamy was arrested. He was taken to Taloja Central Jail in Mumbai on October 8, 2020. On October 23, he filed for interim medical bail, which was rejected. Suffering from Parkinson's disease, he had asked for a straw sipper in November, a demand initially denied by  the NIA, but finally met with in December. Earlier this year, in February, he applied for medical bail yet again, and it was rejected yet again. "Father Stan hatched a serious conspiracy to create unrest in the entire country and to overpower the Government, politically and by using muscle power," the order read. Later in 2021, he moved the Bombay High Court for his medical bail plea, and the HC asked state government to provide his medical documents. While this was being processed, on May 15, he contracted fever and became weak. During his interim bail plea hearing, he said he could not walk or even eat. The High Court then shifted him to a private hospital where he was being treated. On May 30, he tested positive for Covid-19. On July 2, 2021, he moved HC to challenge some sections of the UAPA, but suffered a cardiac arrest on July 4, from which he never regained consciousness.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stan-swamy-the-oldest-person-to-be-accused-of-terrorism-in-india-he-fought-till-his-last-breath-1005416.html
06-07-2021||National||India sees lowest single-day Covid-19 cases in nearly 4 months||India on Tuesday reported 34,703 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, the lowest in 111 days, a statement from the Health Ministry said.  The death toll climbed to 4,03,281 with 553 daily fatalities, the lowest in around 91 days. The active cases have further declined to 4,64,357, the lowest in 101 days, and comprise 1.52 per cent of the total infections. The national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 97.17 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed.    A net decline of 17,714 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 16,47,424 tests were conducted on Monday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 42,14,24,881, while the daily positivity rate  was recorded at 2.11 per cent . It has been less than three per cent for 15 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to  2.40 per cent, according to the ministry. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 54th consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,97,52,294, while the case fatality rate  stands at 1.32 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 35.75 crore under Nationwide Vaccination Drive.    India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on  November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-lowest-single-day-covid-19-cases-in-nearly-4-months-1005419.html
06-07-2021||National||PM Modi pays tributes to Syama Prasad Mookerjee on birth anniversary||Paying tributes to Syama Prasad Mookerjee, who had founded the Bharatiya Jana Sangh in 1951, on his birth anniversary, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said he devoted his life to India's unity and progress, and his lofty ideals motivate millions across the nation. Mookerjee led a campaign against Article 370, which gave special powers to Jammu and Kashmir, and died under detention in the erstwhile state in 1953. He was born in Kolkata in 1901. The Jana Sangh was the progenitor of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) which was founded in 1980. The Modi government nullified Article 370 in 2019, fulfilling a foundational agenda of the BJP. In a tweet, Modi said, "I bow to Dr. Syama Prasad Mookerjee on his Jayanti. His lofty ideals motivate millions across our nation. Dr. Mookerjee devoted his life towards India's unity and progress. He also distinguished himself as a remarkable scholar and intellectual." I bow to Dr. Syama Prasad Mookerjee on his Jayanti. His lofty ideals motivate millions across our nation. Dr. Mookerjee devoted his life towards India’s unity and progress. He also distinguished himself as a remarkable scholar and intellectual.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-pays-tributes-to-syama-prasad-mookerjee-on-birth-anniversary-1005423.html
06-07-2021||National||Stan Swamy's family may not be able see him 'one last time'||As the death of tribal activist Father Stan Swamy leaves behind a trail of grief and outrage over state machinery, his family in Tiruchy may not be able to see him even for the last time. Stan Swamy's body cannot be brought to his native village due to Covid-19. “He (Fr. Stan Swamy) lived for the cause of the tribals, and he always expressed his wish to be buried at the campus of the Social Action Centre in Ranchi. Neither his wish has been fulfilled nor that of ours to have a last look at him,” Stanis Sundar, the nephew of the activist, said.  Sundar, the son of Stan’s elder brother T P L Irudayaswamy, told DH from his native village of Viragallur, 41 km from Tiruchirappalli, that his father is “inconsolable” since Monday afternoon after hearing the death of his younger brother.  “How do we console him when we know he did not die of old age but of apathy and rigid attitude of the (Union) government that jailed a man who was in his 80s. My father had played a crucial role in shaping my uncle’s future and he regrets not seeing him for one last time,” Sundar said.  Though Stan Swamy was involved in active public service, he never missed a chance to drop by his native village to meet Irudayaswamy when he was in Tamil Nadu.  “His last visit to my native was in 2019 and he stayed with us for three days. He would come to meet my grandfather and grand aunt who stayed nearby. Whenever he was in our village, he never missed going to the church in the evening,” Benitto Prabhu, Stan Swamy’s grandnephew, said. After hearing about Stan Swamy’s death, the family members tried to participate in the last rites ceremony, in vain due to Covid-19 restrictions.  “We were hoping that his body will be brought to Bengaluru as he worked with the Indian Social Institute for 15 years. Travelling to Bengaluru would have been easy. But since he is being buried in Mumbai, we cannot travel. It is very sad we cannot see him even after his death,” Sundar added.  They also cited a cap imposed by the Maharashtra government on the number of people attending a burial and “mandatory Covid-19 negative report” as reasons for not going ahead with their plan to travel to Mumbai. Sundar and Benitto said Stan Swamy had always wished to be buried in Ranchi where he spent nearly two decades working for the tribals. They regretted the fact that his last wish could not be fulfilled. Benitto, who met Stan in Chennai in February 2020 for the last time, said they did not expect the courts to deny him bail for months together though the arrest was not unexpected. “The arrest was not surprising for us because he had indicated to me when I met him last. But we never expected him to die in jail (in his hospital bed). We were hoping that the courts would give him bail keeping his age factor in mind,” Benitto said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stan-swamys-family-may-not-be-able-see-him-one-last-time-1005424.html
06-07-2021||National||Rural India sinks deeper into debt as Covid wipes out jobs||Asha Devi doesn't remember how many meals she has skipped as she struggles to feed her family of seven in a remote corner of northern India where the novel coronavirus is compounding old problems of rural debt and poverty. Devi, 35, had to mortgage her land for a Rs 20,000 loan and six months on, as the money runs out, she has stopped buying milk, halved her use of cooking oil and can afford lentils only about once every 10 days. With her construction worker husband jobless, she's facing going deeper into debt to get by. "Sometimes I go to sleep hungry. Last week, I think I went to bed hungry at least twice but I can't remember," Devi told Reuters as she wiped away tears with her threadbare sari outside her mud house in her village in Uttar Pradesh state. Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government has promised free foodgrains for the poor but the rations are limited and not enough for the family, Devi said. The coronavirus and a lockdown aimed at stopping it last year saw millions of people thrown out of jobs in cities and towns and forced back to their villages, and ever-higher levels of debt. Interviews with 75 households in a cluster of eight villages in India's most populous state showed household incomes have slumped nearly 75 per cent on average. Almost two-thirds of the households have taken on debt. Devi’s husband used to have a job in construction in the more prosperous state of Punjab to the northwest, which kept the family going. Now the job has gone and he's back home and struggling to find work. Others like him who have lost jobs crowd around a brick kiln near their village every day hoping for work. Holding back recovery Big debt and low income in the countryside will hold back any economic recovery the government is trying to generate and also dent private savings and investment for longer than expected, economists say. "It will have a huge impact and prolong the recovery process. Private consumption and investments both will be hurt. There is merit in finding ways to put money in the hands of the people," said N.R. Bhanumurthy, economist and vice chancellor at Bengaluru-based B.R Ambedkar School of Economics. India's gross domestic product fell by a record 7.3 per cent in the year that ended on March 31. The government has forecast 10.5 per cent growth for 2021/2022 but a second wave of the pandemic has dented expectations and several economists have cut their forecasts. The poor have especially been hit hard. The Reuters investigation showed most of the 75 households in the Uttar Pradesh cluster, a combined 518 people, have taken out total debt of Rs 61.2 lakh ($82,250), more than 80 per cent of which remains unserviced, the householders said. Borrowing has risen by three times since the pandemic hit in March 2020 and about half of that was taken out the past six months, the survey found. With no jobs or with bread-winners sick, the cumulative monthly income of the 75 households has dropped to about Rs 2.2 lakh from Rs 8.15 lakh before the pandemic. "Almost everyone is in debt in this village ... unemployment is the biggest problem," said 55-year Komal Prasad, a former headman of Gauriya, a hamlet in the cluster with a population of just over 2,000 people. Only about 30 per cent of the people in Gauriya had a job or were looking for work, many fewer than before, villagers said. Juggi Lal, a 35-year-old farmhand, said she was struggling to buy medicine for her disabled husband because there was no work and she owed Rs 60,000 to a moneylender. "Every morning I wake up thinking what work will I get, how will I get through the day?" Rural unemployment rate, which used to hover around 6 per cent before the pandemic, rose to 8.75 per cent in June, according to the Mumbai-based Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE). Ripple effect The mix of lower incomes, higher debt and rising prices of staples is dampening demand in the countryside where two-thirds of Indians live. Sales of everything from biscuits, tea and lentils to auto parts have taken a hit, vendors say. Some have shut down shops that their families have run for generations. Gosh Mohammed, 43, used to sell up to Rs 8,000 of groceries a day before the pandemic. Now it's down to Rs 1,000 a day. He has taken Rs 60,000 worth of goods from a wholesaler on credit but hasn't been able to pay it off for six months. "I never used to take goods on credit because buying with cash gets us more of a discount," Mohammed said. "Now I think I'll have to shut my shop as wholesalers have stopped giving me credit and I've sold the goods on credit and that money isn't likely to come back."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rural-india-sinks-deeper-into-debt-as-covid-wipes-out-jobs-1005437.html
06-07-2021||National||Crimson's digital-first global school to have Indian students this year||Crimson Education, a global admissions consultancy, plans to open its completely online school for admissions to students from India. Described as the ‘future of education’, the Crimson Global Academy, is a digital-first high school that started in New Zealand two years ago as an institute for students keen to pursue education online. Crimson raised $8 million in the latest round of funding in June which it plans to use to expand admissions consultancy in new markets such as India and Mexico besides promoting the Academy. “We are fairly a mid-size school with 400 students on our rolls since our launch in New Zealand two years ago,” Kunal Mehra, country manager, Crimson Education, India, told DH. Mehra said the Academy looked forward to having its first Indian, Japanese, Indonesian and Kazakh students this year. Crimson has raised total funding of $65 million since it was founded in 2013. “At Crimson Global Academy, an accredited online high school, we’ve built innovative learning platforms leveraging exciting opportunities that digital learning provides, redefining the classroom experience to nurture a global studying environment, and most importantly cater to the needs of Indian students who want to do and achieve more,” A J Tills, the Academy’s Chief Marketing Officer said. According to Mehra, students are awarded the International GCSE and International A-Level qualifications on successful completion of our year-long accelerated subject courses. These qualifications are globally recognised for their academic rigour, flexibility, and breadth of learning. For the admissions consultancy, Mehra said Crimson would work with students to find their best-fit university, create a personalised roadmap, ace the standardised tests, craft the perfect essay, build candidacy through extracurriculars and offer them the opportunity to compete with the strongest applicants from around the world and bridge the access divide.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/crimsons-digital-first-global-school-to-have-indian-students-this-year-1005439.html
06-07-2021||National||Twitter defying law by not appointing grievance redressal officer: Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday pulled up Twitter for dilly-dallying on complying with new IT rules and said that the government was free to act against the micro-blogging site if it was in violation of the law. Noting that the company has yet not appointed Resident Grievance Officer (RGO), Justice Rekha Palli asked the company's counsel, "How long will your process take? This cannot be allowed”. "Come up with a clear response, otherwise you will be in trouble," the bench further told the counsel. The court sought information on Twitter's compliance with other provisions of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 (IT Rules, 2021) by the next date of hearing. Turning towards the Union government's counsel, the bench said, “We are not stopping you from taking action, court has not granted any protection to Twitter. If they are in violation, you know what to do.” The Centre, for its part, submitted that Twitter India is in clear violation of IT Rules, 2021. Twitter was given a three-month window to comply with the IT Rules, but they did not do so, the counsel said.  “I am not giving them any protection. I have already made it clear that they have to comply," Justice Palli said. Senior Advocate Sajan Poovayya, representing Twitter India, submitted that an interim grievance officer was appointed, but he had withdrawn his candidature on June 21. After June 21, till July 6, the least it could have done was to appoint another person, the bench said. “How long does your process take? If Twitter thinks it can take as long it wants in our country, I will not allow that," the judge added. Poovayya sought time to obtain detailed instructions from the San Francisco office of Twitter. The court posted the matter for further hearing on Thursday. It asked Twitter to clarify by when it will appoint officials, mandated under the new rules. On May 31, the Delhi High Court had issued a notice to the microblogging platform on a plea by advocate Amit Acharya. The plea had urged the high court to issue directions to the Centre to pass necessary instructions to Twitter India and Twitter Inc to appoint a Resident Grievance Officer under Rule 4 of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 without any delay.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twitter-defying-law-by-not-appointing-grievance-redressal-officer-delhi-hc-1005444.html
06-07-2021||National||Eight new governors appointed ahead of Cabinet reshuffling exercise||Signalling imminent reshuffle of the Narendra Modi Cabinet, Union Minister and Rajya Sabha Leader of House Thawarchand Gehlot was on Tuesday appointed Governor of Karnataka in place of Vajubhai Vala. Gehlot (73) has been the Union Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment and his resignation from the Cabinet and subsequent appointment as a Governor strengthened the buzz around the Cabinet reshuffle in the next couple of days. Modi will be holding a crucial meeting of top BJP leaders on Tuesday evening, during which contours of the new Council of Ministers is likely to be discussed. This would also mean that Modi and the BJP would be considering a new Leader of House for Rajya Sabha. Governor of Karnataka since 2014, Vala is 83 years old and his age appears to have gone against him. Mangubhai Chhaganbhai Patel has been appointed as Madhya Pradesh Governor replacing Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel, who was holding additional charge. Former Goa Speaker Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar will go to the Himachal Pradesh Raj Bhavan. Bandaru Dattatraya, who is presently Governor of Himachal Pradesh, has been transferred to Haryana from where Satyadev Narayan Arya has been shifted to Tripura. Tripura Governor Ramesh Bais has been transferred to Jharkhand, while former Kerala BJP chief P S Sreedharan Pillai has been transferred from Mizoram to Goa where Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari was holding additional charge. Dr Hari Babu Kambhampati has been appointed as the Governor of Mizoram.  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eight-new-governors-appointed-ahead-of-cabinet-reshuffling-exercise-1005446.html
06-07-2021||National||In new social media trend, people imagine dating companies||Ever since online dating has come to the rescue of the pandemic-struck dating world, netizens have been coming up with new trends to share their experiences. In a similar new trend on Twitter, users have been sharing their imaginations of dating people from a particular company or brand. This trend ‘#datingCompanies’ took over the trends on the platform on June 5, and people started flooding the micro-blogging site with hilarious one-liners. From Swiggy and Zomato to TataSky and Raymond, Twitterati are having a blast sharing their own version of this trend.  Here are a few best ones: Date a guy from Raymonds, cause he'll be the complete man.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-new-social-media-trend-people-imagine-dating-companies-1005454.html
06-07-2021||National||Govt has created 'mess': Tharoor on new I-T portal||Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Tuesday attacked the Centre over the glitches in the new Income Tax portal, alleging that even after spending Rs 4,200 crore on it, the government had "failed" to make it user-friendly and created a "mess" instead. Tharoor, who is the president of the Congress' unit comprising professionals, All India Professionals' Congress, said chartered accountants in the unit have informed him that the change of Income Tax Portal has been disastrous, with glitches including longer than usual logging time.  Almost all features of the new portal are non-operational, so ITR (income tax return) filing, 15 CA/CB forms, data preparation for appeals has ground to a halt, the former Union minister said. "Not clear why the government chose to change the income tax portal in June. Would have been wiser just before the end of the Financial Year or the start of the next one, so that taxpayers eligible for income-tax refund could have received help in these difficult times," Tharoor opined. Hitting out at the government, he asked what was the need for a new income tax portal when the old portal was running smoothly for years and why was the portal switched at peak time, when income tax payers usually file their returns and claim refunds. Why was no testing of the new portal done before its launch, Tharoor asked. "The rationale for a new portal is to provide a more user-friendly, modern and seamless experience to users. However, even after spending Rs. 4,200 cr on its renovation, the Govt has failed to attain the objective & created a mess instead," he said in a series of tweets. This is a replay of the chaos with the GST portal, Tharoor added. Noting that India has very few taxpayers per capita and a "culture of tax evasion and black money", the Congress leader said this must be the first time in history that Indian taxpayers who want to pay their taxes are not able to pay because the income tax portal is not working.  "Penalties should be imposed and heads roll," Tharoor said. His remarks come a day after the Income Tax Department extended the deadline till July 15 for manual filing of forms related to foreign remittances. As the new I-T portal faced technical issues after its launch on June 7 and users complained of glitches, the department had allowed manual filings of Form 15CA/15CB (required for foreign remittances) with banks till June 30. The new portal was launched on June 7, which the tax department as well as the government said was aimed at making compliance more taxpayer-friendly. As the website continued to face glitches from the first day of its launch, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had asked Infosys -- the vendor who developed the site -- to fix the issues on priority. In a meeting with Infosys top officials on June 15, Sitharaman had asked Infosys to address all issues without further loss of time, improve their services, and redress grievances on priority as it was impacting taxpayers adversely. Infosys officials on their part had said that they were working to fix the technical issues and that they have augmented the resources for execution of the project on the hardware as well as the application side and that some of the issues have already been identified and fixed. For the other remaining technical issues, Infosys had assured the government that their teams were working on them and gave the expected timelines within which the issues would be resolved. Infosys was in 2019 awarded a contract to develop the next-generation income tax filing system to reduce processing time for returns from 63 days to one day and expedite refunds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-has-created-mess-tharoor-on-new-i-t-portal-1005458.html
06-07-2021||National||Lakshadweep administration rejects plea of Left party MPs to visit islands||The Lakshadweep administration has rejected the application of eight Left MPs seeking entry permit to the islands, citing that their visit will "certainly disturb" the calm and peaceful atmosphere there. The lawmakers included Elamaram Kareem, V Sivadasan, Binoy Viswam, M V Shreyams Kumar, K Somaprasad and John Brittas (Rajya Sabha) and Lok Sabha MPs Thomas Chazhikadan and A M Ariff. Two days ago, the administration had rejected the application of Congress MPs Hibi Eden and TN Prathapan seeking entry into Lakshadweep, citing the same reasons. In his order issued on Monday, Lakshadweep collector Asker Ali said the visit of parliamentarians to the islands "for political activities will certainly disturb the calm and peaceful atmosphere in the islands and it will be against the interest of the general public, public order and security of the Union Territory". Lakshadweep has been witnessing a series of protests by residents for the past few weeks against Administrator Praful Khoda Patel's decision to implement reform measures in the islands. The Save Lakshadweep Forum (SLF), a platform of protesters, has alleged that the measures were being implemented without taking people of islands into confidence. Accusing the administration of going ahead with the "anti-people reform measures" in the islands, the SLF has said they would continue their protest till such measures are withdrawn.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lakshadweep-administration-rejects-plea-of-left-party-mps-to-visit-islands-1005481.html
06-07-2021||National||SC rejects spiritual guru's plea for his live-in partner's 'release'||The Supreme Court on Tuesday declined a plea by a 42-year-old spiritual guru from Kerala to release his 21-year-old live-in partner from her parents' alleged illegal custody, because of the "suspicious credentials" of the man. A bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana refused to interfere with a Kerala High Court's order, rejecting the man's habeas corpus plea. The Court also cited the Britney Spears case as the pop star fought a legal battle in the US to free herself from the conservatorship of her father. Referring to a PIL on parents' concern about such spiritual gurus, the bench asked the man's counsel, "You also know about some of these Gurujis." The bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy, said, "This is not a matter where we can interfere. The girl is in a fragile state of mind. She is 21-years-old. She does not know what she is doing." The Court also pointed out the man was married with two children. His mother also said she doesn't trust her son. He is also involved in a POCSO case.  "How can we give this girl to this man," the bench asked senior advocate Gopal Shankaranarayanan, appearing for the man. The counsel contended that the High Court adopted a "paternalistic approach" by denying an adult woman right to take independent decisions for herself. On this, the bench referred to the "suspicious credentials" of the petitioner. Shankaranarayanan clarified that the petitioner was not seeking that the woman is allowed to join him, but was only asking for her to be free from the "illegal detention" of her parents. "It is a question of liberty of the woman," he said, claiming the High Court judges erred in assessing the mental capacity of the woman based on their personal interaction with her, though the Mental Healthcare Act obligated them to refer the girl for medical examination. On this, the bench said, "No parent will say that a 21-year-old has a mental health issue. In India, people cover up mental health issues." "This is a case where we are clear that the woman should not go with the petitioner. You want her to be let loose? She should be with her parents. There is nothing illegal detention, she is with her parents," the bench said.  The top Court disposed of the matter with a direction to the Registrar General of the High Court to ask the concerned District Judge to interact with the woman and her parents after a month and send a report on her condition to the Supreme Court. "Taking into account peculiar facts and circumstances, we are not inclined to interfere with the matter. To satisfy ourselves, we request the Registrar of the High Court to take steps to produce the girl before the District Judge concerned after one month and the District Judge is directed to examine her and after interacting with her and her parents, the District Judge must send a report on the condition of the girl to be examined by this Court," the bench said in the order. The petitioner, a doctor by profession, claimed the 21-year-old woman, his live-in partner and Yoga Shishya, was forcefully taken from his custody by her parents on October 26, 2020, against her will. He said he renounced worldly life and separated from his wife and two daughters at the age of 42 and turned to spiritual practice on Vedantha Upanishad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-rejects-spiritual-gurus-plea-for-his-live-in-partners-release-1005486.html
06-07-2021||National||Ensure people in mental health homes are tested for Covid, vaccinated: SC to Centre||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the Centre to ensure that people lodged in mental health establishments are tested for Covid-19 and are fully vaccinated at the earliest. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah took serious note of Maharashtra government's shifting patients lodged in mental health institutes to homes for beggars and asked it to discontinue the practice immediately saying it is counter-productive and runs against the provisions of Mental Health Act. The top court also directed all states and Union Territories to extend all cooperation and participate in the meeting of Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment to be held on July 12. It asked states/UTs to remove the discrepancies in figures submitted about the people who have been cured but are still languishing in mental health institutions or who still need treatment. The bench said that from now on it will monitor the case and would start listing the case after three weeks as it is a very sensitive matter. The top court was hearing a plea filed by advocate Gaurav Bansal that around 10,000 people who are fit to be discharged are forced to live in different mental hospitals across the country due to social stigma. During the hearing, Additional Solicitor General Madhavi Divan, appearing for the Centre, said that there were some discrepancies in the data provided by states and they have pointed it out to them. She said the ministry is holding a virtual meet on July 12 and they would ensure compliance of an earlier order of the court for submitting a plan for rehabilitation of people who have been cured for mental illness but are still staying in the hospitals or mental asylums. The bench said it passed last order on February 10, 2020, in which the Court had asked to be apprised of the progress in preparation of plan by the next date of listing in the form of a status report. “It’s a very serious matter. Many people who are cured may not be accepted by their families. Tell the concerned authorities to be serious and ensure that court’s order is complied with,” the bench said. Divan said that she understands the gravity of the situation as during the pandemic, mental health has taken all together a new dimension. Bansal said that he needs to point out two things that these people who are undergoing treatments at mental health establishments should be tested for COVID and completely vaccinated as they are most vulnerable section of the society. He said that as per the status report submitted by Maharashtra government, they are sending the mentally ill patients lodged in mental health establishments to beggar homes. "This practice needs to be immediately stopped as it defeats the very objective of mental health act and as per my information, two-three patients have died in the process,” Bansal said. Divan said they have also pointed out to Maharashtra about this and have asked officials concerned to stop this practice. She assured the bench that Centre will ensure that these people are tested for Covid and completely vaccinated on priority. The bench said that it is time that matter is taken up with alacrity and directed the chief secretaries of all states to send their representatives to participate in the meeting of July 12. It asked Divan to file a status report with regard to the meeting. “Regarding other aspect of shifting of patients to beggar homes by Maharashtra government, we direct the state government to discontinue the practice immediately as it is against the spirit of the Act”, the bench said. The bench posted the matter for further hearing on July 27. On July 26, 2019, the top court had asked the Centre to explore the possibility for rehabilitation and reintegration of people who have recovered from mental illness and are fit to go home but are languishing in hospitals due to social stigma. It had given three months to the Centre to submit a plan about such possibilities and compliance of its 2017 verdict by which the court has asked all the states and Union Territories to rehabilitate those who have recovered from mental illness but are staying in the hospitals. It had asked the Centre to place before it a survey report with regard to persons, who have recovered from mental illness but are staying in the 43 mental hospitals across the country. The apex court had on February 25, 2019, directed the chief secretaries of all the states and UTs to hold a meeting in four weeks with the Union health secretary to chalk out a roadmap for setting up rehabilitation homes for people who have recovered from mental illness and were fit to go home but are languishing in hospitals. Earlier, the apex court had favoured framing of a uniform national policy to deal with those suffering from mental illness and their release from hospitals after being cured. It had said that the issue concerned figured in the concurrent list of the Constitution and hence the Centre also has the authority to frame norms. The PIL filed by Bansal has raised the issue of release of about 300 people from various mental hospitals in Uttar Pradesh, alleging they were still languishing there despite being cured of their ailments and most of them belonged to poorer sections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-people-in-mental-health-homes-are-tested-for-covid-vaccinated-sc-to-centre-1005501.html
06-07-2021||National||India continues to face flak from international community over Stan Swamy’s death||India continued to draw flak from the international community over incarcerated priest-activist Stan Swamy’s death, with the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Michelle Bachelet, asking Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government to ensure that no one is detained for exercising fundamental rights to freedom of expression. Nadine Maenza, president of the United States Commission for International Religious Freedom (USCIRF), too said that the elderly priest and human rights activist had been “imprisoned on false terrorism charges”. The Modi Government, however, countered the criticism. “Authorities in India act against violations of law and not against legitimate exercise of rights. All such actions are strictly in accordance with the law,” Arindam Bagchi, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), said. He said that India’s democratic and constitutional polity was complemented by an independent judiciary, a range of national and state level human rights commissions that monitor violations, a free media and a vibrant and vocal civil society. “India remains committed to promotion and protection of human rights of all its citizens.” Swamy was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on October 8, 2020 for his alleged involvement in violence during January 2018 events to mark the 200th anniversary of the Battle of Bhima Koregaon. He continued to be in the custody of the NIA, while breathing his last at a hospital in Mumbai on Monday – weeks after being tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 infection. “We are deeply saddened and disturbed by the death of 84-year-old Father Stan Swamy, a human rights defender and Jesuit priest, in Mumbai yesterday, following his arrest in October 2020 under India’s Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA),” Liz Throssell, the spokesperson for the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, said in a statement released in Geneva. She said that Bachelet, UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, and the independent experts of the international organisation had repeatedly raised the cases of Father Stan and 15 other human rights defenders associated with the same events with the Government of India over the past three years and urged their release from pre-trial detention. The High Commissioner for Human Rights had also raised concerns over the use of the UAPA in relation to human rights defenders, a law Father Stan was challenging before the courts in India days before he died. She said that in light of the continued, severe impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, it was even more urgent that India and all other nations released every person detained without a sufficient legal basis, including the ones detained simply for expressing critical or dissenting views. “This would be in line with the Indian judiciary’s calls to decongest the prisons.” Bachelet reiterated her call on the Government of India to ensure that no one is detained for exercising their fundamental rights to freedom of expression, of peaceful assembly and of association. The MEA spokesperson in New Delhi, however, underlined that the NIA had followed due process of law to arrest Swamy and, because of the specific nature of charges against him, his bail applications were rejected by the courts. “In view of Swamy’s ailing health, the Bombay High Court had allowed his medical treatment at a private hospital where he was receiving all possible medical attention since May 28. His health and medical treatment was being closely monitored by the courts. He passed away on July 5 following medical complications.” Earlier, the UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights Defenders, Mary Lawlor, termed the death of Swamy as ‘devastating’ and said that jailing "human rights defenders" like him was “inexcusable”. Eamon Gilmore, the European Union’s Special Representative for Human Rights, too mourned his death. “India: I am very saddened to hear that Fr #StanSwamy has passed away. A defender of indigenous peoples’ rights. He was held in detention for the past 9 months. The EU had been raising his case repeatedly with authorities,” Gilmore posted on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-continues-to-face-flak-from-international-community-over-stan-swamy-s-death-1005504.html
06-07-2021||National||RDIF, Morepen Lab to produce test batch of Sputnik V vaccine in Himachal Pradesh||The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), Russia’s sovereign wealth fund, and  Morepen Laboratories, one of the leading manufacturers of pharmaceutical products in India, on Tuesday announced the production of the test batch of the Russian Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine in an exclusive facility in Himachal Pradesh. The first batch will be shipped to the Gamaleya Center for quality control. The RDIF and Morepen Laboratories signed a cooperation agreement in June 2021 and are actively implementing the technology transfer. Sputnik V was granted an emergency use authorization in India on April 12, 2021, and India is the leading production hub of the vaccine. RDIF had reached agreements earlier with other leading pharmaceutical companies in India - Gland Pharma, Hetero Biopharma, Panacea Biotec, Stelis Biopharma and Virchow Biotech. In total, agreements with partners in India provide for the production of more than 850 million doses of Sputnik V per year, according to a joint statement of RDIF and Morepen Laboratories. To date, Sputnik V has been registered in 67 countries globally with a total population of over 3.5 billion people. The data obtained by regulators of several countries during the vaccination of the population, including Argentina, Serbia, Bahrain, Hungary, Mexico and others, demonstrates that Sputnik V is one of the safest and most effective vaccines against coronavirus. Kirill Dmitriev, CEO of the Russian Direct Investment Fund, said, “ As the pandemic is yet far from over and new, more dangerous variants of coronavirus are being detected in various regions of the world, RDIF is increasing capacities for the production of Sputnik V in India, one of the key hubs. Agreement with Morepen Laboratories provides for a larger amount of Sputnik V to be available both for India and our partners globally to speed up the vaccination with one of the best vaccines in the world.” Sushil Suri, Chairman & Managing Director of Morepen Laboratories Limited, said, “We are delighted to partner with RDIF for the prestigious project of Sputnik V production in India. This would be our privilege to work jointly on expanding the production base in India. We take this partnership as a starting point for a long term relationship with RDIF and its partner companies as we look forward to work over many more areas of common interest. Morepen’s commitment towards this project is a step forward towards entry into biosimilars and other biologicals.” The statement said that the efficacy of Sputnik V is 97.6% based on the analysis of data on the coronavirus infection rate among those in Russia vaccinated with both components of Sputnik V from December 5, 2020, to  March 31, 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rdif-morepen-lab-to-produce-test-batch-of-sputnik-v-vaccine-in-himachal-pradesh-1005511.html
06-07-2021||National||India's Covid-19 vaccination coverage exceeds 35.75 crore||India's cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage has exceeded 35.75 crore with over 45 Lakh vaccine doses being administered in the last 24 hours, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. Cumulatively, more than 10.57 crore vaccine doses were administered in the age group of 18-44 years. On Day-171 of the vaccination drive (July 5), out of total 45,82,246 vaccine doses that were given, 27,88,440 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 17,93,806 beneficiaries received the second dose of the vaccine. The ministry said 20,74,636 vaccine doses were administered as first dose and 1,48,709 vaccine doses given as second dose in the age group 18-44 years on Monday. Cumulatively, 10,28,40,418 persons in the age group of 18-44 years across states and UTs have received their first dose and a total of 29,28,112 have received their second. Eight states — Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra — have administered more than 50 lakh first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in the age group 18-44 years. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-vaccination-coverage-exceeds-3575-crore-1005512.html
06-07-2021||National||Board exams 2022: Principals, experts hail CBSE's plan to hold two term exams for class 10, 12||The plan by the CBSE to split the class 10 and 12 board exams into two terms has been hailed by school principals and education experts who believe the decision taken in view of the Covid-19 pandemic may become the foundation of similar examination reforms in the future. Bifurcating the academic session, holding two term-end exams and rationalising the syllabus are part of the special assessment scheme for class 10 and 12 board examinations in 2021-22 announced by the CBSE. "Critics may argue about the lack of seriousness students display in internal tests and assignments or how reflective are internal assessments of a student's capability? However, given the circumstances, this is the best option and will go a long way in ensuring that students study throughout the year. If this formula is a success, the board could implement it when life returns to normal," said Madhav Deo Saraswat, Principal, The Scindia School. Sangeeta Hajela, Principal, DPS Indirapuram said this is going to be a first-ever "flexible" management of board exams which will usher a new era of examination reforms in the country. "A well-thought-out move, it has provided for the unpredictability of the ‘waves’ and the last-minute cancellation of examinations, changes and hurried decision-making. It is a complete plan, mapping what would be done in various situations arising out of conditions prevalent at that time, hitherto unforeseen," she said. "The plan will surely encourage children to study throughout the year and not leave serious study for the final examinations. The digital profile maintenance of each child, though challenging at the grass root level, is also a more holistic tool of evaluation. This first-ever flexible management of examinations is surely a welcome move amongst the academic community. We are optimistic this will usher in a new era of examination reforms in our country and open another door for all times to come," she said. Pallavi Upadhyaya, Principal, DPS RNE Ghaziabad believes the new assessment policy has addressed all permutations and combinations of situations and has shown the schools the best way to conduct the assessments in a fair manner whatever the prevailing conditions be. She, however, is apprehensive about the competency-based question papers and said the rationalised syllabus should be shared immediately so that teachers do not waste their time teaching deleted portions. "The conduct of two board exams with 50 per cent of the reduced syllabus is quite brilliant and will definitely ensure a more reliable result.This being said, what concerns me most is the so-called competency-based question paper. The competency-based questions we have come across in some subjects had questions that had parallels drawn to it. Most of these questions are confusing even for children studying in urban areas and one can imagine how a child from a rural area would fare. "Their answers would be based on pure guesswork. So what competency is being tested here? I feel that pandemic is not the time to conduct such experiments on them. Many of these students are traumatised due to the death of their close relatives and also due to their own weak constitution. They have become quite listless and inattentive in the virtual classroom as they are no longer able to do any vigorous physical activities or sports," she said. As per the new scheme, the term one exams will be conducted by the Board in November-December, 2021 while the second term exams will be conducted in March-April, 2022  Anshu Mittal, Principal, MRG School, Rohini said the new plan is completely fair to the students who study with focus consistently throughout the year. "Introducing the semester system is a beautiful thought. However, mapping the inter-connectivity of concepts and topics now in the mid-session of classes X and XII where almost half of the syllabus has been already covered by teachers is worrisome. The syllabus for the assessment scheduled to be in the month of November and December should have been shared with the schools in time," she said. Shruti Sridhar, a teacher at Nirmal Bhatia School, said the new scheme will shift the focus on a more application-based learning process and encourage students to put consistent efforts throughout the year. Vishnu Karthik, Director, The Heritage Group of Schools, said some elements of this marking scheme can be extended in post-Covid years as some of them are based on sound international assessment practices. "For students, there are still some uncertainties and ambiguities. The only antidote is to be consistent with effort and prepare for any scenario and not prepare for exams last minute," he said. Shishir Jaipuria, Chairman, Seth Anandram Jaipuria Group of Educational Institution said tough lessons have clearly been learnt from the Covid pandemic and this decision to split board exams in two terms will prepare all stakeholders – schools, students, teachers and even the Board – better for any uncertain adverse events in the future. "Looking beyond these exceptional situations, the move will help schools to collate assessment data biannually. This two-term assessment involving both objective and subjective questions will also prepare schools for the semester system in due course, as envisaged in the National Education Policy 2020," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/board-exams-2022-principals-experts-hail-cbses-plan-to-hold-two-term-exams-for-class-10-12-1005519.html
06-07-2021||National||Modi govt 'misuses' central agencies whenever elections are due in a state: Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot hit out at the Modi government on Tuesday, alleging that it "misuses" agencies like the CBI, the ED and the Income Tax Department whenever elections are due in a state or a political crisis is created. With Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections approaching, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has started conducting raids in the state, he said. On Monday, the CBI registered a case against 189 people, including 16 government servants, for alleged irregularities in the Rs 1,437-crore Gomti riverfront development project in Uttar Pradesh undertaken during the tenure of the Samajwadi Party (SP) government headed by Akhilesh Yadav, according to officials. After registering the case, the agency sleuths swooped down on 42 locations spread across 13 districts of Uttar Pradesh, Alwar in Rajasthan and Kolkata in West Bengal, they said. "The CBI, the Income Tax Department and the ED are activated with special instructions whenever elections are approaching in a state or a political crisis is created. With elections approaching in UP, the CBI has started conducting raids (in the state)," Gehlot said in a series of tweets in Hindi. "These agencies were also misused in West Bengal, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka etc. in the past," he said. The chief minister said the credibility of all these central agencies has been largely due to them working in an impartial manner for years. However, the way the BJP is giving orders to these agencies to fulfil its political agenda has ruined their credibility. "Most of the officers working in these agencies have this in their minds. Yet they are compelled to take action. I am sure that when the time comes, the public will give a befitting reply to the BJP which is misusing central agencies politically," Gehlot said. Uttar Pradesh will go to polls in the first quarter of the next year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-govt-misuses-central-agencies-whenever-elections-are-due-in-a-state-gehlot-1005523.html
06-07-2021||National||Test, vaccinate people in mental health homes for Covid-19: SC tells Centre||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the Centre to ensure that people lodged in mental health establishments are tested for Covid-19 and are completely vaccinated at the earliest. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah took serious note of Maharashtra government's shifting patients lodged in mental health institutes to homes for beggars and asked it to discontinue the practice immediately saying it is counter-productive and runs against the provisions of Mental Health Act. The top court also directed all the states and Union Territories to extend all cooperation and participate in the meeting of Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment to be held on July 12. It asked the states/UTs to remove the discrepancies in figures submitted about the people who have been cured but are still languishing in mental health institutions or who still needs treatments. The bench said that from now on it will monitor the case and would start listing the matter after three weeks as it is very sensitive matter. The top court was hearing a plea filed by advocate Gaurav Bansal in which he has said that around 10,000 people, who are fit to be discharged, are forced to live in different mental hospitals across the country and institutes due to social stigma.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/test-vaccinate-people-in-mental-health-homes-for-covid-19-sc-tells-centre-1005530.html
06-07-2021||National||India's Covid-19 death rate hit record in June following increased reporting of deaths||India's Covid-19 deaths relative to infections hit a record high in June after cases peaked in early May, an analysis of government data shows, amid pressure on authorities to accurately report deaths from a second wave of the virus. A big rise in infections in April and May, driven largely by the more infectious and dangerous Delta variant, brought India's health system to its knees. India has officially reported 4,03,281 deaths out of 2.975 crore people who have contracted the virus. While the country of 135 crore people has reported fewer deaths than the United States and Brazil some experts believe its actual case and fatality numbers are several times higher. Based on data reported by state authorities and collated by the federal health ministry, the Covid-19 case fatality rate (CFR) jumped to about 3 per cent in June from 1.26 per cent in October, the first full month after the peak of its first wave of infections. India's overall reported CFR is 1.31 per cent, one of the lowest in the world, which the government has highlighted as a sign of the effectiveness of its pandemic response. "We knew in the early part of the second wave that the pandemic was mostly in northern India and the reporting there was not as good as other states," said Chandrakant Lahariya, an epidemiologist and public health expert in New Delhi. By contrast, the more developed southern states better reported data when they got hit later, he said, adding that more deaths are being recorded now following a public outcry over undercounting. The populous and poor northern state of Bihar, for example, raised its death count by about 4,000 on a single day in early June after a court ordered an audit. India's worst-affected state of Maharashtra also raised its Covid-19 death toll sharply higher after the discovery of thousands of unreported cases. The health ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Deadly Delta While reported infections have fallen fast since the May peak, deaths are not going down at the same rate, worrying some experts as lockdowns have been eased in many parts of the country. "The Delta variant is both the most contagious variant and among the most dangerous variants in terms of infection fatality rates," said Christophe Z Guilmoto, a demographer at the French Institute of Research for Development in New Delhi, who has studied Covid-19 mortality in India. "It did play an increasing role at the end of India's second wave, and this may explain why the daily count of deaths in India isn't coming down as fast as we expected/hoped." To keep deaths low in any future wave, authorities will have to place restrictions early, when the rate of positive Covid-19 results rises, said Rajib Dasgupta, head of the Centre of Social Medicine & Community Health at Jawaharlal Nehru University. He said authorities would also have to ramp up clinical care capabilities together with case forecasting models, genomic surveillance data and molecular epidemiologic analyses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-death-rate-hit-record-in-june-following-increased-reporting-of-deaths-1005537.html
06-07-2021||National||Govt warns against thronging hill stations, stresses Covid-19 protocols should be followed||Government officials on Tuesday sternly warned against people crowding the tourist spots and thronging the markets as several states lifted the Covid-19 restrictions.   "The community has to follow Covid appropriate behaviour in a sustainable way. The virus is still among us. Whatever you do, do it in a Covid-19 appropriate way,” Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. The alert from the health ministry came following reports and pictures showing overcrowded hill stations like Shimla, Manali and Mussoorie and full to the brim markets in the metros with people resorting to “revenge tourism” at the fag end of the second wave. Himachal hill stations witnessed a steep rise in the footfall after the hill state lifted the requirement of mandatory negative RT-PCR report to enter. India still has 73 districts – as many as 42 of them are in the northeast - with 10 per cent test positivity, while the positivity is between 5-10 per cent in another 65 districts. The positivity rate dropped below 5 per cent in 595 districts. Indian Council of Medical Research director general Balram Bhargava said district specific measures were to be guided by the test positivity rates and each district must keep a close watch on such rates. Asked about a possible third wave, Agarwal said the challenge would be to not create a conducive atmosphere for it through the people’s behaviour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-warns-against-thronging-hill-stations-stresses-covid-19-protocols-should-be-followed-1005557.html
06-07-2021||National||Not new to Karnataka, never faced difficulty working here: Governor-designate Thawarchand Gehlot||When Thawarchand Gehlot walks into the sprawling Raj Bhavan in Bengaluru, the new Governor will not be entering an unknown territory, with new people or leaders. The 73-year-old, considered the Dalit face of BJP who entered politics in 1962 through the Jan Sangh, is familiar with Karnataka as the state in-charge for years between 2006 and 2014 when he was party general secretary. Gehlot would be banking on his understanding of Karnataka politics and inner dynamics of state BJP politics to navigate his duties as Governor. "I have been in-charge of party affairs for two terms. I am fairly acquainted with the state. I have never experienced any difficulty working in Karnataka. I am sure I will face no difficulty in the future as well," Gehlot told DH. This would come in handy for Gehlot, who will be closely watching the BJP government, whose Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is under attack from a section of party leaders. The lone Dalit in BJP's highest decision-making body Parliamentary Board, Gehlot rose to be the Leader of House in Rajya Sabha in 2019 after the death of former Finance Minister Arun Jaitley. He can even boast that he entered the Parliamentary Board in 2006 much before Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The veteran leader said he would thank Prime Minister Narendra Modi, President Ram Nath Kovind and senior leadership of the party for giving him the new responsibility. “I will live up to their expectations and do my job faithfully. I will try to resolve the issues within limits of the Constitution and through discussion,” Gehlot said. Born in Rupeta village in Nagda tehsil of Ujjain district on May 18, 1948, Gehlot studied Arts at Vikram University, Ujjain. Gehlot began his innings in public life as a labour union leader in Grasim Industries in Ujjain district and later joined the Bhartiya Janata Yuva Morcha. He was jailed several times between 1968 and 1971 for raising workers’ issues as well as during the Emergency in the 1975-76. A three-term MLA in Madhya Pradesh, Gehlot served four terms as member of the Lok Sabha from Shajapur from 1996 to 2009. He lost the 2009 Lok Sabha elections and was sent to the Rajya Sabha in 2012.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-new-to-karnataka-never-faced-difficulty-working-here-governor-designate-thawarchand-gehlot-1005560.html
06-07-2021||National||Mehbooba Mufti's mother summoned by Enforcement Directorate in PMLA case||Hours after regional PDP declined to meet the visiting Delimitation Commission in Srinagar, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) summoned Gulshan Ara, mother of the former Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti for questioning in a money laundering case. Gulshan Ara, the wife of late Mufti Mohammad Sayeed, the former Union Home Minister, has been asked to appear before the central probe agency at its office in Srinagar on July 14. Posting the summons on her official Twitter handle, Mehbooba said, “On the day PDP chose not to meet Delimitation Commission, ED sent a summon to my mother to appear in person for unknown charges. In its attempts to intimidate political opponents, GOI doesn’t even spare senior citizens. Agencies like NIA & ED are now its tools to settle scores (sic).” Earlier, the ED had questioned Mehbooba for several hours at its Srinagar office on March 25. She had approached the Delhi High Court seeking relief after the first summon. But the court did not stay the summons. Later on April 9, the ED had summoned Gulshan Ara for questioning. The case filed under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) is linked to the recovery of at least two diaries by the ED, after raids on an associate of Mehbooba, in which some purported payments made from then chief minister’s discretionary fund were made in alleged contravention of rules. These funds are alleged to have been diverted during the tenure of Mehbooba as the CM. After her five-hour-long questioning on March 25, Mehbooba had told reporters that central agencies like the NIA, CBI and the ED were being “misused” to silence the opposition. The Crime Investigation Department (CID) of J&K police had also rejected the passport applications of Gulshan Ara and Mehbooba following ‘adverse police reports’ against the mother and the daughter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mehbooba-muftis-mother-summoned-by-enforcement-directorate-in-pmla-case-1005565.html
06-07-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Thawarchand Gehlot appointed Governor of Karnataka; Morepen Labs to produce test batch of Sputnik V vaccine||In your news update, the Russian Direct Investment Fund and Morepen Laboratories announce the production of the test batch of the Sputnik V vaccine in an exclusive facility in Himachal Pradesh; Union Minister and Rajya Sabha Leader of House Thawarchand Gehlot appointed Governor of Karnataka; Delhi High Court pulls up Twitter for dilly-dallying on complying with new IT rules and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee says BJP members "do not know courtesy and decency".  Text: Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), Russia’s sovereign wealth fund, and Indian drug manufacturer Morepen Laboratories announced today the production of the test batch of the Russian Sputnik V vaccine in an exclusive facility in Himachal Pradesh. The first batch will be shipped to Gamaleya Center for quality control. The RDIF and Morepen Laboratories signed a cooperation agreement in June 2021 and are actively implementing the technology transfer. Union Minister and Rajya Sabha Leader of House Thawarchand Gehlot was appointed Governor of Karnataka today in place of Vajubhai Vala. 73-year-old Gehlot has been the Union Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment and his resignation from the Cabinet and subsequent appointment as a Governor strengthened the buzz around the imminent reshuffle of the Narendra Modi Cabinet in the next couple of days. Modi will be holding a crucial meeting of top BJP leaders today evening, where the contours of the new Council of Ministers is likely to be discussed. The Delhi High Court pulled up Twitter today for dilly-dallying on complying with new IT rules and said that the government was free to act against the micro-blogging site if it was in violation of the law. Noting that the company has yet not appointed a Resident Grievance Officer (RGO), Justice Rekha Palli asked the company's counsel, "How long will your process take? This cannot be allowed”. The bench further told the counsel, "come up with a clear response, otherwise, you will be in trouble." Sharpening her attack on the BJP, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said today that members of the saffron camp "do not know courtesy and decency" and that was evident from the ruckus they created during Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar's inaugural speech in the Assembly. Dhankhar had on July 2 tabled his address, after reading out a few lines of his 18-page speech, amid protests by BJP MLAs over incidents of post-poll violence in the state. Source: DHNS/PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-thawarchand-gehlot-appointed-governor-of-karnataka-morepen-labs-to-produce-test-batch-of-sputnik-v-vaccine-1005568.html
06-07-2021||National||Amarnathji Shrine Board launches online services for devotees||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Tuesday launched various online services of Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board to provide a personal experience to the devotees. "For millions of devotees who are unable to visit the holy cave of Shri Amarnath Ji this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Shrine Board has brought Darshan, Hawan, and Prasad facility under the virtual mode. The devotees can book their Pooja, Hawan, and Prasad online, and priests at the holy cave will offer it in the devotee's name. Prasad will be subsequently delivered at doorsteps of the devotees," a spokesman of the board said. With the launch of new online services of Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board, the devotees of Lord Shiva from across the world can perform online virtual 'pooja' and 'hawan' at the holy cave, the Lt Governor said. The online 'prasad' booking service was also extended to the devotees through this initiative, he added. "Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board is extending online services including virtual pooja for devotees in their name, virtual hawan (with darshan) by name and online prasad booking," said Nitishwar Kumar, CEO of the shrine board. The CEO said online services can be booked through the board's website www.shriamarnathjishrine.com by visiting the 'Book Online Pooja/ Hawan/Prasad' page and also through the board's mobile application from Tuesday onwards, by paying Rs 1,100 for virtual pooja, Rs 1,100 for prasad booking (with 5 gm silver coin of Amarnathji), Rs 2,100 for prasad booking (with 10 gm silver coin of Amarnathji), Rs 5,100 for the special hawan or combination of any of the above. The virtual pooja or hawan would be carried out by the priest at the holy cave by pronouncing the name and 'gotra' of the devotee along with chanting of 'mantras and shlokas'. The devotees would be allowed in a virtual online room through Jio meet application where they would be having a special virtual pooja and darshan of the holy ice 'lingam' in their name, he added. “We are making an arrangement with the postal department for dispatching the prasad within 48 hours,” Kumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amarnathji-shrine-board-launches-online-services-for-devotees-1005576.html
06-07-2021||National||Will promote Khadi Prakritik Paint made from cow dung in India: Gadkari||Union MSME Minister Nitin Gadkari on Tuesday said he would be the brand ambassador of Khadi Prakritik Paint and would promote it across the country so as to encourage young entrepreneurs to take up the manufacturing of the cow dung paint. Inaugurating the new automated manufacturing unit of this paint in Jaipur, he said this would go a long way in empowering the rural and agro-based economy in the country. It is India's first and only paint made from cow dung, the ministry said in a statement. "Even inaugurating infrastructure projects worth lakhs of crores of rupees is not as pleasing and satisfying as inaugurating this manufacturing unit. "Khadi Prakritik Paint has immense potential of creating sustainable development for the benefit of the poorest of the poor and the target should be setting up a parkritik paint unit in each and every village," the ministry said quoting Gadkari. The new plant has been set up in the campus of Kumarappa National Handmade Paper Institute, Jaipur. Commissioning of the new unit will double the production capacity of the paint. Currently, the daily production of the paint is 500 litres which will go up to 1,000 litres per day, it said. "Available in two variants, Distemper and Emulsion; Khadi Prakritik Paint contains 'AshtaLaabh' — eight benefits like anti-bacterial, anti-fungal and natural thermal insulation properties. This paint is eco-friendly, non-toxic, odorless and cost-effective," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-promote-khadi-prakritik-paint-made-from-cow-dung-in-india-gadkari-1005588.html
06-07-2021||National||JEE Mains Phase 3 exams to be held from July 20 to 25, Phase 4 between July 27 and August 2||Two phases of the Joint Entrance Examination-Mains, which were postponed in April and May due to Covid-19 outbreak, will be held from July 20 to 25 and July 27 to August 2, Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank announced on Tuesday. “The third phase of JEE-Mains will be conducted from July 20-25, while the fourth phase will be held from July 27 to August 2,” the minister said. JEE-Mains for admission to engineering colleges is being conducted four times a year from the current academic session to offer flexibility to students and a chance to improve their scores amidst the second wave of the pandemic in India. From this year, the National Testing Agency has decided to hold the exam in four phases, allowing students to keep the best of the four grades. The first phase was held in February, followed by the second phase in March. Students who could not register for the exams due to Covid-19 will now be allowed to apply again, Pokhriyal said. The NTA has allowed students to submit applications from Tuesday night, till the night of July 8. Aspirants can register for the fourth session from July 9 to July 12. During the registration process, candidates can also change their choice of examination centres. “To change the exam centre according to your desire or convenience, you have to inform us within these three days. We will try to give you the centre of your choice,” the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jee-mains-phase-3-exams-to-be-held-from-july-20-to-25-phase-4-between-july-27-and-august-2-1005595.html
06-07-2021||National||Wipro commits Rs 1,000 crore more for Covid-19 fight; Premji says promoting students to next class 'worst thing'||IT major Wipro's philanthropic arm has committed an additional Rs 1,000 crore of grants over and above the Rs 1,125-crore support it had announced in the early days of the pandemic last year, its Founder Chairman Azim Premji said on Tuesday. The additional grant will be directed primarily on universal vaccination, Premji said while speaking at the foundation day event of the Bombay Chartered Accountants' Society. In the early days of the pandemic last year, Wipro had announced a Rs 1,125-crore aid for the pandemic, which also included converting its facilities at Pune into hospitals. "As our work as well as our situation evolved, we realised that focus on universal vaccination was just as important as other initiatives. So, we have added that as a key element of our Covid-19 relief strategy, and committed an additional Rs 1,000 crore for it," Premji said. Terming the pandemic as a once-a-century event that led to a resolve to fight it with all the resources at disposal, Premji said a comprehensive set of plans was drawn up in the early days itself to tackle both the humanitarian and health aspects. Grassroot teams were organised consisting of 1,600 full-time employees of the Azim Premji Foundation, 55,000 employees working for its partners, 10,000 teachers and 2,500 alumni of the Azim Premji University. Premji, who has committed almost his entire wealth of over $80 billion to philanthropic initiatives with a special focus on education, appeared to be strongly against the idea of promoting school students to the next class and stressed that adequate attention needs to be paid to the lost schooling days. "The worst thing that we could do is to ignore the past one and a half years and just keep promoting children to the next class without helping them to learn what they should have learnt. We can create an enormous deficit which can never be filled up otherwise," he said. Even as the education system grapples with how to go forward, Premji suggested a graded approach that involves having classes in open areas in neighbourhoods, vaccinating teachers and re-engineering education programmes to ensure that the schooling time lost over the past one and half years is made up. Premji said the foundation's efforts have helped 83 lakh people in rural communities and the most vulnerable pockets regain their livelihoods through field interventions like seed and fertiliser supply for farmers, and working capital for poultry farmers and handicraft industry. He said collaborating with the government is important for extending aid deep into the country and added that if one has the required skillsets, the state will "meaningfully" collaborate. The industry doyen, who now devotes full time to his social sector activities, said his mother who ran a hospital for children and Mahatma Gandhi, who advocated a trusteeship model for wealth, have been his greatest inspirations to take the plunge into philanthropy. Premji exhorted everyone to start giving earlier in their lives, terming the late start to philanthropic activities in his life as a "regret". "It is only when we come together in this way we realise the dream of a just, equitable, humane and sustainable society as envisioned in the Indian Constitution," he said. He asked everybody to go into the real world, get their hands dirty and witness the inequities, injustice and lack of basic dignity in the society first hand to get moved by the contrasts and do some good for the society. "It is not possible to be emotionally detached. Being empathetic and emotional makes much good happen in this world. Please be moved by it," Premji said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wipro-commits-rs-1000-crore-more-for-covid-19-fight-premji-says-promoting-students-to-next-class-worst-thing-1005620.html
06-07-2021||National||Common Eligibility Test for govt job aspirants will be conducted from early 2022: Jitendra Singh||Union minister Jitendra Singh said on Tuesday that the Common Eligibility Test (CET) for job aspirants will be conducted across the country from early next year. This unique initiative of the CET undertaken with the personal intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to screen and shortlist candidates for recruitment to central government jobs was scheduled to take off with the first such test before the end of this year, but is likely to get delayed on account of the Covid pandemic, he said. Speaking after the launch of e-Book Civil List-​2021 of Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers, Singh said the CET is a path-breaking reform carried out by the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) to bring about "ease of recruitment" for young job aspirants and it will prove to be a major boon for youth, especially those living in far-flung and remote areas, a statement issued by the Personnel Ministry said. "This landmark reform is also a reflection of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's deep and sensitive concern for the youth and his keenness to provide level playing field and equal opportunities to youth across the country," said Singh, the Minister of State for Personnel. The minister further informed that the National Recruitment Agency (NRA) for conducting the CET has been constituted with the approval of the Union Cabinet. "The NRA will conduct the CET to screen/shortlist candidates for jobs in the government sector for which recruitment is presently carried out through the Staff Selection Commission (SSC), Railway Recruitment Boards (RRBs) and the Institute of Banking Personnel Selection (IBPS)," the statement said. Singh said that the NRA will be a multi-agency body which will conduct the common test to screen and shortlist candidates for Group 'B' and 'C' (non-technical) posts. The most significant feature of this reform is that every district in the country will have at least one examination centre, which would greatly enhance access to the candidates living in the far-flung areas, he added. Singh said that the historic reform will provide a level playing field to all the candidates, regardless of his or her background or socio-economic status. "There will also be a huge benefit to women and Divyang candidates and for those who find it financially unaffordable to appear for multiple tests by travelling to multiple centres," the minister said. Singh said that the push given to the DoPT in the last seven years by the Modi government resulted in a number of innovations and reforms for the common public good. Referring to a series of out of the box decisions since May 2014, he said that the decision to do away with the time old practice of getting documents attested by a gazetted officer and replacing the same with self-attestation, three-month central government stint as assistant secretaries for IAS officers in the beginning of their career are far reaching in nature. Speaking about the e-book, Singh said the dynamic list will help in selecting the right officer for the right assignment based on available profile and is a vital source of information on the officers manning various posts for the general public. He said the e-book IAS civil list is an effort by the department to contribute towards digital India initiative of the government of India. "This effort will also ensure economic utilisation of resources by reducing the burden on government exchequer," Singh said. This is the 66th edition of civil list and first edition of the e-book in PDF with unique search facilities and hyperlinking of contents for ease of access of information at the click of a button, the statement said. By introducing publication of the e-book, the DoPT has done away with the printing of voluminous IAS civil list, it said. The IAS civil list contains vital information in respect of officers' batch, cadre, present posting, pay scale, qualification and date of superannuation along with their overall cadre-wise strength, number of IAS officers retiring in the next five years, including number of IAS officers appointed on the basis of civil services examination from 1969 onwards, the statement said. The list also contains pictures of IAS officers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/common-eligibility-test-for-govt-job-aspirants-will-be-conducted-from-early-2022-jitendra-singh-1005621.html
06-07-2021||National||Delimitation Commission interacts with J&K political parties||On its first day of four day-visit to Jammu and Kashmir, the Delimitation Commission on Tuesday interacted with political leaders to gather first-hand inputs to carve out new assembly constituencies in the Union Territory (UT). During their visit, the Commission, headed by Justice (retd) Ranjana Prakash Desai, will interact with administrative officials, political parties, people’s representatives, and other stakeholders. In a significant move, all J&K-based political parties, with the sole exception of the PDP had meetings with the Commission, which besides Desai, includes Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sushil Chandra, and Deputy Election Commissioner Chandra Bhushan. The representatives of BJP, Congress, National Conference, CPM, CPI, Peoples Conference, Panthers Party and Bhujan Samjwadi Party were allotted 20-minutes each for briefing the visiting delegation about their point of view on the delimitation exercise, officials said. During the visit, the Commission will also be interacting with deputy commissioners (DCs) to gain a sense of Assembly seats. The NC, Congress and CPI (M) after meeting the visiting Commission said they urged it to carry out the exercise of redrawing the electoral constituencies in a free, fair and transparent manner so that the unity and integrity of the UT is safeguarded. The three parties submitted separate memoranda to the Commission outlining their concerns and demands related to the exercise, saying it be carried out only after J&K is granted statehood again. NC leader Nasir Wani said the party urged the panel to restore the “lost faith” of people in institutions and it was for the Commission to try and restore this confidence. The Congress delegation in its memorandum said the delimitation process will be rendered “nugatory” if held before the restoration of statehood to J&K. The Commission is also likely to hold separate meetings with civil society groups and similar organisations after they obtain prior approval and are allotted time slots by respective deputy DCs. The visit of the panel assumes significance as it has come less than two weeks after Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired an all-party meeting in New Delhi on Jammu and Kashmir. After the meeting, also attended by the Union Home Minister Amit Shah, it emerged that the delimitation exercise was a first step towards restoration of democratic process in the UT. Once the delimitation exercise is completed, the number of assembly seats in Jammu and Kashmir will go up from 83 to 90.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delimitation-commission-interacts-with-jk-political-parties-1005623.html
06-07-2021||National||India rejects criticism over handling of Father Stan Swamy's case||India on Tuesday rejected mounting international criticism over the handling of the case of Father Stan Swamy, an undertrial who died on Monday, saying the concerned authorities act against violations of law and do not restrain legitimate exercise of rights. The Ministry of External Affairs said India remains committed to the promotion and protection of the human rights of all its citizens and that the country's democratic polity is complemented by an independent judiciary and a range of national and state-level human rights commissions. Stan Swamy, who was arrested last year under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in connection with the Elgar Parishad case, died in a Mumbai hospital on Monday. Noting that Father Stan Swamy was arrested and detained by the National Investigation Agency following due process under law, the ministry said because of the specific nature of charges against him, his bail applications were rejected by courts. "Authorities in India act against violations of law and not against legitimate exercise of rights. All such actions are strictly in accordance with the law," MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said. His comments came in response to media queries on the demise of Stan Swamy. In view of Father Stan Swamy's ailing health, the Bombay High Court had allowed his medical treatment at a private hospital where he was receiving all possible medical attention since May 28, Bagchi said. The MEA spokesperson said Swamy's health and medical treatment was being closely monitored by the courts and he passed away on July 5 following medical complications. "India's democratic and constitutional polity is complemented by an independent judiciary, a range of national and state level human rights commissions that monitor violations, a free media and a vibrant and vocal civil society," Bagchi said. "India remains committed to promotion and protection of human rights of all its citizens," he added. Earlier, the UN body on human rights said it was "deeply saddened and disturbed" by the death of 84-year-old activist in pre-trial detention. UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet and the UN's independent experts have repeatedly raised the cases of Swamy and 15 other human rights defenders with the government of India over the past three years and urged their release from detention, it said. "We are deeply saddened and disturbed by the death of 84-year-old Father Stan Swamy, a human rights defender and Jesuit priest, in Mumbai yesterday, following his arrest in October 2020 under India's Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act," Liz Throssell, the spokesperson for the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, said. "Father Stan had been held in pre-trial detention without bail since his arrest, charged with terrorism-related offences in relation to demonstrations that date back to 2018," she said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-rejects-criticism-over-handling-of-father-stan-swamys-case-1005628.html
06-07-2021||National||Modi govt creates separate ministry for strengthening cooperative movement||The Centre on Tuesday created a new portfolio ‘Ministry of Cooperation’ to provide a separate administrative, legal and policy framework for strengthening the cooperative movement in the country ahead of a reshuffle of the Union Council of Ministers on Wednesday. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had made the announcement for creation of a separate Ministry for Cooperation in her Budget speech. Hailing the decision, BJP general secretary (Organisation) recalled that Modi had first created the Jal Shakti Ministry and now the Cooperative Ministry. "This will go a long way in  strengthening the rural economy," he said. Union Minister Piyush Goyal said this will give a massive boost to the cooperative movement and create a "true people's momentum" for development. An official statement said the new ministry will work to streamline processes for ‘ease of doing business’ for cooperatives and enable development of Multi-State Cooperatives (MSCS). It is expected to help deepen cooperatives as a true people based movement reaching upto the grassroots. The government called the move a "historic" one, saying it has been created for realising the vision of ‘Sahkar se Samriddhi’. Noting that in the country, a cooperative based economic development model is very relevant where each member works with a spirit of responsibility, the statement said that the central government has signaled its deep commitment to community based developmental partnership. The ministry will work to streamline processes for 'ease of doing business' for cooperatives and enable the development of multi-state cooperatives (MSCS). The central government has signalled its deep commitment to community-based developmental partnerships. The creation of a separate ministry also fulfils the announcement made by the Finance Minister in the Union Budget, they added. Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said, "Cooperative movement is integral to achieve inclusive development at the grassroots. My compliments to Adarniya Pradhan Mantri  @narendramodi ji for putting this movement on national priority by creating a dedicated Ministry of Cooperation. This is a giant leap forward." Cooperative movement is integral to achieve inclusive development at the grassroots. Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan tweeted, "Prosperity through cooperation! A noteworthy move by PM Shri  @narendramodi government to strengthen grassroot development & cooperative movement in the country. Creation of a new Ministry of Cooperation shows Govt's deep commitment to community-based developmental partnership." Prosperity through cooperation! Modi government had in August 2015 renamed the Ministry of Agriculture as the Ministry for Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare months after massive protests to its new land Bill, which it had to finally withdraw after the Opposition sought to paint the government as "anti-farmer". Renaming ministries like the Ministry of Environment to the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change, of the Ministry of Animal Husbandry to the Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying and of HRD to the Education Ministry was also done in the past.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-govt-creates-separate-ministry-for-strengthening-cooperative-movement-1005652.html
06-07-2021||National||Poor availability of Covid-19 vaccine cripples vaccination campaign in states||The critical shortage of the Covid-19 vaccine has crippled the ongoing inoculation drive in several states, which stopped the vaccination campaign in many centres over the last few days. From Uttar Pradesh in the north to Tamil Nadu and Kerala in the south, from Gujarat and Maharashtra in the west to Assam and West Bengal in the east, it’s the same story of non-availability of Covishield and Covaxin as the people’s wait for the vaccine grew longer. For instance, the vaccination drive has come to a halt in Chennai and other parts of Tamil Nadu since Monday. The southern state received about 1.58 crore doses and almost all of them had been administered forcing the government to suspend the ongoing drive temporarily in most parts of the state. Tamil Nadu Health Minister Ma Subramanian told DH that the state had no option but to close the vaccination centres till it got fresh supplies from the Centre. Lack of steady supply impacts the vaccination drive in Kerala too with many facing the risk of missing the second dose. Some people travel to other districts in search of the vaccine. Up north in Uttar Pradesh, the vaccination was halted in several centres in Prayagraj and Gautam Buddha Nagar districts. Officials said it would be near impossible to achieve the target of vaccinating ten lakh persons daily and inoculating every 18 plus by December 2021. The first five days of July saw an average of 42.13 lakh daily vaccination all over the country, which is more than 20 lakh short of the doses being administered in the last week of June after the Narendra Modi government brought in a regime in which the Centre purchased 75% of the shots and distributed them to the states. The Centre earmarked 12 crore doses for July, which may turn out to be inadequate, given the requirements from the states. Asked about the shortage, Lav Agarwal, a joint secretary in the Union Health Ministry on Tuesday said, “We are not running a daily sprint, but a marathon. It's not appropriate to analyse the data daily.” In the east, Assam failed to meet its target to vaccinate at least 3 lakh people daily between June 21-30 due to the shortage. "We have created facilities to administer 3 lakh doses daily and people are willing, but we are unable to meet the demand as we are short of supplies," Assam health minister Keshav Mahanta said in Guwahati on Tuesday. It’s a similar story in other northeastern states that are witnessing a rise in the Covid-19 cases. In neighbouring West Bengal, the deficiency has forced the administration to direct the government hospitals to reserve 50% vaccines for the second dose. Health Department sources said that “the state is only left with about 60,000 doses.” On the other side of the country, Gujarat experienced a vaccine shortage for quite some time. The state had extended the deadline for mandatory vaccination of employees at factories, shops and commercial establishments from June 30 to July 10 after it received representations on vaccine shortage from trade and industry bodies. For the past one week, there have been reports on vaccine shortages across the state. In Maharashtra, district collectorates and municipal corporations now plan the vaccination daily. “It is a difficult task to spread it out in localities and categories,” an official said, adding that people were agitated and the government/civic staff had to face the people's ire. There is however no complaints of vaccine shortage in the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir. (With inputs from Arjun Raghunath, ETB Sivapriyan, Mrityunjay Bose, Satish Jha, Sanjay Pandey, Soumya Das, Sumir Karmakar, Zulfikar Majid)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/poor-availability-of-covid-19-vaccine-cripples-vaccination-campaign-in-states-1005654.html
06-07-2021||National||Trinamool Congress leader conducts 'enquiry' at Solicitor General's residence||A senior leader of the Trinamool Congress on Tuesday turned up at the gate of the residence of Solicitor General Tushar Mehta in New Delhi without any prior appointment but was not allowed to meet him. The ‘enquiry’ by Trinamool Congress general secretary in West Bengal and former Rajya Sabha member, Kunal Ghosh, was a part of the campaign the party recently launched against the Solicitor General over the purported visit of Suvendu Adhikari, a Bharatiya Janata Party’s MLA in the State, to his residence. Ghosh told the security guards at the gate that he had come to meet Mehta. He was however not allowed in and was told that one could meet the Solicitor General only if after taking a prior appointment for such a meeting. The Trinamool Congress leader later claimed that whatever the security guards told him at the gate of the residence of the Solicitor General clearly proved that Suvendu Adhikari had a prior appointment for meeting the second highest law officer of the Union Government. “Enquiry Report: Now it is clear that if you want to take entry into (the) SG's (Solicitor General’s) house, you have to be connected with related cases or there must be prior appointment,” Ghosh posted on Twitter. “So the guy who entered that house that day had prior appointment.” He apparently referred to Adhikari as “the guy”. The Trinamool Congress said that what Mehta’s security guards had told Ghosh clearly debunked the Solicitor General’s claim that Adhikari had arrived at his residence without prior appointment. The BJP leader had not only been allowed in, but, according to the Solicitor General, had also been offered a cup of tea. Mehta said that he had not met Adhikari. The Trinamool Congress alleged that since Adhikari was being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation and Enforcement Directorate for his involvement in the Narada sting operation case and Saradha Chit Fund scam, his meeting with the Solicitor General reeked of “grave impropriety” and raised “troubling doubts about his professional integrity”. Two Trinamool Congress MPs called on President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday, demanding the removal of the law officer from his post. The party had earlier written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi with the same demand. Adhikari is a protege-turned-foe of the TMC supremo and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. He quit the TMC and joined the BJP ahead of the assembly elections in the State and defeated Banerjee in Nandigram. He is now the Leader of Opposition in the State Assembly, but remains an accused in the Narada case as well as the Saradha Chit Fund scam being probed by the CBI and the ED. Mehta is representing the investigating agencies in the Calcutta High Court and the Supreme Court in connection with the cases. The Trinamool Congress stated that Mehta should release CCTV footage of his house to make his clarification convincing. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trinamool-congress-leader-conducts-enquiry-at-solicitor-generals-residence-1005676.html
06-07-2021||National Politics||Sangh's ideology always been full of harmony, brotherhood: Naqvi on Bhagwat's remarks||The RSS ideology has always been full of harmony, brotherhood and nationalism, and it was the propaganda by "Bharat bashing bridage" that had painted a negative picture of the Sangh, Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said on Monday, a day after chief Mohan Bhagwat asserted that the DNA of all Indians is the same. Naqvi said that in the past too, those in the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), through their service to the people, did a lot of work for the unity of the society, but the 'gumrahi (misleading) gang', not only in India but in the world, always conspired to break the brotherhood and social fabric by creating hullabaloo about the Sangh. "The beliefs and the thoughts of the Sangh have always been like this, full of harmony, brotherhood and nationalism. But on the one hand, there were the organization's views and on the other hand was the propaganda by its opponents," Naqvi told PTI but did not take any names. The propaganda by opponents often prevailed over the actual views of the Sangh mainly because the organisation did not pay attention to these campaigns, he argued. "For the past few years, the programmes of the Sangh are held publicly and one is able to see and understand their thoughts and their work," Naqvi said. Now, when the positive image of the Sangh is before the people, the "painters of its negative image are a worried lot", the minister said when asked about the remarks of Congress leader Digvijaya Singh and All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi. Such people have been "exposed", Naqvi claimed. Hitting out at Bhagwat, Congress leader Digvijaya Singh said if he is true to his words, he must give directions that all those BJP leaders who have "harassed" innocent Muslims be removed from their posts, while Owaisi alleged that cowardice, violence and murder "are an integral part of Godse's Hindutva thinking" and the lynching of Muslims is also the result of that. In his address at an event 'Hindustan first Hindustani best' organised by the Muslim Rashtriya Manch in Ghaziabad on Sunday, Bhagwat said the DNA of all Indians is the same, and urged muslims not to get "trapped in the cycle of fear" that Islam is in danger in India. The RSS chief also took on those indulging in lynching, saying "Cow is a holy animal, but those involved in lynching are against Hindutva". Though at times, some "false cases" of lynching have been registered against some people, he said. On lynchings and other such incidents, Naqvi said it is unfortunate that the "Bharat bashing brigade and misleading gang" have played a role in portraying criminal acts as communal incidents. "A criminal incident is a criminal incident.  Such an incident should not be projected as a communal incident. Action should be taken in such criminal incidents. Mohan Bhagwat has said the same thing," the Union minister said. Asked about political interpretations being made over Bhagwat's remarks, Naqvi said, "I don't think this is done to please any community or any party.  He has spoken what has always been the idea of ​​the Sangh.  This will provide clarity to those people in the society who were mired in confusion." Asserting that it is not some image makeover or vote bank politics for the RSS to woo Muslims ahead of assembly elections, Bhagwat had said his organisation firmly believes that in a democracy like India, the only dominance can be of Indians, rather than of Hindus or Muslims.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sanghs-ideology-always-been-full-of-harmony-brotherhood-naqvi-on-bhagwats-remarks-1005388.html
06-07-2021||National Politics||Hollow promise of free power meaningless until PPAs annulled: Navjot Sidhu||Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday made a fresh demand for nullifying the power purchase agreements in Punjab through a law, saying “hollow promises” of free power have no meaning until these pacts, signed during the erstwhile SAD-BJP regime, were annulled. In a series of tweets, the cricketer-turned-politician also said the cost of power can be cheaper if the fixed charges being given to private power plants under the PPAs were not paid. Sidhu has been raising the issue of electricity especially the PPAs for the past few days, amid a power crisis in Punjab. “Hollow promises of Free power have No meaning until PPAs are annulled through a “New Legislation in Punjab Vidhan Sabha” ... 300 units of free power is merely a fantasy, until the faulty clauses in PPAs are keeping Punjab bonded,” said Sidhu in a tweet. PPAs bind Punjab to pay fixed charges for 100% production, whereas other States pay No more than 80% ... If these fixed charges being paid to Private Power Plants under PPAs were not paid, it would directly & immediately decrease cost of Power in Punjab by Rs. 1.20 per unit 2/6 The AAP had promised up to 300 units of free electricity if it is voted to power next year. On July 4, Sidhu had also pitched for providing up to 300 units of free electricity and round-the-clock power supply to consumers in the state. “PPAs bind Punjab to pay fixed charges for 100% production, whereas other States pay No more than 80% ... If these fixed charges being paid to Private Power Plants under PPAs were not paid, it would directly & immediately decrease cost of Power in Punjab by Rs. 1.20 per unit,” claimed the Amritsar East legislator. Questioning the clauses of the power purchase pacts, Sidhu claimed that PPAs, which were signed during the previous regime were based on a “wrong calculation” of power demand in the state “Peak Demand of 13,000-14,000 MW is only for four Months whereas Non-Peak power demand falls down to 5000-6000 MW, But PPAs have been designed & signed to pay fixed charges at the peak demand,” he claimed. He also pointed out that there was no provision for mandatory supply of electricity during the paddy transplantation. “Even more alarming ! There is No Provision for mandatory supply of power from these Private Power Plants during the peak season under the PPAs... Thus, they have shut down two power plants in this paddy-sowing season without repairing them & Punjab has to buy additional power,” Sidhu claimed in another tweet. He claimed that the “faulty” PPAs have cost people of Punjab “thousands of crore”. “Punjab has paid 3200 crore just as Coal-washing charges due to faulty replies to pre-bid queries before signing PPAs. Private Plants keep finding loopholes to file litigation that has cost Punjab 25,000 crore already,” he claimed. Sidhu slammed the Badals for the power purchase pacts, alleging these were designed to “benefit” them. Alleging that the PPAs are "just another example of Badal family's corruption, designed to give corrupt benefits to Badals... without any thought for welfare of Punjabis," he said a "New Legislation & White-Paper on PPAs in Vidhan Sabha is our only path to Justice". Under fire from the ruling Congress and the AAP over signing "faulty" power-purchase pacts during its regime, SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal asked Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday to scrap these agreements but also ensure that any power shortfall is covered at cheaper rates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/hollow-promise-of-free-power-meaningless-until-ppas-annulled-navjot-sidhu-1005470.html
06-07-2021||National Politics||10 Oppn leaders write to President Kovind, urge action against those responsible for death of Stan Swamy||Ten senior Opposition leaders, including Sonia Gandhi, Sharad Pawar, Mamata Banerjee and Sitaram Yechury, on Tuesday urged President Ram Nath Kovind to act against those responsible for the death of activist-priest Stan Swamy and release all people detained by "misusing" UAPA and provisions of sedition. Shooting off a letter written in "deep anguish expressing our intense grief and outrage" at the death of Stan Swamy, the leaders said the 84-year-old Jesuit activist-priest was jailed on "trumped up charges" under the "draconian" Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and was sought to be linked with the Bhima Koregaon case. The letter was also signed by former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin, his Jharkhand counterpart Hemant Soren, National Conference patriarch Farooq Abdullah, CPI General Secretary D Raja and RJD's Tejashwi Yadav. "We are urging your immediate intervention as the President of Indian to direct 'your government' to act against those responsible for foisting false cases on him, his continued detention in jail and inhuman treatment. They must be held accountable," the leaders said. The leaders also said all those jailed in the Bhima Koregaon case and other detenues under "politically motivated cases, misusing draconian laws like UAPA, sedition etc be released forthwith". They said Stan Swamy was denied treatment for his various ailments, including debilitating Parkinson's. The letter reminded that he was provided a sipper to drink liquids in jail only after a nationwide campaign. While numerous appeals made to shift him out of the overcrowded Covid-19 hit Taloja Jail went "unheeded", they said his appeals for bail were rejected. It was "thanks to the Bombay High Court's intervention, he was admitted to a private hospital when his condition started deteriorating after he was infected with Covid-19" but it was too late to "prevent his death in custody" on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/10-oppn-leaders-write-to-president-kovind-urge-action-against-those-responsible-for-death-of-stan-swamy-1005575.html
06-07-2021||National Politics||Are these 'achche din': Rahul Gandhi attacks Centre over MNREGA wages||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday alleged that MGNREGA workers are not even getting their wages in some states and asked the government what kind of "achche din" (good days) are these.   He said the rights of workers are being denied in times of the pandemic when they should be given financial assistance instead. "MNREGA workers in many states are not getting their wages. When the government should have given additional financial assistance to them during the pandemic, the money that is the workers' rights is also being denied. "There is a world beyond the false rhetoric where in some houses people are not able to even run their households - what kind of 'achche din' (good days) are these," he asked. His reference was to the promise of "achche din" (good days) made to the people by the BJP ahead of the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. In another tweet, he posted a query with a Hindi couplet to attack the Modi government. "Fill in the blank: Rafale of 'friends', Tax collection - expensive fuel, blind sale of PSU-PSBs, Jail if you question. The Modi government is....," he asked in Hindi. The former Congress chief has been attacking the government on various fronts, including the poor state of the economy, rising inflation and unemployment, mismanagement in Covid handling and slow vaccination pace.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/are-these-achche-din-rahul-gandhi-attacks-centre-over-mnrega-wages-1005578.html
06-07-2021||National Politics||'Shameless PM' failed to handle Covid crisis, meet vaccine demands: CM Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said the Centre has failed to meet the vaccine requirements of the state, forcing her dispensation to make purchases on its own, and described Narendra Modi as "a shameless prime minister" who has his picture pasted everywhere - from hoardings to inoculation certificates. Banerjee, during her address in the Assembly, said that Bengal has received two crore shots so far, which is "very inadequate", given the state's population, and administering free doses to all under such circumstances was a challenge for her government. "We have already vaccinated 2.26 crore people. And for that, we had to buy at least 26 lakh doses on our own, despite promises by the Centre that it would provide the required number of doses," she stated. The chief minister also sought to know why money from the PM Cares Fund wasn't used to bear the expenses of the vaccination drive in the country. She claimed that the Centre, due to its "faulty" policies, couldn't handle the Covid crisis well. "Notwithstanding the Centre's ham-handed policies, we have been able to contain the virus. Our shameless PM has failed the country but his picture is found everywhere -- from vaccine certificates to hoardings. I have seen many prime ministers, but none so shameless..." Banerjee said. Bengal has started making preparations for the possible third wave of the pandemic, she noted. Taking a dig at the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh, she said, "For days, we saw bodies floating in rivers. Some bodies floated downstream and reached our state. Do they even know how many died in UP (due to the pandemic)? Don't they feel ashamed?" Those who point fingers at Bengal should look in the mirror, the TMC supremo said, lashing out at Adityanath, who had criticised the TMC dispensation at BJP's poll campaigns. Continuing her tirade against the saffron camp, she said its members "do not know courtesy and decency" as was evident from the ruckus they created during Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar's inaugural speech in the Assembly on July 2. Dhankhar had to table his address, after reading out a few lines of his 18-page speech, amid protests by BJP MLAs over incidents of post-poll violence in the state. Banerjee further said that the incumbent Governor, chosen by the BJP leadership at the Centre, should have been allowed to address the House by the party's MLAs in the state. "I have seen BJP leaders like Rajnath Singh to Sushma Swaraj... This BJP, however, is different. They (BJP members) do not know culture, courtesy, decency and civility," the chief minister said during her speech in the House, after thanking the governor for his inaugural address. The CM, referring to allegations of post-poll violence against TMC workers, said it was the members of the ruling party that endured attacks when the state was under the Election Commission's supervision for assembly elections. She maintained that stray incidents of violence were reported after the election results were declared, and her government has taken action in all such cases. In a jibe at the poll panel, she said, "The EC shifted district magistrates, police superintendents and others at the whims of its observers, who were from their own party (BJP). For three months, they (EC) issued threats... But the people of Bengal showed them that you cannot threaten a state in this manner." Earlier, too, the TMC boss had alleged that the EC works at the behest of the BJP-led Centre. Accusing the saffron party of plotting conspiracies, she said, "During and immediately after the elections, the BJP circulated fake videos to spread hatred. We have photos, we have evidence. I will place these on your (speaker's) table," Banerjee said submitting a bunch of photos to the House. Alleging that the BJP is trying to divide the state, the CM said, "Bengal is beautiful. Bengal is united. We won't let that happen at any cost." Two BJP MPs have recently raised demands for Bengal's division - one in north Bengal and the other in Jangalmahal - drawing flak from the TMC and other parties. Highlighting her government's achievements, the CM said, "Bengal occupies the number one spot when it comes to generating employment under the 100 days' work scheme. We are also ahead of all in developing rural roads in the country... We have set up 186 kishan mandis, 24 medical colleges. "Take a look at the development initiatives in North Bengal. From universities to medical colleges, from river bridges to academies for Rajbangshis, Kamtapuris and other linguistic communities, we have done it all," she pointed out, countering BJP's charge that the region has seen little growth over the last decade.  Trashing the charge of central fund mismanagement, the TMC supremo said the Union government did not pay anything from its coffers for disaster relief. "The Centre provided very little from the disaster fund, something that the state was already entitled to... Yet, they (BJP leaders) went to town over the matter," she said. The CM noted that around 2.75 crore people have benefited from the 33,000 camps set up as part of her government's Duare Sarkar (government at doorstep) initiative. "Next year, the government will embark on the drive again at least twice," she said. Banerjee also said that her dispensation will observe 'khela hobe divas' to promote sporting activities, but the date for the same was yet to be decided. 'Khela Hobe' (game will be played) was TMC's campaign slogan for assembly elections. "If the Opposition is unable to see any development, despite all our efforts, there is nothing more that can be said about it. They (BJP leaders), however, are unfazed about the rising fuel process. Shame on such a party and its people," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shameless-pm-failed-to-handle-covid-crisis-meet-vaccine-demands-cm-mamata-banerjee-1005609.html
06-07-2021||National Politics||Like Bofors, set up JPC for Rafale deal: Digvijaya Singh to PM Modi||Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Tuesday dared Prime Minister Narendra Modi to set up a Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) to probe the Rafale fighter jet deal, like the one which scrutinised the Bofors deal in the 1980s. The Rajya Sabha member alleged large-scale corruption in the form of payment of commission in the Rafale deal. "France has started a probe in the Rafale case, but in India, where commission was paid, no inquiry is being conducted. If one compares the Rafale deal with the Bofors case, the then prime minister Rajiv Gandhi had, on his own, constituted a JPC," Singh said. "If Modi has courage, he should constitute a JPC. We have a lot of questions and will get an opportunity to raise them," the Congress leader added. Nobody could prove a single charge against Rajiv Gandhi in the Bofors case, he said. The Bofors scandal related to alleged payment of kickbacks in a deal to purchase howitzer guns from the Swedish manufacturer Bofors AB. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi recently demanded a JPC probe into alleged corruption in the fighter jet deal. A French judge has been appointed to lead a "highly sensitive" judicial probe into suspected "corruption" and "favouritism" in the Rs 59,000 crore Rafale deal with India, French investigative website Mediapart reported last week. Singh, meanwhile, also hit out at the Centre over the rise in fuel prices, claiming it impacted the middle class severely at a time when the tax collection from industrialists and large corporate houses had gone down. Modi is someone who takes decisions in haste and thinks later, he said, citing examples such as the handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, demonetisation and the withdrawal of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/like-bofors-set-up-jpc-for-rafale-deal-digvijaya-singh-to-pm-modi-1005611.html
06-07-2021||National Politics||Former Congress leader Kripashankar Singh to join BJP||A veteran North Indian face in Maharashtra politics, Kripashankar Singh is all set to join the BJP. Singh, now in his early seventies, hails from Jaunpur in Uttar Pradesh, and started off selling vegetables in Mumbai. He did odd jobs and got associated with Congress. His break in the Congress came when former President Pratibha Patil became the Maharashtra Congress chief. Singh was a Minister of State for Home in the erstwhile Congress-NCP Democratic Front government headed by Vilasrao Deshmukh. On 10 September 2019, ahead of the last Vidhan Sabha elections, he resigned from Congress. Singh would join the BJP in presence of Leader of Opposition in Assembly Devendra Fadnavis, his counterpart in Council Pravin Darekar and state BJP president Chandrakant Patil on Wednesday. He is seen as someone very close to BJP Rajya Sabha MP Narayan Rane. Once seen as a “go-to” man in Congress, his relationship cuts across party lines. However, he had also faced charges of amassing assets disproportionate to known sources of income. The entry of Singh in BJP ahead of the next year’s elections in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is significant as he is a prominent North Indian leader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/former-congress-leader-kripashankar-singh-to-join-bjp-1005618.html
06-07-2021||National Politics||NDA gives promotions to ministers for attacking Rahul Gandhi: Congress ahead of cabinet reshuffle||Ahead of the cabinet reshuffle, the Congress on Tuesday said this government gives promotions to ministers who attack party leader Rahul Gandhi on Twitter and rewards governors against whom there are complaints of "impropriety". Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said this on a day when new governors were appointed in eight states by the president. "This is a strange government. If a governor is found indulging in impropriety, that governor is most likely to be rewarded. "Likewise, I think the only criteria before a cabinet reshuffle, which (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi looks for, is their Twitter timelines. How much have they attacked Rahul Gandhi," he told reporters when asked about the cabinet reshuffle. Khera said higher the number of tweets against the former Congress chief, the better it is for a minister. "Because the ministers in the Modi cabinet are not there to deliver, not there to do anything in terms of governance, their portfolios, the only unspoken rule for the cabinet of Mr Modi is go attack Mr Rahul Gandhi," he said. "There is only one ability that Union ministers should possess to earn a high rank in the cabinet, and that Modi feels is based on how much they tweet against Rahul Gandhi. Their promotion will be based on that," Khera said. The Congress leader also asked whether the government has changed any of the governors against whom charges of impropriety have been made. He named the West Bengal and Rajasthan governors, and the administrator of Lakshadweep. "Have they changed the governor who was found indulging in all kinds of constitutional impropriety in West Bengal? Have they changed the governor who was found selling his autobiography to vice-chancellors in Rajasthan? Have they changed any of those governors against whom there are charges of financial impropriety, for example the administrator of Lakshadweep?" he asked. There is a buzz of an impending cabinet reshuffle on Wednesday evening||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nda-gives-promotions-to-ministers-for-attacking-rahul-gandhi-congress-ahead-of-cabinet-reshuffle-1005630.html
06-07-2021||National Politics||Will abide by Congress president's decision: Punjab CM Amarinder Singh||Amid rampant factionalism in the Punjab unit of the Congress, chief minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said he would abide by any decision taken by party president Sonia Gandhi. Singh had a 90-minute meeting with Gandhi after two rounds of discussions last month with a three-member panel led by Mallikarjun Kharge which had outlined a plan of action to the chief minister who was facing flak from his party colleagues. “I do not know anything about Sidhu sahib, I only discussed our government’s work. Political issues were also discussed,” Singh told reporters to questions about the role his bete-noire Navjot Singh Sidhu would play in the revamped organisation. The Punjab Congress is witnessing dissent in its ranks over the chief minister’s style of functioning, the state government’s approach to the incidents of sacrilege dating back to 2015 and action against drug and transport mafia in the state. Sidhu, the crickter-turned-politician, has been criticising the chief minister openly on issues such as sacrilege, electricity shortages, farmers’ issues among others, bringing to the fore the differences within the state unit ahead of the elections early next year. The Kharge panel, after interacting with a cross section of leaders from the state had recommended that Sidhu, a popular campaigner, be suitably accommodated within the party or the government. However, Singh was not keen on having Sidhu as the president of the Punjab Congress but was learnt to be open to accommodating him in the state cabinet. “Whatever decision the Congress president takes, we will implement it in Punjab. The decisions taken by Congress chief on anything – the party and the government – will be accepted,” the chief minister said. Singh, who was in the national capital twice last month, could not meet Gandhi but had return to Punjab after presenting his case to the Kharge panel. Sidhu, on the other hand, had a long meeting with Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Rahul Gandhi last week. Rahul also had separate meetings with several leaders from the state to ascertain their views about the situation in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/will-abide-by-congress-presidents-decision-punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-1005633.html
06-07-2021||National Politics||Modi 2.0 Cabinet to go for a major rejig on July 7; performance, alliance on radar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will seek to send out a message of his government's intent to strengthen the economy and infrastructure post-pandemic and reach out to women, OBCs, Dalits, and youths in a big way in the first reshuffle of the Union Cabinet on Wednesday. Ahead of the rejig, 73-year-old Thaawarchand Gehlot, Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment was moved out of the Modi Cabinet and appointed as Governor of Karnataka amid a buzz that some more ministers, aging or nonperforming, can be shifted to alternative roles as the government seeks to shape up a "new look Cabinet", a party insider claimed. BJP leaders such as former Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, former Bihar Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi, Jyotiraditya Scindia and Narayan Rane, who are seen as the ones likely to be inducted as Cabinet ministers in the Modi government, arrived in the national capital on Tuesday.   JDU's RCP Singh and Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lallan Singh and BJP's Shantanu Thakur, Nisith Pramanik from West Bengal are also seen as leaders who could get a Cabinet berth. Scindia, who delivered Madhya Pradesh back to the BJP after he defected from Congress last year, Tuesday cut short his tour of the Malwa-Nimar region in Madhya Pradesh and took off for Delhi from the Indore airport after taking darshan of the famous Mahakaleshwar temple in Ujjain. As per indications, politics, pandemic and performance will be the PPP for this mega ministerial rejig, which could see nearly 20 new inductions, aimed at giving a message of economic recovery post-Covid-19 shock and energising the cadres after the big debacle in the West Bengal Assembly polls and pepping them up for election preparations for six states in upcoming months.   An attempt to strengthen the Ministries of Health, Information and Broadcasting and Finance could be taken up. Though there is unlikely to be any major change in the top four ministries at the Raisina Hills — Defence, Home, Finance, and External Affairs — this time. The last Cabinet reshuffle in 2017 during Modi's first tenure had seen a second woman in the Raisina Hill's top four ministries when Nirmala Sitharaman was elevated and hence becoming the second woman member in the powerful Cabinet Committee on Security along with the then External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj. Ahead of the reshuffle at 6 pm tomorrow, the Prime Minister will have a meeting of the Union Cabinet in the morning. On June 30, he had held a five-hour-long meeting with his entire Council of Ministers. BJP general secretary (Organisation) B L Santhosh on Tuesday had a long meeting with party chief J P Nadda at his residence where they held deliberations in the backdrop of some differences with allies on portfolios. Former Rajasthan chief minister Vasundhara Raje also met Santhosh. The BJP has lost a number of allies including its old ones like Shiv Sena and Shiromani Akali Dal and hence the focus is to win allies back. While Nitish Kumar-led JDU, which had refused to join the government in 2019, is learnt to have demanded four portfolios, two Cabinet rank and two MoS, as against the BJP's offer of one Cabinet and one MoS, former Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan's son voiced his opposition to the plan to induct his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras in the Union Cabinet days after Paras in a coup of sorts replaced Chirag with the backing of four other party MPs as Leader of Lok Sabha and subsequently also as LJP chief.   Chirag urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi that nobody from the breakaway faction should be taken in the ministry from the LJP quota otherwise they would go to court. He said Paras or somebody else siding with him can be made a minister as an Independent, but not as a member of the LJP with which they are no longer associated. Keeping an eye on Uttar Pradesh polls, the BJP also has plans to induct in the Council of Ministers Apna Dal (S) leader and former Union Minister Anupirya Patel, a leader from the Kurmi community, the second most dominant OBC group in Uttar Pradesh. A Brahmin face from Uttar Pradesh and a Jat leader could be inducted. The reshuffle could see the BJP bringing in some new faces from Mahadalilts and Extremely Backward castes from the poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, which have been the bedrock of its strength in the Hindi belt and an increase in representation of West Bengal and North East. Currently, there are two technocrats — S Jaishankar and Hardeep Singh Puri — in the Modi Cabinet. Indications are that their numbers will grow as the government is keen to ensure delivery on its promises before the 2022 state polls.  Of late, the government has been bringing a lot of professionals in decision making with MBA and IIT degrees, something which may reflect in this Cabinet reshuffle. 2022 is a year Modi has frequently mentioned in his speeches and has made a number of commitments linking that timeline when India completes 75 years of Independence and hence this reshuffle will have a lot of symbolism to show how the Modi Cabinet is different from all other Cabinets in the past.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-20-cabinet-to-go-for-a-major-rejig-on-july-7-performance-alliance-on-radar-1005634.html
06-07-2021||National Politics||Karnataka minister Murugesh Nirani meets Union Home Minister Amit Shah||Murugesh Nirani, the Minister of Mines and Geology in Karnataka, met Union Home Minister Amit Shah in Delhi on Tuesday. Though what transpired between them is not known, it was Nirani's second meeting with Shah in the last one month. Nirani cancelled all scheduled engagements in Bengaluru and rushed to Delhi following a phone call from Amit Shah, sources close to him said. According to the sources, his meeting with Shah lasted for more than 20 minutes. Nirani, a Panchamasali Lingayat leader, was aspiring to become the Karnataka Chief Minister if the party removed B S Yediyurappa from the post. With a section of BJP leaders demanding the removal of Yediyurappa, sugar baron Nirani's frequent meeting with BJP's top leaders has triggered speculation that he is lobbying for the CM post. However, while speaking to media persons, Nirani said that he went to Delhi on a private visit and there was nothing political in it. He had no plan to meet any leader in Delhi, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/karnataka-minister-murugesh-nirani-meets-union-home-minister-amit-shah-1005672.html
06-07-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand HC takes cognisance after advocate makes repeated calls to woman judicial officer||The Uttarakhand High Court has taken suo motu cognizance of the matter in which Laksar Bar Association secretary Navneet Tomar allegedly made repeated calls and sent messages to a woman judicial officer. The court has filed a criminal contempt petition against Tomar, and has fixed July 28 for the next hearing of the case. A division bench of Chief Justice R S Chauhan and Justice Alok Kumar Verma directed Tomar to present his side either himself or through his advocate in the matter. The court had earlier issued a show-cause notice to Tomar and asked why action should not be taken against him. In the past, a single bench of the high court had dismissed a petition filed by Tomar seeking quashing of the FIR and a stay on his arrest in the case. According to officials, the woman judicial officer at a family court had filed a complaint at the Laksar Police Station, claiming that Tomar had been sending her messages and calling her repeatedly since June 10. It was also alleged that Tomar took photographs with her at a function, which he got printed and sent them to her with bouquets and gifts. He also landed up at the residence of the woman judicial officer and even visited her chamber located in the court premises despite the staff stopping him. The police have registered a case against Tomar under various sections of IPC. Earlier in the petition filed before the single bench, Tomar had maintained that he was the secretary of the Bar Association and in that capacity he had tried to present photographs and bouquets to the judge of the family court. He said he had gone to visit her chamber and house and that is why he made the phone calls and sent messages to her. In the past, the Uttarakhand Bar Council had suspended Tomar's licence of practice of advocacy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-hc-takes-cognisance-after-advocate-makes-repeated-calls-to-woman-judicial-officer-1005374.html
06-07-2021||North and Central||Lalu slams Centre for creating 'economic crisis' at first public speech in three years||A frail-looking RJD supremo Lalu Prasad Monday addressed his first political meeting in a long time, castigating the Narendra Modi government at the Centre and Nitish Kumar administration in Bihar for their "many failures" and predicting a bright future for the regional party under his son Tejashwi Yadav. Appearing on national television to mark the silver jubilee of the party he founded in 1997 after breaking away from the Janata Dal, Prasad, who is suffering from many ailments and convalescing at his MP daughter Misa Bharti's residence in New Delhi, recalled his struggles for OBC quota and the fight for the rights of the weaker sections. Snappy wisecracks were missing from the speech he delivered virtually for scores of RJD workers and leaders at the party's state headquarters in Patna who were waiting for a glimpse of their leader for a long time since his incarceration after conviction in the fodder scam. "GST and demonetisation as also corona have created an economic crisis. Now, there is the threat of destroying the social fabric. After Ayodhya, some people are talking about Mathura," Prasad, a strident critic of the BJP, said without naming the BJP or Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Rubbishing the "jungle raj" accusation levelled by his rivals against the governments presided over by him and his wife Rabri Devi, the RJD leader claimed it stemmed from the anger of his opponents as the poor and weaker sections got their due. "We ensured that the poor and the weaker sections reached polling booths. They got angry as the poor got their due," he asserted.\ He criticised the Centre over privatisation of PSUs. "Even Railways is gradually being privatised. This will result in severe unemployment and economic crisis," he said. Rising fuel prices and inflation have already broken the backbone of the common man, said the RJD supremo. He attacked the Nitish Kumar government over "rampant corruption", alleged mismanagement of the Covid-19 crisis and "four murders" taking place in the state every day. "Lakhs and lakhs of people are being reduced to migrant labourers because of lack of employment," he said. He lavished praise on his younger son Tejashwi Yadav, who is the leader of the opposition, for astutely helming the party during the assembly elections in 2020. "Frankly, I had never expected this from him. He safely anchored the RJD's boat (naiya paar lagayi). RJD has a bright future," Prasad said. RJD is the single largest party in the 243-member Bihar assembly though the JD(U)-BJP alliance governs the state. Prasad also had a word of praise for his elder son Tej Pratap who, he said, made a "forceful speech" at the event. The RJD president said he was instrumental in making five prime ministers and his party was still strong with its members also in the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha. The RJD boss, known for breathing fire and brimstone while making political speeches, in his restrained addresses, credited his wife Rabri Devi, a former chief minister, and Tejashwi for his being alive. "But for them, I would have perished in Ranchi (where he was incarcerated in the fodder scame cases). Doctors at AIIMS here also took great care of me," Prasad, who slurred at times, said. He promised RJD workers and leaders that he will overcome whatever remained of the illness and visit Bihar soon. "I will come to Patna soon...not only Patna, I will mark my attendance in all districts of Bihar soon. Please don't lose patience," he told them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lalu-slams-centre-for-creating-economic-crisis-at-first-public-speech-in-three-years-1005403.html
06-07-2021||North and Central||PDP won't meet Jammu and Kashmir Delimitation Commission, alleges move favours 'a particular party'||Terming the delimitation exercise as “preplanned” move in favour of a particular party and “aimed to further hurt the interests of people” of Jammu and Kashmir, regional People's Democratic Party (PDP) on Tuesday announced it will not meet the visiting Delimitation Commission members. “On August 5, 2019, the constitutional and democratic values of our country were trampled upon with the people of Jammu & Kashmir being robbed of their legitimate constitutional and democratic rights by means of abrogation of Article 370 and 35 (A) illegally and unconstitutionally,” PDP General Secretary Ghulam Nabi Lone said in a letter to Justice (retd) Ranjana Prakesh Desai, head of the Commission.  "The day also saw the people of J&K being humiliated and demeaned by downgrading and bifurcation of an almost 200-year-old state, an act, with no precedence in independent India," the letter, reads.  While challenging the legality of the Commission, the PDP questioned, "the Reorganization Act being a product of the same process, we are of the considered opinion that the Commission lacks constitutional and legal mandate in the first place and its very existence and objectives have left every ordinary resident of J&K with many questions."  "There are apprehensions that the delimitation exercise is part of the overall process of political disempowerment of the people of J&K that the government of India has embarked on," it alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pdp-wont-meet-jammu-and-kashmir-delimitation-commission-alleges-move-favours-a-particular-party-1005449.html
06-07-2021||North and Central||Mayawati claims UP Police attacked Dalits in Azamgarh, demands action against cops||BSP supremo Mayawati on Tuesday accused the Uttar Pradesh Police of committing atrocities on Dalit families in Azamgarh and demanded strict action against the guilty cops and compensation for the victims. "It is shameful that Azamgarh Police instead of giving justice to the victimised Dalits of Palia village are committing atrocities on them and causing financial losses. The government should take immediate cognisance of this incident and take strict action against the culprits and compensate the victims financially," Mayawati said in a tweet in Hindi. "Taking note of the seriousness of this latest incident of victimisation of of Dalits by the oppressors and the police, a delegation of BSP under the leadership of former MLA Gaya Charan Dinkar will visit the village soon to meet the victims," she said in another tweet. 2. साथ ही, अत्याचारियों व पुलिस द्वारा भी दलितों के उत्पीड़न की इस ताजा घटना की गंभीरता को देखते हुए बीएसपी का एक प्रतिनिधिमण्डल श्री गया चरण दिनकर, पूर्व एमएलए के नेतृत्व में पीड़ितों से मिलने शीघ्र ही गाँव का दौरा करेगा। According to police, there was a dispute between a doctor and some people in Palia village under Raunapar Police Station area on June 29 following which two policemen intervened in the matter and they were allegedly attacked by the village pradhan and his aides. On the same night, police surrounded the Dalit hamlet and damaged the houses and looted them following which, the villagers fled, claimed locals. On Monday, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra too had accused the state police of attacking Dalits in Azamgarh, and sought action against the accused and adequate compensation for the victims. Meanwhile, Superintendent of Police, Azamgarh, Sudhir Kumar Singh said a case has been registered against 11 named people and 135 unidentified people. He too claimed that cops were attacked and efforts are on to catch the accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mayawati-claims-up-police-attacked-dalits-in-azamgarh-demands-action-against-cops-1005451.html
06-07-2021||North and Central||Delimitation Commission to arrive in Jammu and Kashmir today, speak to political parties||On day 1 of its four-day-visit to Jammu and Kashmir, the Delimitation Commission will hold interactions with representatives of political parties in Srinagar on Tuesday afternoon. Officials said the Commission members will meet the political parties in Srinagar from 3:30 pm to 6:30 pm to hold talks with them on the ongoing process of redrawing of Assembly constituencies in Jammu and Kashmir. On Monday, the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), an alliance of six parties including the National Conference (NC) and the PDP, said no joint decision has been taken on taking part in the proceedings of the commission. The alliance left it to individual parties to decide whether they want to meet the Commission or not. Except for People’s Democratic Party (PDP) led by Mehbooba Mufti, all other political parties, including the NC, have already confirmed that they will meet the Delimitation Commission during its visit to the Union Territory (UT). The panel has allotted 20 minutes to each party to put forth their views about the delimitation process in J&K. A five-member delegation of the NC, including senior leaders Abdul Raheem Rather, Mohammad Shafi Uri, Mian Altaf Ahmad, Nasir Aslam Wani and Sakina Ittoo, are meeting the visiting panel at a hotel here from 5.10 pm to 5.30 pm. The Commission, constituted in March 2020 to redraw the Lok Sabha and Assembly constituencies in J&K, is headed by former Supreme Court judge Ranjana Prakash Desai. Chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra and election commissioner of J&K are members of the panel, while all five Parliament Members from the UT are its associate members. The visit of the panel assumes significance as it has come less than two weeks after Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired an all-party meeting in New Delhi on Jammu and Kashmir. After the meeting also attended by the Union Home Minister Amit Shah, it emerged that the delimitation exercise was a first step towards restoration of democratic process in the UT. Delimitation is the act of redrawing boundaries of an Assembly or Lok Sabha seat to represent changes in population over time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delimitation-commission-to-arrive-in-jammu-and-kashmir-today-speak-to-political-parties-1005453.html
06-07-2021||North and Central||Pray from your home, SC tells those keen on Lord Jagannath Rath Yatra||The Supreme Court on Tuesday declined to permit Lord Jagannath Rath Yatra in any districts of Odisha other than Puri. The top court gave its approval to the Naveen Patnaik government's decision to restrict the annual Rath Yatra in view of the Covid-19 situation. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana, and Justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy dismissed a batch of petitions, which questioned the Odisha government's decision. "We hope God will allow these rituals next year," the bench said. The state government had allowed the Rath Yatra only in Puri with strict Covid restrictions and protocol. As a batch of pleas wanted Rath Yatra in other districts, the CJI said, "If you want to pray, you can do it from your home. I also wanted to go to Puri, but I could not in last one and half years." "We don't want to interfere with the Odisha government's decision. I am also feeling bad, but I can't help you," the CJI added. In June, the Odisha government had said the Rath Yatra will be held on July 12 only in Puri, following guidelines issued by the top court last year, while banning it in all other places of the state. During the hearing, the Odisha government submitted before the top court that it would be impossible for it to ensure that strict Covid protocol in thousands of temples across the state. On June 23, the Orissa High Court declined to entertain five petitions seeking permission to hold the festival of Rath Yatra in Kendrapara and Bargarh districts. Last year, the top court had permitted the Rath Yatra on the condition that there would be no public attendance and all entry points into Puri remained closed. The court had then ordered that each of the three chariots, would be pulled by not more than 500 people who were required to test negative for Covid-19. "Last year few people died, this year may people died (in view of Covid) We hope God will allows us these rituals next year,” the bench, dismissing the applications.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pray-from-your-home-sc-tells-those-keen-on-lord-jagannath-rath-yatra-1005463.html
06-07-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh polls on agenda at RSS 'Chintan Shivir'||The remarks generated a lot of political heat with Congress, BSP and some other parties asking him to ensure action against those BJP leaders, who had allegedly been involved in Muslim bashing. According to the BJP sources, over two dozen members of the All India working committee of the Sangh would be taking part in the meeting, which would start from Thursday. Hundreds of other RSS 'pracharaks' would be joining the meeting virtually. The significance of the RSS meet could be gauged from the fact that Bhagwat had reached the venue two days before its date. ''UP assembly elections will be on the agenda at the meeting,'' said a senior UP BJP leader while speaking to DH. Sources said that the Sangh would also deliberate on the impact of the alleged 'mismanagement' of the pandemic in UP on the assembly polls. Bhagwat may also meet senior BJP functionaries from UP during his stay at Chitrakoot, which lies on the border of the state with Madhya Pradesh. A few senior UP ministers are also likely to meet Bhagwat during his stay, BJP sources said. The RSS meeting comes close on the heels of the ''strategy sessions'' held by Sangh general secretary Dattatreya Hosabale at Lucknow two months ago. During the sessions, the Sangh leader had sought feedback from the RSS workers and local leaders on the Covid situation in the state and the help provided by his organisation to the people during the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-polls-on-agenda-at-rss-chintan-shivir-1005469.html
06-07-2021||North and Central||Amarinder Singh leaves for Delhi, likely to meet Sonia Gandhi||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday left for Delhi where he is likely to meet party president Sonia Gandhi, amid reports of factionalism in the Punjab Congress. Singh left for the national capital in a chopper at around 11 am. He is expected to meet Sonia Gandhi later in the day, said sources. The meeting assumes significance as the party high command has been trying to resolve the internal rift in the Punjab unit of the Congress and there is talk of its revamp, with just months to go for the assembly polls. Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu has been at loggerheads with the chief minister, attacking him on issues like the alleged delay in the completion of a probe into the 2015 desecration of Sikh texts and the subsequent police firing on protesters. There is some speculation that Sidhu may get an important role in the planned revamp. A few days ago, Sidhu had met Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in Delhi. On June 22, Singh had appeared before a three-member AICC panel headed by leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, set up to resolve the infighting in the Punjab Congress. But he returned to Chandigarh without an audience with either Sonia Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi. The panel had then asked Singh to deliver on 18 pending promises, including on the 2015 sacrilege issue and power purchase agreements signed by the previous government. The panel had earlier met other party leaders and submitted a report to the party high command. Rahul Gandhi has also met several party leaders, including legislators from Punjab, for their views on what is needed to strengthen the party ahead of the assembly polls. On June 23, AICC general secretary and party's Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat had said Sonia Gandhi would resolve all issues related to the state unit by early July and a united party would fight the next assembly elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amarinder-singh-leaves-for-delhi-likely-to-meet-sonia-gandhi-1005489.html
06-07-2021||North and Central||Punjab police use tear gas, water cannons on teachers||Police on Tuesday lobbed teargas shells and used water cannons to disperse schoolteachers as they tried to force their way through barricades put up on the Chandigarh-Mohali border in a bid to reach Punjab CM Amarinder Singh’s official residence here. Demanding that their services be regularised, temporary teachers have been protesting outside the Punjab School Education Board building in Mohali for the past several days. Under the banner of the Temporary Teachers' Union, they had planned to lay siege to the official residence of the Punjab CM to press for their demands. When scores of protesting teachers, including women, tried to force their way through barricades, the Chandigarh Police used water cannons and teargas shells to prevent them from heading towards the CM’s residence. The protesting teachers claimed that some of them sustained injuries. They also raised slogans against the Punjab government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-police-use-tear-gas-water-cannons-on-teachers-1005508.html
06-07-2021||North and Central||Punjab, Haryana witness alarming dip in groundwater level: Study||Groundwater level in northwest India has dipped to alarming levels, especially in Punjab and Haryana, according to a new study.  The research paper published by IIT Kanpur has used more than 4,000 groundwater well data from northwest India to demonstrate that groundwater levels in the states of Punjab and Haryana have fallen to alarming levels in the last four-five decades.  India is the largest user of groundwater in the world for irrigation, domestic and industrial needs. The total annual groundwater abstraction in India is about 245 km3, out of which about 90 per cent is consumed for irrigation. Several parts of the Ganga plains are currently suffering from similar over exploitation of groundwater and it may still be time to arrest the situation if proper strategies can be designed for groundwater management, it said. The states of Punjab and Haryana are the worst affected region and the study led by Prof. Rajiv Sinha and his PhD student, Suneel Kumar Joshi, at IIT Kanpur shows that shallow groundwater fell from 2 metres below ground level (bgl) during 1974, to about 30 metres bgl in 2010.  This translates to an average loss of groundwater of more than 50 km3 (1.0 km3/yr) particularly after 2002. “The situation is equally bad for states like UP and Bihar which are agriculture dominated states and where the groundwater management strategies are still quite primitive,” the study said. The study reveals that the rice cultivation area increased from 1,92,000 to 14,22,000 hectares between 1966-67 and 2017-18 for Haryana and from 2,27,000 to 30,64,000 hectares between 1960-61 and 2017-18 in Punjab.  As a result, groundwater abstraction increased to fulfil the demand.  Also, the most significant decline in groundwater levels is recorded along the Ghaggar-Hakra paleochannel (Kurukshetra, Patiala and Fatehabad districts), and in along the incised valley of the Yamuna River (parts of Panipat and Karnal districts).  The authors suggest that the rate of groundwater abstraction in the states of Punjab and Haryana, which make up the leading agricultural region of India, rose sharply since the mid-20th century to support a massive increase in agricultural productivity, termed the “Green Revolution,” which was aimed at achieving self-sufficiency in food production. The Green Revolution has been cited as the primary cause behind the dramatic fall in groundwater levels in the region through uncontrolled pumping and groundwater abstraction by several workers before but this paper provides high resolution data on groundwater level change to validate this hypothesis.  An important finding of this paper is that local geomorphology like positions of former channel paleochannels), control the groundwater availability in a major way and creates a strong spatial heterogeneity in depletion patterns over time.  This study has significant implications for designing sustainable strategies for groundwater management not only for northwest India but for most of the Ganga plains covering parts of UP and Bihar.  “Several areas in north-central Punjab and Haryana recorded a rapid fall in groundwater levels that require immediate action in terms of enhanced monitoring of groundwater level change and intervention to mitigate against pressure from abstraction,” the study said. The option of artificial recharge as a mitigation strategy should be guided by the geomorphic setting, which is easier to map and is strongly linked to subsurface stratigraphy as demonstrated by the study, it suggested  In areas where agriculture is the most significant causal factor for the severe groundwater losses, reducing irrigation water demand must be a high priority in these districts to improve the groundwater situation, it added. In areas with thick and abundant aquifer bodies in the subsurface, managed aquifer recharge or groundwater banking  is also feasible, the study said. For areas where saline groundwater is present at shallow levels, artificial recharge schemes would be counter-productive, and would in any event suffer from low efficiency due to the limited amounts of aquifer material in the subsurface.  Instead, rainwater harvesting combined with the development of channelised irrigation systems may be a good option in such areas, it added. This research was funded by the Ministry of Earth Sciences, and Natural Environment Research Council (NERC), UK with support from the Central Groundwater Board (CGWB) under the Jal Shakti ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-haryana-witness-alarming-dip-in-groundwater-level-study-1005510.html
06-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt launches financial assistance scheme for families of Covid victims||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday launched a social security scheme and a portal to provide financial assistance to families who lost their loved ones to Covid-19. Under the 'Mukhyamantri Covid-19 Pariwar Aarthik Sahayata Yojana', Rs 50,000 ex gratia will be given to every family that lost a member to Covid-19 and an additional Rs 2,500 per month will be given if the deceased was the sole breadwinner. Addressing a virtual press conference, Kejriwal said Delhi has faced four waves of coronavirus. The fourth one affected almost every family and many people died. "Many children were orphaned, many families lost their sole breadwinner. In such a case, being a responsible government, we conceptualised this scheme," he said. "We are launching a portal through which such people can apply for financial assistance. Our representatives will also visit such families and get applications filled up," he added. The chief minister said such representatives will not reject claims of families in case any document is missing and will only facilitate the process. "I want to tell all such representatives not to conduct scrutiny of applications. If the families lack any document, we will help them obtain it. We have to make sure that we make this happen. Don't find faults with their documents... don't make them unhappy, encourage them," Kejriwal said. "We have to ensure that we provide financial assistance to such families as soon as possible," he added. The Delhi government's Department of Social Welfare had notified the 'Mukhyamantri Covid-19 Pariwar Aarthik Sahayata Yojana' on June 22.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-launches-financial-assistance-scheme-for-families-of-covid-victims-1005513.html
06-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi records 79 new Covid-19 cases, four deaths||Delhi recorded 79 Covid-19 cases at a positivity rate of 0.11 per cent and four fatalities, according to a health bulletin on Tuesday. As many as 154 patients recovered in the last 24 hours, it said. Delhi has recorded 14,34,687 coronavirus cases since the pandemic began last year. So far, over 14.08 lakh patients have recovered, the health department bulletin said. The death toll stands at 25,001, it said. The national capital on Monday had recorded 54 fresh Covid-19 cases, the lowest since April 15 last year, and two more deaths while the positivity rate dropped to 0.09 per cent. On Sunday, Delhi had recorded 94 cases of Covid-19 with a positivity rate of 0.13 per cent and seven deaths. It was also the first time the number of active cases in the city dropped below 1,000 since April last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-79-new-covid-19-cases-four-deaths-1005531.html
06-07-2021||North and Central||DCW chief Swati Maliwal gets another 3-year term||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday approved another term for Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) chief Swati Maliwal and her team for doing "excellent work". The panel's term is for three years and this will be Maliwal's third stint, according to a DCW official. "Delhi Commission for Women has been doing excellent work. Their term comes to an end. I approved another term for the present Commission today. Best wishes to Swatiji and her team. Keep doing good work," Kejriwal said in a tweet. This is the second time she has been granted an extension. In July 2018, she was also granted extension before her term was about to end.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dcw-chief-swati-maliwal-gets-another-3-year-term-1005546.html
06-07-2021||North and Central||Cases of rape and harassment of women up in Delhi, heinous crimes down||Cases of rape and harassment of women in the national capital have increased by around 40 per cent in the first five-and-half months this year as compared to the corresponding period last year, while the total number of heinous crimes has gone down marginally, officials said on Tuesday. According to data shared by them, cases of snatching have increased by 46 per cent in the period between January and June 15 as compared to the same duration last year. According to the data, a total of 2,315 cases of heinous crime have been reported this time as compared to 2,436 last year. Cases of murder, riot and kidnapping for ransom have reduced, while instances of dacoity, attempt to murder, robbery and rape have increased, they said. Between January 1 and June 15, the Delhi Police recorded 2,315 cases of heinous crimes -- seven of dacoity, 196 of murder, 295 of attempt to murder, 942 of robbery, 35 of riot, seven of kidnapping for ransom, and 833 of rape. In the corresponding period last year, Delhi saw four cases of dacoity, 226 of murder, 236 of attempt to murder, 701 of robbery, 681 of riot eight of kidnapping for ransom, and 580 of rape. The cases of rape have gone up by about 43 per cent this year, the officials said. The cases of outraging modesty of women have increased by 39 per cent. This year, 1,022 such cases were registered as compared to 735 during the same period last year, it said. There is huge margin in the number of cases of riot because the communal clashes had broken out in north-east Delhi on February 24, 2020 after violence between the Citizenship (Amendment) Act supporters and its protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and over 700 injured. The number of non-heinous crime have increased by over eight per cent. In 2021, a total of 1,20,980 cases of non-heinous crime have been reported, while the number was 1,11,419 in 2020, it said. There were 1,217 more cases of snatching reported in 2021 as compared to the last year. The data showed that 3,829 cases of snatching were reported in 2021 as compared to 2,612 in last year. Among the total 1,20,980 cases, the number cases of hurt, burglary, motor vehicle theft and house theft stand at 493, 1,173, 15,667 and 938 respectively. Senior IPS officer Balaji Srivastava took additional charge as the commissioner of the Delhi Police on Wednesday after the retirement of incumbent S N Shrivastava. Soon after taking charge as the police commissioner, Srivastava had held an agenda-setting meeting with the top police brass at the police headquarters. He discussed the priority areas and the road map for the Delhi Police in the coming days. Street domination to curb street crime, direct public interface at the district level for grievance redressal, ensuring women safety, welfare of the personnel and initiating anti-terror measures are among the priority areas, police had said. Srivastava also laid emphasis on the implementation of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority guidelines to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour among all in letter and spirit, the officials had said. The number of cases of fatal accident, other theft, simple accident and other IPC stand at 449, 63,536, 1,497 and 30,051 respectively, it added. In the last week of March 2020, a nationwide lockdown was imposed in view of the COVID-19 situation across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cases-of-rape-and-harassment-of-women-up-in-delhi-heinous-crimes-down-1005554.html
06-07-2021||North and Central||India's first FASTag-based parking facility launched at Delhi's Kashmere Gate metro station||As part of its multimodal integration of transport services initiative, the DMRC on Tuesday launched the country's first FASTag-based cashless parking facility at the busy Kashmere Gate metro station in north Delhi, officials said. The parking facility would also be the country's first to accept payment via the UPI (Unified Payments Interface) mode, they added. The Kashmere Gate station was built on the Red Line and has interconnectivity with the Yellow and Violet lines. As part of the multimodal integration initiative (MMI), dedicated intermediate public transport (IPT) lanes for autorickshaws, taxis and e-rickshaws were also inaugurated at the station, the officials said. "For the first time in the country, a FASTag-based and UPI-based cashless parking facility was launched on Tuesday at the Kashmere Gate metro station by Mangu Singh, MD, DMRC, in the presence of senior officials of the DMRC and the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI)," the DMRC said in a statement. This exclusively cashless parking facility, located at Gate No.6 of the metro station, can accommodate 55 four-wheelers and 174 two-wheelers, it said. "The entry and exit and payment by the riders of four-wheelers can be done through FASTag. The parking fee will be deducted through FASTag, which will reduce the time for entry and payment. Only the vehicles bearing FASTag will be allowed to park at this facility," the statement said. The entry for two-wheelers can be done only by swiping the DMRC smart card. The smart card swipe is used only for registering the time of entry and exit and fare calculation, and no money will be deducted from it. The parking fee for two-wheelers can be paid through UPI-based apps by scanning a QR-code. In the future, the payment can also be made through the DMRC card and the NCMC (National Common Mobility Card), the officials said. The Kashmere Gate station's facility is a "pilot project" under the MMI of the DMRC, which is planning to set up similar systems at more of its parking facilities across Delhi-NCR, they added. In addition, the IPT lanes for autorickshaws, taxis and e-rickshaws at Gate No. 6 and Gate No. 8 will enable a smooth movement of vehicles and enhance the last-mile connectivity at the station, the DMRC said. In the second phase of the MMI, which is under construction, there will be a food court (to be established by the DTIDC) and also a bus terminal (three lanes with a capacity of five buses each) to be constructed by the DMRC, it added. After the completion of the second phase, the Kashmere Gate area will become a transportation hub, integrating metro connectivity on Line-1, Line-2 and Line-6 with parking facilities, the ISBT Kashmere Gate, the City Bus Service and taxi, autorickshaw and e-rickshaw services, the DMRC said. These facilities will provide a major relief to the commuters travelling to and from the Kashmere Gate station, which is connected to a major inter-state bus terminus (ISBT) and several offices around the station. "The cashless parking project is a major step as part of the government's 'Digital India' initiative. We have taken this up as a pilot project. After observing the response, we will plan similar systems at more parking facilities at our stations," the DMRC chief said. "In fact, we will explore more opportunities to go digital wherever there is scope. This will not only help us in modernising the facilities, but will also help commuters saving their time and ease the process. Under the MMI, we have many other projects, which will be implemented in a graded manner," Singh said. Both the FASTag and UPI systems were developed by the NPCI. "We are pleased to partner with the DMRC to introduce the country's first 100 per cent digital parking plaza, along with the NETC FASTag contactless car parking solution, at their Kashmere Gate metro station. The parking plaza would accept the NETC FASTag for four-wheelers and UPI payments for all two-wheelers," said Praveena Rai, Chief Operating Officer, NPCI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indias-first-fastag-based-parking-facility-launched-at-delhis-kashmere-gate-metro-station-1005566.html
06-07-2021||North and Central||Thief breaks into cop's home; leaves behind apology letter in Madhya Pradesh||While stealing valuables from the home of a policeman in Bhind city of Madhya Pradesh, a thief left behind an apology letter stating that he was committing the act to save a friend's life and will return the stolen money, police said on Tuesday. The theft occurred at the home of a policeman, who works in Chhattisgarh, while his family lives in Bhind city, assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Kamlesh Katare of Kotwali police station said. According to the police, the thief left behind a letter stating, “Sorry friend, it was a compulsion. If I had not done this, then my friend would have lost his life. Don't worry, as soon as I get the money, I will return it.” The policeman's wife and children had left for a relative's place on June 30, and after returning home on Monday night, they found that the locks of the rooms had been broken and things were lying scattered, the official said. The thief stole some silver and gold ornaments, he said, adding that it is suspected some acquaintance of the family was involved in the act. A case has been registered in this regard and further investigation is underway, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/thief-breaks-into-cops-home-leaves-behind-apology-letter-in-madhya-pradesh-1005574.html
06-07-2021||North and Central||To get a slot to argue in SC is valuable, apex court tells lawyer seeking adjournment||The Supreme Court on Tuesday told lawyers to make every possible attempt to argue their respective matters, as getting a slot in the top court is valuable. "We are short on judges, getting a slot to argue in Supreme Court is valuable," a bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud told a counsel who sought adjournment for four weeks in a matter on the grounds of death of the arguing counsel's mother. Very politely, Justice Chandrachud told the advocate that he understands the situation of the counsel whose mother had expired, but some other advocate should step in. Justice Shah also cited that the matter had been pending since 2019, and some counsel should argue the matter. “We read up matters and then come to court. We were here in the court till 5pm yesterday and then read all the matters listed today before the bench,” Justice Chandrachud said. The bench said somebody should argue the matter. With this, advocates decided to start the proceedings. It is to be noted the top court, at present, has been working with 26 judges as against the sanctioned strength of 34 judges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/to-get-a-slot-to-argue-in-sc-is-valuable-apex-court-tells-lawyer-seeking-adjournment-1005582.html
06-07-2021||North and Central||BJP forced to change Uttarakhand CM twice due to curse of priests: Temple body||The BJP had to replace its chief minister in Uttarakhand twice due to a "curse" of priests as it failed to dissolve the Devasthanam Board, said the Gangotri Mandir Samiti on Tuesday. The joint secretary of the temple body, Rajesh Semwal, said the BJP won’t be able to return to power in the state next year if it did not dissolve the board. Constituted during the chief ministership of Trivendra Singh Rawat, the Devasthanam Board is mandated to run affairs of 51 temples in Uttarakhand. The priests of the Gangotri and Yamunotri shrines are on a relay fast for several weeks, demanding the dissolution of the board, which they see as an encroachment upon their rights. "The BJP had to give three chief ministers in four-and-a half-years due to the curse of priests. If the party does not learn from the experience and its new chief minister does not dissolve the Devasthanam Board soon, the curse of priests will not let the party form government in 2022," Semwal told reporters here. Earlier, soon after taking over, former chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat had announced during the Kumbh Mela that the temples will be removed from the board's control and the decision to create the panel will also be reconsidered. But Rawat had to step down last week before he could keep his word. He was replaced by Pushkar Singh Dhami.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-forced-to-change-uttarakhand-cm-twice-due-to-curse-of-priests-temple-body-1005601.html
06-07-2021||North and Central||Nitish Kumar doesn't rule out JD(U) joining NDA, ducks queries on formula||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar Tuesday did not rule out the possibility of his JD(U) joining the Narendra Modi government during its likely expansion but insisted it was the party's national president who will take a call on the number of berths acceptable to it. Talking to reporters here, Kumar said expansion of the Union council of ministers was a prerogative of the prime minister and that he "did not have much information" about what was being offered to his party. "I relinquished the party's national president's post a few months ago. Current president RCP Singh has been authorised to take a call in the matter. Only he can share the details," the chief minister, the party's de facto leader, said with a smile playing on his lips. When pointed out that he had disapproved of the BJP's offer of "token representation" for allies in the government after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Kumar quipped, "I was then the national president of the party, a post which I no longer hold." Responding to a query as to whether his party was likely to stick to its previous stand of not joining the Union council of ministers, the JD(U) leader said, "I do not think at any point of time it has been said that our party will never join the Union Cabinet." He deflected questions about speculation in the media that the JD(U), which has become the largest ally of the BJP after Shiv Sena's exit from NDA, was bargaining for three to four berths. "These are things you should be asking RCP Singh," he said. Incidentally, Singh, a former IAS officer, has risen to the top postion in the party within a decade of taking the political plunge, and is seen as a frontrunner for a Cabinet berth. The chief minister also said he was all set to revive his public interaction programme 'Janata Ke Darbar Mein Mukhyamantri' from next week. "Of course, there will be some constraints in view of the corona pandemic. Citizens who appear on any given day with their grievances will be extended all facilities, including transport," Kumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nitish-kumar-doesnt-rule-out-jdu-joining-nda-ducks-queries-on-formula-1005606.html
06-07-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand government moves Supreme Court against High Court order staying Char Dham yatra||The Uttarakhand government has approached the Supreme Court against the High Court's June 28 decision to not allow local pilgrims to participate in Char Dham yatra from July 1. The state government claimed that the High Court failed to consider that livelihood of villagers around Char Dham --- Badrinath, Kedarnath, Gangotri and Yamnotri --- was dependent upon the pilgrimage. It pointed out the yatra was allowed only for the districts of Chamoli, Rudraprayag and Uttarkashi, where the positivity rates of Covid-19 were as low as 0.64 per cent, 1.16 per cent and 0.75 per cent, respectively, between June 15 and July 2.  Maintaining that strict compliance of Covid-19 protocols was in place, the state government said due to harsh climate and terrain, the livelihood of people in villages en route Char Dham yatra was largely dependent upon earnings made through tourism and religious rituals. The four dhams are situated at the altitude of about 12,000–14,000 metres above sea level and the weather in winter dips to between -5 and -20 degrees Celsius.    The plea contended that unlike other religious Hindu shrines likes Vaishno Devi, Kashi Vishvanath in Banaras, Vrindavan or other south Indian shrines, the access to Char Dham is only for a period of roughly six months.  In the remaining six months, the villagers survive through cold, without much of an earning, it added. The Uttarakhand High Court had pointed out the potential threat of the third Covid-19 wave predicted by the scientific community, saying the victims will be children, and that the loss of a child is not painful only to parents but the nation at large.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-government-moves-supreme-court-against-high-court-order-staying-char-dham-yatra-1005616.html
06-07-2021||North and Central||Can’t shift mental health patients to beggars’ homes, Supreme Court tells Maharashtra government||The Supreme Court on Tuesday told the Maharashtra government to discontinue its practice of shifting patients lodged in mental health institutions to beggars’ homes. Taking a stern view of the decision, a bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud said such an approach by the state government would be contrary to the provisions of the Mental Health Act. The bench, also comprising Justices M R Shah, noted that advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal, who filed a PIL for proper implementation of the Mental Health Act, has highlighted that Maharashtra has decided to shift persons who are institutionalised in mental health establishments to beggar homes/custodial institutions.  “Bansal has also submitted that deaths are reported to have occurred," the court noted.  Sachin Patil, standing counsel appearing on behalf of Maharashtra, has submitted that he would take instructions.  “While the counsel may do so, we are categorically of the view that any such action to shift such persons to ‘beggar homes’/custodial institutions would be counterproductive and contrary to the letter and spirit of the Mental Healthcare Act 2017," the bench said.  "We accordingly direct the State of Maharashtra to look into this aspect immediately and ensure that this practice is discontinued," the bench added. The court also noted that the onset of Covid-19 has precipitated the hardships faced by persons facing mental illness in terms of access to medical care and treatment. Bansal, the petitioner, in person, insisted that the issue of testing, tracing, and vaccinating those suffering from mental illness must be taken up on a priority.  The bench also directed the Centre to test people lodged in mental health establishments for Covid- 19 and fully vaccinate them at the earliest. “Persons who are institutionalised in mental health establishments need to be vaccinated so as to protect them," the bench said. Additional Solicitor General Madhavi Divan, representing the Centre, assured the court that this matter would be taken up with utmost priority.  The bench said the Department of Social Justice should take it up immediately with the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare so that suitable instructions are given and a plan is chalked out for all the states/Union Territories for ensuring the vaccination of persons who are institutionalised in mental health establishments. The court also directed chief secretaries to make representations in the meeting to be convened by the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment Centre on July 12, 2021, to ensure compliance with the court’s earlier order for submitting a plan for rehabilitation of people who are still staying in hospitals or mental asylums.  The bench said a status report should be filed before it at least a week before the next date of hearing, July 27.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/can-t-shift-mental-health-patients-to-beggars-homes-supreme-court-tells-maharashtra-government-1005619.html
06-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi has run out of Covid-19 vaccine stock: Deputy CM Manish Sisodia||The Delhi government's stock of Covid-19 vaccines has run out, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Tuesday and urged the Centre to send more doses for the people of the city as required for the inoculation exercise. In a tweet, he asserted that in the last two weeks, vaccination was done in the national capital at a "record speed". According to the vaccination bulletin issued on Tuesday, 80,841 doses were administered on July 5, while 84,63,689 doses have been given in total since the start of the inoculation exercise. The bulletin also mentioned that less than a day of vaccine stock was left with the Delhi government, adding that data for July 6 was yet to be compiled.  Sidodia, in a tweet in Hindi on Tuesday evening, said, "In the last two weeks, vaccination was done in the national capital at a record speed. But, for the time being, vaccine stock is over in Delhi and no supply is coming from the central government as of now. It is my appeal to the central government to send vaccine to the people of Delhi as soon as possible, as per the requirement". दिल्ली में पिछले दो हफ़्ते record-speed पर वैक्सीन लगाने का काम चला. लेकिन फ़िलहाल दिल्ली में वैक्सीन ख़त्म है और केंद्र सरकार से सप्लाई भी फ़िलहाल नहीं आ रही. मेरी केंद्र सरकार से अपील है कि दिल्ली वालों की ज़रूरत के हिसाब से जल्द से जल्द वैक्सीन उपलब्ध कराए. A total of 19,39,807 people have been fully vaccinated while 65,23,882 have received the first dose of the vaccine, the vaccination bulletin said. A total of 51,728 people received the first dose and 29,113 got the second dose of the vaccine on July 5, it said. The Delhi government had started the vaccination programme for the 45 and above age group from April 1, a month before those in the 18-44 group got the nod to receive doses. Vaccination exercise had begun in Delhi and across the country from January 16.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-has-run-out-of-covid-19-vaccine-stock-deputy-cm-manish-sisodia-1005629.html
06-07-2021||North and Central||Don’t sacrifice your life to visit Taj Mahal: India reopens but fear pervades||From a rickety fishing boat on the Yamuna River, Sumit Chaurasia points out how the setting tangerine sun catches the sparkle of the mother-of-pearl embedded in the Taj Mahal. For a decade, Chaurasia, 35, has made such poetic observations to tourists. But since March 2020, when India imposed a nationwide lockdown to curb the coronavirus, its monuments have been largely closed. Visas for foreign tourists have been suspended, and he and legions like him have been out of work. While the Taj Mahal partially reopened in mid-June — with strict limits on the number of visitors — Chaurasia’s life, like much of India, remains in limbo: no longer totally shut down, but far from fully normal or safe. “The corona is still with us,” said Chaurasia, pointing out the flames licking the riverbank from a crematory next to the monument. This spring, Agra, like New Delhi, ran out of space to cremate its dead, with thousands a day dying from Covid as India experienced one of the world’s most catastrophic encounters with the disease. The crowds that usually throng the Taj at sunset have been reduced to a handful of mostly local residents, roaming around the 25-acre complex for just over $3 a ticket. This near-emptiness makes Chaurasia cry, but he prefers it to the alternative despite the hardships it imposes on him and the family he supports: elderly parents, a wife and two young daughters. “Don’t sacrifice your life to visit the Taj Mahal,” he said as the boat gently bobbed on the holy Yamuna while monarch butterflies fluttered and pelicans soared over the trash-clogged shores. India is only now emerging from its traumatic spring, when a devastating second wave of the coronavirus hit, imprinting grim memories of frantic searches for hospital beds, medicine and oxygen — and of funeral pyres that burned day and night, turning the skies an ash gray. As case numbers have fallen, authorities have cautiously reopened the country, including monuments like the Taj Mahal. But just 4% of the country’s 130 crore people are fully vaccinated, and health officials warn another wave may be looming, casting a pall over the life that is starting to return. “We don’t go out unless it’s necessary,” Chaurasia said. Agra, with a wealth of Indo-Islamic architectural treasures including the Taj, is usually cacophonous and traffic choked. It is now quiet and uncrowded, and so too are the stores selling the inlay marble handicrafts and treacly sweets for which the city, the onetime capital of the Mughal empire, is famous. Agra is an essential stop for anyone visiting India, from backpackers to presidents — Donald Trump visited in February 2020 during a state visit — and about 800,000 people in the city, half its population, are dependent on tourism. Virtually all of them have been affected, said Pradeep Tamta, a city tourism official. Many of the artisan workshops that populate Agra’s ancient streets have not survived 15 months of intermittent lockdown, and most of the rest are struggling. In an open-air building along a narrow alley, Irfan Ali, 51, hunches over a machine used to file down shards of mother-of-pearl into moons, stars and other shapes that will later be adhered to marble in intricate patterns on tiles, tabletops, vases and trays. Foreign tourists, Ali said, have over the years driven up demand for the art form, which represents the materials and motifs of Agra’s most famous monument. “They wanted a piece of the Taj Mahal,” he said. “Now there’s only silence.” Across town, Gaurav Goel, the co-owner of a family sweets business, still bears the shaved head of a Hindu mourner. The shop, Panchhi, was named for its founder, Goel’s great-grandfather, Pancham Lal. The family specializes in petha, a syrupy sweet Agra delicacy made from ash pumpkin, a grayish gourd, boiled in lime water and sugar. According to folklore, petha was invented in the 1630s while the Taj Mahal was being built, to keep the 20,000 laborers energized through Agra’s intense summer heat. Goel’s grandfather, Kanhaiya Lal Goyal, greatly expanded the business by experimenting with new flavors like saffron and cardamom and slicing blocks of petha into different shapes. A cancer patient, he died of complications from Covid-19 in May. In normal years, Goel’s five shops sell about $1.3 million worth of sweets. In 2020, his sales fell by 40%. But he feels ambivalent about customers returning. “The loss of business doesn’t hurt us emotionally,” he said. “It’s more that we don’t lose someone.” The scarcity of visitors is a problem not only for Agra but also for the Archaeological Survey of India, the government agency that uses its share of the Taj’s ticket sales to restore and maintain many of the 3,500 lesser-known but historically significant monuments from India’s long, epic history. The pandemic is not the only challenge facing the Taj. Leaders of BJP have sought in recent years to recast the Taj — built by the Mughal Emperor Shah Jahan to entomb his beloved queen, Mumtaz Mahal — as a symbol of the Muslim invasion of India. Yogi Adityanath took the monument off a state list of tourist sites, and has said it does not “reflect Indian culture.” Sumit Upadhyay is a member of the ruling party, known as the BJP. But he is also an Agra-based travel agent, and as he strolled the Taj’s grounds, his loyalties to his hometown and his business seemed to take precedence over the party. He said the Taj has been neglected while its revenues have been partially channeled by Adityanath’s government into “enhancing their own monuments,” including a temple elsewhere in Uttar Pradesh devoted to the Hindu god Ram. The temple is being built over the rubble of a mosque that a Hindu mob destroyed in 1992. “They are not doing anything for the Taj Mahal,” he said of the state government. “You have to take care of this monument if you want people to come into India.” On its busiest days since reopening, the Taj Mahal is hosting 2,000 visitors — less than one-tenth its capacity. For the people who dare visit, however, it’s an extraordinary experience. The texture lost in a crowded space emerges like bas-relief when it is empty. Lime-green parakeets dart across the Mughal gardens and reflective pools. Inside the mausoleum, the typical jostling for a close-up look at the detail of the carved amber, jade, coral and lapis lazuli is replaced by a sense of the tomb’s scale and solemnity. A normally hectic and very public place has become a kind of private refuge. Hara Khan and Satyam Singh, a couple in their 20s who connected online during the pandemic last year, sought out the shade of one of the mausoleum’s arched balconies. Singh had traveled by train from Delhi to meet Khan for her birthday. They lost a mutual friend to Covid-19 this spring. “It’s amazing,” Khan said of the monument reopening. “We were planning for a whole one year,” she said shyly, stealing a glance at Singh. “This is the first time we meet.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/don-t-sacrifice-your-life-to-visit-taj-mahal-india-reopens-but-fear-pervades-1005675.html
06-07-2021||North and Central||Punjab BJP issues show-cause notice to Anil Joshi for 'anti-party' activities||The Punjab BJP on Tuesday issued a show-cause notice to its leader and former state minister Anil Joshi for "anti-party" activities. Joshi has been asked to reply within two days on why a disciplinary action should not be taken against him, according to the notice. The notice was issued by Punjab unit general secretary Subhash Sharma on the directions of state BJP chief Ashwani Sharma. Sharma said Joshi has been making statements against the Union government, party's central leadership and policies, which tantamount to "anti-party" activities. Former Amritsar North MLA Anil Joshi had said that it would be difficult for the BJP leaders to come out of their homes if the ongoing issue of the farmers' agitation against the Centre's three farm laws is not resolved soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-bjp-issues-show-cause-notice-to-anil-joshi-for-anti-party-activities-1005677.html
06-07-2021||Oasis||Morality in governance||It is often in times of crisis that the mind, both individual and collective, turns to the issue of morality in governance. All ancient philosophies, the Greek, the Chinese and the Indian, spoke of morality as an integral part of governance. They maintained that the moral character of the individual was derived from, and shaped by, the rulers. While fear and violence were regarded as a part of governance, Confucius, held an interesting view. He maintained that if a leader guided people by virtue they would not only reform themselves but also have shame. A hundred years of being ruled by the good would completely remove the need for violence or cruelty. The Greek statesman, Plato, believed that thought could be awakened only by tapping into the moral sense of a person. Morality of governance has a prominent place in Indian mythology. One of the first questions that Yudhishsthira asked Bhishma, even as he was being persuaded to rejoice in his victory and accept the kingship, was: What is a king and why does one man stand over another? After the destruction caused by the war, for which he partly blamed himself, he wondered if he had the moral right to rule. Bhishma replied that ideally, the Gods considered a mind which was highly refined and appreciated both law and profit, as a mind fit to rule. Having said so, he went on to assert how even such a mind had to restrain personal likes and dislikes, and do without hesitation what the law required. His acts as  King had to be done putting aside desire, anger and greed. The ruler had to pledge to do Dharma, devotion to duty, and abnegation of the self. Duryodhana got a lesson in the concept from his father. Dhritarashtra told him about the demon king Prahalada, who had conquered all of Indra's realms. Indira was puzzled and entered Prahalada's service to get an understanding. He pleased the master and Prahalada told him that success, as a rule, lay in never being resentful, never thinking of oneself as ruler, and always being eager to listen to advisors. Only then could he inspire them to advice. The ruler's anger and desire must both be under control. Indra understood, Duryodhana refused to.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/morality-in-governance-1005349.html
06-07-2021||Oasis||Make haste slowly||In spite of our best efforts, Covid-19 has continued to ravage our lives. This has plunged us all into a state of fear and confusion. Most of us are prisoners in our houses. We are afraid to go out, talk to and mingle with others. We are suspicious of anything handled by others and have embraced isolation as the only way of staying safe. It is no wonder that we have traded in our better and kinder beliefs about life for cynicism and bitterness. We are quick to pick up doomsday predictions and, in the process, have lost courage and faith. Caught in a state of mental paralysis, we find it more difficult than ever before to distinguish good from evil and right from wrong. What philosophy after all can the agitated mind cling to when the future seems empty or at the best bleak? We can attribute all catastrophes to fate or to an uncaring providence. However, by doing so, we erase largely from our thinking the incriminating role we have played in this sorry state of affairs. It is possible to even now to make amends.  It is generally acknowledged that the human is the highest form of animal. We have been given extraordinary gifts. Chief among them are insight, imagination and inventiveness. They have enabled us to make life better for ourselves. We can speak, write and organise complex activities and we have achieved all this in a stunningly short period of time. Scientists have pointed out that we have existed only for about .0001% of Earth’s history. Yet not all our actions have reflected either prudence or wisdom. We have caused the extinction of many hundreds of animals. A United Nations report put the total number of extinctions in the last 400 years at almost 1,000. We have polluted the air and poisoned all waterways. Our nuclear arsenal can destroy the Earth many times over. What is worse, we are unleashing dangerous life-forms that can wipe us out completely. We are blind to our shortcomings and step into areas that ‘angels fear to tread’. It is time to choose the path of sanity and act with faith and humility. The need of the hour is to ‘make haste slowly’.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/make-haste-slowly-1005690.html
06-07-2021||Opinion||The myriad colours of the RSS||Mohan Madhukar Bhagwat, the present and sixth "sarsanghachalak" of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), may not be the most politically prudent person to helm the organisation. This circumstance has helped and harmed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the "parivar's" most precious progeny. In the politically volatile times we live in, it no longer helps the RSS or the BJP invoke the oft-quoted shibboleth, which claimed the Sangh was a cultural outfit aloof from politics. The RSS's charter, drawn largely from the preaching, writing and activity of its first three "sarsanghachalaks", undergirds the BJP's agenda whether in or out of power, although the parent's expectations and demands have sometimes to be side-stepped if these clash with the exigencies of coalition politics or keeping policy continuity in government. The Narendra Modi government has perhaps exceeded the RSS's expectancy because unlike Modi's conduct as the chief minister of Gujarat, as the prime minister, he is excessively mindful of the paterfamilias. In Gandhinagar, Modi never thought twice about taking on the RSS's affiliates, such as the Vishwa Hindu Parishad and the Bharatiya Kisan Sangh, if their agitations clashed with his ideas of governance. Muslim opinion-moulders welcomed Bhagwat's quoted statements as a positive gesture towards the community kept on tenterhooks throughout UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's tenure. However, to infer that Bhagwat's speech was a salve to soothe festering wounds is preposterous. The BJP is gearing for the UP polls, and Adityanath's governance record is a far cry from the "model" template it is encased in, particularly after the pandemic mismanagement. The indications are it will typically hark back to communal polarisation and reap whatever advantages this brings. Ghaziabad, the venue of the Sunday function, is a communal hot spot that continues to report incidents of lynching and assault on Muslims by young Hindu activists. Therefore, while deconstructing the Sangh's articulations, it is imperative to locate their text and subtext in a context before "spinning" them around to fit preconceived notions or post facto wisdom. The Ghaziabad function was hosted by the Muslim Rashtriya Manch, an RSS offspring headed by Indresh, a senior "pracharak". The book Bhagwat launched was authored by a Muslim, reported to be an advisor to a former Congress prime minister. The "shared ancestry" theory that Bhagwat spoke of was thought up by MS Golwalkar, known as "Guruji". Golwalkar was the Sangh's second "sarsanghachalak". He is credited with crafting and fleshing out an "intellectual" frame that delved deep into the sentiments in support of a "Hindu nation" in the aftermath of Partition and the population transfer. In March 2006, the RSS officially disowned Golwalkar's book "We or Our Nationhood Defined" (1939), the progenitor of his thoughts and ideas and courted controversy for endorsing the Germanic idea of using race to denote nationalism instead of territory. Hitler was a bad name, so any validation for his concepts was and is unthinkable. However, "We" is considered the fundamental charter of the Sangh, from where the belief of separating "we" (Hindus) from the other communities and cultural nationalism, which the BJP actively advocates, emanated. In 2006, the RSS virtually repudiated "We", claiming the book did not carry Golwalkar's views but was an abridged version of Ganesh Damodar Savarkar's "Rashtra Mimamsa". It said that "Bunch of Thoughts" authentically represented his thoughts because it was brought out after he became "sarsanghachalak" on June 21, 1940. Let's see how "Bunch" expatiates on the "shared ancestry" proposition. Under the sub-head "Call to Shake off Slavery", Golwalkar wrote, "So, all that we say is that the Muslims and Christians here should give up their present foreign mental complexion (sic) and merge in the common stream of our national life. Everybody knows that only a handful of Muslims came here as enemies and invaders. So also, a few foreign Christian missionaries came here. Now the Muslims and Christians have enormously grown in number. They did not grow just by multiplication...They converted the local population. We can trace our ancestry to a common source, from where one portion was taken away from the Hindu fold and became Muslim, and another became Christian...It is our duty to call these our forlorn brothers, suffering under religious slavery for centuries, back to their ancestral home." With a caveat. "As honest, freedom-loving men (the female of the species never figures in his thoughts), let them overthrow all signs of slavery and domination and follow the ancestral ways of devotion and national life." The RSS "parivar's" "shuddhi karan" and "ghar wapasi" programmes are a direct fall-out of Golwalkar's teaching on "forced" proselytisation. Bhagwat has nuanced his statements. His ideologue was more direct and aggressive. Therein lies the Sangh's dilemma of having to tone down its traditional assertions to fit into the compulsions of political power and governance. Bhagwat personally intervened to straighten out in-house conflicts at the start of Modi's first term, when the Bajrang Dal and the VHP got hyper-active on the front to "re-convert" Muslims and bring them back "home" as Hindus. It provoked a fierce backlash in UP, the Sangh's new laboratory. But the peace efforts did not last. The Sangh and the extended "parivar" no longer needs dog whistles to take to the streets or morality lessons from Bhagwat to rein them in. Indeed, Bhagwat's Ghaziabad address was sneered at and critiqued by the hard-core Hindutva trolls on social media, signifying that even if the RSS chief wished to modulate the assertions, the "parivar" is in no mood to lower the pitch in word and deed. (Radhika Ramaseshan is a Delhi-based political analyst and columnist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-myriad-colours-of-the-rss-1005516.html
06-07-2021||Panorama||Relevance of Buridan's paradox||A few months ago, two vaccines against Covid-19 were rolled out. Initially, there was vaccine hesitancy among people due to misinformation and rumour of their possible side effects. The talk among people was if they should get vaccinated. For those who wanted to get the jab, the issue was which of the two vaccines was better— Covaxin developed by Hyderabad based Bharat Biologicals or Covishield by Oxford-AstraZeneca and manufactured by Serum institute of India. During discussions among friends and relatives, if someone said that they got a shot of  Covishield, another would reply saying that they would rather wait for Covaxin. This was indeed a peculiar situation. During the first wave of the Pandemic, people would pray for a vaccine to protect them from the virus. When the two vaccines were rolled out and said that they are equally safe and effective, many people dilly-dallied and were unable to make a choice between the two. This indecision would have exposed them to the infection and for some, this would have had fatal consequences. Any rational individual would have said: “I am indifferent between the two and let me get the jab as quickly as possible to save my life”. Such situations where people faced with choices become indecisive is explained by a paradox called Buridan's principle.  Buridan’s principle refers to a hypothetical situation wherein an ass that is both hungry and thirsty is placed midway between a stack of hay and a pail of water. The paradox states that since the ass cannot make any decision between hay and water, it dies of hunger and thirst. Jean Buridan, the French philosopher to whom the paradox is attributed, was born in the fourteenth century in Picardy, France, and taught logic and the works of Aristotle at the University of Paris before becoming its rector. Buridan was influenced by the writings of Aristotle when he wrote about the paradox— Aristotle had discussed this concept in his book On the Heavens and had said that “a man, being just as hungry as thirsty, and placed in between food and drink, must necessarily remain where he is and starve to death.”  While Buridan used a donkey, Aristotle used man as the protagonist to highlight the dilemma faced while making a choice between two goods. Free will Before Buridan, the 12th-century Persian scholar and philosopher Al-Ghazali too had discussed the application of this paradox to human decision making. He contended that free will could break the stalemate. Al-Ghazali stated: “Suppose there are two similar dates in front of a man, who has a strong desire for them but is unable to take them both, surely, he will take one of them, through a quality in him, the nature of which is to differentiate between two similar things.” Coming back to the paradox, in real life it is very unlikely that the ass would starve itself to death and being rational typically would have helped itself to both the hay and the pail of water. However, the illustration highlights the consequences of kicking the can down the road on any issue be it for an individual, an organisation or a government. In politics The Buridan paradox has applications in politics too. It is played out during every election. The voter is the Buridan’s ass, who cannot choose between two contestants having questionable credentials. In many cases the rational voter is undecided and may choose Nota. It is also possible that due to indecision he may not vote at all. The important message Buridan’s principle conveys to all of us is that not making a choice can lead to decision paralysis. The paradox is relevant for businesses during the current pandemic. Businesses have been paralysed into thinking: Should we see this as an opportunity and scale up or should we see this as a threat and cutback on investments seeing a fall in consumer spending? Businesses should invest carefully and be alert and not be paralysed. Not doing anything like Buridan’s ass can result in bankruptcy.   (The writer is a chartered financial analyst and a former banker and currently teaches at Manipal Academy of Banking, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/relevance-of-buridans-paradox-1005346.html
06-07-2021||Panorama||'At least 20-25% of MSMEs in Karnataka have shut'||The second wave of Covid-19 dealt a deadly blow to the micro, small and medium-scale industries as they face myriad crises on multiple fronts— labour, finance, raw material supply, bottlenecks in logistics, and spiralling prices among others. Despite ‘Unlock 3.0’ allowing all businesses to restart, thousands of these factories are not in a position to restart, says K B Arasappa, president of the Karnataka Small Scale Industries Association (Kassia), in an interview with Mahesh Kulkarni of DH. With Unlock 3.0 beginning from Monday, are MSMEs ready to restart their factories? MSMEs are more than ready and willing to reopen their factories since they have already incurred heavy losses due to the lockdowns since last year and they now have to recoup their losses. The reality is that most, if not all, sectors are ready to restart their activities more out of compulsion. What are the challenges MSMEs face in restarting their factories? Getting the migrant workers back to work is a major issue. A majority of the MSMEs hire on an average 5-10 workers and the absence of even a few of them can cause a major dent in productivity. A large number of units (Karnataka has around eight lakh MSMEs) are facing problems such as shortage of workers, lack of working capital, a sharp rise in raw material prices, and delay in payments from large industries. In our estimate, at least 20-25% of MSME units in Karnataka will not restart their factories. During the lockdown, migrant workers had returned to their villages. How many have returned? Not all. About 60% of the workers have returned, while the remaining perhaps are reluctant due to the fears over a potential third Covid wave. Going by available reports it would be fair to assume that about some 25% of them may not return at all. Industries have expressed concern over the power tariff hike. It is by far the worst time to think of a hike in tariff, considering that the MSMEs are facing extinction under a prolonged pressure of economic slowdown, followed by the first and second wave of Covid-19 and now a potential third wave. We have urged the government to rethink (and put off) the hike for at least 12 to 18 months. How is your working capital situation? The MSMEs have generally been working under working capital constraints, but this time, the government has indeed come to the aid of MSMEs through various schemes like the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS). While the nationalised banks have been, by and large, implementing the scheme, some of the private banks are reluctant to increase their lending to MSMEs, which is defeating the intentions of the government. How are MSMEs in Karnataka benefitting from these schemes? The various reliefs and concessions announced for MSME by the government on account of Covid-19 have not fully reached the small industries sector due to implementation bottlenecks. As per feedback received by MSMEs in the state, around 40% of micro and small-scale industries have been left in the lurch, and the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ stimulus package 3.0 has had limited impact at the ground level due to improper implementation. Though the stimulus packages have green-signalled banks to grant automatic collateral-free loans to industries, in many cases bankers are demanding security for loans under the package. We have repeatedly sought extension of NPA norms from 90 days to 180 days but this is yet to be considered. Given the devastating second wave and a potential third wave, we feel that NPA norms must be pegged at 180 days permanently, or at least until such time that the MSME sector and the economy return to normal. What are your major demands from the government? To motivate employees to return to their factories, we would like the government to take up free vaccination of all workers hired by MSMEs. Moreover, we want the government to provide us working capital loans at a concessional rate of interest not exceeding 6%, with repayment of three years, a moratorium of at least six months for existing loans, and deferment of property tax payments. These measures will help a large number of MSMEs which operate out of rented premises and are constantly in need of working capital loans. It will also help them to procure raw materials immediately. What is the situation on availability of raw materials? Have prices gone up? Supply chain disruptions continue to play havoc, with transport not fully operational across the state. The prices of a majority of the raw materials have risen sharply in the last year, whereas consumers are not willing to accept the rise in the prices of finished goods. For example, the prices of mild steel (MS) have gone up by 25-58% for different grades— to about Rs 95 per kg, while copper (8 mm rod) prices are up 76% to Rs 765 per kg. Similarly, prices of brass and aluminium are up by 20% and 44% to Rs 480 and Rs 72 per kg respectively over the last year. In addition to this, the power tariff has gone up twice in less than a year, and the daily increase in diesel prices has left small industries in deep distress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/at-least-20-25-of-msmes-in-karnataka-have-shut-1005353.html
06-07-2021||Panorama||Chinese millennials are ‘chilling’, and Beijing isn’t happy about it||Five years ago, Luo Huazhong discovered that he enjoyed doing nothing. He quit his job as a factory worker in China, biked 1,300 miles from Sichuan province to Tibet and decided he could get by on odd jobs and $60 a month from his savings. He called his new lifestyle “lying flat.” “I have been chilling,” Luo, 31, wrote in a blog post in April, describing his way of life. “I don’t feel like there’s anything wrong.” He titled his post “Lying Flat Is Justice,” attaching a photo of himself lying on his bed in a dark room with the curtains drawn. Before long, the post was being celebrated by Chinese millennials as an anti-consumerist manifesto. “Lying flat” went viral and has since become a broader statement about Chinese society. A generation ago, the route to success in China was to work hard, get married and have children. The country’s authoritarianism was seen as a fair trade-off as millions were lifted out of poverty. But with employees working longer hours and housing prices rising faster than incomes, many young Chinese fear they will be the first generation not to do better than their parents. They are now defying the country’s long-held prosperity narrative by refusing to participate in it. Luo’s blog post was removed by censors, who saw it as an affront to Beijing’s economic ambitions. Mentions of “lying flat” — ‘tangping’, as it is known in Mandarin — are heavily restricted on the Chinese internet. An official counternarrative has also emerged, encouraging young people to work hard for the sake of the country’s future. “After working for so long, I just felt numb, like a machine,” Luo said in an interview. “And so I resigned.” To lie flat means to forgo marriage, not have children, stay unemployed and eschew material wants such as a house or a car. It is the opposite of what China’s leaders have asked of their people. But that did not bother Leon Ding. Ding, 22, has been lying flat for almost three months and thinks of the act as “silent resistance.” He dropped out of a university in his final year in March because he did not like the computer science major his parents had chosen for him. After leaving school, Ding used his savings to rent a room in Shenzhen. He tried to find a regular office job but realized that most positions required him to work long hours. “I want a stable job that allows me to have my own time to relax, but where can I find it?” he said. Ding thinks young people should work hard for what they love, but not “996” — 9 am to 9 pm, six days a week — as many employers in China expect. Frustrated with the job search, he decided that “lying flat” was the way to go. While plenty of Chinese millennials continue to adhere to the country’s traditional work ethic, “lying flat” reflects both a nascent counterculture movement and a backlash against China’s hypercompetitive work environment. Xiang Biao, a professor of social anthropology at Oxford University who focuses on Chinese society, called ‘tangping’ culture a turning point for China. “Young people feel a kind of pressure that they cannot explain, and they feel that promises were broken,” he said. “People realise that material betterment is no longer the single most important source of meaning in life.” The ruling Communist Party, wary of any form of social instability, has targeted the “lying flat” idea as a threat to stability in China. Censors have deleted a ‘tangping’ group with more than 9,000 members on Douban, a popular internet forum. Authorities also barred posts on another ‘tangping’ forum with more than 200,000 members. In May, China’s internet regulator ordered online platforms to “strictly restrict” new posts on ‘tangping’, according to a directive obtained by The New York Times. A second directive required e-commerce platforms to stop selling clothes, phone cases and other merchandise branded with ‘tangping’. The state news media has called ‘tangping’ “shameful,” and a newspaper warned against “lying flat before getting rich.” Yu Minhong, a prominent billionaire, urged young people not to lie down, because “otherwise, who can we rely on for the future of our country?” Luo decided to write about ‘tangping’ after he saw people heatedly discussing China’s latest census results in April and calls for the country to address a looming demographic crisis by having more babies. He described his original “lying flat” blog post as “an inner monologue from a man living at the bottom of the society.” “Those people who say lying down is shameful are shameless,” he said. “I have the right to choose a slow lifestyle. I didn’t do anything destructive to society. Do we have to work 12 hours a day in a sweatshop, and is that justice?” Luo was born in rural Jiande County, in eastern Zhejiang province. In 2007, he dropped out of a vocational high school and started working in factories. One job involved working 12-hour shifts at a tire factory. By the end of the day, he had blisters all over his feet, he said. In 2014, he found a job as a product inspector in a factory but did not like it. He quit after two years and took on the occasional acting gig to make ends meet. (In 2018, he played a corpse in a Chinese movie by, of course, lying flat.) Today, he lives with his family and spends his days reading philosophy and news and working out. He said it was an ideal lifestyle, allowing him to live minimally and “think and express freely.” He encourages his followers, who call him “the Master of Lying Down,” to do the same. After hearing about Luo’s ‘tangping’ post on a Chinese podcast, Zhang Xinmin, 36, was inspired to write a song about it. Zhang, a musician based in Wuhan, had quit his job in advertising five years ago to pursue his music, and the idea of lying flat resonated with him. He called his song “Tangping Is the Right Way.” Zhang uploaded the song to his social media platforms June 3 and within a day censors had deleted it from three websites. He was furious. “Nowadays, only running forward is allowed, but not lying down,” he said. “It doesn’t make sense to me that they deleted this song.” He eventually uploaded the song as a video on YouTube, which is blocked in China. The video shows him lying down on his sofa, casually strumming his guitar as he sings in a breezy voice: Lying down is really good lying down is wonderful lying down is the right thing to do lie down so you won’t fall anymore lying down means never falling down.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/chinese-millennials-are-chilling-and-beijing-isn-t-happy-about-it-1005694.html
06-07-2021||Right in the Middle||Sunday getaways||One of the things I frequently did when I shifted to Bengaluru was to explore the city during the weekends. I was new to Bengaluru then and had heard plenty about the sights of this "laid-back town". Sundays were the best days to discover the city for, thankfully, there was no work on those days. Also, the streets were almost empty. And, finally, being single and free, I had no Sunday chores to do. Soon after brushing away the hangovers from those Saturday evening sessions at pubs, I would get on my trusty Ind-Suzuki bike and take to the streets. None of these jaunts was unplanned. Instead, I would have decided where to visit a day or two earlier, based on the information I had gleaned from here and there. However, while the destinations were known, the routes were often not— those being the days before GPS and Google Maps. Often, I would have to stop and ask the locals for directions. And, believe me, they were only too happy to help. At first, I planned to familiarise myself with the city. So, while I was staying on Double Road, I took rides to places like Indira Nagar, Koramangala, Jayanagar and others. Just to get to know them better. After a few weekends, I shifted focus to see historical and scenic locations. That took me to sites like the Ashoka Pillar, Bangalore Palace, Cubbon Park, the Big Banyan Tree, Bangalore Fort, Thippagondanahalli reservoir and many others. My faithful Yashica reel camera accompanied me on these sojourns. Surprisingly, when I mentioned these sites to my co-workers (who were Bangaloreans) or showed them the photographs I had taken, some of them did not even know that such beautiful spots existed in the city.  What joy it was to go to the top of the High Point or the Public Utility buildings and take in the breath-taking panoramic view of Bengaluru— the lush green parks, the tree-lined avenues, and the blue skies. Or to enjoy a beer while watching the waterfall at Pearl Valley. Or, explore the grounds and the gardens of that majestic Palace in the middle of the city. I loved every moment of these trips. The places I visited were usually clean and not crowded, quite different from how it is nowadays. And almost everyone I met was cordial, unlike today. These were solitary sojourns. Just me and my camera. And I took loads and loads of pictures, which I then methodically arranged into photo albums.  Certainly, most of those spots still exist in Bengaluru but, given the traffic, the pollution and the crowds, I really don’t feel like visiting these sites now. Instead, once in a while, I pull out the photo albums from yesteryears and wish Bengaluru today was as it was then.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/sunday-getaways-1005345.html
06-07-2021||Right in the Middle||A hobby for tickets||The other day when I was segregating the good, bad and the ugly in my collection, I chanced upon a BTS ticket and two perforated pieces of two different theatres Plaza and New Chitra in Bangalore and Mangalore. Next moment I rolled back to my younger days. It all began nearly forty-eight years ago. On an evening, while walking back home from school in Chikmagalur. I found a counterfoil on the road. Without any hesitation I picked it. It was a perforated piece of Milan, a theatre. An idea came to my mind that I should excel my friends in the art of collection. They collected marbles, tops, empty matchboxes and other curios. I decided to collect cinema tickets. Thus began my journey in this endeavour. I made this my hobby after we moved to Mangalore. My interest in watching movies particularly on weekends and twice a week during my vacation stay in Bangalore and Mysore added more to my ticket collection. During the 70s and early 80s, I had a good collection of tickets from many prominent movie houses in Mangalore. Suggestions poured in when I displayed my talent. A senior in our compound came out with a brilliant idea. He suggested writing the name of the movie on the back of the perforated piece legibly since I was known for my handwriting. With this began a process of my valuable collection. "Collect movie tickets from outside'' was another suggestion. The one who suggested helped me in procuring tickets from Bombay, Poona, Satara and even from Kasaragod and Calicut. I was the proud owner of such counterfoils from Madras, Hyderabad and Sambalpur sent by my pen friends in exchange for foreign stamps. A girl, senior to me, said that to collect more counterfoils, I should watch more movies. Another came with a brute suggestion that I should seek employment during summer holidays either in New Chitra or Central, which we frequented. A friend from another college suggested that  I should go to Jyothi and meet the authorities and join the work immediately. Meanwhile responding to my request positively, an overseas pen friend sent me one from Accra, Ghana. As a token of courtesy, I sent him used Indian postage stamps. As time passed, I added more to my kitty. I preserved the collection in a cloth bag which I carried to school. One day it rained cats and dogs. The bag and valuable contents inside were drenched and my years of labour destroyed. All these came to my mind while I watched mild showers recently. On that day I had become a child.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-hobby-for-tickets-1005686.html
06-07-2021||Second Edit||L’affaire Rafale must be probed by a JPC||The opening of a judicial investigation in France into the controversial 2016 purchase of 36 Rafale aircraft from Dassault Aviation by the Narendra Modi government has raised fresh doubts and questions about the deal. The French investigation is into alleged corruption and favouritism in the deal and would examine the actions of the then President François Hollande, current President Emmanuel Macron, who was then a minister, and others. Other charges being probed are influence peddling, money laundering and undue tax waivers. The investigation was ordered following disclosures by a French news website about the role of an Indian middleman in the deal and other matters. The French investigation has led to demands in India for a Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) probe into the deal. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had alleged irregularities in the deal and had demanded an investigation before the 2019 general elections. The Congress party has reiterated the demand now. The Supreme Court had rejected a petition filed by former Union ministers Yashwant Sinha and Arun Shourie seeking a CBI investigation into the deal. The court’s decision had not cleared all doubts about the deal in the public domain. It also did not give a clean chit to the government in the matter. Fresh information that has now come to light strengthens the demand for an investigation. There is mention of a middleman in the deal, though the government has always maintained that there was no middleman. There are more details about the association between Dassault and Anil Ambani’s Reliance group, which at the last minute emerged as the offset partner, replacing Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL). It has now been revealed that Dassault signed its first agreement with the Reliance company two weeks before Prime Minister Modi announced his decision to buy 36 Rafale jets and to scrap the earlier negotiations for 126 aircraft. The terms of the Dassault-Reliance agreement are also unusual, and documents which are now public show that Dassault had no interest in its partnership with Reliance other than for political reasons. The role of Reliance then becomes central to the controversy. All the questions that have been raised about the Rafale deal, then and now, need clearer and truthful answers than those given by the government, including to the Supreme Court. Now that much new information on wrongdoing in both France and India is in the public domain and the French authorities have begun an investigation into L’affaire Rafale, a JPC probe in India is a must, and most suitable given the sensitive nature of the issues to be probed. The government should subject itself to such a probe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/l-affaire-rafale-must-be-probed-by-a-jpc-1005357.html
06-07-2021||South||M K Stalin opposes proposed amendments to Cinematograph Act, demands withdrawal||Opposing the proposed Draft Cinematograph (Amendment) Bill, 2021, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Tuesday said the legislation goes against the “spirit of cooperative federalism” and “transgress” the powers of state governments and the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC). In a letter to Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, Stalin demanded the withdrawal of the proposed amendments to the Cinematograph Act, 1952 and allow functional autonomy of the CBFC so that India remains a progressive nation, where creative thinking blossoms without fear or favour. Stalin said he wrote the letter after apprehensions about the proposed legislation were brought to his notice by the members of the Tamil film fraternity. “The draft Bill has given rise to serious apprehensions not only in the minds of the film fraternity and film industry but also among all well-meaning sections of the society that cherish freedom of expression,” he said in the letter. The proposed amendments to the Cinematograph Act seeks to restrict “adequate space for creative thinking and artistic freedom” by restoring the revisionary powers of the Union Government that were struck down by the Supreme Court two decades ago. The CBFC accords certification to the films if they meet all the criteria mentioned in section 5(a) of the Cinematograph Act, which also provides for rejection of certification for a film on certain prescribed valid grounds. Following the prescribed guidelines and procedures, if a film is certified for public viewing by the CBFC, it falls within the domain of the state governments first and hence, it must be left to the States as the law and order is a state subject, Stalin said. “But now, the Union Government, by the proposed Act tries to go against the spirit of cooperative federalism and transgress the powers of the State Governments and its own Central Board of Film Certification,” he said. The chief minister said the draft amendments, restoring the “revisional power” to the Centre after it is certified by the CBFC, is a misuse of the “reasonable restriction” clause under Article 19(2) of the Constitution of India and the amendment itself is against the “spirit of promoting rightful thinking” in civil society. “Curbing the creative thinking of the Film Fraternity and imposing conditions on them on how films are to be made are totally unjustified and in fact, it is quite opposite to the very ideals of our Constitution. Taking away the right to freedom of thought will only weaken our democracy, which has to be vibrant always irrespective of the parties in power,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/m-k-stalin-opposes-proposed-amendments-to-cinematograph-act-demands-withdrawal-1005467.html
06-07-2021||South||Kerala HC seeks Centre's response on woman's plea for help to son in UAE jail for 'spying'||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday sought the Centre's stand on a woman's plea for necessary support to her son, who is languishing in a UAE prison since August 2015, after his arrest for allegedly spying for the Indian government. "We will examine it. Central government counsel get instructions (regarding the plea)," Justice P B Suresh Kumar said. The court was hearing the plea by Shahubanath Beevi, who has also claimed that her son has been subjected to "severe torture and harassment" and he did not get any kind of support from the Indian Embassy there or the central government. Her son, Shihani Meera Sahib Jamal Mohammed, has been imprisoned in the Abu Dhabi Central Prison in UAE since August 25, 2015, the petition, filedthrough advocate Jose Abraham, said. During the hearing, the petitioner submitted that according to the judgements passed by the UAE courts in the matter, the her son was "acting for the Indian Embassy officials in UAE". The woman has alleged that her son was not evenprovided proper legal aid to defend himself in the courtsthere. She has also claimed that she sent several representations, including a latest one on June 11, citing human rights violations and denial of basic rights to her sonand seeking assistance from the government. However, she has not received any response yet, the petition claimed. The woman's plea urges the High Court to issue a direction to the central government to "extend necessary support to the petitioner's son legally, diplomatically andpolitically" and to also consider her latest representation within a reasonable period of time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-seeks-centres-response-on-womans-plea-for-help-to-son-in-uae-jail-for-spying-1005521.html
06-07-2021||South||K M Mani corrupt or not? Kerala CPM in a tight spot||A statement reportedly made by the Kerala government at the Supreme Court on Monday that former Kerala Finance Minster K M Mani was corrupt has put the ruling CPM-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) in the state in a tight spot. The Kerala Congress (M) party founded by Mani, and now headed by his son Jose K Mani, is a coalition partner in the LDF. The counsel for the Kerala government made the statement during hearing of a plea by the state government to withdraw the case against six LDF leaders, including Education Minister V Sivankutty and former industries minister E P Jayarajan, in connection with the violent protest in the state Assembly in 2015 to prevent Mani, who was the then Finance Minister in the Congress-led government, from presenting the state budget. Following the infights in the Kerala Congress (M) after K M Mani's death in 2019, the faction led by his son joined the LDF. It also has one minister now. For this reason, the stand of the government counsel that Mani was corrupt has triggered a political row in the state. The Kerala Congress (M) already demanded the government to withdraw the statement that Mani was corrupt. Party general secretary Stephen George said that Mani was exonerated by the court in the allegations pertaining to accepting bribe from bar owners for giving relaxations in the then UDF government's liquor policy. Meanwhile, CPM state secretary in charge in Kerala A Vijayaraghavan said that the government lawyer did not use Mani's name. What he meant was that the then UDF government was corrupt. The media had misinterpreted it with dubious intention, he alleged. LDF leaders are facing the case under the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act. Properties worth Rs. 2.2 lakh were damaged in the bedlam with the LDF members even climbing the speakers dais and damaging the chair and electronic systems. The LDF government that subsequently came to power moved court for withdrawing case citing that the incident happened in the assembly and the house took action against the MLAs. It also maintained that the Legislature Secretary gave police complaint without Speaker's nod. The Kerala High Court earlier rejected the plea and subsequently the state government approached the Supreme Court. The SC maintained on Monday that the unruly behaviour of lawmakers in Parliament and Assembly cannot be condoned and they should face trial for destroying public property inside the House. It was while justifying the plea to withdraw the case that senior advocate Ranjit Kumar, who appeared for the Kerala government, reportedly stated that the stir was staged against Mani as he was corrupt. Jose K Mani later said that the state government lawyer did not mention K M Mani's name in the affidavit. He alleged that the opposition parties were trying to make political gain by making it an issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/k-m-mani-corrupt-or-not-kerala-cpm-in-a-tight-spot-1005541.html
06-07-2021||South||IB pressurised Kerala Police to arrest Nambi Narayanan in the ISRO espionage case: Ex-Kerala DGP Siby Mathews||Former Kerala DGP Siby Mathews has claimed that he and senior Kerala Police officers were pressurised by the Intelligence Bureau (IB) to arrest ISRO scientist Nambi Narayanan in the 1994 espionage case. Mathews has made the claim in his application seeking anticipatory bail in the case registered by CBI against him and 17 other police officers for various offences, including criminal conspiracy, kidnapping and fabrication of evidence, under the Indian Penal Code. In his application, which is likely to be heard on Wednesday by the Principal Sessions Court in Thiruvananthapuram, he has further claimed that cases under the Foreigners Act and the Official Secrets Act was registered against Mariyam Rasheeda, a Maldives national, based on the information received from the IB and the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) that she had "undesirable connections with some ISRO scientists and her activities were prejudicial to interest and security of India." Rasheeda was, thereafter, arrested on the instructions of a then senior IB officer, Mathews, who had headed the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the espionage case, has claimed. "Therefore, any bonafide actions taken by the petitioner (Mathews) and his team based on the information furnished by other agencies, approved under law, are actions taken under good faith and the petitioner is entitled to the protections given under the law." "Even if that information is found to be mere apprehensions or suspicions by the subsequent agency on final investigation, no criminal conspiracy could be alleged in respect of such actions," the application has contended. It has further said that IB and RAW are special agencies with expertise in collecting details regarding crimes affecting the security of the nation and the state police was bound to give due weightage to the information given by them and take suitable legal actions. He has also contended that materials collected during the initial probe by him and his team "clearly prove the nexus of foreign nationals with the other accused and illegal transactions between them". The application has claimed that the questioning of Rasheeda had revealed information regarding involvement of one Chandrasekhar, a representative of Russian Space Agency GLAVKOSMOS, Sasikumaran - an ISRO scientist - andFousiya Hasan, another Maldives national. When Hassan was questioned, "a spy network linking Colombo-Chennai-Thiruvananthapuram and Maldives was revealed", it has said and added that the arrest and questioning of Sasikumaran and Chandrasekhar corroborated the statements of the Maldives nationals and also strengthened the involvement of Nambi Narayanan. "By this time, IB officials were pressurising the Special Investigation Team and senior police officers of Kerala to arrest Raman Srivastava (then Inspector General (south zone) who had alleged connections with Rasheeda as per news reports), Nambi Narayanan and others on the ground that the matter was related to security of the nation..," Mathews has claimed in his plea. He further said that Narayanan was arrested in November 1994 and he never claimed he underwent custodial torture whenever he was produced before the court. As the case required a detailed probe involving various central government organisations, Mathews claimed that he reported to the State Police Chief to recommend to the Kerala government to hand over the investigation to CBI. He has further claimed that if there was any conspiracy or bad faith on his part, he would not have recommended that the probe be handed over to CBI. CBI, in its reports to the state and central governments, pointed out alleged "laches" on the part of Kerala Police and IB, he has said and added that the irregularities highlighted by the agency even if true would only warrant disciplinary action which would be unsustainable as all the officers concerned have retired. CBI only requested the state government to take "such action as deemed fit" against the Kerala Police officers who were responsible for the laches and it never recommended any disciplinary action, the application has said. The Supreme Court had on April 15 ordered that thereport of a high-level committee on the role of erring policeofficials in the 1994 espionage case relating to Narayanan begiven to the CBI and directed the agency to conduct furtherinvestigation on the issue. The three-member committee, headed by former apex court judge Justice (retd) D K Jain, was appointed by the topcourt in 2018 after acquitting Narayanan in the case. The top court had also directed the Keralagovernment to cough up Rs 50 lakh as compensation forcompelling Narayanan to undergo "immense humiliation". It had ordered setting up of the committee to takeappropriate steps against the erring officials for causing"tremendous harassment" and "immeasurable anguish" toNarayanan and had directed the Centre and state government tonominate one officer each in the panel. The espionage case, which had hit the headlines in1994, pertained to allegations of transfer of certainconfidential documents on India's space programme to foreigncountries by two scientists and four others, including twoMaldivian women. The CBI, in its probe back then, had held that the then toppolice officials in Kerala were responsible for Narayanan'sillegal arrest. The case also had a political fallout, with asection in Congress targeting the then Chief Minister late KKarunakaran over the issue, that eventually led to hisresignation. The 79-year-old former scientist, who was given aclean chit by the CBI, had earlier said that the Keralapolice had "fabricated" the case and the technology he wascharged with having stolen and sold in the 1994 case did noteven exist at that time. Narayanan had approached the apex court against aKerala High Court judgement that said no action needed to betaken against Mathews and two retired Superintendents ofPolice K K Joshua and S Vijayan, who were later heldresponsible by the CBI for the scientist's illegal arrest. The case had drawn attention in October 1994 whenRasheeda was arrested for allegedly obtaining secret drawings ofISRO rocket engines to sell to Pakistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ib-pressurised-kerala-police-to-arrest-nambi-narayanan-in-the-isro-espionage-case-ex-kerala-dgp-siby-mathews-1005608.html
06-07-2021||South||Set up tribunal on Karnataka building dam across Markandeya River: Tamil Nadu to Centre||Tamil Nadu on Tuesday asked Union Minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat not to grant permission for Karnataka to build a reservoir in Mekedatu across River Cauvery and demanded that a tribunal be set up to solve issues arising out of the construction of a reservoir across Markandeya River.  The state’s demands were presented by Water Resources Minister Durai Murugan to Shekhawat during a meeting in New Delhi on Tuesday. Tamil Nadu also demanded that the Cauvery Water Management Authority (CWMA) ensure that Karnataka releases a stipulated amount of water to the state in accordance with the Supreme Court ruling. After the meeting, Durai Murugan said Shekhawat gave a categorical assurance that no permission for Karnataka will be given for the proposed construction of a dam across River Cauvery in Mekedatu without consulting Tamil Nadu. He also appealed to the union minister to direct Karnataka to release water due for June from River Cauvery immediately. “The minister told us that giving permission to prepare a Detailed Project Report (DPR) for Mekedatu does not mean Karnataka will go ahead with construction. He asked not to worry and gave an assurance that no permission will be granted to Karnataka concerning Mekedatu. He assured Tamil Nadu will be consulted at every stage,” Durai Murugan said. He also asked the union minister to appoint a full-time Chairman to CWMA. On Karnataka “unilaterally constructing” a dam across River Markandeya, the minister said Tamil Nadu demanded that a tribunal be immediately constituted to look into the issue. The state feels a new reservoir across the river will lead to water problems of people in a few districts in north Tamil Nadu. The state government also contends that the construction of a new reservoir across Cauvery is against the final award by the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal (CWDT) and the 2018 verdict by the Supreme Court that reduced the state’s quantum of water and increased Karnataka’s share. Durai Murugan also said Tamil Nadu was determined to go ahead with linking Cauvery and Gundar rivers and demanded funds from the Centre for the project. During the meeting with Shekhawat, the minister also demanded that the Centre direct Kerala Government to allow construction of a baby dam and an earth dam without any delay.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/set-up-tribunal-on-karnataka-building-dam-across-markandeya-river-tamil-nadu-to-centre-1005613.html
06-07-2021||South||Family of Stan Swamy watches his funeral online||“He (Father Stan Swamy) lived for the cause of the tribals, and he always expressed his wish to be buried at the campus of the Social Action Centre in Ranchi. Neither his wish has been fulfilled nor that of ours to have a last look at him,” Stanis Sundar, the nephew of the activist, said. The family of Stan Swamy watched his funeral in Mumbai via YouTube at their home in Viragallur, 41 km from Tiruchirappalli, in Tamil Nadu. T P L Irudayaswamy, the 89-old brother of Stan Swamy, and their sister could not control their emotions as they watched the ceremony live. After the funeral, the family organized a special prayer at the church in the village. Sundar, son of Irudayaswamy, told DH that his father is “inconsolable” since Monday afternoon after hearing the death of his younger brother. “How do we console him when we know he did not die of old age but of apathy and rigid attitude of the (Union) government that jailed a man who was in his 80s. My father had played a crucial role in shaping my uncle’s future and he regrets not seeing him for one last time,” Sundar said. Though Stan Swamy was involved in active public service, he never missed a chance to drop in his native village to meet Irudayaswamy when he was in Tamil Nadu. “His last visit to my native was in 2019 and he stayed with us for three days. He would come to meet my grandfather and grand aunt who stayed nearby. Whenever he was in our village, he never missed going to the church in the evening,” Benitto Prabhu, Stan Swamy’s grandnephew, said. After hearing about Stan Swamy’s death, the family members took efforts to participate in the last rites ceremony but in vain due to Covid-19 restrictions. “We were hoping that his body will be brought to Bengaluru as he worked with the Indian Social Institute for 15 years. Travelling to Bengaluru would have been easy. But since he is being buried in Mumbai, we cannot travel. It is very sad that we cannot see him even after his death,” Sundar added. They also cited a cap imposed by the Maharashtra government on the number of people attending a burial and “mandatory Covid-19 negative report” as reasons for not going ahead with their plan to travel to Mumbai. Sundar and Benitto said Stan Swamy had always wished to be buried in Ranchi where he spent nearly two decades working for the tribals. They regretted the fact that his last wish could not be fulfilled. Benitto, who met Stan Swamy in Chennai in February 2020 for the last time, said they did not expect the courts to deny him bail for months together though the arrest was not unexpected. “The arrest was not surprising for us because he had indicated to me when I met him last. But we never expected him to die in jail (in his hospital bed). We were hoping that the courts would give him bail keeping his age factor in mind,” Benitto said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/family-of-stan-swamy-watches-his-funeral-online-1005615.html
06-07-2021||South||Drones sighted over Srisailam puzzle police, temple officials and locals||An unidentified drone suspected of surveying the Srisailam temple premises and surroundings in the night hours has put the police and temple authorities on high alert. The Bhramaramba Mallikarjuna Swamy Devasthanam at Srisailam is the most popular Hindu temple in Andhra Pradesh after Tirupati. The Shaivite shrine located in the Nallamala forests in the Kurnool district is visited by millions of pilgrims every year, especially from Karnataka. According to various accounts, flying objects were sighted several times in the Srisailam skies in the past few nights. “However, the confirmed sighting till now of a drone was only on Friday night. We have questioned some people in this connection. The investigation is on to find out the persons operating these devices and for what purpose,” Sruthi Yerragunta, DSP Atmakur told DH. Police teams were deployed for search operations as it was reported that the suspected drones were landing in the nearby forests. The temple guards were also asked to be vigilant. The appearance of drones in Srisailam at a time when the technology was used by terrorists to drop explosives at the Jammu air force station has caused commotion in the temple town. “We are taking the matter seriously and have notified all the concerned, including the police and Forest Department officials,” temple executive officer KS Rama Rao told DH. Rao said that he too spotted a “flying object” in the night sky. “It was a couple of days back. The perplexing object with blinking lights was at a high altitude. It could be a drone, jet or anything but we are proceeding with caution,” Rao said. The mysterious drone episode is also occurring at a time when Andhra Pradesh and Telangana governments are engaged in a tussle over the utilisation of the Krishna waters in the Srisailam reservoir nearby. Officials have, however, ruled out that angle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/drones-sighted-over-srisailam-puzzle-police-temple-officials-and-locals-1005626.html
06-07-2021||South||Telangana says Srisailam project constructed for hydel power||The K Chandrasekhar Rao government has rejected Andhra Pradesh's request to stop power production at the Srisailam project. Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy has been complaining to the Centre and Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) that Telangana is producing hydel power at the Krishna basin projects “resulting in precious water wasted into the Bay of Bengal due to the surplus at Prakasam Barrage.” The objection was particularly for Srisailam. Reddy said that Telangana using the reservoir water for power generation will cause severe distress to the drought-prone Rayalaseema, Nellore, Prakasam districts and also Chennai city, dependent on Srisailam waters for drinking and irrigation needs. On Monday, Rajat Kumar, Special Chief Secretary, Telangana Irrigation Department, wrote to chairman, KRMB stating that the original purpose of the Srisailam project, sanctioned by the planning commission in 1963, was power production. The first Krishna Waters Disputes Tribunal also held Srisailam as a hydroelectric project without envisaging diversion of water to another watershed, the official stated in the letter. “Water supply systems in Telangana are predominantly dependent on lift irrigation schemes requiring huge energy inputs during the Kharif season. As such, there is currently a severe power exigency in the state. Further, the process of power generation at Srisailam will ensure the transmission of sufficient waters to the Nagarjunasagar project, which is critical for meeting the agriculture and drinking water needs of Telangana,” Kumar said. Telangana has sought a full board meeting of KRMB later this month to discuss issues between the two states like the revision of water sharing for the current water year, “steps to stop AP's construction of illegal Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Project (RLIS), Rajolibanda Diversion Scheme Right Canal”, excess diversions from Pothireddypadu. In another letter to the Ministry for Environment, Forest and Climate Change, the Telangana official has requested the expert appraisal committee of the river valley projects not to consider Andhra Pradesh's request for environmental clearance for RLIS.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-says-srisailam-project-constructed-for-hydel-power-1005660.html
06-07-2021||South||Will not dismantle Covid-19 infrastructure for another 5-6 months: Tamil Nadu Health Minister Ma Subramanian||Ma Subramanian, Tamil Nadu’s new Health Minister, is a man on the move. In two months of taking over, he has visited 30 of 38 districts in the state to review the Covid-19 situation. In an interview with DH’s E.T.B. Sivapriyan, he spoke on the Centre’s vaccination policy, the state’s preparedness for any third wave of infections, and how oxygen supply was managed during the second wave. Edited excerpts: Q: Though the overall tally is coming down, there seems to be a marginal increase in the number of fresh cases in a few districts where lockdown norms were relaxed earlier. What is the government's plan to control the spread and avoid another wave of infections as uniform relaxations kick in? A: When the DMK government assumed office on May 7, the daily count was 26,465 fresh cases and the number attained a peak of 36,184 new infections on May 21. Since then, there has been a steady decline in the number of cases and the daily infection number on Monday stood at 3,715. We did notice a marginal increase in the number of cases compared to the previous day in a few districts, but the trend is not continuing which is a welcome development. Despite the number of people testing positive for the novel Coronavirus coming down drastically, we have not scaled down the daily testing numbers which still hovers around 1.60 lakh to 1.70 lakh. This is in contrast to the first wave when the testing numbers were reduced as cases were on a decline. We are not letting our guard down. As the relaxations kick in, our focus is now on enforcing Covid-19 rules and appropriate behaviour. Civic authorities and police will work overtime to ensure people wear masks and maintain physical distancing. People who break the rules will be fined as per the law. Q: The new government was credited with managing a smooth supply of oxygen to government and private hospitals by preventing a “Delhi-like” situation in TN. How was the oxygen supply managed? A: It was very tough to handle the situation. Immediately after assuming office, our Chief Minister (M K Stalin) spoke to Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) and was in constant touch with Union Ministers. The oxygen requirement which was just 230 MT shot up to 620 MT a day and we were defusing one crisis after another. We encountered situations where hospitals made SOS calls for oxygen saying they have O2 supply only for another half hour or one hour. There was panic everywhere. But we sourced oxygen from far-away cities like Rourkela, Durgapur, and Jamshedpur and ensured that no hospital ran out of oxygen. A team of three IAS officials oversaw oxygen supply and thankfully we were able to overcome the crisis. We pulled all stops – sourced oxygen from wherever we could and even imported cylinders from countries like Singapore. We worked on a war-footing and eventually ensured a smooth supply of oxygen. Q: There is no consensus among experts on whether there will be a third wave of infections. Is the government prepared to face any wave of infection in the next few months? A: There should be no third wave. We just hope there is no such thing called (a third wave). However, we cannot take chances when it comes to saving lives. As we speak, 80,000 beds are ready and most of these are fitted with oxygen supplies. In addition to these facilities, we also have 75 centers that treat Covid-19 using various methods of Indian medicine like Siddha. And our oxygen storage capacity has now increased to 900 MT. We have procured oxygen concentrators and oxygen cylinders on our own and through CSR funds from corporates. We have also set up new oxygen generation plants in hospitals and other places. Since there is an apprehension that children could be the worst affected during the third wave, we are focusing on augmenting pediatric infrastructure by setting up exclusive Covid-19 wards for children in all government hospitals in the state. After assuming office, we have recruited 16,300 doctors, nurses, health care and frontline workers to treat patients. We just hope there is no (third) wave of infections, but the government machinery is fully equipped and prepared to face any eventuality. Q: The government is understood to have taken a decision not to dismantle the temporary infrastructure created to handle the second wave. How long does the government plan to keep them and why? A: Reports say the third wave could hit in November or December, though no one is sure on whether there will be another wave of infections. The second wave was more vociferous than the first wave and the need for oxygen was enormous. Learning from the experience, the Chief Minister has asked us not to dismantle the infrastructure. It is an additional expenditure for the state to keep them intact. But we cannot worry about finances when we deal with human lives. We will not dismantle the infrastructure for another five to six months. We will keep them intact till the end of this year as the priority is to save lives. Q: NGOs allege that the Tamil Nadu government has been under-reporting Covid-19 deaths ever since the pandemic began in March 2020. They say the state’s Covid-19 tally could be over 1 lakh, but the official toll is around 35,000. Your response. A: Why should we under-report Covid-19 deaths? What is that the government gains from under-reporting the deaths. I have travelled to 30 districts in the past two months, and I emphasize transparency in reporting Covid-19 deaths in every meeting with district collectors. My personal opinion is that only if we tell the people the true number of deaths, will they take Covid-19 infections seriously. Otherwise, they will think it is a normal fever and continue to flout rules by not wearing a mask. Having said that, I would like to assure you that we are being transparent, and we have no intention of hiding any deaths. Reconciliation of deaths happen periodically and Covid-19 deaths which were left out for various reasons are added to the official death toll at the end of the process. Q: From vaccine hesitancy, Tamil Nadu now faces vaccine shortage. People are willing to get vaccinated and stand in long queues, but many vaccination centers are closed as we speak. Why is the shortage and how does the state plan to plug the gap? A: From January to May, the vaccination drive did not take off quite well. Once we opened up vaccination for the 18-44 age group, people came in large numbers and got vaccinated. In June, the Union Government gave us a special allotment of 5 lakh doses after seeing the state’s performance. The state has performed well on the vaccination front in the past two months and we were the first to organize a special drive for pregnant mothers within hours of the Union Government’s announcement in this regard. We have so far received about 1.58 crore doses, and we have utilized almost all of them. Many vaccination centers have already run out of vaccines. If we do not get fresh supplies from Delhi, we have no option but to suspend the drive temporarily. The Chief Minister himself has written to the Prime Minister and Union Health Minister asking them to allot vaccines in proportion to the population of states. We have also asked the Union Government to allow the production of vaccines in two facilities in the state. We have not received any response so far for our requests. It will be good if the Union Government agrees to our request and allot additional supplies. We will have to wait and watch what they do. Q: Why do you think the Union Government is not responding to requests from TN? Do you feel the Centre goofed up on the vaccination front? A: Our prime demand is that vaccines should be allotted in proportion to the state’s population. Seven states have a high population in the country and Tamil Nadu is one among them. We need more vaccines and we have informed the Union Government. I feel the situation (on vaccination) would have been better if the decision (of the Centre) to bear the costs of vaccinating the entire eligible population had come earlier. The right decision would have been to announce a uniform policy when it launched the vaccination drive. Even now, we have requested the Union Government to change the 75:25 allocation to states and private hospitals to 90:10 but there is no response. If this proposal is accepted, we will get a few lakh vaccines that can be used in centers run by the government. Q: What is DMK’s stand on NEET? The Supreme Court has said NEET is mandatory and laws passed by the TN assembly seeking exemption from NEET were rejected by the President. How will DMK’s efforts to get an exemption from NEET be different from these methods? A: In 2006 when Kalaignar (M Karunanidhi) was Chief Minister, he constituted a committee under Prof M Ananthakrishnan which recommended doing away with entrance exams. The new government has formed a panel to study the impact of NEET on students from economically backward sections. The Justice A K Rajan committee will submit its report in a month. Even without waiting for the outcome, the BJP moved the Madras High Court against the constitution of the panel. The cat is finally out of the bag. While the entire political spectrum is against NEET, BJP supports the exam that has claimed the lives of 13 students in Tamil Nadu. It shows how concerned the BJP is about the students and their lives. As far as the DMK is concerned, we are committed to doing away with NEET and we are determined to use every option that is available to us in this regard. The avenues available to us are the state assembly, parliament, and judiciary. We also hope the committee comes out with suggestions and options on the issue of doing away with NEET.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/will-not-dismantle-covid-19-infrastructure-for-another-5-6-months-tamil-nadu-health-minister-ma-subramanian-1005665.html
06-07-2021||South||Covid-19 restrictions to continue in Kerala as test positivity rate remains high||With the Covid-19 test positivity rate (TPR) in Kerala still hovering around 10 per cent, restrictions like weekend lockdown would continue. The state government decided to increase the number of Covid-19 tests in areas where the TPR is very high. Lockdown restrictions would continue by categorising regions based on the TPR. Meanwhile, the state government also issued orders making college students the priority section for getting vaccinated. On Tuesday, the Covid-19 TPR of the tests conducted during the last 24 hours was 10.9 per cent. With 14,373 more fresh cases, the total number of active cases in the state was 1.04 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-restrictions-to-continue-in-kerala-as-test-positivity-rate-remains-high-1005667.html
06-07-2021||South||Navy sailor found dead at base in Kochi||A 19-year-old sailor was found dead at the naval base in Kochi on Tuesday morning. Police suspect that it was a case of death by suicide. The deceased was identified as Tushar hailing from Uttar Pradesh's Aligarh. According to an official statement, the sailor on security duty was found dead at his duty post, with a bullet injury, apparently discharged from his service rifle. A statutory Board of Inquiry is being ordered. The local police registered a case of unnatural death and launched a probe. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/navy-sailor-found-dead-at-base-in-kochi-1005674.html
06-07-2021||State||Commercial activities resume across Karnataka as Covid curbs ease||Barring two districts — Kodagu and Hassan, where the restrictions continued — the whole of Karnataka witnessed brisk activities. There was heavy rush at shopping malls and places of worship, which opened after a gap of over two months. Public transport and private buses began operations in large numbers. Several districts reported increased traffic for prolonged hours. The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) alone operated about 4,500 trips while the other three corporations collectively operated 7,000 to 8,000 trips. Metro services also witnessed thousands of commuters.  Several shopping malls in Bengaluru, Mysuru, Mangaluru and Hubballi received a decent footfall on the first day. Mall managers said there was 30-40% turnout.   “Clothes and accessory shops saw considerable sales. Electrical and electronics, and hospitality industry is yet to gain momentum. Hopefully, it will improve by the weekend,” said the manager of a mall on Bannerghatta Road in Bengaluru. The Muzrai temples’ priests association said no temple was serving ‘theertha’ or ‘prasad’ to devotees. “Only darshans are permitted,” said K S N Dixit, president of the association. Pilgrim centres Dharmasthala, Kukke Subramanya, Sringeri and Ghati Subramanya witnessed a rush of devotees. Tourism activities also gained pace, with Unesco world heritage site Hampi receiving a considerable inflow of domestic travellers. Badami, Aihole and other places saw a modest turnout. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/commercial-activities-resume-across-karnataka-as-covid-curbs-ease-1005366.html
06-07-2021||State||Karnataka sets up task force to draw roadmap for skill development||The Karnataka government has constituted a Skill and Entrepreneurship Task Force for career guidance, training, and enhancement of employment with a roadmap for the creation of 1 crore entrepreneurship opportunities. The task force has members drawn from both private and public sectors to drive collaborations and to create development models, a government order said.  The broad objectives of the task force are: equipping the youth with digital skills and relevant 21st-century skills with entrepreneurial mindsets, preparing the next generation for the future of work, which is digitally and entrepreneurial-based models with career counselling and internship/experiential mode.  Aligning market opportunities in digital services, agriculture/agri-tech and various local job-creating verticals like handloom/ handicrafts, manufacturing, tourism, retail/ecommerce and logistics, the government order said. During a meeting held by Deputy Chief Minister Ashwath Narayan on March 8 and 9, it was decided to constitute a multi-stakeholder task force with members from the social/private sector/state government to drive collaboration and to create models. It further added that the task force will draw a roadmap for local job creation and a nurturing entrepreneurial ecosystem at the district level so that these growth opportunities are spread equitably across the state. The task force is expected to come out with an initial action plan by the end of July. The 23-member task force is headed by the Secretary to Government, Skill Development, Entrepreneurship and Livelihood Department. Commissioner, Collegiate & Technical Education is the Convenor and Madan Padaki, Co-founder & CEO, 1Bridge is the Co-Convenor. There are five subgroups and each of them will publish a work-plan with action items and milestones for 12 months. The task force will be in force for a period of one year and can be extended if required, the government order added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-sets-up-task-force-to-draw-roadmap-for-skill-development-1005635.html
06-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt schools enrol more students than private schools||Government schools have outshone private schools in admissions to grades 1 to 10 this year with an admission rate of 66.9% against 30.9% by private unaided schools in the state. Admissions for 2021-22 academic year started on June 15 and will go on till August 30. The data provided by the department of public instruction on Monday showed that 50.4% admissions across all school managements has been completed. The rate was 64.9% at aided private schools. According to private unaided school managements, their admissions are low mainly because of fee defaulters. D Shashi Kumar, general secretary of Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said, “Many parents are not ready to admit students because they are not ready to pay the fees. Last year, we completed the admissions even without taking fees following pressure from the department. But this year, we will not do admissions unless the fees are paid.” However, officials said this year, teachers have been told to admit students to all classes.  Chamarajanagar and Haveri performed well in all management school admissions with 75% plus. Dharwad and Ballari districts recorded 69%. Admissions were the lowest at Bengaluru South (13%) and Bengaluru North (22%).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-schools-enrol-more-students-than-private-schools-1005368.html
06-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||One million barrels of crude from Guyana headed for India||India is set to receive one million barrels of Guyana crude oil. The move comes as India, which is the third largest importer of crude, seeks to diversify its sources. Sources said the deal was inked between India and Guyana last week. The move comes after India opposed a decision by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies (OPEC+), to extend production cuts which have been responsible for rise in the price of oil. The country is also seeking to diversify its purchases away from top producer Saudi Arabia. However, the price tag of the India-Guyana “term contract” deal has not yet been made public. “The announcement will be made by the Government of Guyana later this week,” explained Dr K J Srinivasa, India's High commissioner to Guyana, Antigua & Barbuda, St Kitts & Nevis and Caricom. Sources said that the production cost is about $35 per barrel at the moment, which could, in future, dip to $32. The million barrels, which was dispatched on Monday is set to arrive at Paradip Port in India on or about August 6. Dr Srinivasa specified that this first shipment is a pilot delivery intended to determine if the crude will fit India’s refinery capacity. “Preliminary indications suggest that Guyana's Liza oil - ‘light sweet crude’ seems to be well suited for Indian refineries. India believes that such purchase arrangements are helpful to both countries as the Governments are able to save incurring costs on commission and marketing fee to third party agencies and will also further fortify India-Guyana bilateral partnership,” the High Commissioner said. The Liza Oil Reserve, discovered in 2015, is set 200 kilometres offshore in Guyana’s territorial waters. Extraction began in 2019. The crude oil has about 0.51% sulphur which constitutes low sulphur content and which gives the oil a pleasant smell. The Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell (PPAC) could not be reached to determine if there would be cost-saving in refining this new crude. “The purchase marks an important step in diversification of crude sourcing by India. It is also the beginning of a future roadmap of extended collaboration in the oil and gas sector with Guyana. This collaboration could potentially extend and include acquiring oil blocks, long-term agreement for sourcing crude from Guyana, training and capacity building in the oil and gas sector, gas to power sector... etc,” Dr Srinivasa said. HPCL-Mittal Energy Limited had earlier purchased one million barrels from Guyana in March 2021. However, this is the first such purchase by the state PSU Indian Oil Company. The move comes as India has seen a 25% increase in oil demand since 2014. Guyana’s attractiveness for India also lies in the fact that 40% of its population is made up of Indian-origin diaspora who were transported there in the 19th century.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/one-million-barrels-of-crude-from-guyana-headed-for-india-1005443.html
06-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Union Minister Thawarchand Gehlot appointed Karnataka Governor, signals imminent Modi Cabinet reshuffle||Union Minister and Rajya Sabha Leader of House Thawarchand Gehlot was made Karnataka Governor on Tuesday in a surprise appointment that signalled the imminent reshuffle of Narendra Modi Cabinet that may see the induction of prominent faces like Jyotiraditya Scindia and Sushil Kumar Modi. Gehlot, the lone Dalit member of BJP's highest decision making body Parliamentary Board since 2006, will replace 83-year-old Vajubhai Vala, who was Governor of Karnataka since 2014. Vala is the only Governor who has been dropped in the latest round of Governor reshuffle. The appointment would also mean that Modi and the BJP would be considering a new Leader of House for Rajya Sabha. At present, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal is Deputy Leader of House while the BJP also has senior leaders like Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in the House. The announcement about the new appointments also came hours ahead of a crucial meeting of top BJP leaders on Tuesday evening during which contours of the new Council of Ministers is expected to be discussed. Gehlot's appointment strengthened the buzz around the reshuffle of the Modi Cabinet in the next couple of days, which could see the BJP and Modi attempting to address political concerns and considerations. At present, the Council of Ministers has 54 members, including Modi, and its strength can go up to 81. Gehlot, the 73-year-old BJP leader who is the Union Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment, said President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Modi have shown faith in him through this appointment and he would live up to their expectation. "I will try to resolve the issues within constitutional limits and with discussions," he said, adding that he would be resigning as Minister and Rajya Sabha MP on Wednesday. Madhya Pradesh will get a new full-time Governor in Mangubhai Chhaganbhai Patel, a 77-year-old tribal face of BJP from south Gujarat who also worked in the RSS. He was also a Minister and Deputy Speaker in Gujarat. Since 2020 July after the death of Lalji Tandon, Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel was holding an additional charge of Madhya Pradesh. The neighbouring Chhattisgarh also has a tribal leader Anusuiya Uike as its Governor. Former Goa Speaker and Minister Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar, an RSS activist who joined the BJP in 1989, will go to Himachal Pradesh Raj Bhavan replacing Bandaru Dattatraya, another RSS veteran who was Union Labour Minister, who was transferred to Haryana. Incumbent Haryana Governor Satyadev Narayan Arya, a former Bihar Minister, has been shifted to Tripura replacing Ramesh Bais, who has been transferred to Jharkhand. Former Kerala BJP chief P S Sreedharan Pillai has been transferred from Mizoram to Goa where Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari was holding additional charge. Dr Hari Babu Kambhampati, a former Lok Sabha MP from Visakhapatnam, has been appointed as Governor of Mizoram.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/union-minister-thawarchand-gehlot-appointed-karnataka-governor-signals-imminent-modi-cabinet-reshuffle-1005457.html
06-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||No question of stopping Mekedatu project: BS Yediyurappa||Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa said that the Karnataka government would go ahead with the implementation of Mekedatu project, and there was no question of stopping it. "We are in a comfortable situation (with regard to the implementation of Mekedatu project). There is no question of stopping it," the Chief Minister said, responding to media queries. While Karnataka government has maintained that the drinking water project would go ahead, TN is piling pressure on the Centre to stop the project, maintaining that it would impair the flow of Cauvery water.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-question-of-stopping-mekedatu-project-bs-yediyurappa-1005487.html
06-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Farmer run over by car of Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi's son, dies||A 56-year-old man died after being allegedly run over by a car owned by Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi's son, at Hungund in the district. The victim's kin has alleged that Chidanand Savadi was behind the wheels and he even asked the locals to delete videos recorded at the site, from their mobile phones or face consequences, a charge denied by the latter. According to police, the accident took place when Kudleppa Boli was returning home on his bike on Monday evening. The farmer was rushed to the hospital, where he succumbed to injuries. A case has been registered against the driver of the car, who was present on the spot, based on a complaint from the victim's relative. "We have seized the car and taken the driver in our custody," District Superintendent of Police Lokesh Jagalasar told PTI. The SP said the investigation is on into the matter. Meanwhile, Mangalappa, son-in-law of the victim, alleged that Chidanand was driving the car. He accused Savadi's son of not taking his injured father-in-law to the hospital on time. "My uncle sustained injuries in his head and back. He was lying there. They should have made some arrangements on finding his lying there, but they did nothing," he told the media here. Though Chidanand admitted that the car which was involved in the accident belonged to him, he denied the charge that he was driving it. Laxman Savadi too rejected the allegations and said, "My son stopped driving 10 years ago, and Hanumanth (driver) was driving the vehicle." Chidanand claimed that he along with his friends had gone to Anjanadri hill for 'Darshan' and were on the way to Athani. Chidanand told reporters that he was in his friend's car while Hanumanth (driver) was driving his car when a biker suddenly appeared in front of the vehicle and the driver lost control of it and hit him. He said his driver later apprised him of what happened, following which he (Chidanand) made arrangements to admit the injured to the hospital and informed the police. "By the time I returned, there was no one on the spot. I went to the hospital to meet the victim, where I got the information that he has succumbed to injuries. I also tried to meet his family members but could not. I pray to God to give strength to the kin to bear the loss," he said. "I will meet them after the final rites are performed. I will extend every possible help to them," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/farmer-run-over-by-car-of-karnataka-deputy-chief-minister-laxman-savadis-son-dies-1005548.html
06-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar asks Centre to increase supply of Covid-19 vaccine||Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar met Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan here on Tuesday and demanded that the central government supply more Covid-19 vaccine doses to the state. Karnataka has administered nearly 2.4 crore doses of vaccine so far, which is the highest among all south Indian states, the minister said in the meeting. Sudhakar is on a two-day visit to the national capital. Besides Vardhan, he also called on several other central ministers, including Gajendra Singh Shekawat, Piyush Goyal, Smriti Irani and Hardeep Singh Puri, and discussed various issues related to the state. In a representation to the Union Health Minister, Sudhakar said Karnataka has about 13,000 vaccination centres with a demonstrated capacity to administer 10 lakh doses per day.  "I, therefore, request Government of India to kindly increase the supply further so that the state can facilitate vaccination of every willing and eligible citizen at the earliest," the minister said in the letter. Sudhakar also briefed Vardhan about the way the state government has managed to minimise vaccine wastage. To minimise wastage, districts were told to carefully prepare a micro plan and increase the capacity building of the field staff. "As a result of this, eight districts in the state have achieved negative wastage," he said. The minister also informed that people in Karnataka are now eager to get inoculated, thanks to reduced hesitancy and increased awareness. The state health minister also demanded that the central government set up regional centres of the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS) as well as the Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology in cities like Mangalore, Kalaburgi, Hubli and Hassan. He also sought additional grants for four centrally-sponsored medical institutes. In separate meetings held with other central ministers, the state health minister demanded several projects and funds for the development of his home constituency Chikkaballapur, located nearly 60 km away from Bengaluru. The state minister requested the central government to develop Chikkaballapur as an industrial town, focus on improving groundwater level and fresh drinking water, besides extension of Bengaluru Suburban Rail as well as Bengaluru Metro to Chikkaballapur. He also sought the Centre's support in setting up an allied science institute in Chikkaballapur district. Sudhakar is scheduled to meet Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and others on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-health-minister-k-sudhakar-asks-centre-to-increase-supply-of-covid-19-vaccine-1005591.html
06-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||K Sudhakar seeks special package from Centre to desilt lakes in Bengaluru Rural, Kolar, Chikkaballapur districts||Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar on Tuesday met Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and requested him to grant a special financial package to desilt of lakes in Bengaluru Rural, Kolar, and Chikkaballpaur districts for conservation of rainwater and reducing dependence on groundwater. Sudhakar, who is in the national capital on a two-day visit, also requested the Union Minister to explore the possibility of the supply of Krishna river water from Andhra Pradesh to border districts of Karnataka. Seeking funds for state irrigation projects, Sudhakar also requested the minister to accord national project status to the Yettinahole project, claiming that that will immensely benefit water scarcity districts. Shekhawat is said to have positively responded to all pleas. If these proposals are implemented, this would help provide piped water connection to every household by 2024 in parched districts of Southern Karnataka, according to Sudhakar. The minister also met Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and requested him to set up regional centres of NIMHANS & Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology in different parts of Karnataka. He also requested the release of funds for new medical colleges being established under centrally sponsored schemes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/k-sudhakar-seeks-special-package-from-centre-to-desilt-lakes-in-bengaluru-rural-kolar-chikkaballapur-districts-1005599.html
06-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa approves development of 46 heritage locations in memory of Kempegowda||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Tuesday approved the development of 46 heritage sites in memory of Nadaprabhu Kempegowda, as part of a tourism circuit covering five districts. The project will be taken up at a cost of Rs 223 crore.  The project was approved in a review meeting of the Kempegowda Development Board headed by Yediyurappa.  The tourism circuit, for which a conceptual plan is already in place, will cover locations of historical importance across five districts including Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural, Tumakuru, Ramanagar, and Chikkaballapur. Of this, the Magadi tourism circuit will be developed at a cost of Rs 132 crore, the Bengaluru circuit at Rs 47 crore and the Nandi circuit at Rs 44 crore, an official release said.  While the Board is also in the process of installing a 108-feet tall statue of Kempegowda near the International Airport, plans are afoot to develop a theme park around the statue, officials said.  That apart, the government is in the process of land acquisition for the Kempegowda memorial at Kempapur village in Ramanagar. This memorial will come up at a cost of Rs 32 crore. The chief minister directed officials to come up with a biographical film based on Kempegowda's life, develop forts constructed in his era, along with the development of lakes and heritage places. This has to be taken up in coordination with various government departments concerned, he said.  Meanwhile, Yediyurappa also held review meetings with Kitturu Development Board and Koodalasangama Development Board. He directed officials to complete the works of the Basava International museum at Koodalasangama, at the earliest. The first phase of works for the museum will come up at a cost of Rs 94 crore. Further, the chief minister gave approval to Rs 10-crore action plan for Kitturu Development Board. A total of Rs 50 crore will be funded to develop historical places in Kittur, of which Rs 10 crore has been allocated for the current fiscal. Among the works that will be taken up involve a memorial for Rani Chennamma and also the construction of a replica of the Kittur Palace. The CM asked officials to coordinate with the archaeology department for the construction of the palace. Since the existing palace is under the protection of the archaeology department, a replica highlighting its historical significance will be constructed in the interest of tourism development in the region, according to officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-approves-development-of-46-heritage-locations-in-memory-of-kempegowda-1005612.html
06-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Enough, it is good to retire respectfully: BJP MLA Yatnal to Yediyurappa||BJP leader Basanagouda Patil Yatnal on Tuesday drew from episodes in the Mahabharata, even as he stepped up his attack on Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. Yatnal said he would fight against corruption and dynastic politics, even if it is at the cost of his political career.    He said he was not alone in his fight, but several ministers were with him. Speaking to media persons here, Yatnal said he was not Abhimanyu to be alone. “I am Arjuna. My Vanavasa (forest stay) and Agyatavasa (disguise) are over. Now, I have the Bramhastra (a powerful weapon) and only pattabhisheka (coronation) is awaited,” he said. “My allegations on corruption are not baseless. There are huge scams and there is evidence. My intention is neither to become chief minister nor minister. I was union minister long before Yediyurappa became CM. I should have been CM long back. But my struggle is selfless and for truth,” Yatnal said. “The support of pontiffs of some Lingayat mutts (to Yediyurappa) is an insult to the community. They should be cautious. If I use the Bramhastra, they will have to flee their institutions. There are such huge scams. It is better for Yediyurappa to retire gracefully. His retirement will be in the interest of the state, the party and his family,” Yatnal said. Gherao by CM’s supporters Yatnal was gheraoed by supporters of Yediyurappa at Haralukote Anjaneya Swami temple at Ramasamudra in Chamarajanagar. He visited the temple to participate in a rally, organised to demand inclusion of Lingayat community under backward classes ‘2A’ category. The protestors attacked Yatnal’s car and raised slogans against him. The police had provided security to Yatnal. The protestors warned Yatnal not to speak against the family of Yediyurappa. “If Yatnal does not mend his ways, a massive protest will be started against him,” they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/enough-it-is-good-to-retire-respectfully-bjp-mla-yatnal-to-yediyurappa-1005622.html
06-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||3,104 new Covid-19 cases, 92 deaths in Karnataka||Karnataka on Tuesday reported 3,104 new Covid-19 cases and 92 deaths, taking the total number of infections to 28.59 lakh and the toll to 35,526. The day also saw 4,992 discharges, continuing to outnumber the fresh cases, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 27,84,030. Out of 3,104 new cases reported on Tuesday, 715 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 1,863 discharges and 15 deaths, a health department bulletin said. The total number of active cases in Karnataka is 40,016. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 2.65 per cent, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 2.96 per cent. Out of 92 deaths reported on Tuesday, 15 were from Bengaluru Urban, Dakshina Kannada (13), Mysuru (8), Dharwad and Kolar (7), followed by others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 715, Mysuru 389, Hassan 270, Dakshina Kannada 216, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,16,896, followed by Mysuru 1,68,546 and Tumakuru 1,15,716. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 11,86,973, followed by Mysuru 1,62,658 and Tumakuru 1,13,317. Cumulatively a total of 3,51,52,131 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,16,912 were done on Tuesday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/3104-new-covid-19-cases-92-deaths-in-karnataka-1005627.html
06-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt can't make distinction among Chamarajanagar victims: Karnataka High Court||The High Court on Tuesday observed that the state government cannot make a distinction among the patients who died at Chamarajanagar district Covid-19 hospital due to shortage of oxygen. The state government submitted to the court that it had been decided to pay an ex gratia amount of Rs five lakh to the families of three patients, who died between 10.30 pm and on May 2, 2021 and 2.30 am on May 3, 2021. The government further submitted that 10 patients who died between 2.21 am and 9 am on May 3, 2021 will be paid to the families of 10 patients, inclusive of Rs 2 lakh already paid. Advocate General Prabhuling K Navadgi said that insofar as 11 persons who died before 10.30 pm on May 2, 2021, any ex gratia in addition to Rs two lakh already paid will be decided after the findings of Justice B A Patil commission of enquiry submits the report. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar said the state government will have to treat the families of the victims equally without making any distinction. The bench said the report of the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA) has highlighted the shortage of oxygen. “The finding recorded by the committee (KSLSA) is that there was virtually no oxygen available in the hospital till 2.20 am on 3 May 2021. Therefore, it goes without saying that even the 10 patients listed in clause number 2 of the memo were also adversely affected due to lack of oxygen as in the case of 3 patients listed in clause 1. We are therefore of the view that there cannot be a distinction made between those who died between 10.30 pm 2.20 am and those who died between 2.21 am till 9 am on 3 May 2021,” the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-cant-make-distinction-among-chamarajanagar-victims-karnataka-high-court-1005638.html
06-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Chitradurga MP to be inducted into PM Modi's Cabinet from Karnataka||Chitradurga BJP MP A Narayanaswamy is set to join Prime Minister Narendra Modi-headed Cabinet on Wednesday. Narayanaswamy, a first-time MP, has received a call from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, sources said. He came to Delhi along with his family members on Tuesday evening. He is likely to be the Minister of State, sources said. Belonging to the Madiga sect of Dalit, Narayanaswamy, has served as four-time MLA from the Anekal Assembly segment and also served as BJP Chief Whip in Karnataka Assembly and Social Welfare Minister in the BJP government in Karnataka. Narayanaswamy, who is close to BJP National General Secretary (Organisation) B L Santosh, will be made a minister as part of BJP's plan to groom a Dalit leader in Karnataka. By making him a Union Minister, the BJP wants to give representation to the Dalit Left, considered as BJP's strong vote bank, sources in the BJP said. Though earlier there were speculations that one Lingayat MP will be inducted as a minister in the place one seat vacated after the death of Suresh Angadi, sources said that at present, the BJP was unlikely to induct anyone else from the state. Maybe in another round of expansion, one or two Lingayat leaders may be inducted, sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/chitradurga-mp-to-be-inducted-into-pm-modis-cabinet-from-karnataka-1005668.html
06-07-2021||West||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut justifies suspension of 12 Maharashtra BJP MLAs||A day after 12 BJP MLAs were suspended from the Maharashtra Assembly for alleged misbehaviour, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said indiscipline cannot be tolerated, even as the opposition party held protests in the Vidhan Bhavan complex here and other parts of the state over the action. Talking to reporters here on Tuesday, Raut said, "Never before the state Legislature witnessed such indiscipline." The opening day of the state Legislature's two-day monsoon session on Monday witnessed high drama as 12 BJP MLAs were suspended from the Assembly for one year after the state government accused them of "misbehaving" with presiding officer Bhaskar Jadhav in the Speaker's chamber. Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Devendra Fadnavis had termed the allegation as false and said Jadhav's account of the incident was "one-sided". On Tuesday, Raut said, "Indiscipline cannot be tolerated. Breaking the Speaker's mike and using abusive language against the presiding officer is not Maharashtra's culture." Meanwhile, the BJP held protests in different parts of the state, condemning the MVA government's action against the opposition party's MLAs. Several BJP legislators squatted on the stairs of the Vidhan Bhavan building in Mumbai and shouted slogans against the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA-comprising the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress) government. The 12 MLAs against whom the action was taken were not seen as they are not allowed to enter the Legislature building during the suspension period. The 12 suspended members are- Sanjay Kute, Ashish Shelar, Abhimanyu Pawar, Girish Mahajan, Atul Bhatkhalkar, Parag Alavani, Harish Pimpale, Yogesh Sagar, Jay Kumar Rawat, Narayan Kuche, Ram Satpute and Bunty Bhangdia. On Monday, these 12 MLAs met Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, seeking his intervention into the matter, and complained against the MVA government for "trampling upon the democracy".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sena-mp-sanjay-raut-justifies-suspension-of-12-maharashtra-bjp-mlas-1005456.html
06-07-2021||West||After drop in Covid-19 deaths, five Maharashtra districts face high positivity rate||Kolhapur, Satara, Pune, Sangli, and Raigad are the five districts of concern for the state that have weekly Covid-19 positivity rates higher than the state average.  However, the positivity rate of Kolhapur for the same week is 10.91 per cent and for the previous week, it was 10. 24 per cent, which has constantly been more than double the state’s TPR. Following, Kolhapur, Satara district has a 9.26 per cent positivity rate for the same week. While there has been a slight increase in Kolhapur and Sitara district, Pune has taken the third number for this week. From a weekly Covid-19 positivity rate of 7.68 per cent for the week of June 27 to July 3, Pune has jumped to 8.28 per cent now. Other districts of concern, Sangli and Raigad’s Covid-19 positivity are 8.01 and 7.79, respectively. It is almost double the state’s TRP.  Until now, Maharashtra has recorded over 60 lakh Covid-19 positive cases which accounts for almost 20 per cent of India’s total Covid-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/after-drop-in-covid-19-deaths-five-maharashtra-districts-face-high-positivity-rate-1005473.html
06-07-2021||West||Money laundering case: Anil Deshmukh's aides sent to judicial custody till July 20||A special PMLA court on Tuesday remanded two aides of former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh in judicial custody tilll July 20 in a money laundering case against the politician, related to charges of bribery of Rs 100 crore. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) had arrested Deshmukh's personal secretary Sanjeev Palande and personal assistant Kundan Shinde on June 26. They have been booked under provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The duo was produced before special judge SM Bhosle at the end of their ED remand on Tuesday. The court remanded them in judicial custody, as sought by the probe agency. Earlier, the ED had told court that the two accused played a "very crucial" role in the offence. Earlier, former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh in a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had alleged that Deshmukh, when he was the home minister, had directed dismissed policeman Sachin Waze to extort over Rs 100 crore per month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai. The ED's case against Deshmukh and others was made out after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) carried out a preliminary enquiry into the allegations made by Singh on the orders of the Bombay High Court. The CBI had booked Deshmukh and others under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections related to criminal conspiracy and the Prevention of Corruption Act for "attempt to obtain undue advantage for the improper and dishonest performance of public duty". Deshmukh, who resigned as the state home minister in April this year following the allegations, has denied any wrongdoing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/money-laundering-case-anil-deshmukhs-aides-sent-to-judicial-custody-till-july-20-1005474.html
06-07-2021||West||Notices against Arnab Goswami, Kangana Ranaut: Maharashtra panel gets more time to submit report||The Maharashtra Assembly on Tuesday extended time for the privileges committee to submit its report on the breach of privilege notices against journalist Arnab Goswami and actor Kangana Ranaut till the last day of the next Legislature session. Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik had submitted the breach of privilege notices against Goswami and Ranaut to the office of the state Assembly speaker on September 7 last year. On Tuesday, the motion to extend the time frame was moved by Deepak Kesarkar (Shiv Sena), who heads the privileges committee, and was approved by a voice vote in the House. Sarnaik last year accused Goswami and Ranaut of making derogatory remarks against Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, cabinet minister Aaditya Thackeray and other leaders of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) in connection with the case of death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. The MLA had a spat with Ranaut in the past after she compared Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/notices-against-arnab-goswami-kangana-ranaut-maharashtra-panel-gets-more-time-to-submit-report-1005491.html
06-07-2021||West||Goa gets full-time governor months ahead of assembly elections||Over ten months after the then governor Satya Pal Malik was transferred out of Goa and ahead of the Assembly elections due in February 2022, the coastal state has got a full-time governor with the appointment of P S Sreedharan Pillai. Pillai was serving as Governor of Mizoram before he was shifted to the coastal state. Maharashtra Governor B S Koshyari had been holding the additional charge of Goa after the then governor Malik was transferred within a year as governor of Meghalaya in August 2020. “Congratulations Shri P S Sreedharan Pillai ji, on his appointment as Governor of Goa. Looking forward to welcome him in our beautiful state,” Chief Minister Pramod Sawant tweeted. Meanwhile, former Goa Speaker and BJP leader Rajendra Arlekar, who is appointed as Governor of Himachal Pradesh, told reporters that the BJP looks after ordinary workers of the party. Arlekar, 67, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi informed him about the new responsibility on Monday. "On Tuesday, I was informed about my appointment as Himachal Pradesh governor by President Ram Nath Kovind. A notification has been issued," he said. Arlekar had served as the speaker of the Goa Legislative Assembly from 2012 to 2015. According to a Rashtrapati Bhavan communique, these appointments will take effect from the dates they assume charge of their respective offices.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-gets-full-time-governor-months-ahead-of-assembly-elections-1005500.html
06-07-2021||West||NCB arrests notorious drug lord Sonu Pathan||In a major swoop, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested notorious gangster and druglord Mohammed Jaman Hidaytullah Khan alias Sonu Pathan on Tuesday. His arrests would prove to be big in unravelling the international nexus and the racket's reach. Sonu Pathan is linked to Chinku Pathan alias Parvez Khan and Arif Bhujwala who had been arrested earlier by the NCB. Chinku Pathan is the grandson of late mafia don Karim Lala while Parvez is linked to the gang of Dawood Ibrahim. Last week, the NCB had arrested Iqbal Kaskar, the brother of Dawood Ibrahim, who is holed up in Pakistan. Sonu Pathan, who was wanted for the last six months, was arrested from the Pydhonie area of Mumbai. From Parvez Khan and Arif Bhujwala, the NCB had seized 5.375 kg of Mephedrone (MD), and Sonu Pathan is part of the same cartel. Sonu Pathan is a dreaded gangster in Mumbai and has seven cases of IPC offences registered against him at Pydhonie, Dongri, Kalachowki and Shivaji Park police stations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncb-arrests-notorious-drug-lord-sonu-pathan-1005522.html
06-07-2021||West||MVA announces probe into phone tapping by Fadnavis govt||The Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government on Tuesday announced a probe into allegations that the phone of Maharashtra Congress president and MLA Nana Patole was tapped during the tenure of the erstwhile BJP-led dispensation led by Devendra Fadnavis. A few months ago, Patole, who is a former Speaker, alleged that along with his phone, the phones of several important leaders of NCP, BJP, Shiv Sena as well as those of IAS and IPS officers were also tapped in 2016-17. “Why this was done... Who is the ‘sutradhar’… We must know! Phone was tapped by police on the pretext that it belonged to one ‘Amjad Khan’, who was involved in the narcotics trade. This is an attack on an individual's freedom,” Patole said in the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly. “Why was my phone number linked to a Muslim name and a drug peddler? Didn't the officials know I was a (BJP) MP (at that time)?" he asked.  State Water Resources minister Jayant Patil sought to know how many legislators were under surveillance. State Home Minister Dilip Walse-Patil said the issue needs to be probed thoroughly. "A high-level inquiry will be conducted and action will be taken," the minister said, adding a report on it will be tabled in the House during the next session. It may be mentioned that Patole, a three-term Congress MLA, resigned in 2014 and joined BJP to contest the Lok Sabha polls from Bhandara-Gondiya defeating Praful Patel, the lieutenant of NCP supremo Sharad Pawar. But, in 2017, he raised a banner of revolt against  Prime Minister Narendra Modi – the first one to do so - and resigned his seat to re-join Congress. He lost the Lok Sabha polls in 2019 from Nagpur against BJP stalwart Nitin Gadkari but won the Sakoli seat and entered the Vidhan Sabha again to become the Speaker, but this year he resigned to take over as MPCC chief. The incident of his phone tapping took place in 2016-17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mva-announces-probe-into-phone-tapping-by-fadnavis-govt-1005544.html
06-07-2021||West||Maharashtra govt introduces three bills to counter Centre's farm laws||In a bid to counter the Centre’s three farm laws, the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra on Tuesday introduced three bills related to agriculture, co-operation, food and civil supplies. The bills have been put up in public domain for two months for suggestions and objections, and would be taken up for discussions during the Winter Session of Maharashtra legislature in Nagpur in December. The bills are Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection), Guarantee Price; Agriculture Related Agreements (Maharashtra Amendment) Bill and Amendments to Central Government Farmer Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill. The bills were introduced by Food and Civil Supplies Minister Chhagan Bhujbal, Agriculture Minister Dada Bhuse, Cooperation Minister Balasaheb Patil, respectively. The bills have been drafted by a sub-committee headed by Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, who is the Finance Minister of the state. “The draft bills will be in public domain for two months during which all stakeholders can hold discussions and debates on their provisions…we will take up for discussion in the Winter Session,” said Pawar, a senior NCP leader. The bills have provisions for higher than MSP rate for produce in farming agreement with traders, timely payment of dues, three-year jail term and Rs 5 lakh fine or both for harassment of farmers. "The state government has the right to make laws and we want to suggest amendments to the central agriculture laws which we feel are anti-farmer," said Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat of the Congress. “It’s an eyewash,” said Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis reacting to the introduction of the three bills.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-introduces-three-bills-to-counter-centres-farm-laws-1005563.html
06-07-2021||West||BJP holds 'parallel session' in Maharashtra Vidhan Sabha complex||In an unprecedented act in Maharashtra, agitated opposition BJP held a “parallel session” in the Vidhan Sabha complex which the Maha Vikas Aghadi government described as “unfortunate in democracy”. BJP boycotted the proceedings of the Maharashtra legislature on the second and final day to protest against the suspension of the 12 MLAs on the grounds of “abusing” and “misbehaving” with Shiv Sena’s Bhaskar Jadhav, who was in the Chair as a member of the Speaker’s panel. “What has happened today is not at all good. This is unfortunate in democracy,” Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray told reporters as the session drew to a close. Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said, “We were also in the Opposition, we have also protested. We have protested in the Well of the House. But carrying out a ‘parallel session’ outside the House is unprecedented.” In the morning, Leader of Opposition in Assembly Devendra Fadnavis and his counterpart in Council Pravin Darekar “nominated” senior BJP legislator Kalisas Kolambkar to the Speaker and started the “proceedings” at the stairs of the Vidhan Bhavan complex. Immediately, a chair and a table were organized for the Speaker besides a mike and a public-address system. "I propose a resolution against this government here and I request the members to start a discussion on the proposal," said Fadnavis initiating the discussion. “What they have done is the murder of democracy,” he said lashing out at the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress alliance government. With empty opposition benches, NCP leader and Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik said Jadhav was getting threats on social media, and demanded security for him. Home Minister Dilip Walse-Patil assured that adequate security would be provided to Jadhav. Malik also wanted to know how a former MLA Raj Purohit could make political comments in the Vidhan Bhavan premises and distribute papers. Shiv Sena legislator Sunil Prabhu wanted to know how loudspeakers were being used in the complex and with whose permission. Jadhav urged the Chair to direct Parliamentary Affairs Minister Anil Parab to request the opposition members to participate in the Assembly proceedings, however, the latter could not succeed in breaking the ice. “What is happening? A ‘parallel session’ is being held, and how it is being telecast! It is an insult to this House. How can this happen?,” former Chief Minister Prithviraj Chavan wanted to know from Deputy Speaker Narhari Zirwal. Later the Chair sent marshals out to confiscate the loudspeakers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-holds-parallel-session-in-maharashtra-vidhan-sabha-complex-1005625.html
06-07-2021||West||Lieutenant General Madhuri Kanitkar appointed Vice Chancellor of MUHS||Lieutenant General Dr Madhuri Kanitkar has been appointed the Vice Chancellor of Nashik-based Maharashtra University of Health Sciences. Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, who is the Chancellor of Universities in the State, made the appointment on Tuesday. Kanitkar, PVSM, AVSM who is serving as the Deputy Chief Integrated Defence Staff in the Ministry of Defence has been appointed as the Vice Chancellor for a term of 5 years or till attaining the age of 65 years whichever is earlier, from the date she assumes the office of the Vice Chancellor. Kanitkar, born on 15 October 1960, in Dharwad, obtained her MBBS from the Armed Forces Medical College, Pune standing first in the University. She passed MD Pediatrics and also obtained DNB Pediatrics.  Kanitkar served as Dean of AFMS from January 2017 to May 2019. She has a total experience of 22 years in teaching and research. She was presented the Best Teacher Award by MUHS in the year 2008. Kanitkar succeeds Dr Deelip Mhaisekar whose term ended on February 10, 2021. Vice Chancellor of the Savitribai Phule Pune University, Dr Nitin Karmalkar was holding the additional charge of the post of Vice Chancellor. The Governor had constituted a selection committee under the chairmanship of Justice Kalpesh Jhaveri (Retd), former Chief Justice of Odisha High Court to recommend to him a panel of names suitable for appointment of the Vice Chancellor. Prof. Randeep Guleria, Director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and Saurabh Vijay, Secretary, Medical Education and Drugs Department were members of the Committee. Her husband, Lieutenant General Rajeev Kanitkar, is a retired General Officer and last served as the Quartermaster General of the Indian Army. They are the first couple in the Indian Armed Forces to achieve the three-star rank. Kanitkar would retire from the Armed Forces on 15 October.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lieutenant-general-madhuri-kanitkar-appointed-vice-chancellor-of-muhs-1005642.html
06-07-2021||West||Goa CM Pramod Sawant needs 'tuition in history', says NSUI over Governor gaffe||The National Students Union of India (NSUI) on Tuesday said that Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant needs "special tuition classes" in history, after the latter said the elevation of BJP leader Rajendra Arlekar as Governor of Himachal Pradesh was the first instance of a Goan being appointed to the post of Governor. In his tweet congratulating Arlekar, soon after he was appointed as Governor of the northern state by President of India Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday, Sawant had said, "Hearty congratulations to our senior leader, Ex Speaker of Goa Assembly & Ex Minister of Goa Govt Shri Rajendra Arlekar ji on being appointed as the Governor of Himachal Pradesh. It's a proud moment for all Goans as Arlekar ji is the first Goan to be appointed to this position". Arlekar is a former Speaker of the state legislative Assembly and has served as a Minister of Forest and Environment in a BJP-led coalition government in the recent past.  In response, Naushad Chowdhari, state president of the NSUI questioned Sawant's knowledge of the state's history, pointing out that much before Arlekar, Anthony Lancelot Dias and former Indian Army General Sunith Rodrigues, both Goans, had served as Governors in the past. "NSUI Goa will arrange special tuition classes in history for Dr Pramod Sawant. We request PM Narendra Modi and BJP national president J P Nadda to relieve him as Chief Minister of Goa immediately. Two proud Goans, Padma Vibhushan awardee Anthony Lancelot Dias, and Param Vishisht Seva Medal awardee Sunith Rodrigues have already become Governors," Chowdhari said. While Dias served as Governor of West Bengal from 1971-77, Rodrigues was posted as Governor of Punjab from 2004 to 2010. Earlier on Tuesday, former state BJP president of Kerala, P S Sreedharan Pillai was also appointed as Governor of Goa. Goa has been without a full fledged Governor since August 2020, with Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari holding additional charge of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-cm-pramod-sawant-needs-tuition-in-history-says-nsui-over-governor-gaffe-1005651.html
