07-07-2021||First Edit||CJI's statement of principles reassuring||The Chief Justice of India (CJI) N V Ramana did not offer any new or unconventional ideas on the issues that he spoke about in his P R Desai Memorial lecture last week. He spoke about the value of democracy, the rule of law and the role of the judiciary in a constitutional system, going into some detail about what they meant and how there could be challenges to them. He stated only some basic principles, but they have importance and a special resonance in the current environment. They needed reiteration because the quality of democracy is declining, the rule of law is under stress and the judiciary has been found wanting on occasions, and there is no better person to talk about them than the head of the country’s highest court. His words and views carry more weight and credibility than those of others who have expressed the same views. Justice Ramana said that a “properly functioning democracy’’ needs a “reasoned and reasonable’’ public discourse. His warning that the right to change governments through elections “by itself, need not be a guarantee against tyranny” needs to be heeded because there are increasing assertions that victory in elections gives legitimacy and legality to all decisions and actions of governments. Elections are only one of the processes of democracy. “Day-to-day political discourses, criticisms and voicing of protests’' are vital and integral to democracy. This again needed retelling because protests and dissent are now dubbed as anti-national and seditious. The statement that the executive and the legislature must “assume responsibilities of upholding constitutional values and ensuring justice in the first place” so that the judiciary can act as an important check later is also significant in this context. The CJI’s stress on judicial independence is an assertion of the obvious, and it is reassuring. The keywords are: “For the judiciary to apply checks on governmental power and action, it has to have complete freedom. The judiciary cannot be controlled, directly or indirectly, by the legislature or the executive, or else the rule of law would become illusory.” It has the responsibility to ensure that the laws are in conformity with the Constitution. The judges also should not allow themselves to be “swayed by the emotional pitch of public opinion amplified through social media platforms’’. In a constitutional democracy, citizens and their freedoms are vital, and there should be independent institutions to protect them. The Supreme Court made some important interventions recently on issues like the vaccination policy and migrant workers’ rights. There are cases before the court in which the rights of citizens, legality of the government’s decisions and justice for sections of people are involved. Hopefully, there will be early decisions on them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/cjis-statement-of-principles-reassuring-1005699.html
07-07-2021||In Perspective||Time for a new social contract||It is vital for the world to come together and develop a new social contract. We may have reached a new ‘San Francisco’ moment that must be seized before it is too late. — António Guterres, UN secretary-general In the midst of the global pandemic, which refuses to go away, the UN secretary-general has called for “a new social contract between people, governments, the private sector, civil society and more.” The call for a new social contract was also voiced by several public intellectuals, scholars, and businesses at the 2021 World Economic Forum. The UN secretary-general has emphasised that a new social contract is “an opportunity to build back a more equal and sustainable world” from Covid-19. It could also help advance a more just post-Covid-19 recovery, while simultaneously addressing the deeper systemic inequities that are plaguing societies like racism, discrimination and gender inequality. The secretary-general has suggested “a new generation of safety nets including Universal Health Coverage and the possibility of a Universal Basic Income extended to everyone.” The unprecedented wealth levels seen globally show that we have all the resources we need to invest in global public goods; what we need is to channel these resources appropriately. The new social contract is a universal political project, a vision whereby the global community can reshape the relationship between the government and the governed. It lays down a new normative foundation for the progressive realisation of sustainable human development. The social contract has a long history in political thought, dating back to Sophists (ancient Greek teachers) and Epicures’ contract theory, which tried to explain why individuals need to give up some of their natural freedom to enjoy the benefits of political order. Thomas Hobbes and John Locke argued that in order to ensure a stable and comfortable life, citizens would have to voluntarily transfer some of their rights to an absolute authority or to a representative government. Rousseau aimed to reconcile freedom and authority in his famous social contract theory by suggesting that the sovereign represents all citizens acting collectively (through the “general will”) to establish rules and set up systems of governance. During the twentieth century, the social contract was the basis of John Rawls’ Theory of Justice, where he argued that all citizens of society have basic rights, regardless of their racial, ethnic or other differences. There is growing discontent among policymakers, civil society and academia with the present state of the social contract, with critics noting that it is outdated and incapable of meeting the needs and challenges of the twenty-first century. Part of the problem is due to a flawed measure of human well-being and economic growth: The Gross Domestic Product. It ignores the negative effects of conventional economic growth on society such as income inequality, poverty and ecological costs among others. It is shocking that more than half of the world’s population lacks coverage from even one social protection benefit. Among the most affected are the two billion people employed in the informal sector, which is estimated at more than 60% of workers worldwide. Over the past two decades, civil society has recognised an urgent need to upgrade the past century’s dominant social contract to one that can respond to this century’s challenges. They suggest that the human, social, and economic crisis triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic should bring the international community together to innovate a new social contract. Their arguments are as follows: n A global political commitment to securing basic social security guarantees needs reinforcing. Social protections entail basic income security such as pensions, child benefits, income support, employment guarantees for those living in poverty and for the unemployed and universal access to health and other social services. n Universal access to quality education should be at the core of any new social contract, giving particular attention to the world’s nearly 60 million children out of primary school. Students should be equipped with skills and competencies for succeeding in fast-changing labour markets and contribute to climate-friendly economies. Businesses must provide quality employment that offers diversity, equity and inclusion, social safety nets and generate low-carbon footprints. n An equitable, resilient and sustainable social contract should rebuild people’s trust in governance institutions. Trust is a prerequisite that offers legitimacy to those governing and it permits the existence of a contract in the first place. Legitimacy stems not only from periodic elections but from the inclusion of marginalised and vulnerable groups in decision-making processes. Trust also builds social cohesion, which helps prevent socio-political polarisation and sustain peace. As pointed out by Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglitz, at the core of a new approach to the social contract lies the quest for “a new balance between the market, the state and civil society, based on progressive capitalism. It channels the power of the market and creative entrepreneurship to enhance the well-being of society more generally.” (The writer is Hon. professor, Karnataka State Rural Development and Panchayat Raj University, Gadag)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/time-for-a-new-social-contract-1005695.html
07-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Rising Covid cases in Kasargod raises concerns in Dakshina Kannada||The rise in Covid-19 cases in Kasargod in Kerala is a matter of concern in Dakshina Kannada as hundreds of commuters from the neighbouring district visit Mangaluru for employment, medical treatment and education. On the direction of the government, the district administration has strengthened surveillance along the border areas. On Tuesday, confusion prevailed at Talapady check post on NH 66 with the police making a few people return to Kerala citing that they did not have an RT-PCR negative certificate. When the issue was drawn to the notice of DCP (Law and Order) Hariram Shankar, he said the government’s order is being followed at the check post. “People who have taken one dose of vaccine or those who submit RT-PCR negative certificate are permitted to enter Karnataka,” he said. The DC will be informed about incidents wherein people who possessed a certificate for receiving the first dose of vaccine had been sent back, the DCP said. The rise in Covid-19 cases in Kasargod has been a cause of concern when the cases in DK are indicating a declining trend. DK has 3,245 active cases as on July 5. The positivity rate in Kasargod is 14.1%, according to Kasargod District Information Office. Dakshina Kannada recorded a lower positivity rate of 3.4% on Monday and 3.31% on Tuesday. Kasargod district had reported 360 cases on July 5, 593 cases on July 4, 682 cases on July 3, 708 cases on July 2 and 765 cases on July 1. The bus services to neighbouring Kasargod are yet to commence with the buses cutting short their trips at the borders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rising-covid-cases-in-kasargod-raises-concerns-in-dakshina-kannada-1005842.html
07-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mandya: Ranganathittu bird sanctuary reopens for visitors||Ranganathittu bird sanctuary in Srirangapatna taluk, Mandya district opened its doors to visitors from July 6. The bird sanctuary was closed for public due to the Covid-19 pandemic during the second wave. As per the press release, all safety measures are being taken, like sanitisation of boats after each trip, life jackets, boat station, information centre, toilet and others. Staff members are advised to use hand wash, sanitiser and mask to maintain personal hygiene and social distance. Visitors to the bird sanctuary are requested to follow Covid norms. Those with cold, cough and other Covid symptoms will not be allowed. Besides, thermal screening is mandatory for visitors at the entrance. It is also mandatory to wear masks and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour on the premises.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mandya-ranganathittu-bird-sanctuary-reopens-for-visitors-1005909.html
07-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||No question of filing FIR against my son Chidananda: Laxman Savadi||Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi said on Wednesday that the question of filing FIR against his son Chidananda Savadi will not arise as he was not in the car that hit a person near Hungund of Bagalkot. Speaking to media persons here, he stated that it is unfortunate that a man was killed in the accident that took place on Tuesday. His son was in a Fortuner car and another car which was in tow met with accident. The allegations that his son's name has been dropped from the FIR is not fair. Truth will come out after the probe, Savadi told. "Politics is being mixed in the incident and I will reveal in two days as to who is behind it", he told. NEKRTC rechristened North Eastern Road Transport Corporation (NEKRTC) has been rechristened as Kalyana Karnataka Road Transport Corporation. Hyderabad Karnataka has been renamed as Kalyana Karnataka after B S Yediyurappa became chief minister. Now, the public transport utility has been rechristened. Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi who also holds transport portfolio, in the presence of NEKRTC chairman Rajkumar Patil Telkur, displayed the government order issued rechristening the corporation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-question-of-filing-fir-against-my-son-chidananda-laxman-savadi-1005912.html
07-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||BSF soldier martyred fighting terrorists||A 31-year-old Border Security Force (BSF) soldier from Alur(B) village of the taluk, succumbed to bullet injuries he received fighting terrorists on Punjab border two days ago. The deceased has been identified as Basavaraj Ganapati. Basavaraj who joined the BSF eight years ago was posted at Punjab border. He married three years ago. He is survived by his wife, father and three brothers. A pall of gloom descended on the village as soon as the news of the soldier's death spread. Sikandar Shek, a friend of the deceased, said Basavaraj had come to the village before the Covid-19 induced lockdown this year and was he always spoke about serving the country and patriotism. The wife of Basavaraj received a phone call from the Army office about the demise of her husband. According to the family sources, post-mortem has been performed and the mortal remains of the soldier will be brought to Hyderabad in a special flight on Thursday. The body will be brought to the native place in an army vehicle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bsf-soldier-martyred-fighting-terrorists-1005916.html
07-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Kalyana Karnataka gets its due as Bhagawanth Khuba inducted into union cabinet||Kalyana Karnataka region which was neglected by the state government while expanding the cabinet has finally got its due at the Centre with Bidar MP Bhagawanth Khuba being inducted into the Union cabinet on Wednesday. He is the first MP from the region to become union minister in the BJP-led government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership. Except for Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chauhan, no BJP MLA from the region made it to the state cabinet led by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. There had been a clamour that due representation should be given to the region which has been the stronghold of the BJP for the past few years. There are talks in the BJP circles that the BJP leadership has chosen Bhagwanth Khuba, a lingayat and two-time MP from the region, to become a minister, as the party is setting its eye on the next assembly polls. Lingayats, who form a major chunk in the region with 40 assembly segments, have been a traditional votebank of the BJP and play a vital role in the victory of the candidates. To keep them intact with the party and strengthen the party base further, Khuba has been inducted into the union ministry. His loyalty to the party and Sangh Parivar's connection might have come in handy for him to be the minister, a BJP leader said. Basavaraj Ingin, another BJP leader, said Belgavi region and Hubballi-Dharwad got a sufficient representation in the state cabinet, and so did other regions. "Kalyana Karnataka is the only region which was totally neglected during the state cabinet expansion. With the induction of Khuba into the union cabinet, the representation has been given to Kalyana Karnataka. Central leadership might have chosen him to strengthen the party further in the region and to send a signal that the party has not neglected the region," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kalyana-karnataka-gets-its-due-as-bhagawanth-khuba-inducted-into-union-cabinet-1006012.html
07-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Election Commission should not behave like a dictator: Eshwarappa||Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa on Wednesday said the State Election Commission (SEC) should not behave like a dictator. Speaking to media persons, he said that most of them did not agree with the SEC's decision and the aspirants and the people have disgruntlement in this regard. "What was the necessity to announce the reservation in a hurry at a time amid Covid-19?" he asked. The aspirants from various political parties will have to begin their preparations from now onwards. The people will frequent the residences of the aspirants demanding money for various reasons. Can the aspirants face the polls emptying their packets? the minister questioned. The Karnataka government is ready to conduct a free and fair election. The party has already prepared. As the opposition parties will likely criticise BJP... we will not ask the SEC to postpone the polls, he said. "Our appeal to the commission was not to begin the process now. As it has begun, nothing can be done," Eshwarappa told adding that there are talks that the reservation list is unscientific.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/election-commission-should-not-behave-like-a-dictator-eshwarappa-1006026.html
07-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Heavy showers lash Kalyana Karnataka, central districts; 3 killed in rain-related incidents||The southwest monsoon is active over Kalyan Karnataka and north and central districts as the regions are experiencing moderate to heavy rain since Tuesday evening. Tuesday night showers wreaked havoc in Vijayanagara district. Huvinahadagali town and parts of taluk bore the maximum brunt of overnight downpour. A couple was washed away in an overflowing stream along with their bike at Kaalvi village in the taluk. Mallikarjun (55), his wife Sumangalamma (48), residents of Muthkur in Hagaribommanahalli taluk were returning home after visiting their relatives in Mundargi taluk. Bodies were found in the stream, after floods subsided, on Wednesday. Tuesday night rain left many residential, commercial and office buildings in Huvinahadagali inundated. The TMC staff had a tough time in clearing floodwaters. Acres of agriculture and horticulture crops were damaged in the rain. Hampasagar in HB Halli taluk recorded 7.6 cm of rain, the highest amount of rain recorded in the state in the last 24 hours. A three year-old boy was killed when a portion of house wall, weakened by incessant rain, collapsed on him at Kalllodu village in Hosadurga taluk, Chitradurga district, in the early hours of Wednesday. Lohith, son of Omkarappa and Savitramma couple, is the victim. Parts of Chitradurga, including Molkalmuru and Hosadurga taluks, witnessed good rainfall on Wednesday. Kalyana Karnataka districts - Bidar, Kalaburagi, Yadgir and Raichur - received sharp spells of rain in the afternoon and late evening. Parts of Vijayapura, including Basavana Bagewadi, experienced heavy rain in the afternoon. The downpour triggered flash floods in a stream on the outskirts of the town and left several residential areas flooded. Meanwhile, coastal districts and Malnad witnessed a rather unusual dry weather on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/heavy-showers-lash-kalyana-karnataka-central-districts-3-killed-in-rain-related-incidents-1006031.html
07-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Seer urges Karnataka CM Yediyurappa to set up development corporation for Edigas||Arya Ediga Community seer Pranavananda Swamy warned that people of the community would teach a lesson to BJP in the next assembly polls if development corporation for the community is not set up as Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa promised during the assembly by-polls. Speaking to media persons, here on Wednesday, he said that as promised during the by-poll to Maski assembly constituency, the government must set up development corporation in the name of Narayana Guru. People of the community are in deep trouble and many are literally struggling to lead their lives. So, the government must allot land with palm trees to people of the community for farming purpose. He said the state has 80 lakh population of the community and there are seven legislators belonging to BJP in the state. But only Kota Srinivas Poojary has been given ministerial berth. Malikaiah Guttedar, who embraced BJP by quitting Congress and defeated veteran Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge is not yet given ministerial berth. He urged the party high command to provide political justice to the community. He also urged the government to accord SC/ST status to the community. The government to take steps to ensure that 50% staff in in MSIL liquor outlets are from the community. Arya Ediga Community leader Umesh was also present in press conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/seer-urges-karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-to-set-up-development-corporation-for-edigas-1006102.html
07-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||After letter to Guv, BSY returned Rs 1,200 cr to dept: Eshwarappa||Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa said Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had directly distributed the grant of Rs 1,200 crore earmarked to Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department, to the MLAs from the Finance Department and after he wrote a letter to the governor, the amount has been returned to the department. Speaking to reporters, he said as Governor Vajubhai Vala is an economist, he had written a letter to him seeking his advice if the funds earmarked to his department can directly be distributed to the MLAs by the Finance Department. "Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa set a good legacy by returning the funds," he lauded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/after-letter-to-guv-bsy-returned-rs-1200-cr-to-dept-eshwarappa-1006105.html
07-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Cabinet reshuffle: A caste calculus aimed at the poll arithmetic||There are now six ministers in the Centre who represent Karnataka - Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and the newly-inducted Shobha Karandlaje, A Narayanaswamy, Bhagwanth Khuba and Rajeev Chandrasekhar. According to analysts, the selection of the new ministers shows that the saffron party is trying to hold on to its voter base in the state. Khuba (Lingayat), Karandlaje (Vokkaliga) and Narayanaswamy (SC left) are the three Lok Sabha MPs being inducted. While Khuba is a replacement for the late Suresh Angadi, Karandlaje comes in for D V Sadananda Gowda. Chandrasekhar is a Rajya Sabha MP and businessman. In him, Bengaluru finds a place in PM Modi’s team. Muzaffar Assadi, chairman, department of political science, University of Mysore, said that the inductees from Karnataka reflected the BJP’s efforts to regain its base among some communities. “But none of the ‘heavyweights’ from Karnataka are accommodated. This hints at one more reshuffle before the 2024 Lok Sabha polls, where these heavyweights might find space,” he guessed. In terms of state politics, the shuffle is unlikely to have any repercussions, said A Narayana, faculty at School of Public Policy and Governance, Azim Premji University. “The inclusions are unlikely to affect the next Assembly elections,” he said, adding whether it will have an impact on the power tussle within state BJP was still a matter of speculation. Sources said that save for Chandrashekar, all other inductees were chosen because of their affiliation with the RSS. “This is yet another clever move to reward people who have worked at the grassroots,” a source said. Though several other MPs from the state were reportedly in contention for berths, party leadership appears to have preferred low-key leaders from the state as in the case of Khuba and Narayanaswamy. With the induction of Narayanaswamy, a Madiga, the BJP is said to be looking to woo the SC (left). Meanwhile, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, in a statement, said, “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has prioritized Karnataka and has inducted four ministers from the state in the Council of Ministers. I thank him on behalf of the people of Karnataka. They have selected four good candidates who can work well. Their induction will empower the state".||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/cabinet-reshuffle-a-caste-calculus-aimed-at-the-poll-arithmetic-1006062.html
07-07-2021||Main Article||The myriad colours of the RSS||Mohan Madhukar Bhagwat, the present (and sixth) ‘Sarsanghachalak’ of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), may not be the most politically prudent person to helm the organisation. This circumstance has both helped and harmed the BJP, the Parivar's most precious progeny.  In the politically volatile times we live in, it no longer helps the RSS or the BJP to invoke the oft-quoted shibboleth that the Sangh is a cultural outfit aloof from politics. The RSS' charter, drawn largely from the preaching, writings and activities of its first three ‘Sarsanghachalaks’, undergirds the BJP's agenda whether in or out of power, although the parent's expectations and demands have sometimes to be side-stepped if they clash with the exigencies of coalition politics or keeping policy continuity in government. The Narendra Modi government has perhaps exceeded the RSS' expectations because unlike Modi's conduct as chief minister of Gujarat, as the prime minister, he is excessively mindful of the paterfamilias. In Gandhinagar, Modi never thought twice about taking on the RSS' affiliates, such as the Vishwa Hindu Parishad and the Bharatiya Kisan Sangh, if their agitations clashed with his ideas of governance. The RSS cannot be accused of presiding over a parallel establishment or running a ‘deep state’; its objectives are out in the open, as is the government's exertions to fulfil them. However, periodically, Bhagwat cannot resist the temptation to say something that discomfits the BJP and the government. Last Sunday, releasing a book Vaicharik Samanway: Ek Vyavharik Pahal by Khwaja Iftikhar Ahmad at Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh, Bhagwat spoke out against lynching by cattle vigilantes, claiming that no community, Hindus or Muslims, can dominate India and stressing the "shared ancestry" of the two communities which, he added, rendered the concept of inter-faith unity redundant. Muslim opinion-moulders welcomed Bhagwat's quoted statements as a positive gesture towards the community, kept on tenterhooks throughout UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's tenure. However, to infer that Bhagwat's speech was a salve to soothe festering wounds is preposterous. The BJP is gearing up for the UP polls, and Adityanath's governance record is a far cry from the "model" template it is encased in, particularly after the pandemic mismanagement. The indications are that it will typically hark back to communal polarisation and reap whatever advantages that brings. Ghaziabad, the venue of the Sunday function, is a communal hotspot that continues to report incidents of lynching and assault on Muslims by Hindutva activists. Therefore, while deconstructing the Sangh's articulations, it is imperative to locate their text and subtext in a context before "spinning" them around to fit preconceived notions or post-facto wisdom. The Ghaziabad function was hosted by the Muslim Rashtriya Manch, an RSS offspring headed by Indresh, a senior ‘pracharak’. The book Bhagwat launched was authored by a Muslim, reported to be an adviser to a former Congress prime minister. The "shared ancestry" theory that Bhagwat spoke of was thought up by M S Golwalkar, known as "Guruji". Golwalkar was the Sangh's second Sarsanghachalak. He is credited with crafting and fleshing out an "intellectual" frame that delved deep into the sentiments in support of a "Hindu nation" in the aftermath of Partition and the population transfer. In March 2006, the RSS officially disowned Golwalkar's book We or Our Nationhood Defined (1939), the progenitor of his thoughts and ideas and which courted controversy for endorsing the Germanic idea of using race to denote nationalism, instead of territory. Hitler is a bad name, so any validation for his concepts was and is unthinkable. However, We or Our Nationhood Defined is considered the fundamental charter of the Sangh, from where the belief of separating "we" (Hindus) from the other communities and cultural nationalism, which the BJP actively advocates, emanated. In 2006, the RSS virtually repudiated the book, claiming that the book did not carry Golwalkar's views but was an abridged version of Ganesh Damodar Savarkar's Rashtra Mimamsa. Instead, it said, Golwalkar’s Bunch of Thoughts authentically represented his thoughts because it was brought out after he became Sarsanghachalak on June 21, 1940. Let's see how Bunch of Thoughts expatiates on the "shared ancestry" proposition. Under the sub-head "Call to shake off slavery", Golwalkar wrote, "So, all that we say is that the Muslims and Christians here should give up their present foreign mental complexion (sic) and merge in the common stream of our national life. Everybody knows that only a handful of Muslims came here as enemies and invaders. So also, a few foreign Christian missionaries came here. Now the Muslims and Christians have enormously grown in number. They did not grow just by multiplication...They converted the local population. We can trace our ancestry to a common source, from where one portion was taken away from the Hindu fold and became Muslim, and another became Christian...It is our duty to call these, our forlorn brothers, suffering under religious slavery for centuries, back to their ancestral home." With a caveat. "As honest, freedom-loving men (the female of the species never figures in his thoughts), let them overthrow all signs of slavery and domination and follow the ancestral ways of devotion and national life." The RSS Parivar's shuddhikaran and ghar wapsi programmes are a direct fall-out of Golwalkar's teaching on "forced" proselytisation. Bhagwat has nuanced his statements. His ideologue was more direct and aggressive. Therein lies the Sangh's dilemma of having to tone down its traditional assertions to fit the compulsions of political power and governance. Bhagwat personally intervened to straighten out in-house conflicts at the start of Modi's first term, when the Bajrang Dal and VHP got hyperactive on "re-converting" Muslims and bringing them back "home" as Hindus. It provoked a fierce backlash in UP, the Sangh's new laboratory. But the peace efforts did not last. The Sangh and the extended Parivar no longer need dog whistles to take to the streets, or morality lessons from Bhagwat to rein them in. Indeed, Bhagwat's Ghaziabad address was sneered at and critiqued by the hardcore Hindutva trolls on social media, signifying that even if the RSS chief wished to modulate the assertions, the Parivar is in no mood to lower the pitch, in word or deed. (The writer is a Delhi-based political analyst and columnist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/the-myriad-colours-of-the-rss-1005696.html
07-07-2021||National||DH Toon | Central govt cabinet reshuffle likely today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will seek to send out a message of his government's intent to strengthen the economy and infrastructure post-pandemic and reach out to women, OBCs, Dalits, and youths in a big way in the first reshuffle of the Union Cabinet on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-central-govt-cabinet-reshuffle-likely-today-1005698.html
07-07-2021||National||DH Exclusive | Opposing undemocratic policies not anti-national, says Akhil Gogoi||Anti-CAA leader-turned Assam MLA, Akhil Gogoi has become more vocal against the use of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act against those criticising the government or its policies. A special NIA court in Guwahati on July 1 cleared Gogoi and three of his associates from all charges including sedition and links with Maoists. Gogoi, who came out of judicial custody after more than 18 months, told DH's Sumir Karmakar from his constituency Sivasagar that there must be a united fight across the country against such use of the “draconian” law.  You call your agitation peaceful and democratic. But the NIA and Assam police booked you under UAPA, for sedition and charged you with having links with the Maoists? My arrest by the NIA under UAPA will remain a black chapter in Indian democracy. Everyone knows how angry large sections of people in Assam were in December 2019 against the CAA. Assam led the country in opposing an undemocratic, communal and unconstitutional law. There were spontaneous protests. As a leader of a mass organisation called Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti, I took an active part in opposing the CAA and criticising the BJP-led government. My speeches were about peaceful, democratic movements against the CAA. The BJP government both in Assam and at the Center realised that these powerful popular movements could be a roadblock for the implementation of the CAA. They also knew that winning the 2021 Assembly elections would also not be easy. The best thing for them was to arrest me under a draconian black law and brand me as a Maoist. BJP is now saying that the people of Assam voted in favour of the CAA by electing them to power again. Winning an election in absence of a united opposition cannot be an approval for the CAA. Congress aligning with another communal party AIUDF was responsible for BJP’s victory. Let us take a plebiscite on this or a popular survey. I think my election as an MLA was a plebiscite against the CAA. The popular protests disappeared because of the inability of a section of leaders to foresee BJP’s game plan. They also failed to stand by the people after my arrest in December 2019. Now the BJP government is preparing to implement the CAA practically soon. Will you again try to stop the process? Of course, we will try to resist the implementation of the CAA in Assam and we will continue our agitation against it. Because the CAA will destroy Assamese identity, culture and language by giving citizenship to the post-1971 Hindu Bangladeshis. Several petitions are pending in the Supreme Court. We will reach out to all opposition parties both within and outside Assam in this regard. If necessary, we will again go for a democratic people’s movement against CAA. Like you, many protesters in other parts of India are in jail on charges of committing Maoist acts. What is your message to them? There must be a united opposition across India against the draconian UAPA. Opposition parties must promise to do away with misuse of this draconian law. Opposing the government’s anti-people policies cannot be anti-national and an act of Maoists. We must also strengthen legal and political debate across India against the misuse of this Act. I hope my acquittal will be an inspiration in this regard. In your letter from jail, you alleged that NIA had tortured you and asked you to join BJP and RSS. Give us a little detail about what exactly happened? There was constant mental harassment and physical threat during the early days. They handcuffed me. There was constant advice from the investigating officer of my case to join RSS/BJP. But as I did not agree to his line, they ensured that I continue to remain in jail for a long time. In my life, I have been in police custody many times before but this was the first time that there was so much pressure on me to join a political party. NIA was so much politically motivated by the executive which baffled me. Why did you decide to contest elections? Our party, Raijor Dal was born during this political crisis in Assam. Unlike BJP or Congress, we do not have resources and machinery. But we know people are angry and they are in search of a regional political party that will defend the rights of the people of Assam irrespective of their religion, language, caste, ethnic backgrounds. Assam wants its regional pride to be safeguarded. Assam wants radical economic transformation. The people of Assam wants to get rid of false economic promises and communal and fascist policies of the BJP. BJP has forced Assam to become one of the worst-performing states of India. Please see NITI Aayog’s 2021 SDG Report. BJP is now in a full-scale campaign to introduce all kinds of communal politics. Congress is living in a world of dreams. It cannot be a protector of Assam. Our party will defend the rights of Assam and the federal structure of India. We will reach out to opposition parties across India. India cannot allow the Modi government to return in 2024. We need to see the writings on the wall. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-exclusive-opposing-undemocratic-policies-not-anti-national-says-akhil-gogoi-1005726.html
07-07-2021||National||Indian-American groups saddened by death of Stan Swamy||Eighty-four-year-old Swamy, who was arrested last year under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in connection with the Elgar Parishad case, died on Monday. The Federation of Indian American Christian Organisations of NA (FIACONA), in a statement, said he was a brave man who tirelessly worked to protect and help tribals in India. "A simple and an unassuming man, Fr Swamy stood his ground against a system that is bent on exploiting the poor tribals and their sovereign rights to their resources," FIACONA said. Swamy suffered from Parkinson's disease and several other ailments. During his custody, Swamy had also tested positive for Covid-19. "It is a dark day for democracy in India, and the national leadership and members of the judiciary should hang their heads in shame,” said George Abraham, vice-chairman of the Indian Overseas Congress, in another statement. "Father Swamy’s detention and treatment in prison that led to his death is a blot on the consciousness of the nation and a travesty of justice,” said Abraham. The INOC said it is also time to remember many other human rights warriors who are still in prison. "We can only hope the passing of Father Stan Swamy may reopen the mindset of those in power to release those on bail while awaiting charges,” it added. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-american-groups-saddened-by-death-of-stan-swamy-1005764.html
07-07-2021||National||Late former Union Minister P Rangarajan Kumaramangalam's wife found murdered in Delhi||Kitty Kumaramangalam, wife of late former Union minister P Rangarajan Kumaramangalam, was found murdered at her home in southwest Delhi's Vasant Vihar, police said on Wednesday. She was 67 years old, they added. The police said they suspect attempted robbery to be the motive behind the killing and have apprehended a 24-year-old washerman of the area, identified as Raju, in connection with the case. Based on preliminary investigation, it is suspected that the washerman had come to the house around 9 pm on Tuesday night, and when the house help opened the door, he overpowered her, dragged her to a room and restrained her, they said. Two other people entered the house in the meantime and smothered the victim with a pillow, the police said. The maid later managed to untied herself and raised an alarm, they said, adding that there were opened briefcases at the scene of the crime which suggest that the motive was attempted robbery||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/late-former-union-minister-p-rangarajan-kumaramangalams-wife-found-murdered-in-delhi-1005768.html
07-07-2021||National||After fresh hike, petrol crosses Rs 100-mark in Delhi, Kolkata||Petrol price on Wednesday crossed the Rs 100-a-litre mark after fuel prices were increased in line with firming international oil trends. Petrol price was increased by 35 paise per litre and diesel by 23 paise a litre, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. In Delhi, petrol now costs Rs 100.21 a litre and diesel is priced at Rs 89.53 per litre. Delhi is the last of the metro cities to see petrol rising above the Rs 100-a-litre mark. Mumbai, Chennai, Hyderabad and Pune already have prices above that mark. Kolkata also saw petrol prices climbing over Rs 100 per litre on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-fresh-hike-petrol-crosses-rs-100-mark-in-delhi-kolkata-1005771.html
07-07-2021||National||PM Modi, President Kovind, Amit Shah condole Dilip Kumar's death||Prime Minster Narendra Modi condoled the death of veteran actor Dilip Kumar who passed away early on Wednesday morning. The 98-year had been hospitalised due to age-related illness and breathing problems.  Taking to Twitter, Modi said, "Dilip Kumar Ji will be remembered as a cinematic legend. He was blessed with unparalleled brilliance, due to which audiences across generations were enthralled. His passing away is a loss to our cultural world. Condolences to his family, friends and innumerable admirers. RIP." Dilip Kumar Ji will be remembered as a cinematic legend. He was blessed with unparalleled brilliance, due to which audiences across generations were enthralled. His passing away is a loss to our cultural world. Condolences to his family, friends and innumerable admirers. RIP. President Ram Nath Kovind condoled the demise of veteran actor Dilip Kumar, saying he will live forever in the heart of India. "Dilip Kumar summarised in himself a history of emerging India. The thespian's charm transcended all boundaries, and he was loved across the subcontinent. With his demise, an era ends. Dilip Saab will live forever in the heart of India. Condolences to family and countless fans," Kovind tweeted. Dilip Kumar summarised in himself a history of emerging India. The thespian’s charm transcended all boundaries, and he was loved across the subcontinent. With his demise, an era ends. Dilip Saab will live forever in the heart of India. Condolences to family and countless fans. Union Home Minister Amit Shah also condoled the death of  the Bollywood icon, and said he entertained generations of cinema lovers with his incredible acting and iconic roles. "Shri Dilip Kumar Ji was a veritable legend of the silver screen, in him, Indian Cinema has lost one of the greatest actors. He has entertained generations of cinema lovers with his incredible acting and iconic roles. My sincerest condolences to Dilip Ji's family and followers," Shah tweeted. Shri Dilip Kumar Ji was a veritable legend of the silver screen, in him, Indian Cinema has lost one of the greatest actors. He has entertained generations of cinema lovers with his incredible acting and iconic roles. My sincerest condolences to Dilip Ji’s family and followers. ​​​​​​||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-president-kovind-amit-shah-condole-dilip-kumars-death-1005779.html
07-07-2021||National||India logs 43,733 daily Covid-19 cases, 930 deaths||India added 43,733 new cases of coronavirus taking the total tally to 3,06,63,665, while the active cases further declined to 4,59,920, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll climbed to 4,04,211 with 930 daily fatalities. The active cases have further declined to, 4,59,920 and  comprise 1.50 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 97.18 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. Also, 19,07,216 tests were conducted on Tuesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 42,33,32,097. The daily positivity rate  was recorded at 2.29 per cent . It has been less than three per cent for 16 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to  2.39 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 55th consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,97,99,534, while the case fatality rate  stands at 1.32 per cent, the data stated India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-43733-daily-covid-19-cases-930-deaths-1005781.html
07-07-2021||National||Dilip Kumar: Actor and star who grew with India as it evolved||He was more than a star, more than just an actor even. Dilip Kumar, or Yousuf Khan as he was born, was the legend who epitomised the composite culture of India, both in his films that explored stories of rebellion, hope and love and in his seven decades in public life. Kumar, who died on Wednesday morning at the age of 98, was the thinking, impassioned hero framed in black and white who moved on to a spectrum of roles in technicolour, his life and career a testimony to India as it grew and evolved over the decades. One of the handful of greats etched in the annals of Indian cinema, tragedy came to be affixed to his name with his turn as the brooding lover in classics such as "Devdas", "Andaz" and the epic romance "Mughal-e-Azam". But the ‘Tragedy King', who did his first film “'Jwar Bhata” in 1944, three years before Independence, and his last “Lal Quila” in 1998, was more than that. Reflecting the times his films were made in, he was the Nehruvian hero grappling with problems plaguing a young India in the cinema of the late 40s and 50s, most notably "Shaheed" and "Naya Daur". That idealism gave way to a certain disillusionment in the 60s with films such as "Ganga Jamuna", an angst that found pronounced resonance with the emergence of the angry young man persona of the 70s Bachchan by when Kumar had moved on to character roles. Kumar, part of Hindi cinema’s famed triumvirate along with Raj Kapoor and Dev Anand, set hearts aflutter, spawned many wannabes and was the inspiration for generations of actors with his own brand of method acting – intensity at the core of every role that he did. Unlike Raj Kapoor and Dev Anand, he never ventured into filmmaking, preferring to stick to acting, his abiding passion. But he was never just an actor and a marquee name admired by generations of filmgoers. Kumar was also a polyglot. The erudite Pathan from Peshawar, who started as a fruit trader, was fluent in Urdu, Hindi, Punjabi, Awadhi, Bhojpuri, Marathi, Bengali and English. His wife, actor Saira Banu, noted that he was just as well-versed with the Quran as he was with the Bhagvat Gita and could recite verses from his memory. “His secular beliefs spring straight from his heart and from his respect for all religions, castes, communities and creeds,” she wrote in the foreword of the actor's autobiography "The Substance and the Shadow". In the troubled early 1990s, when Mumbai was riven by communal tension, Kumar emerged as a figure of peace. During the 1993 riots in the city, stories abound of how he opened his home and made it a command centre for relief work. He was a much awarded artist, honoured with the Padma Bhushan in 1991 and the the Padma Vibhushan in 2015 as well as the Dadasaheb Phalke in 1994. He was also a nominated member of the Rajya Sabha for one term and served as the sheriff of Bombay in 1980. In 1998, somewhat controversially, he was awarded the Nishan-e-Imtiaz, the Pakistan government’s highest civilian award. The following year, the Kargil war between the two countries broke out and Shiv Sena chief Bal Thackeray demanded he return the award. But Kumar refused to succumb and met then prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee on the matter. As the years passed and age caught up with him, Kumar withdrew from the public eye but like most stars never faded away. The man, who inspired the likes of Naseeruddin Shah, Amitabh Bachchan and Shah Rukh Khan, remained on the edges of public life with his films watched by those who grew old with him and also newer generations of film lovers who wanted to catch up with the best of Indian cinema. The Dilip Kumar oeuvre is limited to just 60-odd films, most ranked as classics. These include “Devdas” -- a tragic story of unrequited loved still associated with him despite its many screen iterations – “Madhumati”, “Mughal-e-Azam” of course and “Naya Daur” that mirrored the man vs machine conflict of the 50s. The second innings saw him play memorable character roles in films such as “Kranti”, “Karma” and “Shakti”. It is often said that Kumar was the first of the Khans. In a sign of the times that were, this Khan --  born Muhammed Yousuf Khan, one of Pathan fruit merchant Ghulam Sarwar’s 11 children, on December 11, 1922 in Peshawar – was rechristened the perhaps more acceptable Dilip Kumar. His new name and new identity was given to him by Devika Rani, who was head of Bombay Talkies at the time and was of the view that a screen name would help audiences relate to him. It certainly did. Though his first film, Bombay Talkies' “Jwar Bhata” went unnoticed success beckoned with the next, "Jugnu" in 1947. Till “Jugnu”, the acting career was hidden from his family. It was Basheshwarnathji, Prithviraj Kapoor’s father and Raj Kapoor’s grandfather, who pointed his father’s attention to a hoarding of “Jugnu”. The two families had been neighbours in Peshawar and friends for years, and it was Raj to whom Yousuf turned to when his disappointed father refused to speak to him. In a story that has become part of film lore, Raj got his father Prithviraj to mediate. And all was eventually well. It was only fitting that both the Peshawar boys went on to become amongst India’s most loved and respected actors. The fame did not always sit easily on Kumar. So many of his stories had tragedies written into them. At some point, the reel started impacting his real lilfe. He went through a bout of depression in the 1950s and decided to opt for lighter roles in films like “Ram Aur Shyam” and “Gopi”. Writing about this phase in his life, the actor wrote, "I had been playing characters who were ill-fated and a morbid outlook had seized me as a result of my extreme involvement and my living the character beyond working hours." Though a private person in life, Kumar's name was sometimes linked to his leading ladies, the most discussed still being his relationship with Madhubala that ended due to a court case during the making of "Naya Daur" in 1957. Many years later, he met Saira Banu, his wife of over five decades, at a party. She was 22 and he 45. There was a blip when Kumar married Hyderabad’s Asma Sahiba in 1981. The marriage lasted two years. Other than that, Saira Banu has been a constant by Kumar’s side, supporting him through the years and speaking for him when he was no longer in a position to. That story has now ended. But the legend that is Dilip Kumar will live on. And not just in film archives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dilip-kumar-actor-and-star-who-grew-with-india-as-it-evolved-1005797.html
07-07-2021||National||Pakistan's Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa govt condoles demise of Dilip Kumar||Pakistan's Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa provincial government on Wednesday condoled the demise of legendary Indian actor Dilip Kumar, saying he will always be remembered for his love and affection he had for the people of his ancestral home town here. Kumar, India's enduring film legend through the decades, died at a Mumbai hospital in the morning after a prolonged illness. He was 98. In a statement, Kamran Bangash, the Special Assistant on Information to Chief Minister of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP), expressed profound grief and sorrow over the demise of the film legend. The KP government spokesman said he was saddened to know about the death of Kumar, a resident of Peshawar who earned fame in acting. "Late Dilip had great regard and respect for the people of his birth place Peshawar. He will always be remembered for his services, love and affection he had for the people of Peshawar," the statement said.. Kumar was born on December 11, 1922 at his family home in the Qissa Khawani Bazaar area of Peshawar. The Pakistan government has already declared his native house as a national heritage and completed all formalities to convert it into a museum in his name. Kumar visited Peshawar in the early 90's. He was given an unprecedented reception and welcome by the people of Peshawar. Kumar, known to generations of film-goers as 'tragedy king' for his portrayal of the brooding, intense romantic in classics such as 'Mughal-e-Azam' and 'Devdas', had been admitted to the Hinduja Hospital, a non-COVID-19 facility in Khar, since last Tuesday. Kumar, born Yousuf Khan and often known as the Nehruvian hero, did his first film 'Jwar Bhata' in 1944 and his last 'Qila' in 1998, 54 years later. The five-decade career included 'Mughal-e-Azam', 'Devdas', 'Naya Daur', and 'Ram Aur Shyam', and later, as he graduated to character roles, 'Shakti' and 'Karma'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistans-khyber-pakhtunkhwa-govt-condoles-demise-of-dilip-kumar-1005803.html
07-07-2021||National||After arrest, Hizbul commander killed in encounter: J&K police||Jammu and Kashmir police on Wednesday said a top commander of Hizb-ul-Mujahideen militant outfit was killed in a gunfight with security forces after he was arrested in Handwara area of north Kashmir’s frontier Kupwara district on Wednesday. A police spokesperson said Mehraj-ud-din Halwai alias Ubaid of Sopore, an active militant commander of Hizbul was arrested during a routine check at Watyen, Handwara. “On his disclosure multiple CASOs (cordon-and-search-operations) were launched by police, Army, CRPF and SSB,” he said. “In one of the CASOs at village Pazipora-Renan in Kralgund, Handwara, he (ubaid) tried to pinpoint the location where he had kept his arms and ammunition. Upon reaching the disclosed hideout location, he picked up his hidden AK-47 rifle and started firing indiscriminately upon the joint search party which led to an encounter. In the ensuing firefight he got killed,” the spokesperson claimed. As per the police statement, Ubaid was A++ category militant and was group commander of Hizbul. “He was active since 2012 and was involved in several killings in north Kashmir. He had a long crime history including attacks on Police/SFs and civilian atrocities. He was part of a group involved in various crimes and several cases were registered against him,” the statement said. The statement reads that the slain militant commander was well acquainted with modern means of communication by which he would communicate with other militants and plan and execute militant activities on ground. “He was instrumental in motivating and recruitment of youth into militant ranks besides raising funds for promotion of militant activities. In this connection police have registered a case under relevant sections of law and investigation has been initiated,” it added. Earlier on June 29, a commander of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) was killed in a similar encounter along with two other militants in Maloora area on Srinagar outskirts. Pertinently 67 militants and 18 security forces and J&K police personnel have been killed in Kashmir since the beginning of this year. Last year 203 militants, including 166 locals were killed by security forces across the Valley. As many as 157 militants were killed in Kashmir in 2019 while the number was 257 in 2018 which was the highest in a decade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-arrest-hizbul-commander-killed-in-encounter-jk-police-1005810.html
07-07-2021||National||Dilip Kumar's contribution to Indian cinema will be remembered for generations, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday condoled the demise of legendary actor Dilip Kumar, and said his extraordinary contribution to Indian cinema will be remembered for generations to come. The 98-year-old Kumar died on Wednesday morning after prolonged illness. "My heartfelt condolences to the family, friends & fans of Dilip Kumar ji. His extraordinary contribution to Indian cinema will be remembered for generations to come," Gandhi said in a tweet. My heartfelt condolences to the family, friends & fans of Dilip Kumar ji. Kumar, known to generations of film-goers as 'tragedy king', had been admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) of Mumbai's Hinduja Hospital, a non-Covid-19 facility, since Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dilip-kumars-contribution-to-indian-cinema-will-be-remembered-for-generations-says-rahul-gandhi-1005811.html
07-07-2021||National||Cabinet expansion: Ministerial probables meet PM Modi; 43 ministers likely to take oath||Ahead of the Union Cabinet expansion on Wednesday evening, ministerial probables met Prime Minister Narendra Modi at his residence. Those meeting Modi included BJP's Narayan Rane, Sarbananda Sonowal, Jyotiraditya Scindia, Ajay Bhatt, Bhupender Yadav, Shobha Karandlaje, Sunita Duggal, Meenakshi Lekhi, Bharati Pawar, Shantanu Thakur and Kapil Patil, JD(U)'s R C P Singh, LJP's Pashupati Paras and Apna Dal's Anupriya Patel. Some ministers of state, including G Kishan Reddy, Parshottam Rupala and Anurag Thakur, were also there, and they may be elevated, sources said. Sources added that around 43 persons, including those getting a promotion, may take an oath, and they will be a mix of youth and those with administrative experience, including former chief ministers. Union ministers R K Singh, Mansukh Mandaviya and Hardeep Singh Puri may also be promoted, they said. BJP president J P Nadda was present during the meetings. The expansion exercise is scheduled to be held at 6 pm at Rashtrapati Bhawan. Amid the buzz that Modi may also drop some ministers, Union minister Santosh Gangwar and Minister of State for Women and Child Development Debasree Chaudhuri have quit. This will be the first reshuffle in his Council of Ministers by Modi since he assumed charge for a second term in May 2019. The prime minister is expected to bring in young faces and give representation to various social groups and regions in the reshuffle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-expansion-ministerial-probables-meet-pm-modi-43-ministers-likely-to-take-oath-1005817.html
07-07-2021||National||Labour minister Santosh Gangwar resigns from Cabinet||Labour minister Santosh Gangwar has resigned from the Union Cabinet ahead of the scheduled Cabinet reshuffle this evening. Gangwar, who held the position of Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Labour and Employment resigned from his post early this morning. When asked whether he has resigned from the post of Labour Minister, Gangwar answered in the affirmative. "Yes I have resigned," he told PTI. He, however, said he is not aware what his new role in the government will be. This will be the first reshuffle in the Council of Ministers by Prime Minister Narendra Modi since he assumed charge for a second term in May 2019. Gangwar played an important role in labour reforms as four labour codes on wages, industrial relations, social security and occupational safety, health and working conditions were passed during his tenure in Modi 2.0. The ministry has firmed up rules under the codes, while states are yet to finalise rules in their domain. Since labour is a concurrent subject, states are also required to firm up and notify rules under the labour codes in order to operationalise those across the country. In May 2019, Gangwar was re-elected to the 17th Lok Sabha from the Bareilly constituency, in Uttar Pradesh. It was his 8th term in the Lower House. He was the Minister of State for Petroleum and Natural Gas with additional charge of Parliamentary Affairs in the 13th Lok Sabha. Prior to this, Gangwar was the Minister of State for Science and Technology with additional charge of Parliamentary Affairs in 1999. Gangwar was also the chairman of the PAC (Public Accounts Committee). Earlier, Gangwar held the charge of the Ministry of Textiles (Independent Charge). He joined the Ministry of Finance as Minister of State from July 5, 2016 and served till September 3, 2017. During his tenure he was a member of the GST Council and was instrumental in the successful rolling out of GST in India. He was the Minister of State for Labour and Employment (Independent Charge) from September 3, 2017 in the 16th Lok Sabha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/labour-minister-santosh-gangwar-resigns-from-cabinet-1005831.html
07-07-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi slams govt on fuel price hike||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday hit out at the government as petrol prices crossed the Rs 100-a-litre mark in Delhi, charging that the Modi government runs on "tax extortion". Petrol prices crossed the Rs 100-a-litre mark after fuel prices were increased in line with firming international oil trends. "Your car may run on petrol or diesel, Modi government runs on tax extortion," Gandhi tweeted in Hindi, using hashtag 'TaxExtortion'. In Delhi, petrol now costs Rs 100.21 a litre and diesel is priced at Rs 89.53 per litre. Delhi is the last of the metro cities to see petrol rising above the Rs 100-a-litre mark. Mumbai, Chennai, Hyderabad and Pune already have prices above that mark. Kolkata also saw petrol prices climbing over Rs 100 per litre on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-slams-govt-on-fuel-price-hike-1005832.html
07-07-2021||National||I am 'longest guest' of India, says Dalai Lama||Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama on Wednesday said he is the "longest guest" of India, who would never cause any trouble to his host. In a virtual interactive session with GV Prasad, Co-Chairman and managing director of Dr Reddy's Laboratories and others, Dalai Lama said India which practices "Ahimsa and Karuna" (non-violence and compassion) stands as a role model for other countries. "As I always mentioned, India is my home. I was born in Tibet. But most of my life was spent in this country... I really feel proud that I am a guest of the Indian government. I think I am the longest guest of the Indian government. But at least that guest will not create a problem," he said. He remarked that religious harmony in India was remarkable and there is "free media." Describing India as a secular country, the Tibetan leader in exile said he has been promoting "Ahimsa and Compassion", which are intrinsic values of Indians that have been followed over thousands of years. "With over a billion population, India is a perfect example of religious harmony. It is not because of any political reasons, but it is because of its people. Some of the countries need to follow Indias principles of religious harmony," he said. Dalai Lama advised the medical fraternity to be more compassionate while discharging their duties. Wishes poured in from around the globe on the occasion of his 86th birthday on Tuesday. Thanking everyone, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi for their wishes, Dalai Lama said he was determined that he must live at least 110 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-am-longest-guest-of-india-says-dalai-lama-1005843.html
07-07-2021||National||Sporting fraternity condoles demise of Dilip Kumar||India's sporting stars joined the country in mourning the demise of iconic actor Dilip Kumar here on Wednesday, describing him as an incomparable genius in their tributes. Kumar, India's enduring film legend through the decades, died at a Mumbai hospital on Wednesday after prolonged illness, his family and doctors treating him said. He was 98. "Rest in Peace Dilip Kumar ji! There will never be another like you," tweeted legendary former cricketer Sachin Tendulkar. "Your contribution to Indian cinema is unparalleled and you’ll be missed dearly. My heartfelt condolences to Saira Banu ji & the family," he added. Rest in Peace Dilip Kumar ji!There will never be another like you. Former opener Virender Sehwag recalled a famous dialogue from Kumar's classic blockbuster Mughal-e-Azam to highlight his impact on cinema. "Heartfelt condolences to #DilipKumar’s family. The gr8 man said, Taqdeerein badal jaati hain,zamana badal jaata hai, mulkon ki taarikh badal jaati hai,shahenshah badal jaate hain,magar iss badalti hui duniya mein mohabbat jis insaan ka daaman thaam leti hai,woh insaan nahi badalta," he wrote. Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju also paid his condolences. "We grew up watching his amazing films. The passing away of legendary actor Dilip Kumar Ji has deeply saddened all of us. He has left a huge void in Indian Cinema. My heartfelt condolences to his family, friends & fans across the world," tweeted Rijiju. Badminton star Saina Nehwal called Kumar a legend. "The legend of Hindi cinema.. May your soul rest in peace sir," she tweeted. Former India cricketers Madan Lal, Harbhajan Singh and Irfan Pathan too condoled the actor's demise. "Great actor, every movies had a class. Rest In Peace. OM Shanti," tweeted Lal, a former speedster. My condolences to the family and fans.Great actor every movies had a class. Rest In Peace. OM Shanti. "There will be no other tragedy king than #DilipSahab. May your soul rest in peace #yusufkhan Sahab. May your legacy stay forever," said Pathan, a former India pacer. "Born Mohammed Yusuf aka Dilip Kumar sahb. He was one of the last surviving stars of the Hindi film industry's 1940s–1960s 'Golden Age'. May you rest in eternal peace Dilip sahib (11 December 1922 – 7 July 2021). #RipDilipKumar #legend," wrote Harbhajan, a former off-spinner, on the micro-blogging site. India batsman Shikhar Dhawan, who is leading the current limited overs side that is touring Sri Lanka, too paid his tributes to the veteran actor. "Deeply saddened by the passing of Dilip Sahab. A genius actor who made such a huge impact in Indian cinema. An inspiration for generations to come. #DilipKumar," said Dhawan. Condolences also came from across the border in Pakistan. Pakistan cricketer Shahid Afridi tweeted, "A huge loss for Yousuf Khan sahib's fans...He lives on in our hearts. Deepest condolences to Saira Banu sahiba. #Dilip Kumar." Olympic bronze-medallist boxer Vijender Singh, tweeted, "Yusuf Saab rest in peace. #DilipKumar."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sporting-fraternity-condoles-demise-of-dilip-kumar-1005846.html
07-07-2021||National||Department of Public Enterprises now under Finance Ministry||The government has brought Department of Public Enterprises (DPE) under the Finance Ministry in a bid facilitate its ambitious disinvestment programme. Earlier, DPE was part of Ministry of Heavy Industries and Public Enterprises. "Ministry of Finance (Vitta Mantralaya), after the sub-heading (v) Department of Financial Services (Vittiya Sewayen Vibhag), following sub-heading shall be inserted, namely:- (vi) Department of Public Enterprises (Lok Udyam Vibhag)" as per the Cabinet Secretariat notification dated July 6, 2021. The gazette notification issued said these rules may be called the Government of India (Allocation of Business) Three Hundred and Sixty First Amendment Rules, 2021. "They shall come into force at once," the notification said. With the addition, this will be the sixth department under the Finance Ministry. The rejig comes ahead of Cabinet expansion slated later in the day. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her Budget 2021-22 had announced a big-ticket privatisation agenda, including privatisation of two public sector banks and one general insurance company. As part of the divestment strategy for the financial sector, the government has decided to go for a mega initial public offering (IPO) of Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) and residual stake sale in IDBI Bank during the financial year beginning April. The government has budgeted Rs 1.75 lakh crore from stake sale in public sector companies and financial institutions during 2021-22.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/department-of-public-enterprises-now-under-finance-ministry-1005851.html
07-07-2021||National||Global vaccine alliance GAVI hopes India will resume exports in July quarter||The GAVI vaccine alliance hopes the Serum Institute of India (SII) will resume exports of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine from this quarter, it told Reuters, which would be earlier than an "end of this year" forecast by the Indian company. GAVI co-leads the COVAX facility for equitable distribution of Covid-19 shots around the world. COVAX suffered a big jolt in April when big vaccine producer India stopped all overseas shipments to meet local demand as infections rose dramatically. India's coronavirus crisis has now eased and output of the AstraZeneca drug at SII, the world's biggest vaccine maker, has also jumped, but so has domestic demand. "We remain hopeful that SII deliveries will resume in the third quarter, however, this cannot be confirmed at this stage," a GAVI spokesperson said in an e-mail late on Tuesday. "In the meantime, COVAX has been aggressively following through on its strategy of diversifying its portfolio, securing over a billion additional doses in the past month alone either through direct procurements or through dose sharing." SII did not immediately respond to a request for comment. A source close to SII said the company was focused on supplying to India for now. It said in May that it hoped to "start delivering to COVAX and other countries by the end of this year". India's foreign ministry did not immediately respond to queries from Reuters. Bangladesh's health minister told reporters on Tuesday that SII could restart supplies to it from August. The country, suffering from a resurgence in infections, has received only 7 million doses out of 30 million it has ordered from the company.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/global-vaccine-alliance-gavi-hopes-india-will-resume-exports-in-july-quarter-1005854.html
07-07-2021||National||Health Minister Harsh Vardhan resigns ahead of Cabinet rejig||As India battles the second surge of Covid-19 epidemic, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and his deputy Ashwini Choubey on Wednesday were dropped from the Council of Ministers giving rise to speculations on whether the duo was made a scapegoat of the Narendra Modi government’s failure to manage the public health crisis. No doubt Vardhan led a ministry that did not pre-book Covid-19 vaccines from the global pharmaceutical majors last year; failed to foresee the second surge; could not impress upon the Election Commission to scale down the April polls and was a mere spectator during the Kumbh Mela at Haridwar where several lakhs of people took a holy dip. The critics, however, wonder whether the discredited health minister has any real role in making such choices as decision-making in the Narendra Modi government remains highly centralised with the Prime Minister’s Office calling the shots. “The resignations of the Union Health Minister and the Minister of State for Health is a candid confession that the Modi government has utterly failed in managing the pandemic,” tweeted senior Congress leader P Chidambaram. “There is a lesson for ministers in these resignations. If things go right the credit will go to the Prime Minister, but if things go wrong the Minister will be the fall guy. That is the price a Minister pays for implicit obedience and unquestioning subservience.” Several experts pointed out that the assembly polls in five states including the eight-phase polling in West Bengal and the Kumbh Mela acted as super-spreader events, making the second surge more ferocious. Also absence of adequate vaccine doses have crippled the inoculation drive. “Poor Dr Harsh Vardhan, a good man has been made a scapegoat for monumental failures at the highest level — nowhere else,” added Congress leader Jairam Ramesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-minister-harsh-vardhan-resigns-ahead-of-cabinet-rejig-1005858.html
07-07-2021||National||Prez Kovind accepts credentials from envoys of Thailand, Romania, Kazakhstan, Turkey||President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday accepted credentials from the envoys of Thailand, Romania, Kazakhstan and Turkey in a virtual ceremony, according to a Rashtrapati Bhavan statement. Those who presented their credentials were Pattarat Hongtong, Ambassador of the Kingdom of Thailand, Daniela Mariana Sezonov Tane, Ambassador of Romania, Nurlan Zhalgasbayev, Ambassador of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and Firat Sunel, Ambassador of the Republic of Turkey, it said. The president conveyed his good wishes to the envoys on their appointment. He said India enjoyed warm and friendly relations with their countries and that the ties were deeply rooted in a common vision of peace and prosperity. India has been at the forefront of global efforts to forge a decisive and coordinated response to the Covid-19 pandemic to ensure our collective health and economic well-being, the president added. As the 'Pharmacy of the World', India has assisted several countries with supply of essential medicines and equipment in the global fight against Covid-19, Kovind said. The envoys conveyed good wishes on behalf of their leaderships and reiterated their commitment to continue working to strengthen their ties with India, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prez-kovind-accepts-credentials-from-envoys-of-thailand-romania-kazakhstan-turkey-1005864.html
07-07-2021||National||Maharashtra: Elgar case accused observe hunger strike in jail against 'institutional murder' of Stan Swamy||Ten accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case went on a one-day hunger strike in the Taloja jail in neighbouring Navi Mumbai on Wednesday to protest against what they termed as an "institutional murder" of co-accused Jesuit priest Stan Swamy. They also demanded action against officials of the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is conducting a probe into the Elgar Parishad case, and former superintendent of the Taloja jail. Swamy, 84, was arrested by the NIA from Ranchi in October 2020 under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and lodged at the Taloja Central Jail in Navi Mumbai. He suffered a cardiac arrest and died at a Mumbai hospital on Monday in the middle of his fight for bail on health grounds. The Elgar Parishad case is related to inflammatory speeches made at a conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which, the police claimed, triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the outskirts of the western Maharashtra city. The police had claimed the conclave was organised by people with alleged Maoist links. The other accused in the case termed Swamy's death an "institutional murder" and held the "negligent jails, indifferent courts and malicious investigating agencies" responsible for it. As a mark of protest, 10 of the co-accused in the case - Rona Wilson, Surendra Gadling, Sudhir Dhawale, Mahesh Raut, Arun Ferreira, Vernon Gonsalves, Gautam Navlakha, Anand Teltumbde, Ramesh Gaichor and Sagar Gorkhe - went on a one-day fast in the Taloja jail on Wednesday. They informed about the protest to their family members, who released a statement saying all Elgar case prisoners have blamed the NIA and the Taloja jail's former superintendent Kaustubh Kurlekar for the death of Father Stan Swamy. They believe that "the separation of Stan Swamy from them is a deliberate institutional murder," the release said. The statement alleged that the NIA and Kurlekar never missed a single opportunity to "harass" Stan Swamy, whether it was the "ghastly treatment" inside the jail, the haste to transfer him back from hospital to jail or even protesting against trivial things like a sipper (which Swamy required due to his medical conditions). "It is these that have caused the death of Stan Swamy and therefore, for this institutional murder, NIA officials and Kurlekar should be tried under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code," the statement said, while demanding a judicial inquiry into his death. The statement said the family members of the accused will submit these demands to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray through the Taloja jail administration. It also said that though these accused were lodged in different barracks, they met on Tuesday and shared their memories of Father Stan Swamy, and also observed a two-minute silence as a mark of tribute to him. Three women accused in the case- Sudha Bharadwaj, Shoma Sen and Jyoti Jagtap - are currently lodged at the Byculla prison in Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-elgar-case-accused-observe-hunger-strike-in-jail-against-institutional-murder-of-stan-swamy-1005866.html
07-07-2021||National||IT Rules: Delhi HC refuses to grant interim protection from coercive action to digital media portals||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday refused to grant protection from coercive action to digital media portals as it adjourned their challenge to the new IT Rules after being informed that a plea has been moved by the Centre to transfer them to the Supreme Court. “Transfer petition has been preferred?”, a Bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh asked Additional Solicitor General Vikramjit Banerjee who replied, “Yes”. The court then proceeded to adjourn the pleas by The Wire, Quint Digital Media Ltd and Pravda Media Foundation till August 20. According to amended Information Technology Rules, social media and streaming companies will be required to take down contentious content quicker, appoint grievance redressal officers and assist in investigations. Senior Advocate Nitya Ramakrishnan, appearing for the portals, urged the court to pass an order of interim protection as the Central government was yet to even reply to the petitions filed by digital media portals. “Notice has gone on the rules and they have not filed reply. Now they are asking me to report to them. This is the first step in submitting to the discipline (of regulation of content by government). Please hear my stay application and grant me protection,” she said. She added that the central government's conduct was “totally in the face of Supreme Court decision that government regulation of content of media is unacceptable”. In response, Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma said that “1700 digital media has already submitted information” as per the IT Rules. “It is not a matter voice-vote”, Ramakrishnan stated as she asserted that the digital media portals before the court had preferred to challenge the new IT Rules. The Court, however, refused to pass any order and directed the Centre to file counter affidavit. The high court had earlier issued notices and sought responses of the Centre on the petitions by Foundation for Independent Journalism, The Wire, Quint Digital Media Ltd and Pravda Media Foundation which is the parent company of Alt News. The bench had refused however to pass any interim order and said it will be considered at a later stage. The petition by Quint Digital Media Ltd and its director and co-founder Ritu Kapur has challenged the constitutional validity of the IT Rules under the provisions of Information Technology Act, 2000, inasmuch as they purport to apply to 'publishers of news and current affairs content' as part of digital media, and consequently regulate these entities under the Rules by imposing government oversight and a Code of Ethics' which stipulates such vague conditions as good taste', decency' and prohibition of half-truths'. “Creating a differential classification by way of subordinate legislation, when not contemplated by the parent IT Act is an overreach by itself and this has been done to specifically target digital news portals, by subjecting them to an unprecedented regulatory burden and State interference, which no other form of news publication is subject to,” it said. It claimed that this overreach is aggravated by a virtual legislation by reference, inasmuch as the Rules incorporate the Journalistic Norms under the Press Council Act, the Programme Code under the Cable TV Act, and vest draconian powers and control in the State. The pleas sought striking down of the specific part of the IT Rules on the ground that it violates Article 19(1)(a) and 19(1)(g) of the Constitution creating a chilling effect on media freedom, Article 14 of the Constitution by creating an unreasonable classification and by setting up a parallel adjudicatory mechanism to be overseen by the officials of the executive and is ultra vires the IT Act. The 2021 Rules regulate the functioning of online media portals and publishers, over-the-top (OTT) platforms and social media intermediaries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/it-rules-delhi-hc-refuses-to-grant-interim-protection-from-coercive-action-to-digital-media-portals-1005885.html
07-07-2021||National||Chirag Paswan moves High Court against likely inclusion of Pashupati Kumar Paras in Union Cabinet||Chirag Paswan has moved the Delhi High Court opposing the likely inclusion of his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras in the Union Cabinet. प्रधानमंत्री जी के इस अधिकार का पूर्ण सम्मान है कि वे अपनी टीम में किसे शामिल करते हैं और किसे नहीं।लेकिन जहां तक LJP का सवाल है श्री पारस जी हमारे दल के सदस्य नहीं हैं।पार्टी को तोड़ने जैसे कार्यों को देखते हुए उन्हें मंत्री,उनके गुट से बनाया जाए तो LJP का कोई लेना देना नहीं है More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chirag-paswan-moves-high-court-against-likely-inclusion-of-pashupati-kumar-paras-in-union-cabinet-1005886.html
07-07-2021||National||Get on your bike: Indian cities tap into pandemic cycling trend||Cycling used to be considered a crazy idea in Kohima, a hilly city with narrow streets in northeast India. Nowadays, riding a bike is a fashion statement, according to the official leading local efforts to champion pedal power. Kohima is one of 25 cities pioneering a shift to green transportation in a federal cycling initiative launched during the Covid-19 pandemic, which has boosted bike sales and interest in cycling in India due to public transport curbs. "Growing up we never imagined that we could cycle to school or to work because the general belief was that you cannot cycle in the hills," said Atoba Longkumer, who is heading up Kohima's participation in the government's India Cycles4Change Challenge. "Over the last year, I've discovered that nothing could be farther from the truth," Longkumer, 30, said by phone. "Today in Kohima, cycling has become a fashion statement." Bikes have generally been used in India by people who cannot afford other forms of transport. The number of bicycle-owning households in India remained virtually unchanged between 2001 and 2011 as rising income levels increased access to motorbikes, cars and public transport, according to a study by The Energy Report Institute. Even in cities without Kohima's steep and winding streets, cyclists can face an uphill struggle in India's notoriously congested urban hubs. A survey undertaken by 50 cities ahead of the government's cycling challenge, found speeding vehicles, traffic congestion and pothole-riddled roads deterred residents from riding a bike. Other common complaints included a shortage of dedicated bike lanes, poor street lighting and - for female cyclists - sexual harassment. Time for Change Under the federal initiative, more than 100 cities were encouraged to test quick and low-cost methods to promote cycling - from bike sharing to cycling clinics, no car Sundays and cycle-to-work programmes. Kohima was among 25 cities shortlisted for their strategies to boost cycling infrastructure and encourage residents to pedal short distances as a way to tackle traffic congestion and ease pressure on overburdened public transport services. Indian cities have also been grappling with worsening air quality. A Lancet report late last year linked India's polluted air to 1.67 million deaths or 18% of all its deaths in 2019, up from 1.24 million deaths in 2017. "For every 100 Indians we have 10 cars and despite this low density, what you see on the roads across cities big and small is traffic congestion," said Kunal Kumar, head of the Smart Cities Mission, which runs the cycling initiative. "Covid-19 also does all the wrong things for public transport, with safe distancing not really possible," he added. "The time is ideal for a revolutionary change - from cycle for sport to cycle for transport." Time for Change Lockdown restrictions and a reluctance to board crowded buses and trains have encouraged some Indians to rediscover cycling or take it up for the first time. Hinotoli V Sena, 35, a disaster management specialist from Kohima, said she had fond childhood memories of cycling but had given it up for years. "I bought a mountain bike recently and love the feeling of the wind in my hair," she told the Thomson Reuters Foundation by phone. "It's such a practical mode of transport, though poor infrastructure and rash driving makes it a dangerous way to travel on Indian roads," she added. In Aurangabad in western Maharashtra state, Arpita Sharad, 32, only learned to ride a bicycle last year and now works as part of the city's Cycles4Change Challenge programme. "It's important to face the traffic on the road to realise the challenges," she said. "I started cycling to work and the commute was an eye-opener. It helped me ideate and now we're in the process of putting a 20-km (12.5-mile) dedicated cycle lane in the city." Across the country, 28 cities have identified a 340-km (210-mile) pilot corridor and 210 square km (81 square miles) of neighbourhood areas focused on creating cycling infrastructure. "Citizen involvement is key to this model and cities are using their feedback to co-create the solutions," said Shreya Gadepalli, South Asia programme lead of nonprofit Institute for Transportation and Development Policy (ITDP). In collaboration with India's Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, ITDP is putting together an online exhibition showcasing Cycles4Change success stories. "The exhibition, due to open later this month, is a way to celebrate what cities have done," Gadepalli said. "In stage two we are looking to rev up, inspire other cities and scale-up the pilot projects." (Reporting by Anuradha Nagaraj @AnuraNagaraj; Editing by Helen Popper. Please credit the Thomson Reuters Foundation, the charitable arm of Thomson Reuters, that covers the lives of people around the world who struggle to live freely or fairly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/get-on-your-bike-indian-cities-tap-into-pandemic-cycling-trend-1005888.html
07-07-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-Up: Crowds at tourist spots with no masks, social distancing escalate fear of third wave||It has often been seen that celebrating victory too early leads to a devastating fall, and a similar scenario is currently prevalent in India. With decline in daily Covid-19 cases in the country, hopes are up that the second wave of the pandemic may end soon. However, recent images of people thronging tourist spots, flouting all Covid norms, have further escalated the fear of a third wave.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-crowds-at-tourist-spots-with-no-masks-social-distancing-escalate-fear-of-third-wave-1005889.html
07-07-2021||National||Union Cabinet expansion: List of 43 leaders who are likely to take oath today||Names of 43 leaders have come up who are going to take oath during the Union Cabinet expansion. Some of the prominent names include Jyotiraditya Scindia, Pashupati Kumar Paras, Bhupender Yadav, Anupriya Patel, Shobha Karandlaje, Meenakshi Lekhi, Ajay Bhatt and Anurag Thakur. Meanwhile, Harsh Vardhan and seven other ministers resigned from the Cabinet ahead of the major rejig exercise. Below is the list of leaders who will take oath today:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-cabinet-expansion-list-of-43-leaders-who-are-likely-to-take-oath-today-1005911.html
07-07-2021||National||SC seeks status report on vacancies in central, state information commissions||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Centre and state governments to file a status report indicating vacancy positions in the Central Information Commission (CIC) and State Information Commissions (SICs). A bench of Justices S Abdul Nazeer and Krishna Murari gave four weeks to the Centre and state governments to file the latest status report in the matter. The order came on a PIL filed by activist Anjali Bhardwaj and others, seeking directions to government authorities to implement top court's directions regarding appointment of information commissioners within a stipulated time and also in a transparent manner. The bench also gave time to the petitioner to file an additional affidavit in the matter. Advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for petitioners, submitted before the bench that in 2019, directions were issued to fill up the vacancies. He questioned the practice of selection of bureaucrats, either to run the commission or to be on the selection committee. "What they have done is quite shocking. They have not placed either the names of the candidates or the selection criteria on record. More than 300 people applied, but they shortlisted seven people," he said, claiming there was nothing on record on the details of the criteria adopted. He also said despite the court's direction to fill up all posts within three months, vacancies continue to exist. For example, he pointed out, there is a pendency of 36,000 in CIC and nearly 75,000 in Maharashtra state information commission, which was destroying the purpose of the RTI Act. Additional Solicitor General Madhavi Divan, representing the Centre, argued that the process of compliance has been carried out by the government and appointments were made in March 2020. She added that a compliance affidavit was filed on April 24, 2020. Divan added that the maximum strength is up to 10 members and right now, there are 7 members in CIC. Bhushan said vacancies in Maharashtra, Karnataka, Orissa still continued.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-seeks-status-report-on-vacancies-in-central-state-information-commissions-1005915.html
07-07-2021||National||Eknath Khadse's son-in-law arrested by Enforcement Directorate in land scam case||In a significant development, veteran politician Eknath Khadse’s son-in-law Girish Chaudhary has been arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with a land scam in Pune. Last year, Khadse (68) had left the BJP and joined the Sharad Pawar-led NCP. Chaudhary was placed under arrest on Wednesday after a day’s grilling and booked under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). Khadse was questioned in January this year in connection with the land scam which dates back to 2016. The senior minister in the previous BJP-Shiv Sena government and virtually the No 2 in the government had to resign in wake of the scam. Khadse had fell out with then Chief Minister and now Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis. In his complaint to the Bund Garden police station in Pune on May 30, 2016, builder and real estate developer Hemant Gawande had alleged that Khadse misused his power as a minister and purchased land in Bhosari area, owned by Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC), in the name of his wife Mandakani and son-in-law Girish Chaudhary at the cost of Rs 3.75 crore, as against the market price of Rs 40 crore. The plot originally belonged to Abbas Ukani from whom the MIDC had acquired the plot in 1971, a matter that was pending in court on issue of compensation. The state government had initiated a probe by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB). Besides, he had also faced a probe by Justice MD Zoting, a retired Bombay High Court judge. However, he had got a clean chit in both inquiries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eknath-khadses-son-in-law-arrested-by-enforcement-directorate-in-land-scam-case-1005918.html
07-07-2021||National||India expects 30-40 lakh Pfizer, Moderna vaccine doses through COVAX by August||India expects to receive 30 to 40 lakh doses of the Pfizer and Moderna Covid-19 shots through the COVAX facility by August, two sources said, as it tries to expand inoculations to prevent another surge in infections. COVAX, led by the GAVI vaccine alliance and the World Health Organization (WHO), could ship the US-made doses to India as early as this month, one of the sources aware of the discussions told Reuters. "It's a donation through COVAX," said the source. Both sources declined to be named as the discussions are private. Pfizer and Moderna did not immediately reply to Reuters' e-mails seeking comment. GAVI and India's foreign ministry also did not reply to queries. India is the world's biggest producer of vaccines overall. It donated or sold more than 6.6 crore doses of Covid-19 shots before a huge rise in infections forced it to divert all domestic output to inoculate its own people from April. The country has so far administered 35.81 crore vaccine doses - the most in the world after China - giving at least one dose to 31% of its estimated adult population of 94.4 crore. India mainly relies on a licenced version of the AstraZeneca vaccine. Experts have said India needs to administer 1 crore doses a day to achieve its aim of immunising all adults by December. It administered about 40 lakh doses a day in the week to July 2. Apart from Moderna and Pfizer, India has also been courting Johnson & Johnson for vaccine supplies. J&J has already signed a manufacturing agreement with India's Biological E. Ltd though production has yet to start. A J&J spokesperson in India said the company was looking to expedite vaccine supplies to the country. "We are exploring how best to accelerate our ability to deliver our vaccine to the people of India through our global Covid-19 vaccine supply network, including our partnership with Biological E. Limited," the spokesperson told Reuters in an e-mail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-expects-30-40-lakh-pfizer-moderna-vaccine-doses-through-covax-by-august-1005920.html
07-07-2021||National||Vistara starts flights on Delhi-Tokyo route||Vistara on Wednesday started operating direct flights between Delhi and Tokyo using its Boeing 787-9 Dreamliner aircraft, according to a statement. The inaugural flight departed from the Indira Gandhi International Airport in Delhi at 3 AM on Wednesday and landed and 2.50 AM (local time) at the Haneda airport in Tokyo, the carrier's press statement noted. The airline's flight on Delhi-Tokyo route would be operating under the air bubble arrangement formed between India and Japan. Scheduled international flights have been suspended in India since March 23 last year due to the coronavirus pandemic. However, special international flights have been operating since May 2020 under the Vande Bharat Mission and since July 2020 under air bubble arrangements formed with around 27 countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vistara-starts-flights-on-delhi-tokyo-route-1005922.html
07-07-2021||National||Andhra Pradesh mulls reopening schools after August 15||The Andhra Pradesh government is contemplating reopening schools after Independence Day, post the Covid-19 second wave. The 2021-22 academic year could not be started because of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. At a high-level review meeting on education, chaired by Chief Minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy here on Wednesday, an in-principle decision has been taken to reopen the schools for the academic year after August 15. A CMO release said all teachers would be administered the coronavirus vaccine ahead of the reopening of schools. Online classes for high schools and college students would commence from July 15. For school students, workbook activity would be launched from July 15 to August 15, according to Education Minister A Suresh. He told reporters after the meeting that they have finalized the scheme for awarding marks to Intermediate students as the year-end examinations have been cancelled due to Covid this year. He said 30 per cent weightage would be given to the class X marks in top three subjects and 70 per cent for junior intermediate each subject-wise. "Since the practical examinations were already conducted, those marks would remain the same," Suresh added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/andhra-pradesh-mulls-reopening-schools-after-august-15-1005924.html
07-07-2021||National||Cinema icon Dilip Kumar laid to rest with full state honours||Screen legend Dilip Kumar on Wednesday was buried with full state honours here, marking the end of an illustrious career as one of Indian cinema's most loved icons. The 98-year-old actor, who passed away following prolonged illness, was laid to rest around 4:45 pm in the presence of family, including actor wife Saira Banu. Kumar was given a gun salute, following which the police band paid him a tribute at the Juhu Qabrastan in Santacruz Mumbai. While not more than 25-30 people were allowed inside the Qabrastan, the venue was packed with media and fans of the late star. The crowd, of nearly 100 people, was being controlled by the police. Post the funeral, megastar Amitabh Bachchan and son Abhishek Bachchan visited the Juhu Qabrastan to pay their respects to Kumar. As per the state funeral protocols, Kumar's body was draped with the tricolor at his Pali Hill residence, before being moved to the burial ground. More than 60 policemen were present at his residence. Adequate security measures were taken by the police to prevent people to enter the lane leading to Kumar’s house. Born as Yousuf Khan in Peshawar on December 11, 1922, Kumar was known to generations of film-goers as the "tragedy king." Filmmaker Subhash Ghai, who directed Kumar in movies like Saudagar (1991) and Karma (1986) also came for the funeral but Covid protocols prevented him to go inside. Earlier in the day, Kumar’s friends, colleagues and fans, including Dharmendra, Shah Rukh Khan, Shabana Azmi, Vidya Balan and producer Siddharth Roy Kapur, Ranbir Kapoor paid their respects to the acting legend at his residence. The Hindi cinema veteran, the last of the golden troika with Raj Kapoor and Dev Anand and one of India’s most venerated stars, was admitted to hospital last month following episodes of breathlessness. The actor had been battling ill health for the last few years, including advanced-stage prostate cancer and lung disease, and had been in and out of the hospital. The first of the Khans, as he was sometimes referred to, was nominated to the Rajya Sabha for one term, awarded the Padma Bhushan and the Padma Vibhushan and also served as sheriff of Mumbai. He was also honoured with the Dadasaheb Phalke award.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cinema-icon-dilip-kumar-laid-to-rest-with-full-state-honours-1005944.html
07-07-2021||National||Humour, anger, shock: Netizens react to petrol price crossing Rs 100/litre||As the price of petrol crossed an all-time high of Rs 100 per litre in Delhi and several other cities on Wednesday, netizens flooded microblogging site Twitter with varied reactions -- some coping with the unfortunate news with humour and others just expressing plain, simple shock. Hashtags like #petroldieselpricehike and #petrol100notout are being used in large numbers since the fuel prices were increased in line with firming international oil trends. Humour seems to be the key to coping with the news as memes and jokes started doing the rounds soon after the price hike. Sharing a picture of a bicycle that has been made to look like a motorcycle using cardboards, a Twitter user said this was the kind of bike that Indians would be able to ride following the fuel price hike. "Desi bike...after petrol, diesel price hike," the user tweeted. Taking a dig at Narendra Modi's 2014 poll pitch of “acchhe din aayenge” (good days would come), a Twitter user shared a caricature depicting a man saying, “Kaash woh bure din he wapas atay” (I wish the bad days could return). A photograph of a petrol bill from 1963 when petrol cost 72 paisa per litre has emerged as a favourite among the Twitterati. Reposting the image of the cash memo, a social media user wrote, "Petrol cash bill on 02/02/1963.... 1 litre = 0.72. If I had #Timemachine i'll go back and fill my vehicles." According to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers, petrol price was increased by 35 paise per litre and diesel by 23 paise a litre. In Delhi, petrol now costs Rs 100.21 a litre and diesel is priced at Rs 89.53 per litre. Delhi is the last of the metro cities to see petrol rising above the Rs 100-a-litre mark. Mumbai, Chennai, Hyderabad and Pune already have prices above that mark. Kolkata also saw petrol prices climbing over Rs 100 per litre on Wednesday. According to a social media user, the fuel prices were being jacked up so frequently that waking up to a price hike had become a way of life. “No stoppage to hike in price for diesel and petrol. Every morning wake up with this news. Feels like it is no more a news now. Now only elections can relieve us middle class people(sic)," the user wrote. For others, the unprecedented hike in fuel prices simply reinforced their disappointment and anger at the current dispensation. "Masterstroke by Modi government. Petrol in Delhi crossed ₹100 and Modi is celebrating the occasion by expanding his cabinet...," a Twitter user posted. "Situation of inflation in Delhi and other parts of India is really worrisome. These are times when the government should be with people of India , helping them...but instead they are asking people to pay Rs 100 a litre,” another user wrote. Reactions on the social media are a reflection of the frustration that is boiling up beyond the internet. The fuel price hike has added significantly to Delhi-based Sayan Kundu's expenses. "I purchased my only car in August 2017. Due to this reckless rise in fuel prices, according to my calculations, my last round trip to Lucknow from Delhi cost me nearly Rs 3,000 more than what it would have in 2017. A nearly 30 per cent increase!" the 32-year-old said. Now, 28-year-old Ankit Gautam has to think twice before deciding to take out his car. Unless it is for an essential purpose, a car is a big no. "I used to get the tank full as soon as my salary arrived every month. Now, I take my car out only when it is absolutely necessary. Need the same frequency of hikes in my salary too," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/humour-anger-shock-netizens-react-to-petrol-price-crossing-rs-100/litre-1005945.html
07-07-2021||National||Covid control measures to be strengthened in 9 states reporting surge: Centre||Ramping up testing and vaccination, healthcare infrastructure planning and effective clinical management are among the measures to be focussed upon in nine states reporting a surge in Covid-19 cases, the health ministry said on Wednesday. In a letter to the states -- Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Kerala, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Odisha, Tripura and Sikkim -- the ministry has highlighted the areas of concern. Stressing that there is a need to strengthen the collective efforts to curb the spread of the virus, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said ramping up testing and vaccination, healthcare infrastructure planning, following Covid-appropriate behaviour and effective clinical management are among the measures to be taken by these states. In Arunachal Pradesh, he said it is a point of concern that the state has a weekly positivity rate of 16.2 per cent (Jun 28-July 4), which is continuously increasing for four weeks. "Nineteen of the 25 districts are reporting a positivity rate of more than 10 per cent, which is a cause of concern. The state has shown almost a 12-per cent increase in the number of cases reported in the last four weeks. Twelve districts are showing an increase in the number of new cases over the past four weeks," Bhushan said. Changlang, East Siang, Lohit, Papum Pare, Tawang and Upper Subansiri districts reported more than 100 new cases each in the week ending July 4. Namsai district has shown an increase in the number of deaths (four deaths in the week ending July 4 compared to one in the week ending June 13). For Assam, he said although the state has shown a decline in the number of new cases, four of its 33 districts have shown an increase in the figure for the last four weeks and 29 districts have reported over 100 new cases in the week ending July 4. Jorhat (22 deaths from June 28-July 4 compared to 16 from June 7-13) and Sivasagar (15 deaths from June 28-July 4 compared to seven from June 7-13) districts showed a rise in the number of deaths in the last four weeks. "Charaideo and Golaghat have reported a positivity rate of more than 10 per cent, which is emphasised to be analysed by the state," Bhushan said. In Manipur, he said two of the 16 districts (Bishnupur Kangpokpi) are showing a rise in the number of fresh cases for four weeks. "Bishnupur has shown an increase in the number of deaths in the last four weeks (June 7-July 4). Imphal East and Imphal West had 17 and 28 deaths respectively in the week (June 28-July 4). Imphal East, Imphal West and Thoubal districts had more than 100 new cases in the week ending July 4 with a weekly positivity rate of more than 10 per cent," the official said. He said although Kerala has shown a decline in the number of new cases, two of its 14 districts have shown an increase in the figure for four weeks. All districts have reported more than 200 daily cases in the week ending July 4, he added. Kollam and Wayanad districts have shown an increase in the number of weekly deaths in the said period (June 7-July 4). "Thrissur and Malappuram have reported more than 70 deaths in a week (June 28-July 4). Thiruvananthapuram has shown a declining trend in deaths, however, reported 111 (in the week ending July 4)," Bhushan said. Kannur, Kasaragod, Kollam, Kozhikode, Malappuram, Palakkad and Thrissur had over 100 new cases in the previous week with a weekly positivity rate of more than 10 per cent, the ministry said. It said Meghalaya is still reporting a weekly positivity rate of 14.05 per cent (June 28-July 4) and eight of its 11 districts are reporting a positivity rate of over 10 per cent. "The districts of East Garo Hills, East Khasi Hills, North Garo Hills, Ri Bhoi, West Garo Hills, West Jaintia Hills and West Khasi Hills reported more than 100 new cases in the week ending July 4, with East Khasi Hills reporting 1,176 cases," the ministry said. Ri Bhoi showed a staggering 141-per cent rise in the number of fresh cases over the last four weeks and four districts -- East Garo Hills (28 per cent), South Garo Hills (20 per cent), Ri Bhoi (33 per cent) and West Garo Hills (11 per cent) -- had a positivity rate of over 10 per cent in the week ending July 4. East Garo and South Garo have shown an increase in the positivity rate compared to the previous week. Six districts reported more than 100 cases each with a positivity rate of above 10 per cent last week, the ministry said. Nagaland has reported a positivity rate of more than 10 per cent in the weeks ending June 13, June 20 and June 27, with a decline seen in the week ending July 4 (6.44 per cent). Four of its 11 districts reporting a positivity rate of over 10 per cent. Kohima reported more than 100 cases in the week ending July 4 with a positivity rate of over five per cent for the last four weeks. Peren has shown a staggering increase in the number of new cases (36 cases from June 28-July 4 compared to three from June 7-13). Kiphire has shown a five-per cent increase in the positivity rate in the last four weeks and six districts have shown a rise in the positivity rate in the week ending July 4. Three Odisha districts reported a weekly positivity rate of over 10 per cent from June 28 to July 4. Though the state positivity rate is consistently decreasing (5.36 per cent for the week ending July 4), Nuapada district has shown a significant increase in it in the last week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-control-measures-to-be-strengthened-in-9-states-reporting-surge-centre-1005952.html
07-07-2021||National||Cabinet reshuffle: List of ministers who joined PM Modi's team||The Narendra Modi government on Wednesday engaged in its largest Cabinet reshuffle since May 2019, with Narayan Tatu Rane, Sarbananda Sonowal, and Dr Virendra Kumar taking oath as ministers at Rashtrapati Bhavan. Jyotiraditya Scindia, Ramachandra Prasad Singh, Ashwini Vasihnaw, Kiren Rijiju, Raj Kumar Singh, and LJP's Pashupati Kumar Paras were among the other ministers who took oath. Hardeep Singh Puri, Mansukh Mandaviya, Bhupender Yadav, Parshottam Rupala, G Kishan Reddy and Anurag Thakur also took their oath. The Modi government also inducted Pankaj Choudhary, Anupriya Singh Patel, and Satya Pal Singh Baghel, Rajeev Chandrasekhar, Shobha Karandlaje and Bhanu Pratap Singh Verma into the Cabinet. Meenakshi Lekhi, Darshana Vikram Jardosh, Annpurna Devi, A Narayanaswamy, Kaushal Kishore and Ajay Bhatt also took their oath. B L Verma, Ajay Kumar, Chauhan Devusinh was among those joining the rejigged Cabinet. Bhagwanth Khuba, Kapil Moreshwar Patil, Pratima Bhoumik, Subhas Sarkar, Bhagwat Kishanrao Karad and Rajkumar Ranjan Singh also joined up. Bharati Pravin Pawar, Bishweswar Tudu, Shantanu Thakur, Munjapara Mahendrabhai also took oath as new ministers. John Barla, L Murugan and Nisith Pramanik joined the list of ministers taking their oath.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-reshuffle-list-of-ministers-who-joined-pm-modis-team-1005954.html
07-07-2021||National||JD(U) climbs down to join Modi 2.0, doesn't insist for more slots||Two years ago on May 30, RCP Singh was intimated by Prime Minister's Office to take oath as Cabinet Minister but at the last minute, Bihar Chief Minister and JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar said "no" as he was unhappy that the party was getting just one slot in the cabinet. This time too, Kumar wanted more slots but Prime Minister Narendra Modi but did a climb down as the BJP managed to tone down his demands. Kumar did not insist that his party need more slots in the Council of Ministers as he allowed Singh to enter Modi's team on Wednesday. Kumar's bargaining power has considerably diminished now compared to 2019 as his party was upstaged by its coalition partner by garnering more seats in the 2020 Bihar Assembly elections. This time, there was a view in the party that it should not insist on the numbers and remain out of power at the Centre. Earlier, JD(U)'s position was that BJP has five ministers from Bihar while it has 17 MPs and Kumar's party should have 3-4 ministers from the state. On May 30, 2019, when Modi was sworn in for the second time, the JD(U) had dramatically announced that it refused to be part of the government complaining about inadequate representation. Kumar himself made the announcement just before the swearing-in ceremony was to start in Rashtrapati Bhavan. "The offer given by the BJP was not acceptable to us. We are firmly with NDA. But we will not join the government," Kumar had then told reporters. The JD(U), which has 16 MPs from Bihar in the new Lok Sabha, was unhappy with the BJP and it felt that the numbers offered by BJP were untenable for it to be part of the Modi government then. BJP had five ministers from the state when it had 17 MPs. While JD(U) had come out of its alliance with RJD and BJP in 2017 to join hands with BJP, it had not joined the NDA government at the Centre while running the state government with the saffron party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jdu-climbs-down-to-join-modi-20-doesnt-insist-for-more-slots-1005964.html
07-07-2021||National||From Bal Thackeray to Sharad Pawar, Dilip Kumar shared strong bond with politicians||From enjoying beer sessions with Shiv Sena founder late Bal Thackeray on the terrace of his Matoshree residence to going on vacations with NCP chief Sharad Pawar and his family, the late thespian Dilip Kumar enjoyed warm relations with leaders belonging to different political hues, even though the ties strained later. Kumar died at a Mumbai hospital on Wednesday after prolonged illness, his family and doctors treating him said. He was 98. As Kumar’s request to be a "little lenient" with Sanjay Dutt -- arrested in connection with the 1993 Mumbai bomb blasts -- was turned down by Pawar, who was the then chief minister of Maharashtra, the relation between the two soured. Arrested in 1993 at a time when his career was on an upswing, Dutt was booked for possessing an AK-56 rifle that had come in a consignment of arms and explosives meant for use in serial blasts that killed 257 people here. While Kumar’s acceptance of the Nishan-e-Imtiaz, the highest civilian decoration of Pakistan, did not go down well with Thackeray who wanted the actor to return the honour. In his book, On My Terms, Pawar recalled how the late actor campaigned for him during elections that he fought while he was in the Congress party. The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) was formed in 1999 by Sharad Pawar, P A Sangma, and Tariq Anwar after they were expelled from the Congress. Pawar said he, along with Kumar and the then Bombay Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) grew quite close. "Since our families also got acquainted, all of us went on long vacations in India and abroad whenever time permitted," Pawar said. Pawar said Kumar was a terrific orator who could leave the audience spellbound for hours with his speeches Keeping aside other engagements, Kumar stole time between his shooting schedules and travelled all the way from Mumbai to Baramati to address poll rallies. The turnout was always huge and the crowd lapped up every word he said, Pawar recalls. "As a personal friend, he volunteered to address many of my election rallies in Baramati. He would call up my Pune-based childhood friend Vitthal Maniyar and ask 'suna Hain elections aaye hain. Bataiye kab jaana hain (I hear elections have been announced. Tell me when do I have do go for campaigning)," he wrote. Pawar said in the book discomfort was caused between the two after the actor came to meet him following Dutt's arrest by his government in 1993. "He was saddened by the discomfiture of his close friend Sanjay Dutt and wanted me to be a bit lenient. Citing strong evidence against the young actor, I turned down his request. Though a certain chill crept into our ties after that, relations between Saira Banu and my family continue to be warm as ever," said Pawar. On the opposite side of the political spectrum of Pawar was Bal Thackeray, and yet, Kumar shared a great equation with him too. In his book, Bal Thackeray and the Rise of the Shiv Sena, journalist-author Vaibhav Purandare writes, his evening beer sessions with filmstar-friends such as Dilip Kumar on the terrace of Matoshree ended when the actor accepted the Nishaan-e-Imtiaz from Pakistan. According to the book, Bal Thackeray had said in Hindi, 'Abhi chana bhi hain, beer bhi hain, lekin Dilip Kumar ke raste badal gaye’ (The beer and chana are still there but Dilip Kumar has gone elsewhere). In his tribute, the late Thackeray's son Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said Kumar was the shining star who enriched the Indian film industry. "His will hold an immortal position in the hearts of his fans," Uddhav Thackeray added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-bal-thackeray-to-sharad-pawar-dilip-kumar-shared-strong-bond-with-politicians-1005965.html
07-07-2021||National||Bengal Budget FY 22: Govt grants road tax waiver, stamp duty rebate||The West Bengal government on Wednesday waived road tax on passenger transport vehicles and offered a rebate on stamp duty as it tabled a Rs 3.08- lakh- crore Budget in the assembly for fiscal 2021-2022. Presenting the Budget, state industry minister Partha Chatterjee, who had placed the vote-on-account in the House on February, said the government has decided to extend the one-time exemption of motor vehicle tax for the period starting July 1, 2021, to December 31, 2021. The government has also proposed to reduce stamp duty by two per cent for registration of deeds, while circle rate was slashed by ten per cent. Chatterjee presented the budget as finance minister Amit Mitra is indisposed due to ill health. Talking about the student credit card scheme, launched on June 30, the minister said that interest rate of four per cent will be charged as a part of subvention, while the rest will be borne by the government. The budget speech was further critical of the rise in fuel prices in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengal-budget-fy-22-govt-grants-road-tax-waiver-stamp-duty-rebate-1005970.html
07-07-2021||National||Out on bail, gangster shot dead in Bathinda||A 39-year-old gangster was shot dead here on Wednesday allegedly by his former private gunman, police said. The gangster, Kulbir Singh Naruana, was facing more than 15 cases and was currently out on bail. The accused has been identified as Mandeep Singh, alias Manna, they said. Singh had gone to meet Naruana at his home in Naruana village here to sort out some differences between the two. They had tea together, the police said. After some time, the accused called Naruana to his SUV and allegedly fired five shots at him, killing him on the spot, they said. Singh also ran over an aide of Naruana, who was nearby, with his SUV while trying to flee. However, the accused was arrested by the police not far from the crime spot, they added. Another aide of Naruana sustained gunshot injuries in the incident and has been hospitalised, the police said. Singh also sustained gunshot injuries and is undergoing treatment at a hospital, they said. "We have arrested the accused," district police chief Bhupinder Singh Virk said, adding that the weapon used in the commission of the crime has been recovered. A case has been registered in the matter, he said. Virk said the reason behind the killing is being ascertained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/out-on-bail-gangster-shot-dead-in-bathinda-1005978.html
07-07-2021||National||Cabinet 2.0: Anupriya Patel back in Council of Ministers after 2 years||BJP ally Apna Dal (Sonelal) president Anupriya Patel, who has been jockeying for a separate ministry to solve problems faced by other backward classes, is back in the Union council of ministers after a two-year gap. An MP from Uttar Pradesh's Mirzapur, 40-year-old Patel belongs to the Kurmi community and had been a minister in the first government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Her inclusion in the Modi's team is significant ahead of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections next year and the Lok Sabha polls in 2024 as the Other Backward Classes (OBC) have a sizeable number of voters in the key Purvanchal region. "We have demanded the formation of a ministry for OBCs on the lines of the Ministry of Minorities to solve the problems of the backward classes," she had said at a meeting of party workers on the 72nd birth anniversary of Apna Dal founder Sonelal Patel earlier this month. A champion of the cause of the backwards and deprived sections, she has been saying that though they are getting their share in the administration, still the gap of inequality is huge. "We have to struggle a lot to bridge it," she says, while making a demand for the setting up of a national memorial to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel in Delhi. Her party has been continuously raising its voice in Parliament for resolving the problems of farmers and proper implementation of the Swaminathan Commission recommendations so that they could get a fair price for their produce. The buzz that she could be accommodated in the Union ministry grew louder after she recently met the BJP brass in New Delhi after staying away from the corridors of power ever since the NDA embarked on its second term in 2019. Anupriya was a minister of state at the Centre from 2016 to 2019. This is her second stint in the Union council of ministers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-20-anupriya-patel-back-in-council-of-ministers-after-2-years-1005980.html
07-07-2021||National||Pashupati Kumar Paras: The man who successfully led a coup d’état against his nephew Chirag||A politician with more than four decades of experience, Pashupati Kumar Paras, who was administered the oath of office as Union cabinet minister on Wednesday, has spent the larger part of his career under the shadow of his late brother Ram Vilas Paswan. However, having staged a successful revolt against the latter’s son Chirag Paswan, the Lok Sabha MP from Hajipur in Bihar now seems poised to come into his own. Paras, who previously headed Lok Janshakti Party’s Bihar unit and is currently the national president of its breakaway faction, began his innings in 1978 as a Janata Party MLA from Alauli in his native Khagaria district, a seat formerly represented by the late Ram Vilas Paswan. He represented the assembly segment several times, on tickets of the Janata Dal and later of the party floated by his brother. He became a member of the Nitish Kumar cabinet in the state in 2017 when the chief minister realigned with the NDA. The 2019 Lok Sabha polls saw him making his parliamentary debut from Hajipur, a constituency the late Ram Vilas Paswan had nurtured over the decades. The move was seen as indicative of the trust between the two brothers. Nonetheless, the elevation of his greenhorn nephew Chirag as LJP national president mortified Paras who did not immediately choose to vent his dissatisfaction but hit back and extracted his pound of flesh when the Jamui MP was down in the dumps. Chirag who was hoping to step into father Ram Vilas’s shoes as the sole leader of the Paswan community had led his party to a disastrous assembly performance and painted himself into a corner by burning bridges with Nitish Kumar. This obviously gave his uncle the chance that he had long been on the lookout for. Armed with the support of all other party MPs, Paras last month elbowed out Chirag as the LJP’s leader in the Lok Sabha and came down heavily on the young MP’s vainglory in attacking the BJP-backed chief minister in Bihar while claiming loyalty towards the saffron party. A cornered Chirag, who has challenged his uncle’s political coup before the Election Commission, seemed to have sensed the writing on the wall when at a press conference in Patna on Tuesday he declared he had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him not to induct Paras on the LJP quota. Desperation was evident when Chirag said he would be moving the court if Paras found a berth in the Union council of ministers. The 68-year-old, meanwhile, seems to be having the last laugh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pashupati-kumar-paras-the-man-who-successfully-led-a-coup-d-tat-against-his-nephew-chirag-1005984.html
07-07-2021||National||Cabinet reshuffle: 5-time MP Bhanu Pratap Singh Verma gets ministerial berth||Sworn in as a Union minister for the first time on Wednesday, five-time Lok Sabha MP Bhanu Pratap Singh Verma hails from a small place in Jalaun district of Uttar Pradesh. Yadav (63) had become an MLA in 1991. Chaudhary got elected to the Lok Sabha five times--in 1996, 1998, 2004, 2014 and 2019--from the Jalaun constituency. In 2001, he became vice-president of the UP BJP's SC Morcha and a decade later, he became its president. As an MP, he was a member of the Committee on Welfare of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-reshuffle-5-time-mp-bhanu-pratap-singh-verma-gets-ministerial-berth-1005987.html
07-07-2021||National||Pawar recalls cycling to Jejuri to see Dilip Kumar||As a school student, Sharad Pawar once cycled to the temple town of Jejuri in Pune district to see Dilip Kumar shooting for Naya Daur. Many years later, the Bollywood legend visited Pawar's constituency to campaign for him. Kumar, 98, died at a Mumbai hospital on Wednesday morning. "I cherish a lot of memories of him. I still remember that when I was doing my secondary school education in the Pune district, we learnt that the shooting of Naya Daur was going on at Jejuri. We all went on bicycle to see the film shoot. This was the first time I saw Dilip Kumar," the NCP chief told reporters. With the demise of the veteran actor, he has lost a "fatherly figure", Pawar said. "Years later, when I entered politics and started working in the public life, a different bond developed between me and Kumar. During my election campaigns, he used to come for one or two rallies," Pawar recalled. The actor was active in public life in Mumbai and that was why he was appointed `Sheriff' of the state capital (an honorary position), Pawar said, adding that as Sheriff, Kumar took keen interest in the city's problems. Besides India, Kumar had a big fan following abroad too, especially in West Asia, Pawar noted. "When we went to Syria and Egypt together, the local people, especially the youth used to come in large numbers to see him," he reminisced. During the India-China and India-Pakistan wars, Kumar worked to boost the morale of the soldiers and after the wars helped to keep the nation united, Pawar said. "Lately, he was not in good health. I went to see him three weeks ago. His wife Saira-ji was hopeful that he would reach the age of 100 but the journey ended today at the age of 98. But we all should be grateful to him for his contribution and I pray to God that his soul be in peace," the former Maharashtra chief minister said. Incidentally, in his book `On My Terms," Pawar has written about the "chill" in their relations after he turned down Kumar's request to be a bit lenient about actor Sanjay Dutt who was arrested in the 1993 Mumbai blasts case. "He was saddened by the discomfiture of his close friend Sanjay Dutt and wanted me to be a bit lenient. Citing strong evidence against the young actor, I turned down his request. Though a certain chill crept into our ties after that, relations between Saira Banu and my family continue to be warm as ever," the NCP chief said. In his condolence message on Twitter on Wednesday, Pawar said, "Saddened to hear about the demise of the veteran actor Dilip Kumar. We have lost a legend. Deep condolences to the grieving family and fans."  Saddened to hear about the demise of the veteran actor Dilip Kumar. We have lost a legend. Deep condolences to the grieving family and fans.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pawar-recalls-cycling-to-jejuri-to-see-dilip-kumar-1005990.html
07-07-2021||National||G Kishan Reddy thanks PM, Amit Shah for elevation as union minister||Thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi for elevating him as a Union Minister, G Kishan Reddy on Wednesday said he would sincerely make an endeavour to live up to the PM's expectations, and that of the people. The Secunderabad MP, who was sworn in as Cabinet Minister, had previously held key positions in the BJP. "I express my deep sense of gratitude to the Hon'ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi for the trust reposed in me. I will sincerely make an endeavour to live up to his expectations and that of my people," he said in an official communication. He also thanked Union Home Minister Amit Shah for his guidance and support. Reddy also expressed gratitude to all the senior leaders and BJP President J P Nadda. "I will now have a two fold strategy - To strengthen the hands of Narendra Modi ji to contribute to his dream of building a New India. I shall actively contribute to the development of Telangana in a manner that the aspirations, vision and dreams of our martyrs are realised," he said. Reddy was elected as a Member of Parliament to the 17th Lok Sabha in 2019 from Secunderabad Constituency, Telangana. He was earlier a three-time MLA and BJP floor Leader in Telangana and (undivided) Andhra Pradesh assemblies. He also served as BJPs state president in the undivided state of AP and also Telangana. Reddy joined the BJP during its inception in 1980 and started as a Yuva Karyakartha. In due recognition of his unflinching commitment towards the party and his compassion for people, he rose to the level of National President of the BJYM, in 2002. He further played an essential role in the separate Telangana movement and rejuvenated it by conducting 'Telangana Poru Yatra' for 25 days during which he addressed 333 meetings. He displayed leadership instincts since childhood, drawing inspiration from Lokmanya Jayaprakash Narayan, who was the mascot in the fight against Emergency and Corruption. Reddy, hailing from Ranga Reddy District of Telangana State, was born in a middle-class farmer's family in 1960.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/g-kishan-reddy-thanks-pm-amit-shah-for-elevation-as-union-minister-1005993.html
07-07-2021||National||Health Ministry asks 6 northeastern states to step up Covid-19 measures||With the North East emerging as the new worry on the Covid-19 front, the Union Health Ministry on Wednesday wrote to six out of seven northeastern states, asking them to improve testing, containment measures and vaccination in order to ensure that the pandemic does not spiral in these states. A high-level review meeting chaired by the Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla and attended by top officials from the northeastern states reviewed the scenario in each of seven states, Sikkim and the union territories. The focus, however, remained on the NE states as out of 73 districts with a positivity rate of 10% and more, as many as 46 districts are in those states. In Arunachal Pradesh, there is a 12% increase in weekly new cases since the last four weeks and 19 out of 25 districts have a positivity rate of more than 10%. In neighbouring Assam, 29 out of 33 districts reported more than 100 new cases in the week ending on July 4. Meghalaya is witnessing a serious Covid-19 situation with Ri Bhoi district reporting a positivity of 33% followed by East Garo Hills (28%) and South Garo Hills (20%). East Khasi district saw 1,176 new cases last week and a 53% increase in deaths. Tripura reported 2,814 new cases in the last week as all the eight districts reported more than 100 new cases. In Mon and Wokha districts of Nagaland, the fatality rate is 17% and 13% respectively, which is way above the national rate of 1.32%. In Sikkim, there is a 25% increase in weekly new cases as three of the four districts of the hill states have reported more than 100 new cases in the week ending on July 4. The NE states have been advised to strictly monitor the situation at district and city level and take timely corrective measures, wherever any early sign of surge is noticed. For those districts identified with high case positivity and higher bed occupancy, the states have been advised to consider imposing restrictions in a calibrated manner. Strict enforcement of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour was reiterated and it was advised to involve political leaders and civil society organisations. The Health Ministry also wrote to Kerala and Odisha two other states where the number of new cases is on an upswing. Last week, central teams were sent to Kerala, Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura, Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Manipur for an inspection “in view of the increased number of Covid-19 cases being reported by these states.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-ministry-asks-6-northeastern-states-to-step-up-covid-19-measures-1005999.html
07-07-2021||National||Meenakshi Lekhi: From BJP's media face to Union minister||A popular face of the BJP and a good orator, Meenakshi Lekhi has for long articulated and advocated the party's policies and programmes while taking on her political opponents before she found a place in the Union Council of Ministers. 54-year-old Lekhi, who took oath as a Union Minister of State on Wednesday on her second term as the MP from the prestigious New Delhi constituency, has been at the forefront of struggles on a host of issues ranging from those pertaining to women and environment to law and development. A law graduate of Delhi University, she has taken up various important issues such as permanent commission for women officers in the armed forces as a lawyer. It was her contempt petition that forced Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to tender an apology in 2019, for attributing his 'Chowkidar Chor Hai' jibe against the prime minister to the Supreme Court. She was appointed vice president of the BJP's Mahila Morcha in 2010. Later, as a national spokesperson of the party, she articulated and advocated the party's policies and programmes in the media while taking on her political opponents. As a parliamentarian, Lekhi was part of drafting committees of important Bills, including the Women Reservation Bill and the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Bill. She has also served on different parliamentary panels, including the Standing Committee on External Affairs, Committee of Privileges, and General Purposes Committee. She has served as chairperson of the Committee on Public Undertakings and the Joint Committee on the Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019. Her wide ranging interests involve her in social work as well as literary and cultural activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/meenakshi-lekhi-from-bjps-media-face-to-union-minister-1006002.html
07-07-2021||National||Pankaj Choudhary: From civic body member to six-time MP||A six-time Lok Sabha MP, Pankaj Choudhary brings with him a wealth of experience in the Union council of ministers. Sworn in on Wednesday as a Union minister, Choudhary (56) began his political career in 1989-91 as a member of the Gorakhpur Municipal Corporation, soon to become its deputy mayor. He became a member of the BJP working committee in 1990. He was elected for the first time to the lower house of Parliament from Uttar Pradesh's Maharajganj in 1991. He was re-elected from the constituency in 1996 and 1998. Choudhary, however, lost to Akhilesh Singh of the Samajwadi Party in the 1999 General Election. He later won the 2004 Lok Sabha elections. In 2009, he lost to the Congress candidate from Maharajganj. In 2014, Choudhary won from the same constituency and again in 2019 to become a member of the Lok Sabha for the sixth time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pankaj-choudhary-from-civic-body-member-to-six-time-mp-1006004.html
07-07-2021||National||Over 2.19 crore Covid vaccine doses sent to states from July's supply: Centre||Till Wednesday morning, over 2.19 crore Covid vaccine doses were sent to all the states from July's supply, the Union health ministry said. It said some media reports alleged that there was 32 per cent less vaccination in the last one week as compared to the week preceding it. In a statement, the ministry clarified that all the states and Union territories were informed well in advance about the doses that will be available in July, including the supply to private hospitals. The states have been advised to plan their Covid-19 vaccination sessions based on the availability of the vaccine doses. Following discussions with the vaccine manufacturers, the health ministry had communicated to all the states that they will receive more than 12 crore Covid vaccine doses in July. Till Wednesday morning, over 2.19 crore doses were sent to all the states and Union territories from July's supply, according to the statement. The states have been requested to share the likely indicative demand in case more vaccine doses are required by them, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-219-crore-covid-vaccine-doses-sent-to-states-from-julys-supply-centre-1006005.html
07-07-2021||National||R K Ranjan: Manipur's erstwhile royal, academic, politician and now Union MoS||Rajkumar Ranjan Singh, who was sworn in as Union minister of state on Wednesday, is a member of an erstwhile royal clan in Manipur and has worked for unity among various tribes in his state. R K Ranjan, as he is popularly known, was born on September 1, 1952, in the village of Kongba Makha Nandeibam Leikai in Manipur's Imphal East district. The former academic and now politician is seen as a unifier. Son of the late Rajkumar Manisana Singh, he is married to Debala Devi. After graduating from Dhana Manjuri College Imphal, he did his master's in Geography in 1972 from Guwahati University and later a PhD on 'problems of land-use' in Manipur. R K Ranjan hails from the Manipur royal clan which is still highly regarded in the state. After teaching in colleges in Manipur, he joined Manipur University (MU) as an assistant professor in the department of Earth Sciences. He was appointed registrar at MU and served from 2004 to 2008. In 2013, he joined the BJP and contested the Lok Sabha elections in the next very year. However, his debut was marked by defeat. In 17th Lok Sabha elections held in 2019, he was elected as Member of Parliament in the Lok Sabha from inner Manipur parliamentary constituency on the BJP ticket. He has been appointed member of several parliamentary committees, including the Standing Committee for Science and Technology, the Consultative Committee for DoNER and the Parliamentary Rules Committee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/r-k-ranjan-manipurs-erstwhile-royal-academic-politician-and-now-union-mos-1006006.html
07-07-2021||National||From The Newsroom: Modi Cabinet undergoes rejig; Dilip Kumar no more||In your evening news update, 43 ministers inducted in Modi Cabinet reshuffle; Mamata Banerjee attacks Narendra Modi over fuel prices, and veteran actor Dilip Kumar passes away.  The Narendra Modi government engaged in its largest Cabinet reshuffle today since May 2019, with Narayan Tatu Rane, Sarbananda Sonowal, and Dr Virendra Kumar among 43 other leaders taking oath as ministers at Rashtrapati Bhavan. The Modi government planned the Cabinet's biggest rejig with the intent to send the message of his government's avowal to strengthen the economy and infrastructure post-pandemic and reach out to women, OBCs, Dalits, and youths in a big way. Meanwhile, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, Chemical & Fertilisers Minister Sadananda Gowda, IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad were among the twelve union ministers who resigned today ahead of the reshuffle of the NDA government.   West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi today over the rising fuel prices and the Covid-19 vaccine shortage, saying he should hold "petrol and vaccine ki baat" instead of "Mann ki Baat". Speaking at a virtual press conference, Banerjee said that the price of fuel had been increased 4 times in a week and increased 10-12 times so far. She also said, "The Centre earned Rs 3.71 lakh crore through petrol, diesel from people. Don't you think Narendra Modi is cutting the pockets of the common people and filling his own pocket?"   Screen legend Dilip Kumar passed away today following prolonged illness, marking the end of an illustrious career as one of Indian cinema's most loved icons. The 98-year-old actor was laid to rest with full state honours around 4:45 pm in the presence of family, including his actor wife Saira Banu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-modi-cabinet-undergoes-rejig-dilip-kumar-no-more-1006007.html
07-07-2021||National||Sushil Modi fails to get entry into new Modi team||One of the surprising omissions in the revamped Narendra Modi team is former Bihar Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi, who was even speculated as someone who could helm the Ministry of Finance in case the Prime Minister chose to have a new person at the helm. This is the second time in months that Sushil Modi got a shock from the BJP central leadership. He was earlier denied another term as Bihar Deputy Chief Minister under Nitish Kumar after JD(U)-BJP returned to power. One of the reasons for his exit from Bihar politics was speculated to be his soft approach towards Kumar and JD(U) and that BJP wanted a more offensive team to corner its partner, which had lost ground to the saffron party. Soon after the Bihar Assembly elections, Sushil Modi was brought to Rajya Sabha by the BJP central leadership amid speculation that he would get a plum portfolio when a reshuffle takes place. However, the Bihar leader was not as lucky as former Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, who had to make way for Himanta Biswa Sarma. One of the reasons for Sushil Modi's omission could be the induction of JD(U)'s RCP Singh and LJP's Pashu Pati Kumar Paras from Bihar, as the number of ministers from the state could rise. The reshuffle also saw R K Singh, an MP from Bihar, getting a promotion to the Cabinet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sushil-modi-fails-to-get-entry-into-new-modi-team-1006011.html
07-07-2021||National||Jaishankar delivers Modi’s ‘personal message’ to Raisi, as India moves to reach out to Iranian President-elect||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Wednesday visited Tehran and called on Iran’s former Chief Justice, Ebrahim Raisi, who would take over as the West Asian nation’s new President next month. Jaishankar was the first foreign dignitary to visit Tehran and call on Raisi after he recently won the presidential elections in Iran. The External Affairs Minister handed over to the Iranian President-elect a “personal message” from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. New Delhi moved fast to signal its intent to engage with Raisi’s government in Tehran and arrest the slide in India-Iran relations. “Appreciate his (Raisi’s) warm sentiments for India. Deeply value his strong commitment to strengthen our bilateral ties and expand cooperation on regional and global issues,” tweeted Jaishankar, who had a stopover in Tehran while flying from New Delhi to Moscow. New Delhi’s relations with Tehran came under stress over the past one-and-a-half decades as the US sanctions on Iran often forced India to curtail trade and economic links with the Persian Gulf nation. But the prospects of President Joe Biden’s administration recommitting to the 2015 nuclear deal with Tehran already prompted New Delhi to signal that it would restart importing crude oil from Iran and return to investing in infrastructure and hydrocarbon projects as and when the US would lift or ease sanctions on the West Asian nation. New Delhi is also keen to move fast to arrest the slide in its ties with Tehran, as it is worried over the proposed deal Iran is planning to sign with China securing a whopping $ 400 billion investment pledge by communist country in its infrastructure and energy sectors over the next 25 years. What also sent alarm bells ringing in New Delhi is Iran’s purported move to invite China and Pakistan to take part in development of its Chabahar Port. Beijing and Tehran are learnt to have discussed a proposal to link the Chabahar Port with the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor – a flagship component of President Xi Jinping’s ambitious Belt and Road Initiative and a project opposed by India. “I am sure this visit (by External Affairs Minister of India) will be the basic basis for Iran-India relations during the presidency of Ayatollah Raisi,” tweeted Seyyed Rasoul Mousavi, the Director General of the West Asia Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Iranian Government. Jaishankar on Wednesday also had a meeting with Javad Zarif, the foreign minister of the outgoing Iranian President Hassan Rouhani’s government. The External Affairs Minister later tweeted that he and his counterpart in the Iranian Government had a useful discussion on “regional and global affairs”. A source in New Delhi said that Jaishankar and Zarif exchanged views on the situation in Afghanistan, where the United States already withdrew more than 90% of its troops and a resurgent Taliban had occupied almost one-third of the total 421 districts even while pursuing negotiations with the government led by President Ashraf Ghani. The situation in Afghanistan is likely to dominate the agenda even when Jaishankar will meet Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov in Moscow on Thursday. India already advised its citizens in Afghanistan to exercise utmost vigilance and caution with regard to security at the workplace, place of residence and also during movement to their places of work. The Embassy of India in Kabul is also preparing a contingency plan to evacuate citizens from Afghanistan, if the security situation worsens and the conflict-ravaged country again plunges into a civil war. New Delhi is worried about the possibility of Pakistan taking advantage of the situation to gain its much-cherished “strategic depth” in Afghanistan and use it against India. Jaishankar visited Tehran on a day the Government of Iran hosted representatives of both the Afghan Government and the Taliban for talks in the capital of the West Asian nation. The External Affairs Minister last month had stopovers in Doha while travelling to and returning from Kenya. The Taliban has a political office in Doha. The Qatari Government has been facilitating talks between the Taliban and the US as well as between the Taliban and the Afghan Government. Jaishankar had a meeting with US Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation, Zalmay Khalilzad, during one of his stopovers in Doha to discuss the progress of the talks with the Taliban. New Delhi, however, later dismissed the social media reports about the External Affairs Minister’s meeting with the leaders of the Taliban as “completely false, baseless and mischievous”. But the Government of India refrained from confirming or denying speculation about meetings its diplomats and security officials purportedly held with the leaders of the Taliban. Qatar’s special envoy for counterterrorism and mediation of conflict resolution Mutlaq bin Majed Al Qahtani, however, recently said during a webinar that a delegation of the Government of India had of late quietly visited Doha and had a meeting with the representatives of Taliban.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-delivers-modi-s-personal-message-to-raisi-as-india-moves-to-reach-out-to-iranian-president-elect-1006016.html
07-07-2021||National||RCP Singh: Saga of the meteoric rise of a Kurmi bureaucrat-turned-politician||Bureaucrat, politician and now minister, Ram Chandra Prasad Singh's meteoric rise began when he caught Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s attention. Hailing from Nalanda district and belonging to the Kurmi caste, RCP, as he is often known, took oath of office as Union Cabinet minister on Wednesday. He entered Kumar’s good books in the late 1990s when the then Samata Party leader was the Union Railway minister and the Uttar Pradesh cadre IAS officer was on a central deputation. Impressed by Singh’s abilities, Kumar borrowed him from the UP cadre and appointed him as his principal secretary after becoming the chief minister of Bihar. However, Kumar seemed to have bigger plans for the 63-year-old Singh, who made his political debut in 2010, getting elected to the Rajya Sabha on a JD(U) ticket after taking premature retirement from the civil service. Though not seen as a mass leader, Singh was given the key party post of national general secretary (organization) which he held till his elevation as the national president earlier this year, when Kumar relinquished the top post. Seen as a man of few words, the diminutive Singh demonstrated that he was in tune with what was going on in the mind of his boss when he stoutly defended the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill in Parliament, which was being vehemently opposed by the then JD(U) national vice president Prashant Kishor who was ultimately expelled. The father of Lipi Singh, a young and dynamic Bihar cadre IPS officer who has won laurels for her crackdowns on some of the state’s most dreaded criminals, RCP was understood to have been hopeful of his induction in the Union cabinet soon after the Lok Sabha polls of 2019. However, BJP – which was on cloud nine after securing a thumping majority on its own – insisted that all allies should settle for a “token representation”. This left Nitish Kumar slighted, and the wily politician declared that the JD(U) shall not join the government. The loss of trusted allies like Shiv Sena in recent past and the realisation that in the caste-dominated politics of Bihar, BJP cannot do without Nitish Kumar, forced BJP to finally give Singh and the JD(U) their honourable due.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rcp-singh-saga-of-the-meteoric-rise-of-a-kurmi-bureaucrat-turned-politician-1006017.html
07-07-2021||National||Bhupender Yadav: BJP's ever-dependable organisation man, parliamentarian in Cabinet now||Bhupender Yadav has long been the go-to person for the BJP top brass for handling a variety of challenges and issues, ranging from assembly polls and organisation matters in important states to directing the party's views in a number of parliamentary committees. His entry to the Modi government as a Cabinet minister is seen as his just reward after serving as a party office-bearer for the longest term among all current occupants. The 51-year-old second-term Rajya Sabha MP, enjoys the image of a sober and non-controversial politician who deftly handles the issues on hand without drawing any negative attention, a trait which has acquitted him well with various party presidents ranging from Nitin Gadkari to Amit Shah and J P Nadda. Yadav was considered a trusted general secretary of Shah, when he was the party president, and has been in charge of the BJP's affair in Bihar and Gujarat, the home state of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Shah. He has also part of the party's brain trust to strategise for important state assembly polls and was often dubbed as the "committee man", as he once chaired around eight select committees and successfully persuaded all parties in building a consensus on many contentious bills. From drafting resolutions at key party meetings to shaping its stand on legal challenges and presenting its views before the Election Commission, Yadav has always been the leaded in the thick of things. These included the GST Bill, Mines and Minerals Bill and Enemy Property Bill. The BJP general secretary was also chairman of the Joint Committee on Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2015. Hailing from Rajasthan and lawyer by profession, Yadav had been associated with the Akhil Bhartiya Adhivakta Parishad, a lawyers' body affiliated to the RSS, and rose through the ranks. Prior to beginning his political career, he was an advocate in the Supreme Court and also served as government counsel for important commissions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bhupender-yadav-bjps-ever-dependable-organisation-man-parliamentarian-in-cabinet-now-1006018.html
07-07-2021||National||Average age of new council of ministers reduces to 58 years from 61 years||The average age of the new council of ministers has reduced to 58 years from 61 years previously following a Cabinet reshuffle.   Nisith Pramanik (35), the Lok Sabha MP from West Bengal's Cooch Behar, is the youngest minister to be sworn in, while the oldest member in the council of ministers is 72-year-old Som Parkash. There are 77 members in the council of ministers now. Other ministers below 50 years of age in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Cabinet are -- Smriti Irani (45), Kiren Rijiju (49), Mansukh Mandaviya (49), Kailash Choudhary (47), Sanjeev Balyan (49), Anurag Thakur (46), Dr Bharati Pravin Pawar (42), Anupriya Singh Patel (40), Shantanu Thakur (38), John Barla (45) and Dr L Murugan (44). The average age of the newly-sworn in 43 ministers is 56 years, while the average age of the new council of ministers is 58 years. Previously, the average age of the council of ministers was 61 years. The 43 ministers took oath in a major Cabinet expansion-cum-reshuffle on Wednesday evening after several Union ministers, including Harsh Vardhan and Ramesh Pokhriyal "Nishank", resigned and a number of new entrants met the prime minister at his residence here. Those who were sworn in included the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) Sarbananda Sonowal, Jyotiraditya Scindia, Ajay Bhatt, Bhupender Yadav, Shantanu Thakur and Kapil Patil, and the Lok Janshakti Party's (LJP) Pashupati Paras. Some ministers of state, including G Kishan Reddy, Parshottam Rupala, Anurag Thakur, Hardeep Singh Puri, Mansukh Mandaviya, RK Singh and Kiran Rijiju, were also sworn in as Cabinet ministers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/average-age-of-new-council-of-ministers-reduces-to-58-years-from-61-years-1006020.html
07-07-2021||National||Army chief Gen Naravane begins 2-day visit to Italy||Chief of Army Staff Gen MM Naravane on Wednesday began a two-day visit to Italy with an aim to further expand bilateral strategic cooperation. Gen Naravane arrived in Italy from the UK on the second leg of his two-nation tour. "General MM Naravane #COAS arrived at #Italy on a two-day visit. The visit aims to further strengthen strategic and defence cooperation between both the countries," the Army tweeted. Officials said the Army Chief will be holding important discussions with the Chief of Defence Staff and Chief of Staff of the Italian Army in Rome. He is also scheduled to inaugurate an Indian Army memorial in the famous town of Cassino. The memorial has been built to pay homage to Indian soldiers who lost their lives during World War II.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-chief-gen-naravane-begins-2-day-visit-to-italy-1006024.html
07-07-2021||National||Cabinet Rejig: PM Modi to monitor Ministry of Science, Amit Shah gets Ministry of Cooperation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will monitor the Ministry of Science and Technology, while Amit Shah to oversee the Ministry of Cooperation in addition to Home Ministry.  Shah will have B L Verma as his deputy in the newly-created Cooperation Ministry, which is also likely to play a key role in furthering the Modi government's social development agenda going forward. Meanwhile, political parties in Kerala on Friday came down heavily on the Union government over the creation of the Ministry of Cooperation and termed the move as "an intrusion into the federalism of the country." Minister for Cooperation and Registration V N Vasavan said it was a state subject as per the Constitution and requested the union government to reconsider the move. "Creation of a new Cooperation ministry is an infringement upon the federal rights of the state governments. It comes under the purview of the state government. This is an intrusion into the authority of the state governments. Since it's a state subject, the union government should reconsider the move. This amounts to challenging the federal system of our country," Vasavan told reporters. Fifteen Cabinet ministers and 28 Ministers of State were sworn in by President Ram Nath Kovind at a ceremony at Rashtrapati Bhavan Wednesday evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-rejig-pm-modi-to-monitor-ministry-of-science-amit-shah-gets-ministry-of-cooperation-1006028.html
07-07-2021||National||Assam grateful to PM for inducting Sonowal into Union Cabinet: Himanta Biswa Sarma||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Wednesday thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for inducting Sarbananda Sonowal into the Union Cabinet. He extended his best wishes to Sonowal. "My sincere gratitude to you Aadarniya PM Sri @narendramodi for giving Assam the great honor by inducting Sri @sarbanandsonwal as a Cabinet Minister in Union Cabinet. "Assam is elated today as in past 25 years no one ever occupied a Cabinet post since 1996. We're proud and grateful", he tweeted. Congratulating Sonowal, he further said the former CM's administrative experience and acumen will be of benefit to the Union government. "We're grateful to you (Sonowal) for steering #Assam so successfully for five years. Your enormous administrative experience and acumen shall immensely benefit the Government. My best wishes," the North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA) convenor wrote on the microblogging site. Sarma maintained that he will continue to "learn and draw strength" from his predecessor. "I recall with pride my long personal association with Sri Sonowal and great opportunities that we had to work together, for prosperity of Assam", he said. Sarma succeeded Sonowal as Assam chief minister in May. Sonowal had scripted history in 2016 by becoming the first BJP chief minister in Northeast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/assam-grateful-to-pm-for-inducting-sonowal-into-union-cabinet-himanta-biswa-sarma-1006029.html
07-07-2021||National||Naseeruddin Shah discharged from hospital, says son||Veteran actor Naseeruddin Shah, who was admitted to a hospital here for the treatment of pneumonia, was discharged on Wednesday morning, his son and actor Vivaan Shah said. The 70-year-old actor was admitted to the Khar-based P D Hinduja Hospital & Medical Research Centre, a non-Covid-19 facility, last Tuesday. "Back home," Vivaan Shah captioned the picture of his father and mother, actor Ratna Pathak Shah on his Instagram Story. "He just got discharged today morning," he wrote in the next Story. On July 3, a hospital source said that Naseeruddin Shah was responding well to the treatment. "He is stable and under observation. He is on medication and absolutely fine," the insider had told PTI. Last week, Ratna Pathak Shah told PTI that the veteran actor had a "small patch" of pneumonia in his lungs and was undergoing treatment at the hospital for the same. In his career spanning 46 years, Naseeruddin Shah, a multiple National Award-winning actor, is known for his immense contribution to both parallel and mainstream cinema, along with memorable work in television, and theatre. Some of the credits from his storied filmography include titles like “Nishant”, “Jaane Bhi Do Yaaro”, "Mirch Masala", "Ijaazat", “Masoom”, "Karma", “Vishwatma”, “Mohra”, “Sarfarosh”, “The Dirty Picture”, "Krrish", “Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara”, among others. The National School of Drama (NSD) and Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) alumnus was last seen in the 2020 drama "Mee Raqsam" and the acclaimed Amazon Prime Video series “Bandish Bandits”. Naseeruddin Shah was admitted to the same medical facility as screen icon and his "Karma" co-star Dilip Kumar, who passed away on Wednesday following a prolonged illness.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/naseeruddin-shah-discharged-from-hospital-says-son-1006061.html
07-07-2021||National||SC ruling on plea against Facebook India VP summons on July 8||The Supreme Court is scheduled to deliver its verdict on Thursday on a plea filed by Facebook India Vice President and MD Ajit Mohan and others challenging the summons issued by Delhi Assembly’s Peace and Harmony committee for failing to appear before it as witness in connection with the north-east Delhi riots matter. A bench comprising Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy had on February 24 reserved its verdict on the plea. During the arguments before the apex court, Mohan’s counsel had argued that “right to silence” is a virtue in present “noisy times” and the assembly has no legislative power to set up a panel to examine the issue of peace and harmony. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for Facebook official, had said that setting up of the peace panel was not the core function of Delhi assembly as the law and order issue fell under the domain of the Centre in the national capital. Senior advocate A M Singhvi, representing the panel of the assembly, had said that the assembly has the power to summon. However, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta had opposed the submission of the panel of the assembly saying that law and order squarely fell under the domain of the Delhi Police which is accountable to the Central government. Earlier in December last year, the Peace and Harmony committee had moved the top court seeking to intervene in the plea filed by Mohan and others. On October 15 last year, the Centre had told the top court that proceedings of the Peace and Harmony committee is “without jurisdiction” as the issue pertained to law and order. The apex court had said that its September 23 order asking the assembly's panel not to take any coercive action against Mohan, would continue till further orders. The plea filed by Mohan, Facebook India Online Services Pvt Ltd and Facebook Inc has contended that the committee lacks power to summon or hold petitioners in breach of its privileges for failing to appear and it was exceeding its constitutional limits. They have challenged the September 10 and 18 last year notices issued by the committee that sought Mohan's presence before the panel which is probing the Delhi riots in February and Facebook's role in spread of alleged hate speeches. The Delhi Assembly had said that no coercive action has been taken against Mohan and he was only summoned by its committee to appear as witness in connection with north-east Delhi riots. In an affidavit filed in the top court, the Delhi Assembly had said that Mohan has not been issued any summons for breach of privilege.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-ruling-on-plea-against-facebook-india-vp-summons-on-july-8-1006065.html
07-07-2021||National||Who is Revanth Reddy, the new Telangana Congress president?||Over seven months after the resignation of Uttam Kumar Reddy following the dismal performance of the party in various polls, the Telangana Congress has got a new president. Revanth, known for his fiery speeches especially targeting chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, was in his initial years in politics associated with the Telangana Rashtra Samiti. His political activism however began as an ABVP leader.  Miffed over not being given an opportunity to contest, Revanth left the TRS to become a Zilla Parishad Territorial Constituency member in 2006 and an MLC in 2008 - both as an independent. Attracting the attention of TDP chief Chandrababu Naidu in the united state, Revanth later joined the TDP and was twice elected from Kodangal assembly constituency, in 2009 and 2014. Revanth is one of the accused in the cash for vote scam during the 2015 Telangana MLC polls, when he was closely associated with Naidu. With the TDP's influence gradually waning in Telangana, Revanth joined the Congress in October 2017.  Revanth, who was defeated in the 2018 Telangana assembly polls, was elected to the Lok Sabha in the 2019 general elections from Malkajgiri.   The elevation of Revanth now, from the working president post, and within four years of him joining the grand old party has angered some of the senior hopefuls. Congress MP from Bhongir Komatireddi Venkat Reddy vented out his ire publicly.    Assuming office on Wednesday, Revanth launched an attack on CM Rao, accusing him of administrative mismanagement and amassing power within the family. Revanth said the whole credit for Telangana formation is deserved by Sonia Gandhi, who granted statehood at the cost of Congress's demise in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh.  To pose a real challenge to Rao in the electoral arena, analysts opine, the 51-year-old needs to take along all the Congress leaders in order to make the party regain strength in the state where the BJP is gaining ground in preparation for the 2023 polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-is-revanth-reddy-the-new-telangana-congress-president-1006071.html
07-07-2021||National||Virendra Kumar Khatik returns as Union minister after 2 years||Rising from a humble background and winning the Lok Sabha polls seven times from Madhya Pradesh, BJP MP Virendra Kumar Khatik staged a comeback in the Union Council of Ministers after a gap of two years. At a tender age, Khatik started assisting his father at his bicycle repair shop in Sagar district of Madhya Pradesh, but that did not deter him from pursuing higher education and dreaming big. Khatik (67) later completed his Ph.D on a subject related to child labour and plunged into politics. A veteran Lok Sabha MP, his big break came in September 2017 when he was made the Minister of State for Women and Child Development in the first Modi government. In a political career spanning decades, Khatik has made it to the Lok Sabha seven times -- four times from Sagar and three times from Tikmagarh. At present, he is the sitting MP from Tikamgarh. Both Sagar and Tikamgarh are part of the impoverished Bundelkhand region of the state. Despite his rise in politics, the BJP MP has never forgotten his humble roots and even today he loves to ride his Bajaj Super scooter and does not feel shy of mingling with those working at cycle repair shops in the region, a party leader close to him said. "His father had a puncture repairing shop at Teen Batti square in Sagar town and he used to sit there to assist him in running the establishment,” recalls BJP MLA Shailendra Jain. "Khatik is known for his simplicity and rides a scooter in his current constituency even today. He feels that by doing so, people will consider him as one among them and would not hesitate to share their problems," BJP's Tikamgarh district's general secretary Brijkishore Tiwari told PTI. Born on February 27, 1954, Khatik was elected as an MP for the first time from Sagar in 1996 and later won the polls from the seat in 1998, 1999 and 2004. He was elected from the Tikamgarh Lok Sabha seat in 2009, 2014 and 2019. Khatik was appointed Minister of State for Women and Child Development in 2017 after the BJP came to the power at the Centre in 2014. He was chosen as the Protem speaker of the 17th Lok Sabha on June 17, 2019. From a young age, he was active in the RSS as a swayamsevak (volunteer) and also as a 'mukhya shikshak' (main teacher). Khatik completed his education from Dr Hari Singh Gour University, Sagar (now a central university) and did his post-graduation in economics. He was jailed for 16 months during the Emergency in 1975-77 and also took part in the "Sampoorna Kranti Andolan" of Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/virendra-kumar-khatik-returns-as-union-minister-after-2-years-1006072.html
07-07-2021||National||Cabinet 2.0: All you need to know about India's new Health Minister - Mansukh Mandaviya||Gujarat MP Mansukh Mandaviya, one of the biggest gainers in the Cabinet reshuffle by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, will now be in charge of health and family welfare as well as the chemicals and fertilizers ministries. Earlier on Wednesday, he was elevated to Cabinet rank from minister of state (MoS). He was holding the independent charge of shipping ministry and was MoS for the chemicals and fertilizers ministry. His elevation assumes significance amid the continuing fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. He succeeds Harsh Vardhan, who has been dropped from the Council of Ministers despite being one of the strongest defenders of government policies during the coronavirus crisis. Mandaviya, a BJP leader from Gujarat's Saurashtra region, has been an important young face in the Narendra Modi government at the Centre since 2016.  He was first inducted in the Union cabinet as Minister of State for Road Transport and Highways, Shipping and Chemicals and Fertilizers on July 5, 2016. On May 30, 2019, he was again sworn in as MoS for Chemicals and Fertilizers with an independent charge of Ports, Shipping and Waterways. Born into a farming family in Hanol village in Bhavnagar district on July 1, 1972, Mandaviya was first elected to the Rajya Sabha in 2012 and was re-elected in 2018. Earlier, he had served as chairman of the Gujarat Agro Industries Corporation Limited. He started his political journey as a member of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad, the RSS's student wing, before joining the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, the youth wing of the BJP. Mandaviya became the youngest MLA in Gujarat in 2002 when he was elected from Palitana constituency. A postgraduate in political science from Bhavnagar University, Mandaviya is also known for organising long padyatras (foot marches), including two that he held as an MLA to spread awareness about girls' education and the perils of addiction. As Union minister, he is credited with setting up over 5,100 Jan Aushadhi stores to provide more than 850 medicines at affordable rates and reducing the cost of heart stents and knee implants. He was honoured by UNICEF for his contribution to the cause of women's menstrual hygiene by using the chain of Jan Aushadhi Kendras to sell 10 crore sanitary pads made with oxo-biodegradable technology at a nominal price. The Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers has three departments -- Department of Chemicals and Petrochemicals; Department of Fertilizers; and Department of Pharmaceuticals. Controlling prices of diammonium phosphate fertilisers and other non-urea fertilisers, implementation of direct benefit transfer of subsidy to farmers, revival of sick urea plants, and reducing India's dependence on imports of crop nutrients are some of the challenges that Mandaviya will have to focus on immediately. The role of pharmaceutical department has become more important as the pandemic continues to affect the health and economic activities in the country. He will have his hands full in ensuring the continuous and uninterrupted supply of essential medicines, raw material and medical devices. Expanding the network of Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Kendras in the country is another key focus area of the Modi-government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-20-all-you-need-to-know-about-indias-new-health-minister-mansukh-mandaviya-1006073.html
07-07-2021||National||PM Modi makes Council of Ministers more socially representative, generational shift visible||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has boosted the representation of backward castes, dalits, tribals and women in his Council of Ministers in a big shake-up of his government with a focus on politically crucial states, including the all-important Uttar Pradesh. Through the exercise on Wednesday, he has also sought to boost governance quotient by bringing in a mix of young and experienced faces and dropping 12 ministers. A generational shift was also visible in the revamped ministry with many veterans like Harsh Vardhan, who had drawn flak for his handling of the Covid-19 pandemic as health minister, Prakash Javadekar, D V Sadananda Gowda and Ravi Shankar Prasad making way for new faces in the Cabinet. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh is now the only minister in the current government who had also served in the Vajpayee government during 1998-2004. The expansion is also a nod to the BJP's increasing geographical expanse as more states and regions have found representation in the Modi government while big states like West Bengal, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Karnataka have seen their presence boosted significantly. Among the 36 fresh faces in his Council of Ministers, most have been accommodated as ministers of state while the prime minister has filled the Cabinet with people with ministerial experience, including two former chief ministers and former IAS officers each, at either the state or central level. Seven ministers of state have also been elevated to the Cabinet rank. Bhupender Yadav is the lone Cabinet minister without any administrative experience but the seasoned BJP leader and parliamentarian is seen as a solid hand at desk. With an eye on constant social engineering, which has brought a large section of backward castes and dalits under the BJP's influence, since he led the BJP to power at the Centre in 2014, the prime minister has given seven new faces from Uttar Pradesh ministerial responsibilities with six of them coming from castes coming under the reserved category. Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh are due in early 2022. The BJP has given representation to various small states like Tripura and Manipur, where the party is in power, and also boosted the presence of its allies by giving one berth each to the JD(U) and the Lok Janshakti Party faction headed by Pashupati Kumar Paras, both from Bihar. Seven new woman ministers have also joined the government while one was dropped, significantly enhancing their presence in the Council of Ministers. Modi has often highlighted that the support of women voters have often played a key role in the BJP's wins in states and at the national level. Fifteen Cabinet ministers and 28 Ministers of State, comprising new faces and those elevated, were sworn in at a ceremony held in the Darbar Hall of the Rashtrapati Bhavan. While most of the members took oath in Hindi, a few of them took it in English. This is the first reshuffle in the Council of Ministers by Prime Minister Modi since he assumed charge for a second term in May 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-makes-council-of-ministers-more-socially-representative-generational-shift-visible-1006078.html
07-07-2021||National||Hyderabad court sentences TRS MLA, driver to 6-month simple imprisonment||A Special Court here on Wednesday sentenced a ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) MLA and his driver to six months of simple imprisonment in connection with a case registered against them in 2013 for assaulting a man. The judge of the Special Sessions Court for trial of MPs/MLAs found Danam Nagender, TRS MLA from Khairatabad here and his driver C Raju guilty under IPC section 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and sentenced them to undergo simple imprisonment for a period of six months. The court also imposed a fine of Rs 1,000 each on them, Special Public Prosecutor G Narayana said. According to the prosecution, in 2013 a two-wheeler rider had stopped his vehicle at a traffic signal in Banjara Hills area and Raju who was travelling in a car behind him, later obstructed and argued with him. They were taken to a local police station by police where later Nagender, who was then a minister in united Andhra Pradesh also reached. Nagender was then with the ruling Congress party. According to the prosecution, on Nagender's instigation, Raju beat up the two-wheeler rider causing simple injuries to him after which he filed a complaint based on which a case was registered against Nagender and his driver. The court suspended the operation of the sentence for one month to enable them to appeal in a higher court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hyderabad-court-sentences-trs-mla-driver-to-6-month-simple-imprisonment-1006103.html
07-07-2021||National||Ministry of External Affairs now has 3 Ministers of State||Muraleedharan, who was elected to the Rajya Sabha from Maharashtra, has been the Minister of State for External Affairs since May 2019, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government commenced its second term in office. Lekhi and Singh, who were elected to the Lok Sabha from Delhi and Manipur respectively, got the external affairs portfolio after being sworn in as the new Ministers of State on Wednesday. Lekhi is a law graduate from Delhi University and is a Supreme Court lawyer, apart from being a politician. Singh has a doctorate degree in geography from Gauhati University. Jaishankar’s predecessor Sushma Swaraj had two Ministers of State – V K Singh and M J Akbar – to help her, when she was holding the office of the External Affairs Minister during the Modi Government’s first term in power. Akbar, however, had to resign in October 2018 after being accused of sexually harassing woman journalists during his stint as editor of newspapers. Jaishankar, a diplomat-turned-politician, replaced Swaraj as the Minister of External Affairs after Modi led the Bharatiya Janata Party to victory in the 2019 elections and won a second term in the office of the Prime Minister. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ministry-of-external-affairs-now-has-3-ministers-of-state-1006107.html
07-07-2021||National||Who is Abbaiah Narayana Swamy?||Abbaiah Narayana Swamy (64), first time MP from Chitradurga (SC), is in public life for more than three decades. Native of Anekal in Bengaluru Rural, he also served as four-time MLA from his home-turf from 1998 to 2013. Belonging to Madiga sect of Dalit, Narayana Swamy also served as BJP chief whip in Karnataka Legislative Assembly. A graduate from the famous Government Arts College in Bengaluru, he has been an entrepreneur and a social worker. He also served as Social Welfare Minister in the BJP-ruled Government in Karnataka between 2010-2013. He had faced caste-based discrimination when he was denied entry to Gollarhatti village in Paavgada taluk in Tumakuru district in May 2019. However, subsequently, he won over the villagers and visited the village again to address their grievances. It was learnt that Narayana Swamy became minister as he was close to BJP National General Secretary B L Santosh. As part of the saffron party's plan to woo Dalit ( Left) community, which was always considered as BJP's strong vote back in the state, Narayanswamy was made as the Union Minister, sources in the BJP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-is-abbaiah-narayana-swamy-1006109.html
07-07-2021||National Politics||12 ministers resign ahead of Union Cabinet expansion amid row over Covid-19 response, IT war||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday showed the exit door to prominent ministers – Ravi Shankar Prasad, Harsh Vardhan, Sadananda Gowda and Prakash Javadekar – who had served in the government for the past seven years. Besides the four long-serving ministers, eight others also put in their resignations, including Thaawarchand Gehlot, who was appointed as the Karnataka Governor. The high-profile resignations came amid a rash of criticism of the handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, the bruised image of the Modi government over a range of issues, including economic slowdown and a running battle with social media giants such as Twitter. It remains to be seen how many of the 11 shown the exit door get fresh tasks in the organisation or gubernatorial responsibilities. While performance was the key criteria set by the Prime Minister, several ministerial exits were learnt to be on health grounds. Prasad, the government's face for the media, handled portfolios of Law and Justice, Electronics and Information Technology, and Communications, while Vardhan was in charge of the Health, which was tasked with crafting the government response to the Covid-19 pandemic. Prasad was instrumental in changing the rules that required the IT firms to remove and identify the “first originator” of posts that could be seen as undermining the sovereignty, national security or public order. Social media companies claimed that the rules were vague and that they could be forced to identify the authors of posts critical of the government. Some social media companies had moved court over the grievances over the new rules. Javadekar handled the sensitive portfolios of Environment, Forests and Climate Change, Information & Broadcasting, and Heavy Industries, while Gowda was in charge of Chemicals and Fertilisers. Another surprise exit was that of Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' who is learnt to have quit on health grounds, having contracted Covid-19 and was battling post-Covid complications. Modi was learnt to have been unhappy at the pace of work in the crucial ministry. Key appointments in the Education Ministry have been pending, particularly that of Vice-Chancellors to central universities and Directors of IITs. Major decisions related to the ministry such as the cancellation of the CBSE exams for Class 10 and 12 were taken by the Prime Minister and not by the education minister. Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar, who also served in the Vajpayee government, Ministers of States Sanjay Dhotre (Education & IT), Debasree Chaudhuri (Women & Child Development), Rattan Lal Kataria (Jal Shakti) and Babul Supriyo (Environment) also resigned. Gangwar, an eight-term member of Lok Sabha, had recently criticised the performance of the Yogi Adityanath government over the handling of the Covid-19 pandemic in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/12-ministers-resign-ahead-of-union-cabinet-expansion-amid-row-over-covid-19-response-it-war-1005837.html
07-07-2021||National Politics||Four MPs from Karnataka join Modi Cabinet 2.0||Four MPs from Karnataka joined Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Cabinet on Wednesday. Rajya Sabha MP Rajeev Chandrashekhar, Chikkamagaluru MP Shobha Karandlaje, Chitradurga MP A Narayanaswamy and Bidar MP Bhagawanth Khubha took oath as the Council of Ministers. Earlier in the day, Chandrashekhar, Shobha and Narayanaswamy attended the meeting of newly to be inducted ministers convened by the Prime Minister in the morning while Khubha received a call from the Prime Minister Office today. Khubha is on his way to Delhi from Hyderabad. This is the first time in recent days when Karnataka will get maximum representation in the Union Cabinet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/four-mps-from-karnataka-join-modi-cabinet-20-1005868.html
07-07-2021||National Politics||PM Modi should hold 'petrol and vaccine ki baat', not 'Mann ki Baat', says Mamata Banerjee||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for "making a mess of the country's economy" and urged him to hold 'petrol and vaccine ki baat' instead of 'Mann ki Baat'. Referring to the proposed Union Cabinet reshuffle, the chief minister, during a press meet, said the removal of Babul Supriyo from the council of ministers shows that "they (BJP government) have also lost it even before the arrival of their end" in 2024. Noting that none of the letters she wrote to the PM evoked any response, Banerjee said despite appeals for Jagdeep Dhankhar's removal as governor, nothing was done about it. "The entire economy is in doldrums. Fuel prices are increasing everyday and the Union government is sitting idle. Our prime minister is only busy with his Mann ki Baat. He should instead hold petrol ki baat, diesel ki baat and vaccine ki baat," she insisted. Asked about the possibility of BJP MP John Barla's induction in the Union ministry, weeks after he demanded a separate union territory for North Bengal, Banerjee said it will reflect the "divisive mindset" of the saffron party. "I won't comment on ministry reshuffle. Will reshuffle end the woes of the people?" she added.  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-should-hold-petrol-and-vaccine-ki-baat-not-mann-ki-baat-says-mamata-banerjee-1005895.html
07-07-2021||National Politics||Invited to oath taking ceremony: BJP MP Biseswar Tudu||Prominent tribal leader and BJPs Lok Sabha MP from Odishas Mayurbhanj, Bisweswar Tudu Wednesday said he has been invited to attend the oath taking ceremony likely to be held at 6 PM at Rastrapati Bhawan. Tudu was among the two MPs from Odisha, who got an invitation from the Prime Minister's Office this morning. "Me and Ashwini Vaishnaw attended the meeting in the PMO and were told to come to Rastapati Bhawan at 5 PM for the oath taking ceremony," Tudu told PTI over telephone from New Delhi. The 56-year-old tribal leader said that there were 47 MPs present at the PMO meet including about 12 Ministers of State. "I think some MOS are to be elevated to the Cabinet rank. Other attendees of the meeting at PMO were new faces," he said. Tudu, a first time MP from Mayurbhanj Lok Sabha seat, reserved for scheduled tribe candidates, said: "I do not know which department will be given to me. I thank the Prime Minister and partys senior leaders for recognising me". Replying to a question whether he would be given charge of Tribal Affairs, Tudu said: "It is the prerogative of the Prime Minister. However, I have a long history of working among tribal people, particularly in the Akhil Bharatiya Vanavasi Ashram". Tudu's name was being discussed since Tuesday after Jharkhand Governor Droupadi Murmu was notified to be replaced by Ramesh Bais. Murmu hails from Mayurbhanj district, a stronghold of the BJP in Odisha. The BJP has eight Lok Sabha members from Odisha and a lone Rajya Sabha member in Vaishnaw.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/invited-to-oath-taking-ceremony-bjp-mp-biseswar-tudu-1005921.html
07-07-2021||National Politics||Cabinet Reshuffle: Seven more women join PM Modi's new team||Seven more women have found a place in Narendra Modi's Council of Ministers, taking the total number to 11, in the Cabinet reshuffle on Wednesday, which also saw the dropping of a junior minister. At the beginning of Modi's second term, there were six women ministers, but Harsimrat Kaur resigned after Akali Dal snapped ties with the BJP-led NDA. The exclusion of Sushma Swaraj, who passed away, and Maneka Gandhi had then raised eyebrows. Minister of State Debasree Chaudhuri, who represents West Bengal's Raiganj, was dropped this time while other women ministers Nirmala Sitharaman, Smriti Irani, Renuka Singh and Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti retained their space in Modi 2.0. Apna Dal's Anupriya Patel returned to Modi's team after a gap of two years, after she failed to find a place in 2019, following her insistence that she should get a Cabinet berth. Others who found a place in Modi's team and their first ministerial assignment at the Centre are Shobha Karandlaje, Darshana Jardosh, Meenakshi Lekhi, Annapurna Devi, Pratima Bhaumik and Dr Bharati Pawar. At present, Parliament has a record number of 78 women MPs, with BJP having 41. Over the years, the number of women ministers have been increasing, but under Modi, there were more women Cabinet ministers and Sitharaman is part of the elite Cabinet Committee on Security. Modi could have created a record if he had added one woman into his team, as the Manmohan Singh government had 12 women ministers in 2013. However, the Modi government holds the record of having six women Cabinet Ministers at a time. While the number of women ministers are slowly increasing, India has a long way to go as there are at least nine countries where 50% or more women are in ministerial positions. Spain with 64.7% women ministers is at the top, followed by Nicaragua (55.6%) and Sweden (54.4%). Karandlaje, a close confidante of Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, enters Modi's council of ministers as a fiery politician who defends the party on all fora. Lekhi, who came out in staunch support of Modi for being BJP's prime ministerial candidate prior to 2014 elections, was considered following her performance inside and outside Parliament, especially her fierce fight to counter Congress allegations on the Rafale deal. Another interesting inductee is Annapurna Singh, former RJD Jharkhand president who joined BJP ahead of 2019 polls. She represents Kodarma and has defeated former Chief Minister Babulal Marandi. Jardosh, who has been in politics since 1988, is a three-term MP from Surat. The choice of Bharati Pawar, a medical practitioner from tribal community who represents Dindori, and Pratima Bhoumik, who represents Tripura West, also finds a space in the reshuffled council of ministers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cabinet-reshuffle-seven-more-women-join-pm-modis-new-team-1005938.html
07-07-2021||National Politics||Cabinet reshuffle meant for distribution of the spoils of power, says Congress||Ahead of a major reshuffle of the Union Council of Ministers, the Congress on Wednesday said the exercise was not driven by performance or governance but meant for "distribution of the spoils of power" and "adjustment" of defectors. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said if the cabinet expansion was to be done on the basis of performance then the prime minister should have been the first one to be removed for his failures in providing governance. He also said the finance minister, home minister and the defence minister too should have been axed as they failed in their respective roles. "The present cabinet expansion is not performance or governance driven, but is a distribution of spoils of power and defectors adjustment programme," he told reporters. "Overall, this cabinet expansion is not a performance appraisal. It is only a means of serving the interests of their allies and not for the country. But when will there be an appraisal of PM Modi's performance who brought the nation to the brink of poverty after turning away from its responsibility in the Corona epidemic," he asked. If performance and governance were the criteria then the first person to be sacked should be Modi as he has brought the government and the entire country to a standstill, he said. "Progress and peace and harmony have been thrown into the dustbin of history and the present prime minister would be remembered as an autocrat, who decimated India's economy, who ensured India was pushed into an abyss of unemployment and who ensured that India's strength as the super power of the 21st century was grossly undermined," the Congress leader alleged. Surjewala also said if performance and governance were the criteria, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Home Minister Amit Shah and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman too should be sacked, citing their failures to tackle the border standoff with China in eastern Ladakh, the continued problems of naxalism and terrorism and rising cases of mob lynching, and the poor economic condition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cabinet-reshuffle-meant-for-distribution-of-the-spoils-of-power-says-congress-1005951.html
07-07-2021||National Politics||Cabinet reshuffle: With Assembly polls in mind, PM Modi inducts seven ministers from Uttar Pradesh||Keeping in mind Assembly elections early next year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday doubled the number of central ministers by inducting seven more ministers from Uttar Pradesh. At present, Modi 2.0 had seven ministers -- Rajnath Singh, Mahendra Nath Pandey, Smriti Irani, Gen V K Singh, Krishan Pal, Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti and Sanjeev Balyan -- from Uttar Pradesh and with new inductions, it has risen to 14. If one takes Modi, a Gujarati by birth but represents Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh, and Naqvi, who hails from Uttar Pradesh but represents Jharkhand, the number will further rise. On Wednesday, Modi added Anupriya Patel, Pankaj Choudhary, Satyapal Singh Baghel, Bhanu Pratap Singh Verma, Kaushal Kishore, B L Verma and Ajay Kumar Teni to his team, with an eye on the Assembly polls early next year. Of the seven, three -- Baghel, Bhanu Pratap Singh Verma and Kishore -- are Dalits, indicating the importance the BJP gives to the community ahead of elections. The induction of Apna Dal chief Anupriya, who belongs to the Kurmi caste, after a gap of two years also shows that the BJP does not want to antagonise the community ahead of the polls. Among the new ministers, four each are from Maharashtra, West Bengal and Karnataka while three are from Gujarat and two each from Madhya Pradesh and Bihar. Rajasthan and Assam got one each. Altogether, the newly-minted Modi team has ministers from 25 states and union territories. Sources said the 78-member strong Modi team now consists of 12 ministers, including two Cabinet ministers, from the Dalit communities -- Chamar-Ramdassia, Khatik, Pasi, Kori, Madiga, Mahar, Arundathiyar, Meghwal, Rajbonshi, Matua-Namashudra, Dhangar and Dusadh. With the induction of a couple of ministers from Scheduled Tribes, their number has risen to eight and they represent eight states -- Arunachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha and Assam. Sources said they belong to seven communities -- Gond, Santal, Miji, Munda, Tea tribe, Kokana, and Sonowal-Kachari. The composition of the Council of Ministers also showed that there are 27 OBC ministers of which five are in the Cabinet. With the induction of a number of young ministers, the average age of the Council of Ministers have reduced to 58 years. Also, there are four former Chief Ministers, 18 former ministers in states and 39 former MLAs. The new team also has 13 lawyers, six doctors, five engineers and seven former bureaucrats. Seven ministers have PhDs while three are MBAs and 68 graduates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cabinet-reshuffle-with-assembly-polls-in-mind-pm-modi-inducts-seven-ministers-from-uttar-pradesh-1005960.html
07-07-2021||National Politics||Cabinet 2.0: BJP eyes OBC, Brahmin votes in UP polls through rejig||Apparently expecting a tough contest in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, which are barely nine months away, and given a sustained campaign by the opposition parties highlighting the state government's 'mismanagement' of the Covid-19 pandemic, the BJP has set about getting the caste equations right through Wednesday's cabinet reshuffle. Of the seven new entrants in the Union ministry, five hail from the OBC (Other Backward Castes) and one each from the Brahmin and SC communities. One of them, Anupriya Patel, who hails from the electorally influential 'Kurmi' community, is the president of Apna Dal (AD), an alliance partner of the BJP. The BJP has sought to placate Patel, who was a member of the Union cabinet in NDA-I and had been sulking after being left out the first time. By inducting Ajai Mishra, an MP from Kheri Lok Sabha seat, the BJP has made an attempt to woo the powerful 'Brahmin' community, which, of late, has not been happy with the Yogi Adityanath government in the state. Several brahmin MLAs and leaders of the saffron party had indicated that the community was being "persecuted" by the current regime. The induction of Kaushal Kishore, an MP from Mohanlalganj LS seat, who hails from 'Pasi' (SC) community was indicative of the BJP's efforts to reach out to the 'Dalits', who are not members of the caste to which BSP supremo Mayawati comes from. Three others -- Pankaj Chaudhary, Bhanu Pratap Verma and BL Verma -- belong to the 'Kurmi' community, which had stood by the saffron party in the 2014 and 2019 LS polls. BJP's massive win in the central and Avadh regions in UP was largely attributed to the support of the 'Kurmis'. It remains to be seen if the latest cabinet rejig, perhaps the last before the assembly polls in UP, does bear electoral fruits for the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cabinet-20-bjp-eyes-obc-brahmin-votes-in-up-polls-through-rejig-1005974.html
07-07-2021||National Politics||Jyotiraditya Scindia rewarded for delivering Madhya Pradesh to BJP||More than a year after playing a key role in installation of a BJP government in Madhya Pradesh, Jyotiraditya Scindia was rewarded with a berth in the Union Cabinet, a familiar terrain for the Rajya Sabha member who had served as a junior minister in the Congress-led UPA government. Scindia (50) resigned from the Congress and joined the BJP in March 2020 and his move triggered a chain of events which finally culminated in the collapse of the Kamal Nath government just 15 months after its formation, paving the way for the saffron party to assume power which it lost towards the end of 2018. On joining the BJP, he was made a Rajya Sabha member, while Shivraj Singh Chouhan came back as the chief minister. The scion of the former royal family of Gwalior had started showing signs of restlessness after the Congress high command chose veteran Kamal Nath over him to take over as the chief minister in December 2018. Things came to a head when Scindia warned of "hitting the streets" against his own party-led government if promises made to people in the manifesto were not fulfilled. The then chief minister Kamal Nath's retort that Scindia was free to carry out his threat to launch an agitation, finally proved his undoing. Born on January 1, 1971, and educated in Harvard and Stanford institutions, Scindia has traversed a long way after contesting his maiden election as a Congress candidate in 2002, a bypoll in the Guna Lok Sabha constituency, which was held because of the sudden death of his father, Madhavrao Scindia, in a plane crash. In 2007, he was inducted into the UPA government and remained a part of the Union Cabinet till 2014 by serving as a minister of state for communications, commerce and industry and power. In 2014, he was again elected from Guna, his traditional seat for a fourth time but lost from the constituency in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls to BJP candidate KP Yadav, who was once close to him. Scindia was the face of the Congress campaign in his capacity as the chairman of the poll campaign committee during the 2018 assembly polls in Madhya Pradesh. However, when the party came to power in the state after a drought of 15 years, the coveted post of chief minister went to Nath. After that he also lost the Lok Sabha polls from Guna and since then, he was not feeling comfortable with the Congress leadership in the state, sources close to him said. "While in the Congress, Scindia once paid a courtesy visit to Shivraj Singh Chouhan (then he was not CM) and that was the first indication of Scindia hobnobbing with the BJP," his close aide Pankaj Chaturvedi said. Then came the big act - 22 Congress MLAs loyal to Scindia, including six ministers, resigned from their assembly's membership and toppled the Congress government. The BJP rewarded his loyalists by inducting most of them into the cabinet of Chouhan. A majority of them later won assembly bypolls necessitated by the mass resignations of Congress MLAs. In the run-up to the bypolls in Madhya Pradesh, when Scindia was asked about the 'political coup' and when he had taken the final call to topple the Congress government, he told PTI, "When Nath asked me to hit the road, and that was the final call." Scindia was the second member from his clan to pull down a Congress government in Madhya Pradesh, decades after 'Rajmata' Vijaya Raje Scindia toppled the "anti-people" Congress government in the state, Chouhan earlier said. The entire Scindia family is now part of one party (BJP), Chouhan had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jyotiraditya-scindia-rewarded-for-delivering-madhya-pradesh-to-bjp-1005975.html
07-07-2021||National Politics||Narayan Rane's journey from Shiv Sena 'shakha pramukh' to Union minister||Having spent the better part of his political career in the Shiv Sena, Narayan Rane has come a long way, leaving two parties and forming his own outfit for a while, before joining hands with the BJP and becoming a Union minister. Rane (69) began his political career as a 'shakha pramukh' (local ward chief) in the Sena and rose up the ranks to become chief minister at the fag end of the Shiv Sena-BJP government's term in 1999. Not known to mince words, the Maratha leader having pockets of influence in the coastal Konkan region, was picked by Shiv Sena supremo Bal Thackeray as chief minister when he decided to remove the genial Manohar Joshi ahead of the 1999 assembly elections. Thackeray, however, expelled Rane from the Sena in July 2005 for "anti-party activities" after he alleged that tickets and posts were for sale in the Shiv Sena. Rane joined the Congress in August 2005 and quit it in September 2017. "I waited for 12 years. When I found that there was no scope for me in the Congress, I decided to quit from the primary membership of the party and membership of the legislative council," he had said in his rant against the party over "injustice" done to him and his supporters. Rane then said he had joined the Congress because he was assured that he will be made chief minister in six months. After quitting the Congress, Rane launched the Maharashtra Swabhiman Paksha in October 2017. In 2018, he declared support for BJP and was elected to the Rajya Sabha on that party's nomination. In October 2019, he merged his party with the BJP. Over the years, Rane's political rivals have been linking him to several incidents of violence, claiming his involvement in the murder of Shiv Sena worker Shridhar Naik and some other crimes in his Sindhudurg region of Konkan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/narayan-ranes-journey-from-shiv-sena-shakha-pramukh-to-union-minister-1005976.html
07-07-2021||National Politics||Cabinet Rejig | PM Modi, top ministers should have been sacked: Congress||The Congress on Wednesday said if performance was the criteria for the Union Cabinet reshuffle, Prime Minister Narendra Modi should have been sacked. “The prime minister should be sacked for bringing the country to a standstill. Peace and harmony has been thrown into the dustbin,” AICC General Secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala said. Surjewala also said if performance and governance were the criteria, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Home Minister Amit Shah and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman too should be sacked, accusing them of failure in tackling the border standoff with China in eastern Ladakh, the continued problems of Naxalism and terrorism and rising cases of mob lynching, along with the poor economic condition. He said the Cabinet expansion was not driven by performance or governance, but meant for “distribution of the spoils of power” and “adjustment” of defectors. “The Cabinet rejig is an eyewash. This is a defectors' adjustment exercise,” Surjewala said, taking a dig at former Congressman Jyotiraditya Scindia, who took oath as Cabinet minister. JD(U) leader R C P Singh, LJP leader Pashupatinath Paras and Apna Dal leader Anupriya Patel were also sworn in as Union Ministers. “Overall, this Cabinet expansion is not a performance appraisal. It is only a means of serving the interests of their allies and not the country. But when will there be an appraisal of PM Modi's performance, who brought the nation to the brink of poverty after turning away from its responsibility in the Corona epidemic?” he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cabinet-rejig-pm-modi-top-ministers-should-have-been-sacked-congress-1005983.html
07-07-2021||National Politics||BJP's Bengal organisation man finds place in Modi's cabinet||A seasoned war horse of the BJP in West Bengal, Bankura MP Subhas Sarkar has been the saffron party's organisation man in the state for long. On Wednesday, he found a berth in the Union Cabinet. He was elected to the Lok Sabha from the Bankura constituency in 2019, defeating Trinamool Congress (TMC) heavyweight and state Panchayat Minister Subrata Mukherjee. Sarkar, who was the vice-president of the West Bengal BJP from 2013, was a contender for the state party chief's post in 2015, but was made the general secretary instead. An organisational man, Sarkar was made the vice-president of the saffron party's state unit again in 2017. After securing the third position in Bankura in the 2014 Lok Sabha election, Sarkar went on to win the seat five years later, increasing the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) vote share by nearly 29 per cent compared to the 20 per cent it bagged in 2014. Born in 1953, Sarkar is a doctor by profession and a permanent resident of Bankura. He is also a member of the Standing Committee on Health and Family Welfare as well as the Consultative Committee, Ministry of Power and Ministry of New and Renewable Energy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjps-bengal-organisation-man-finds-place-in-modis-cabinet-1005994.html
07-07-2021||National Politics||Shantanu Thakur: An influential Matua community leader from Bengal||It was a family feud that brought Shantanu Thakur into politics and now he is one of the most influential leaders of the politically-crucial Matua community of West Bengal. Thirty-eight-year-old Shantanu Thakur, Lok Sabha member from Bongoan parliamentary seat who was sworn in as a union minister this evening, is one of the heir apparents of the influential Thakurbari – a socio-religious sect formed by his ancestors Harichand-Guruchand Thakur- for the uplift of the Matuas, the second-largest scheduled caste community of the state. A graduate by education, Shantanu, the eldest son of former TMC minister Manjul Krishna Thakur, was more into the development of the Matuas through various social services run by the Thakurbari in Thakurnagar and was never into politics. Matuas, with their sheer size of the population and tendency to vote en bloc, just like the minorities, make for an enviable vote bank that all the political parties had tried to secure since the nineties. TMC chief Mamata Banerjee had first reached out to the Matuas around a decade ago. She nominated Manjul Thakur as a candidate in 2011 and inducted him in her ministry as a minister of state. In 2014, Manjul's elder brother Kapil Krishna Thakur was nominated as a TMC candidate from the Bongaon Lok Sabha seat, which he had won hands down. But it was the sudden death of Kapil Krishna in October 2014 that kick-started the family feud between his widow Mamata Bala Thakur and his brother in law Manjul Krishna. Manjul wanted his youngest son Subrata Thakur to be nominated by the party for the by-election from the Bongaon seat, but the party leadership instead decided to nominate Mamata Bala. An infuriated Manjul Krishna quit the state cabinet to join the BJP and got Subrata, a party ticket to contest from the seat in February 2015, but he came third. Although Manjul Krishna returned to the TMC after few months but was never inducted back into the ministry; the party affairs in the area were handed over to Mamata Bala, the newly elected TMC MP Bongoan. But after his father was denied a ticket in the 2016 assembly polls and was cornered in the internal politics over the control of Thakurbari, Shantanu started hobnobbing with the saffron party. It was in February 2019, following a socio-religious meeting of the Matua community, which Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed, that Shantanu decided to join active politics, and within a month, he was given nomination from the Bongaon Lok Sabha seat. Ridding on the promise of implementation of CAA and NRC, Shantanu won the seat by defeating his aunt and became one of the key leaders of the BJP in the state. He had also accompanied Modi to Bangladesh during his last visit to Dhaka in the middle of the Bengal assembly polls, which also included a tour to Orakandi in Gopalgank district in Bangladesh where the founder of the Matua sect and social reformer Harichand Thakur was born. Voting patterns in the recently-held assembly elections showed that the Matuas did not vote en-bloc for any one party and preferred to split their vote between the ruling TMC and the BJP. His induction in the union ministry is seen as an attempt to woo back the community, which exhorts influence in at least five Lok Sabha seats in Nadia, North and South 24 Parganas districts, ahead of the 2024 general elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shantanu-thakur-an-influential-matua-community-leader-from-bengal-1005995.html
07-07-2021||National Politics||Sarbananda Sonowal's roller-coaster journey to a second time berth in Modi cabinet||Sarbananda Sonowal, who rose from the rough and tumble of student politics to assume the chief minister's chair in Assam, is back for his second innings at the Centre. As a dynamic student leader who went on to join the state's most prominent regional party AGP, before switching to the saffron camp, Sonowal was Prime Minister Narendra Modi's obvious choice for the job of Assam's chief minister when he scripted BJP's historic first electoral victory in any northeastern state, five years ago. Before being entrusted with running Assam, Sonowal who started out life as president of students' body AASU, was inducted in Modi's first cabinet as northeast's sole representative as a minister of state with independent charge. However, earlier this year, when Assam polls were announced, the BJP decided not to project him as the chief ministerial face. An obvious sign that he would be eased out of the top job. With Himanta Biswa Sarma getting that job, many political pundits had predicted that he would be accommodated in the Union cabinet in the next reshuffle. Sonowal, a law graduate, is considered to be a rarity - an honest politician who also worked to unite different communities with his oft-repeated lines 'Barak-Brahmaputra-plains-hills'. The greatest challenge to his rule came during widespread protests in the state against enactment of the Citizenship Amendment Act which saw his former comrades from the All Assam Students Union (AASU) turning against him. He was accused of failing to lobby the BJP leadership against the bill which AASU saw as compromising Assamese interests. His former colleagues termed this the "ultimate betrayal" by a man who was given the title of 'Jatiya Nayak' (leader of the community) after the scrapping of the controversial Illegal Migrants' Determination by Tribunal (IMDT) Act by the Supreme Court in 2005 which Sonowal had challenged as AASU president. Sonowal's foray into politics began with his joining the AASU where he served as president from 1992 to 1999. From AASU he predictably went on to join the Asom Gana Parishad in 2001, founded by his seniors in the students' organisation, and was elected the party's MLA from Upper Assam's Moran constituency in 2001. In 2004 he went on to successfully contest the Lok Sabha polls wresting the Dibrugarh parliamentary seat for the first time from the Congress by defeating former Union Minister Paban Singh Ghatowar. Sonowal left the AGP in January 2011 following differences with the party leadership and went on to join the BJP in February 2011. He went on to become the BJP state unit president in 2012 and was credited with raising the party's tally to seven from an earlier four in the 2014 Parliamentary polls. He, himself, wrested the Lakhimpur constituency from former Union Minister Ranee Narah of the Congress and was made the Union Minister of State for Sports and Youth Development. Sonowal, who belongs to the Sonowal-Kachari tribe, retained for the second consecutive term Majuli, the world's largest inhabited river island and the seat of Vaishnavite culture. Born on October 31, 1962 in Mulukgaon in Dibrugarh district as the youngest of Jibeswar Sonowal and Dineswari Sonowal’s eight offsprings, Sonowal is a bachelor and a devout follower of Assam's renowned Vaishnav saints Sankardeva and Madhavdeva.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sarbananda-sonowals-roller-coaster-journey-to-a-second-time-berth-in-modi-cabinet-1005996.html
07-07-2021||National Politics||Cracks in Bengal BJP deepen, two leaders slam Suvendu Adhikari||Cracks are deepening in the Bengal BJP following its defeat in the Assembly elections as two party leaders attacked the leader of its legislative party Suvendu Adhikari on Wednesday. While State BJP Yuva Morcha president Saumitra Khan resigned from his post alleging that Adhikari was misleading the Central leadership, former TMC minister and BJP leader Rajib Banerjee asked Adhikari to focus on reducing the price of fuel and cooking gas instead of attacking the chief minister. After announcing his resignation on social media, Khan alleged that Adhikari was highlighting himself instead of highlighting the party. “But sadly he is going to Delhi and misleading the Central leaders to project himself as the biggest leader in the BJP. Earlier, he tried to project himself as the biggest leader of the Trinamool Congress,” said Khan on a Facebook live session. Taking potshots at the State BJP president Dilip Ghosh, Khan said that whenever he raised the issues with him, he understood only half of it. “Even when our state president was told about this, he understood only half of it. The way BJP is being run in Bengal, nothing good will happen,” said Khan. He further alleged that after he repeatedly said that the party central observer in the state was making mistakes, he was sidelined. Khan said that the way the party was being run in Bengal, it was “very difficult” for him to lead the Yuva Morcha. However, he ruled out any possibility of leaving the BJP. On the other side, Adhikari refused to comment on Khan’s allegations. “I consider Saumitra as a colleague. I don’t want to give importance to his comments on Facebook live. Some have a habit of doing Facebook Live. The next State Yuva Morcha president will be decided by the Central leadership,” said Adhikari. Meanwhile, urging not to attack chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Rajib Banerjee in a social media post said “ I urge the Leader of the Opposition that instead of attacking the person whom the people of Bengal elected as the CM, the focus should be on addressing the plight of the people by reducing the price of petrol, diesel and cooking gas.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cracks-in-bengal-bjp-deepen-two-leaders-slam-suvendu-adhikari-1006000.html
07-07-2021||National Politics||Seven BJP ministers promoted to Cabinet rank||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday promoted seven of his junior ministerial colleagues to the rank of Cabinet ministers after being impressed by their performance. Ministers of State Kiren Rijiju, R K Singh, Hardeep Puri, Mansukh Mandaviya, Purushottam Rupala, G Kishan Reddy and Anurag Thakur were promoted to the rank of Cabinet ministers in the reshuffle effected in the council of ministers. Rijiju was Minister of State for Sports and Minority Affairs, while Singh was handling Power Ministry, Puri was in Civil Aviation and Mandaviya was in Shipping. All had independent charge of these ministries. Rupala was a Minister of State for Agriculture, while Reddy was in the Ministry of Home Affairs under Amit Shah. Thakur was deputy to Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. Sources said Modi was highly impressed with the performance of these ministers and decided to give them a promotion. "With the blessings of all the senior leaders, I have been given the responsibility to serve the people. I will make an all-out effort to accomplish whatever job I get," Rijiju said after taking oath as Cabinet minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/seven-bjp-ministers-promoted-to-cabinet-rank-1006014.html
07-07-2021||National Politics||Chirag Paswan moves Delhi HC challenging LS Speaker’s decision to recognise Paras as LoP in House||Leader of one of the factions of Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) Chirag Pawan Wednesday approached the Delhi High Court challenging the Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla’s decision to recognise his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras as the leader of the party in the House. Chirag also tweeted in Hindi saying that he has filed a petition in the Delhi high Court against the Lok Sabha Speaker’s initial decision recognising party’s expelled Member of Parliament Pashupati Paras Jee as the leader of the party in the House. Advocate Arvind Bajpai said he has filed the petition on behalf of Chirag Paswan and the Lok Janshakti Party challenging the Speaker’s decision. लोक जनशक्ति पार्टी ने आज माननीय लोकसभा अध्यक्ष के प्रारम्भिक फ़ैसले जिसमें पार्टी से निष्कासित सांसद श्री पशुपति पारस जी को लोजपा का नेता सदन माना था के फ़ैसले के ख़िलाफ़ आज दिल्ली उच्च न्यायालय में याचिका दाखिल की गई है। He said the review of the decision is pending with the Speaker and despite reminders no action has been taken after which they have approached the high court. The lawyer said the petition is currently under scrutiny. Paras, who was administered the oath of office as Union cabinet minister on Wednesday, has spent the larger part of his career under the shadow of his late brother Ram Vilas Paswan. The petition has sought setting aside speaker’s June 14 circular showing the name of Paras as leader of Jan Lokshakti Party in the Lok Sabha. It sought direction to that a corrigendum be issued by showing the name of Chirag Paswan as leader of the party in the House. “Change of leader in Lok Sabha is prerogative of particular party and in the present case, Article 26 of the Constitution of the petitioner no. 2 (party) provide that central parliamentary board will decide who would be leader, chief whip, etc. in the house or in assembly,” the plea said. It added, “the entire action of respondent no. 1 is contrary to rules of lok Sabha, procedure, practice, provision of constitution of petitioner no. 2, and oppose to principle of natural justice. Paras, who previously headed Lok Janshakti Party’s Bihar unit and is currently the national president of its breakaway faction, began his innings in 1978 as a Janata Party MLA from Alauli in his native Khagaria district, a seat formerly represented by the late Ram Vilas Paswan. A cornered Chirag, who has challenged his uncle’s political coup before the Election Commission, seemed to have sensed the writing on the wall when at a press conference in Patna on Tuesday he declared he had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him not to induct Paras on the LJP quota. PTI SKV SKV RKS RKS||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/chirag-paswan-moves-delhi-hc-challenging-ls-speaker-s-decision-to-recognise-paras-as-lop-in-house-1006023.html
07-07-2021||National Politics||Cabinet 2.0: With 36 new faces, Modi pulls all stops, targets many birds with 1 stone||Effecting a major rejig in the second year of his second term, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday dropped 12 ministers from his Council of Ministers including those handling the key portfolios of health, education, telecom, IT and Information and Broadcasting and inducted 43 with 36 new faces including Jyotiraditya Scindia, Sarbananda Sonowal and Narayan Rane. A total of 15 Cabinet Ministers and 28 Ministers of State were sworn in by President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday. While Health Minister Harsh Vardhan was dropped in wake of mounting criticism of his ministry's handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, what came as a surprise was the resignations of IT and Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and I&B Minister Prakash Javadekar, who were the media faces of Modi government, being fielded to counter the government's criticism on issues ranging from media freedom to social media rows. Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar, who had months ago complained to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath about the Covid-19 management situation in his constituency, also put in his papers. Chemicals and Fertilizers Minister D V Sadananda Gowda (68) put in his papers after BJP chief JP Nadda called him, springing a surprise. Indications are that some of them will be pressed into party work, where a number of key vacancies exist. Union Ministers Kiren Rijiju, former IPS officer R K Singh, Hardeep Singh Puri, Mansukh Mandaviya, Parshottam Rupala, G Kishan Reddy and Anurag Thakur were elevated to the Cabinet-level amid perception of their having worked well in the respective ministries. Gujarat, the home state of Mandaviya and Rupala and Himachal Pradesh, the home state of Anurag Thakur, are going to the polls next year. The change reflected not only in resignations and inductions of new ministers but was also followed in portfolio allocation and clubbing of ministries. Entrusting Mansukh Mandaviya with the charge of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and the Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers, Modi has put his faith in the young leader from Gujarat to undo the damage done to the government's image during the second wave of the pandemic while Jyotiraditya Scindia, who delivered Madhya Pradesh to the BJP after defecting from the Congress has been given the Civil Aviation Ministry. Anurag Thakur got the important portfolio of Information and Broadcasting besides the Sports and Youth Affairs Ministry ahead of the Olympics. Another young minister Kiren Rijiju was elevated to Cabinet rank and got the Law and Justice portfolio. Ashwini Vaishnav is the new Ministry for Railways, Communications and MEITY held by Piyush Goyal and Ravi Shankar Prasad earlier. Vaishnaw, a former IAS officer like S Jaishankar and Hardeep Singh Puri, has been brought in with the target of bringing efficiency in government.   Dharmendra Pradhan lost the Ministry of Petroleum but got the Education Ministry along with the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship based on the argument that synergy was required at a time when job creation was a big challenge for the government. Home Minister Amit Shah will also look after the newly created Ministry of Cooperation while his right-hand man in organisation Bhupendra Yadav got the Labour and Employment Ministry along with the Ministry of Environment, Forest & Climate Change (last held by Javadekar). Goyal was given the Ministry of Textiles and the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution (ministries held by Smriti Irani and the late Ram Vilas Paswan respectively), besides retaining his earlier portfolio of Commerce and Industry. Hardeep Singh Puri, after his elevation, got the ministries of Housing and Urban Affairs as well as Petroleum and Natural Gas while R K Singh got the Ministry of Power and the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy. G Kishan Reddy got the ministries of Culture, Tourism and Development of North Eastern Region. Delhi MP Meenakshi Lekhi was made the MoS in the Ministry of External Affairs and the Ministry of Culture. BJP allies were also inducted - RCP Singh of the JD(U) received the Ministry of Steel, Pashupati Kumar Paras from the LJP got the Ministry of Food Processing Industries and Anupriya Patel of the Apna Dal (Sonelal) got the Minister of State in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The age of inductees ranged from 35-year-old Nisith Pramanik from West Bengal to 69-year-old Narayan Rane as government sources claimed that with this reshuffle, Modi had got the youngest Cabinet in the history of India. The average age of the Council of Ministers was now 58, sources said, and signalled a succession plan for the future, which the BJP had been pushing by promoting second- and third-rung leaders through such exercises time and again. There has been an attempt to add professional expertise to the Modi Cabinet, which has often faced a talent-deficit problem. The new team has 13 lawyers, six doctors, five engineers and seven former bureaucrats. Seven ministers have PhDs while three have MBAs and 68 are graduates. Barring the top four ministries at Raisina Hill, other key ones have gone for an overhaul. It's an attempt to reset governance amid a growing perception in the BJP that even Prime Minister Narendra Modi's image had taken a beating on the issue of the handling of Covid-19. As such, it was interesting to see who was inducted into key ministries like education, health and some ones related to infrastructure to get the economy back on track.   Nearly three dozen new faces have been inducted ahead of the 2022 state polls in six states, including Uttar Pradesh, which has 80 Lok Sabha constituencies. Crucial to the BJP's performance in the general elections, the Modi government reached out to OBCs, SCs and STs in a big way. Seven more ministers were inducted from UP, where elections are due next year and the BJP is facing a huge anti-incumbency problem. Sarbananda Sonowal, the former Assam Chief Minister, received the Ministry of Ayush and the Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways in recognition of his services as Assam's first BJP Chief Minister and then quietly made way for Himanta Biswa Sarma after the polls this year. Narayan Rane's induction, who got the Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, is an indication of a big Maharashtra game plan in the future, where an Opposition alliance led by the Shiv Sena, the NCP and the Congress is ruling.   By inducting the Apna Dal (Sonelal)'s Anupriya Patel, the JD(U)'s R C P Singh and the LJP's Pashupati Paras in the Council of Ministers, the BJP has sought to firm up ties with coalition partners after having lost key allies like the Shiv Sena and the Shiromani Akali Dal in the last two years. Other prominent inductees were Madhya Pradesh Lok Sabha MP Virendra Kumar, Karnataka MP Shobha Karandlaje, Rajeev Chandrasekhar, Ajay Bhatt, Meenakshi Lekhi, Bharati Pawar, Shantanu Thakur and Kapil Patil. The reshuffle, kind of a complete overhaul, sought to combine a package of energy, experience, expertise and election priorities as the government attempted to send a message that it was open to course correction. While Scindia has an MBA from Stanford University and a BA from Harvard University, Rajeev Chandrasekhar has an MTech in Computer Science from the Illinois Institute of Technology, along with an Advanced Management Program degree from Harvard University. Ramchandra Prasad Singh, a former IAS officer, has an MA in International Relations from JNU while Subhas Sarkar has an MBBS degree from Calcutta University. Bhagwat Kishanrao Karad's degrees include an MBBS, MS (General Surgery), MCh (Pediatric Surgery), and FCPS (General Surgery), while L Murugan, the BJP Tamil Nadu chief, has an LLM and PhD in Law from Madras University. Munjapara Mahendrabhai, a Lok Sabha MP for Surendranagar, has an MD in General Medicine and Therapeutics. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cabinet-20-with-36-new-faces-modi-pulls-all-stops-targets-many-birds-with-1-stone-1006027.html
07-07-2021||National Politics||Cabinet reshuffle: Full list of ministers in PM Modi's Cabinet and their portfolios||The Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government on Wednesday carried out its first major rejig of Union Cabinet since May 2019. In Modi's Cabinet 2.0, 43 ministers were inducted into the Cabinet, with 36 fresh faces. Here are the portfolios that have been assigned to newly-inducted Union Ministers: 2. Hardeep Singh Puri gets Urban Development, Housing and Petroleum ministries. 3. Smriti Irani will be the Women and Child Development Minister, and will also look after Swacch Bharat Mission. 4. Piyush Goyal will monitor the Ministry of Commerce, in addition to the Ministry of Textile and the Ministry of Consumer Welfare. 5. Ashwini Vaishnaw will be the Minister of Railways as well as Minister of IT and Communication. 6. Mansukh Mandaviya will head the Ministry of Health and Chemicals and Fertilisers Ministry. 7. Anurag Thakur will oversee the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, along with Youth Affairs. 8. Jyotiraditya Scindia will replace Hardeep Singh Puri as the Civil Aviation Minister. 9. Ramchandra Prasad Singh takes over as Minister of Steel.  10. Giriraj Singh will be the Minister of Rural Development and Minister of Panchayati Raj 11. Virendra Kumar will be the Minister of Social Justice and Empowerment. 12. Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi retains the post of Minister of Minority Affairs. 13. Sarbananda Sonowal will be Minister of Ports, Shipping and Waterways and Minister of AYUSH. 14. Narayan Tatu Rane will be Minister of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises. 15. Pralhad Joshi will be Minister of Parliamentary Affairs, Minister of Coal and Minister of Mines. 16. Dharmendra Pradhan will be Minister of Education, and Minister of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship. 17. Pashupati Kumar Paras will be Minister of Food Processing Industries 18. Gajendra Singh Shekhawat will be Minister of Jal Shakti. 19. Kiren Rijiju will be Minister of Law and Justice. 20. Raj Kumar Singh will be Minister of Power and Minister of New and Renewable Energy. 21. Bhupender Yadav will be Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change and Minister of Labour and Employment. 22. Mahendra Nath Pandey will be Minister of Heavy Industries. 23. Parshottam Rupala will be Minister of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying. 24. G Kishan Reddy will be Minister of Culture, Minister of Tourism, and Minister of Development of North Eastern Region. 25. Narendra Singh Tomar will remain Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare. 26. Nirmala Sitharaman will remain Minister of Finance and Minister of Corporate Affairs. 27. Nitin Gadkari will remain Minister of Road Transport and Highways. 28. Subrahmanyam Jaishankar will remain Minister of External Affairs. 29. Arjun Munda will be Minister of Tribal Affairs. 30. Rajnath Singh will remain Minister of Defence. Here are the portfolios that have been assigned to newly-inducted Ministers of State: 1. Rao Inderjit Singh is Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation; Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Planning, and Minister of State in the Ministry of Corporate Affairs. 2. Jitendra Singh is Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Science and Technology; Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Earth Sciences; Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office; Minister of State in the Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions; Minister of State in the Department of Atomic Energy, and Minister of State in the Department of Space. 3. Shripad Yesso Naik will be Minister of State in the Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways, and Minister of State in the Ministry of Tourism. 4. Faggansingh Kulaste will be Minister of State in the Ministry of Steel, and Minister of State in the Ministry of Rural Development. 5. Prahalad Singh Patel will be Minister of State in the Ministry of Jal Shakti and Minister of State in the Ministry of Food Processing Industries. 6.Ashwini Kumar Choubey will be Minister of State in the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, and Minister of State in the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. 7. Arjun Ram Meghwal will be Minister of State in the Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs, and Minister of State in the Ministry of Culture. 8. General (Retd.) V. K. Singh will be Minister of State in the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, and Minister of State in the Ministry of Civil Aviation. 9. Krishan Pal will be Minister of State in the Ministry of Power, and Minister of State in the Ministry of Heavy Industries. 10. Danve Raosaheb Dadarao Minister of State in the Ministry of Railways, Minister of State in the Ministry of Coal, and Minister of State in the Ministry of Mines. 11. Ramdas Athawale will be Minister of State in the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment. 12. Niranjan Jyoti will be Minister of State in the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, and Minister of State in the Ministry of Rural Development. 13. Sanjeev Kumar Balyan will be Minister of State in the Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying. 14. Nityanand Rai will be Minister of State in the Ministry of Home Affairs. 15. Pankaj Chaowdhary will be Minister of State in the Ministry of Finance. 16. Anupriya Singh Patel Minister of State in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. 17. S P Singh Baghel will be Minister of State in the Ministry of Law and Justice. 18. Rajeev Chandrasekhar will be Minister of State in the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, and Minister of State in the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology. 19. Shobha Karandlaje will be Minister of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare. 20. Bhanu Pratap Singh Verma will be Minister of State for MSMEs. 21. Darshana Vikram Jardosh will be Minister of State in the Ministry of Textiles, and Minister of State in the Ministry of Railways. 22. V Muraleedharan will be Minister of State in the Ministry of External Affairs, and Minister of State in the Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs. 23. Meenakashi Lekhi will be Minister of State in the Ministry of External Affairs, and Minister of State in the Ministry of Culture. 24. Som Parkash will be Minister of State in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. 25. Renuka Singh Saruta will be Minister of State in the Ministry of Tribal Affairs. 26. Rameswar Teli will be Minister of State in the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, and Minister of State in the Ministry of Labour and Employment. 27. Kailash Choudhary will be Minister of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare. 28. Annpurna Devi will be Minister of State in the Ministry of Education. 29. A Narayanaswamy will be Minister of State in the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment. 30. Kaushal Kishore will be Minister of State in the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. 31. Ajay Bhatt will be Minister of State in the Ministry of Defence, and Minister of State in the Ministry of Tourism. 32. B L Verma Minister of State in the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region, and Minister of State in the Ministry of Cooperation. 33. Ajay Kumar will be Minister of State in the Ministry of Home Affairs. 34. Devusinh Chauhan will be Minister of State in the Ministry of Communications. 35. Bhagwanth Khuba will be Minister of State in the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy, and Minister of State in the Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers. 36. Kapil Moreshwar Patil will be Minister of State in the Ministry of Panchayati Raj. 37. Pratima Bhoumik will be Minister of State in the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment. 38. Subhas Sarkar will be Minister of State in the Ministry of Education. 39. Rajkumar Ranjan Singh will be Minister of State in the Ministry of External Affairs, and Minister of State in the Ministry of Education. 40. Bharati Pravin Pawar will be Minister of State in the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. 41. Bishweswar Tudu will be Minister of State in the Ministry of Tribal Affairs, and Minister of State in the Ministry of Jal Shakti. 42. Shantanu Thakur will be Minister of State in the Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways. 43. Munjapara Mahendrabhai will be Minister of State in the Ministry of Women and Child Development, and Minister of State in the Ministry of AYUSH. 44. John Barla will be Minister of State in the Ministry of Minority Affairs. 45. L Murugan will be Minister of State in the Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, and Minister of State in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting 46. Nisith Pramanik will be Minister of State in the Ministry of Home Affairs, and Minister of State in the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports 47. Bhagwat Kishanrao Karad will be Minister of State in the Ministry of Finance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cabinet-reshuffle-full-list-of-ministers-in-pm-modis-cabinet-and-their-portfolios-1006042.html
07-07-2021||National Politics||Bishweswar Tudu, Odisha's tribal face in Union cabinet||Growing up in the forests of Koraput  and working among tribals across Odisha as a Akhil Bharatiya Vanvasi Kalyan Ashram functionary, Bishweswar Tudu, a first time Lok Sabha member, has emerged as the state's tribal face in the Union cabinet. A diploma holder in Electrical Engineering, Tudu joined BJP after quitting a state government job with the Balimela hydro-electricity generation project. He won the 2019 general elections from the reserved Mayurbhanj seat. Though the Mayurbhanj seat was held by Naveen Patnaik's BJD in 2009 and 2014 elections, it was Tudu's hard work and clean image that ensured the saffron party's victory in the 2019 elections. Of the 9 assembly constituencies in Mayurbhanj district, six are held by BJP representatives while three other seats are held by BJD. The son of former soldier Sukil Tudu, Bishweswar Tudu was closely associated with organisations run by the RSS. His father was also a former sarpanch of Sanamundamani Gram Panchayat under Morada block of Mayurbhanj district.  Apart from his association with the Akhil Bharatiya Vanvasi Kalyan Ashram, Tudu was also active in the Saraswati Sishu Mandir project of the Sangh Parivar. His association with the RSS and its frontal organisations dates back to about two decades before he became an MP. Tudu also heads the Odisha State BJP's ST Morcha and is a general secretary of the BJP at the national level. His elevation to the union cabinet as Odisha's tribal face was considered strategic as Draupadi Murmu's tenure as Jharkhand governor ended recently and she was not given a second gubernatorial responsibility. The BJP has nine MPs from Odisha and eight of them are in Lok Sabha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bishweswar-tudu-odishas-tribal-face-in-union-cabinet-1006085.html
07-07-2021||National Politics||Union Cabinet, Council of Ministers likely to meet on Thursday||The Union Cabinet and the Council of Ministers are likely to meet on Thursday, a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi carried out a major expansion and reshuffle of his ministers. It is usual for the prime minister to convene meetings of the Union Cabinet as well as the Council of Ministers after a reshuffle or expansion exercise. The two meetings would be held back-to-back Thursday evening, sources said. Last week, the prime minister had chaired meetings of the Cabinet and the Council of Ministers. The Council had discussed the situation arising out of the coronavirus pandemic with the PM asking the ministers to create an environment where people follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and get themselves vaccinated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/union-cabinet-council-of-ministers-likely-to-meet-on-thursday-1006086.html
07-07-2021||National Politics||PM Narendra Modi congratulates newly sworn-in ministers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi congratulated his cabinet colleagues who took oath on Wednesday and asserted that they will continue working to fulfil the aspirations of people and build a strong and prosperous India. Fifteen cabinet ministers and 28 ministers of state, including new faces and those elevated, were sworn in at a ceremony held in the Darbar Hall of the Rashtrapati Bhavan. In a tweet, Modi said, "I congratulate all the colleagues who have taken oath today and wish them the very best for their ministerial tenure. We will continue working to fulfil aspirations of the people and build a strong and prosperous India. #Govt4Growth."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-narendra-modi-congratulates-newly-sworn-in-ministers-1006093.html
07-07-2021||North and Central||Art 370, 35A only gave separatism, terrorism, nepotism, corruption: J&K LG||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha Tuesday said Articles 370 and 35A -- which were revoked by the Centre in August 2019 -- gave only separatism, terrorism, nepotism and large scale corruption to the erstwhile state. Addressing a national webinar to mark the birth anniversary Bharatiya Jana Sangh founder Syama Prasad Mookerjee as part of Azaadi ka Amrut Mahotsav at Raj Bhavan here, Sinha remembered Mookerjee as the architect of fully integrated and modern India. Steadfastly working to realise the goal of "Ek Vidhaan, Ek Pradhaan, Ek Nishaan (one constitution, one leader and one flag)", Mookerjee's struggle in J-K was a revolution and he sacrificed his life while fighting for it, the LG said. Mookerjee wanted to see Jammu and Kashmir like other states of India with the same rights for the people of J&K as in the rest of India, he said. "Today, on his birth anniversary, while expressing my sincere tributes to Dr. Mookerjee from Srinagar, I want to express my gratitude to the Hon'ble Prime Minister for fulfilling his dream on August 5, 2019, leading to the complete integration of Jammu and Kashmir with the country," he said. Sinha said that due to Article 370, constitutional reforms and hundreds of central laws which would have been helpful in raising the quality of life of people and bringing a surge of development in the region were not implemented in J-K. “Article 370 and 35A gave only separatism, terrorism, nepotism and large scale corruption to J-K. There was not a single provision in it that would connect J-K to the mainstream development,” the LG said. He added that Article 370 also provided that the Indian flag would be flown only on two occasions in J&K but today, it is being hoisted proudly on every government building of Jammu and Kashmir and in every school. All 890 central laws are now applicable here, he said. "The rule of only a handful didn't give leadership opportunities to any young citizen of J-K, but today the youth of J-K are not only making successful political debut but are also marching towards development,” he remarked. The Lt Governor said Mookerjee had made immense contributions to the Constitution of India, India's politics, education and modern industries. "I believe Dr. Mookerjee's arrival in Jammu and Kashmir, 68 years ago, in May 1953, was the first Swadeshi movement of the country after independence. And today, his Tapobhoomi is illuminated with development as his dream turned into reality many years after his arrival,” he said. Sinha said Mookerjee had such integrity and dedication for nation-building that he did not rest until the challenge at his hand was resolved. "He believed that the basic element of good governance, nationalism, change, prosperity of the society, is wholesome policy and even the most complex problems can be solved with the righteous approach,” Sinha said. "I strongly believe that national integration is the first step in the development of citizens and Dr. Mookerjee knew that this unity was incomplete without the complete integration of J-K with rest of the country," he said. “I believe that the country became independent in 1947, but its political consciousness and political sense was found due to Dr. Syama Prasad Mookerjee," he added. Sinha said the views of Mookerjee's on J-K issue, relations with neighboring countries and reforms in elections were like the fragrance of spirituality in Indian politics. "Today, if J-K is moving ahead on the path of development, then it is only because of two personalities, one Dr. Syama Prasad Mookerjee and the other is Hon'ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi," he said. "I bow down to Dr. Syama Prasad Mookerjee for his steadfast efforts, amazing valour and supreme sacrifice to get justice. And today Jammu and Kashmir has been fully integrated with India and taking along the crown jewel of India, we have to move forward for the development of the country with full faith, determination," he said. The webinar was organised by the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA) and was attended by Arif Mohammed Khan, the Governor of Kerala; Droupadi Murmu, the Governor of Jharkhand, Prahlad Singh Patel, the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge), Ministry of Culture and Tourism; among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/art-370-35a-only-gave-separatism-terrorism-nepotism-corruption-jk-lg-1005741.html
07-07-2021||North and Central||Minor gang raped before parents in revenge for brother's elopement with lover in Uttar Pradesh||In a shocking incident, a minor was allegedly gang raped before her parents by eight people to exact revenge after her brother eloped with a girl from their family in Uttar Pradesh's Amroha district. According to the police sources here on Wednesday, the brother of the victim, a resident of Chjalit area in the neighbouring Moradabad district, had eloped with a girl of his village a few days back. The family members of the girl, who were seething in anger, hatched a conspiracy to exact revenge from the victim's family. They took the parents of the victim to the house of one of their relatives on the pretext of searching for the lovers last week. They later forced the victim's parents to call her and ask her to reach there. Sources said that the victim was gang raped by the father of the girl, her brother and some other relatives for several days. The parents of the victim kept begging them to spare her but they said that they wanted to take revenge. Police sources said that the victim and her parents were set free with a warning that they would be punished further if they approached the cops. A case was later lodged with the police in this regard against eight persons, sources said adding that a hunt was on to nab the culprits. Sources also said that the victim was forcibly married to the brother of the girl who had eloped with her lover, in a bid to avoid police action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/minor-gang-raped-before-parents-in-revenge-for-brothers-elopement-with-lover-in-uttar-pradesh-1005845.html
07-07-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh to allow Kanwar yatra this year||The Uttar Pradesh government will allow the annual Kanwar Yatra in the state from July 25 and officials have been asked to coordinate with neighbouring states to ensure Covid guidelines are followed, a senior official said on Wednesday. 'Kanwariyas' (devotees of Lord Shiva) collect water from River Ganga at Haridwar to offer at Shiva temples in their areas as part of the yatra. Uttarakhand has cancelled the yatra this year citing the pandemic. Uttar Pradesh Additional Chief Secretary, Navneet Sehgal told PTI that "Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has asked to coordinate with neighbouring Bihar and Uttarakhand and ensure Covid guidelines are following during the yatra," Sehgal said that detailed guidelines regarding the Yatra will be issued soon and a meeting of senior officials will be held to discuss the matter. Uttrakhand has appealed to officers of neighbouring states to ask devotees not to come to Haridwar this month for the annual pilgrimage to collect water from the Ganga. The Kanwar yatra was not held in Uttar Pradesh last year due to Covid restrictions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-to-allow-kanwar-yatra-this-year-1005848.html
07-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi's Nitrogen Dioxide pollution up 125% in one year, says study||Delhi recorded an increase of 125 per cent in NO2 (nitrogen dioxide) pollution between April 2020 and April 2021, according to a Greenpeace India study which analysed NO2 concentrations in India's eight most-populous state capitals. NO2 pollution has increased in all the eight capitals studied – Mumbai, Delhi, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Chennai, Kolkata, Jaipur and Lucknow – but Delhi has seen the “most dramatic increase” during the period, the report said. NO2 is a dangerous air pollutant that is released when fuel is burned, as in most motor vehicles, power generation, and industrial processes. Exposure to NO2 can severely impact people's health at all ages, affecting the respiratory and circulatory systems and the brain, leading to an increase in hospital admissions and mortality. "Satellite observations reveal NO2 pollution increased to 125 per cent of April 2020 levels. The analysis suggests the increase would have been even greater (146 percent) had weather conditions been similar to 2020," read the report, titled “Behind the Smokescreen: Satellite Data Reveal Air Pollution Increase in India's Eight Most Populous State Capitals”. Although relatively better than the capital, other Indian cities too recorded an equally worrying increase in NO2 levels. NO2 pollution increased by 52 per cent in Mumbai, 90 per cent in Bengaluru, 69 per cent in Hyderabad, 94 per cent in Chennai, 11 per cent in Kolkata, 47 per cent in Jaipur and 32 per cent in Lucknow in April 2021 compared to the same month last year, the study showed. As the pandemic continues to have a severe impact on India during 2021, there is growing evidence that polluted cities suffer disproportionately more coronavirus cases. The health impact of fossil fuel-related air pollution is severe and has been reflected time and again in several reports. Yet there has been little change in our reliance on fossil fuels, including coal, oil and gas. Increased economic activity is still largely coupled with toxic air pollution in most cities, Greenpeace India said. “The air quality levels in these cities are alarming. The cities and the people are already paying a huge price for our reliance on burning fossil fuels, this business as usual cannot continue. People saw clean skies and breathed fresh air during the nationwide lockdown though it was an unintended consequence of the pandemic," said Avinash Chanchal, senior climate campaigner at Greenpeace India. "The disruption caused by the pandemic is a case to transition to cleaner, equitable and sustainable decentralised energy sources such as rooftop solar and clean and sustainable mobility must be central to recovery efforts across cities. The recovery from the pandemic must not come at the expense of a return to previous levels of air pollution," he added. "Motor vehicles and industries based on fossil fuel consumption are the major drivers of NO2 pollution in Indian cities. The governments, local administration and city planners must initiate the transition from privately owned vehicles to an efficient, clean and safe public transport system that is run on clean energy that of course, must provide COVID-19-related safety measures," Chanchal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-nitrogen-dioxide-pollution-up-125-in-one-year-says-study-1005869.html
07-07-2021||North and Central||5G roll out: Delhi HC grants a week to Juhi Chawla to deposit Rs 20 lakh in costs||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday expressed shock at the conduct of Bollywood actress Juhi Chawla and two others, who were yet to deposit Rs 20 lakh cost imposed on them for their lawsuit challenging 5G wireless network technology. “The court is shocked at the conduct of the plaintiffs... not willing to gracefully deposit the costs," Justice J R Midha said.  The court's observation came while hearing three applications by the actor seeking a refund of court fees, waiver of costs imposed and replacing the word dismissed in the judgment with “rejected”. Chawla's counsel, senior advocate Meet Malhotra, after withdrawing the application for waiver of costs, submitted that the cost would either be deposited in a week or ten days, or legal remedies against it would be taken.  The court told the counsel that it took a lenient view while imposing Rs 20 lakh cost on the petitioners and did not initiate contempt proceedings. “I was shocked. This court took a lenient view and did not issue contempt when case was made out. I was totally inclined," the judge said. Chawla’s counsel, for his part, clarified it was not meant that cost won’t be paid.  The court, finally, granted a week to Chawla and two others to deposit Rs 20 lakh in costs.  The court ordered the third application for using the word "rejected" instead of "dismissed" before Justice Sanjeev Narula after depositing of court fees. It fixed the matter for further hearing on July 12.  On June 4, the court dismissed a plea by actor Juhi Chawla against the introduction of 5G technology with Rs 20 lakh for abusing the process of law. It had held that the suit filed by her and two others was "for publicity" and was also defective and not maintainable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5g-roll-out-delhi-hc-grants-a-week-to-juhi-chawla-to-deposit-rs-20-lakh-in-costs-1005894.html
07-07-2021||North and Central||Ghaziabad temple assault: Police warn of action against those found fanning communal hatred||The Ghaziabad Police on Wednesday warned of action against anyone who provokes communal disharmony over the murder of two assistants to a priest at a temple here. Last Thursday, a priest of the temple located on the banks of the Ganges canal in Murad Nagar town and two of his assistants were brutally assaulted when they objected to three people eating their meals on the premises. While one of the assistants, Praveen, died the same day, the other, Devendra, succumbed to injuries on Tuesday. The priest, Vinod Bhagat, is undergoing treatment. The police, however, made it clear that no meat or liquor was being consumed by the alleged assailants on the temple premises, as was made out in a video clip on social media. Superintendent of Police (Rural) Iraj Raja identified the three people arrested in the case as Nitin Sharma, Ashwani Tyagi, and Akash. All three are in prison. The police added that there was no communal angle in the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ghaziabad-temple-assault-police-warn-of-action-against-those-found-fanning-communal-hatred-1005897.html
07-07-2021||North and Central||J&K likely to get advanced anti-drone systems||Jammu and Kashmir faces a new threat- that of drones. A recent terrorist attack via drones at the IAF facility in Jammu has set the alarm bells ringing. The central agencies are now looking to test global facilities such as Israel’s laser technology-based solutions and have them deployed over the next few months. The installations are likely to take place in the region and alongside the Pakistan border.  The report stated an IED recovered from a militant on the same day of the attack was also delivered to him via drone, suggesting that there are control rooms along the border to carry out such attacks. The new anti-drone system will be developed to detect far carrying weapons, narcotics and ready-to-use IEDs. Meanwhile, drones are being seized that belong to civilians in J&K, even though they are used for personal purposes such as photography and tourism. “Drones already in possession of civilians in J&K are being seized. Though their purpose is often explained as wedding or tourism photography, the threat of they being launched by terrorists or overground workers cannot be ruled out,” an intelligence officer said while speaking to the publication. Reports also stated that the government is keen to test Israel's advanced anti-drone systems, including Iron Dome technologies, that is extremely precise and plans to test these over the next few weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-likely-to-get-advanced-anti-drone-systems-1005901.html
07-07-2021||North and Central||SC orders probe into dropping of land from acquisition during Congress rule||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed for CBI probe into dropping acquisition of 288 acres of land in Rohtak in favour of a real estate developer, Uddar Gagan Properties Limited, during the Congress-party rule in 2005-06. A bench of Justices U U Lalit, Ajay Rastogi and Aniruddha Bose passed the order for CBI probe into matter, in trouble for former Haryana CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda. The top court had, in May 2016, quashed the decision to drop the acquisition of land and directed for transferring the licence in favour of Haryana Urban Development Authority (HUDA) which was to develop residential and commercial sectors in Rohtak. It had then asked the state government to inquire into the legality and bona fides of the action of those responsible for illegally entertaining the applications of the builder and releasing the land to it. Current Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced in Assembly on March 13, 2018 for CBI probe in the matter. The state government, subsequently, preferred to order an inquiry by a retired judge. A probe conducted by a retired IAS officer Rajan Gupta, gave a report in 2017, pinning the blame on "failure of the system" in the matter. The state government, for its part, said the report cannot be accepted as it was "incomplete".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-orders-probe-into-dropping-of-land-from-acquisition-during-congress-rule-1005956.html
07-07-2021||North and Central||Over 90 held in fake call centres bust in Delhi||The Delhi Police's Crime Branch has busted two fake call centres targeting US citizens and arrested over 90 people, officials said on Wednesday. The call centres were located in Kirti Nagar and Mangolpuri, they said. Police were informed that an illegal call centre operating from Kirti Nagar area was indulging in large-scale cyber cheating of US citizens on the pretext of revocation of social security number (SSN) in the garb of a travel agency called The Global Airfares, a senior police officer said. Around 8.30 pm on Tuesday, a police team raided the premises and found around 20-25 people engaged in communicating with the victims. "It was later found that they were impersonating Social Security Administration Department, USA and engaged in using illegal techniques, VoIP calling, bypassing the legal international long distance (ILD) gateways and cheating US citizens on the pretext of saving people from suspension of their SSN," Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime) Manoj C said. A total of 30 people, including three women, were involved in the gang and were using high-end technical software for making calls appearing as genuine US numbers, they said. Amit Tyagi (25), a resident of Burari, introduced himself as owner of the call centre, police said. Amit further admitted that he runs a similar remote call centre at Mangolpuri by using cloud server. Thereafter, police raided that call centre and found 67 people, including 16 women and two juveniles. The accused were engaged in cheating US citizens on the pretext of suspension of SSN under the garb of TeleOne E-commerce Agency, police said. Later, Amit said that one Vinay Tyagi, a resident of Kirti Nagar, is his partner. Amit could not produce any authority or license to run this call centre. The accused would ask the prospective targets to buy gift cards and provide the information to the supervisor on the call for resumption of their suspended account, police said. These gift coupons were shared with a person abroad who would convert these and wire it to the accounts of the accused in form of deposits, police said. A total of 82 desktop, five laptop, 84 mobile phones and 48 ID cards were seized from the spot, police said, adding that further investigation is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-90-held-in-fake-call-centres-bust-in-delhi-1005977.html
07-07-2021||North and Central||Heatwave conditions in Rajasthan; Sriganganagar sizzles at 45.4 deg C||Heatwave conditions prevailed in parts of Rajasthan on Wednesday with Sriganganagar recording the highest day temperature of 45.5 degrees Celsius. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a warning of heatwave in the districts of Jaipur, Bharatpur and Bikaner divisions in the next 48 hours. Dholpur recorded a maximum temperature of 43.1 degrees Celsius, Churu 42.5 degrees Celsius, Sawai Madhopur 42.3 degrees Celsius, Alwar 42.2 degrees Celsius, Pali 41.7 degrees Celsius, Phalodi 41.4 degrees Celsius and Nagaur 41.3 degrees Celsius. However, from July 10, the temperatures are expected to drop by three-four notches due to monsoon. On July 10-11, heavy rain in the districts of Udaipur, Kota divisions is likely. Monsoon will touch Sriganganagar, Hanumangarh, Bikaner and Churu districts of Bikaner division between July 11 and 13.  During July 11 to 15, there is a possibility of rain at most places. Monsoon is also likely to arrive in the districts of Jodhpur division during July 12-13, according to the MeT department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/heatwave-conditions-in-rajasthan-sriganganagar-sizzles-at-454-deg-c-1006015.html
07-07-2021||North and Central||Nearly 50 people with gastrointestinal problems post recovery from Covid admitted to Delhi hospital||Nearly 50 adults and children who have recovered from Covid-19 have been admitted to a private facility with gastrointestinal problems such as colitis, live abscess in adults and multi-system inflammatory syndrome in children. Aakash Healthcare in Dwarka has received 30 cases of colitis, about 10 cases of liver abscess and 10 cases of pancreatitis. Doctors at the medical facility have come across a steady flow of children and adults who have recovered from Covid-19 in the past six weeks and are facing such issues, a statement said. A 60-year-old woman was readmitted to the hospital four weeks after her recovery from Covid-19. During investigations for chest infection, doctors observed pus in the liver which was removed by a drain to ensure successful recovery, it said. A 14-year-old boy was also brought to the hospital four weeks after he recovered from Covid-19 with bleeding in stool. Doctors managed the condition endoscopically and with medicines to ensure successful recovery, it added. Doctors say nearly 50 adults and children have been admitted to the hospital with gastrointestinal (GI) problems, including colitis, colon ulcers, and liver abscess in adults and pancreatitis and multi-system inflammatory syndrome in children. "People who developed symptoms six to eight weeks ago and recovered from Covid after three-four weeks came with the problem of loose motions which turned out to be colitis. We had about 10 cases of liver abscess and 10 cases of pancreatitis in adults. A lot of children, suffering from multi-system inflammatory syndrome (MIS-C) and pancreatitis after recovering from Covid, have also been admitted during this time," said Dr Sharad Malhotra, Head, Gastroenterology Department, Aakash Healthcare. Malhotra said they have seen an average of five cases of pancreatitis and 10 cases of liver abscess in three weeks. The senior doctor said it is important to look after the infections apart from chest problems since these can emerge as additional complications in people with respiratory failures and pneumonia. "Besides, GI problems can reduce immunity and aggravate infection. Till now, no one in the hospital died due to post-Covid gastro problems but these complications should be looked after to prevent the severity of the cases. People should maintain a healthy lifestyle during these times. A healthy diet and regular physical activities are necessary,” he said. Dr Aashish Chaudhry, Managing Director of the medical facility, said the management of Covid-19 does not get over with recovery from the infection and the post-Covid symptoms are quite varied with no pattern and can impact any organ of the body, even if that organ was not affected by the virus. "With the monsoon approaching in Delhi, a time when GI problems are more likely to increase, we may face the problem of diagnosing the right cause behind the problem. We have taken note of GI problems as a post-Covid manifestation and are in the process of setting up protocols to offer right treatment during monsoon," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nearly-50-people-with-gastrointestinal-problems-post-recovery-from-covid-admitted-to-delhi-hospital-1006074.html
07-07-2021||North and Central||Minor gangraped in front of parents for revenge in UP||In a shocking incident, a minor was allegedly gangraped in front of her parents by eight people to exact revenge after her brother eloped with a girl from their family in Uttar Pradesh's Amroha district. According to the police sources on Wednesday the brother of the victim, a resident of Chjalit area in the neighbouring Moradabad district, had eloped with a girl of his village a few days back. The family members of the girl, who were seething in anger, hatched a conspiracy to exact revenge from the victim's family. They took the parents of the victim to the house of one of their relatives on the pretext of searching for the lovers last week. They later forced the victim's parents to call her and ask her to reach there. Sources said that the victim was gangraped by the father of the girl, her brother and some other relatives for several days. The parents of the victim kept begging them to spare her but they said that they wanted to take revenge. Police sources said that the victim and her parents were set free with a warning that they would be punished further if they approached the cops. A case was later lodged with the police in this regard against eight persons, sources said adding that a hunt was on to nab the culprits. Sources also said that the victim was forcibly married to the brother of the girl, who had eloped with her lover, in a bid to avoid police action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/minor-gangraped-in-front-of-parents-for-revenge-in-up-1006090.html
07-07-2021||North and Central||Rajiv Gandhi's statue catches fire in Ludhiana||A statue of former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi installed near the banks of Buddha Dariya here caught fire under mysterious circumstance, prompting police to launch investigation. The incident took place in the Slem Tabri locality on Wednesday. Police have started investigation into the matter and said if it is found that someone has committed mischief, he will not be spared.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajiv-gandhis-statue-catches-fire-in-ludhiana-1006099.html
07-07-2021||North and Central||Pakistani terrorist killed as Army foils infiltration bid along LoC in Rajouri||A Pakistani terrorist was gunned down as Army troops foiled an infiltration bid along the Line of Control (LoC) in Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday, a defence spokesman said. Two soldiers were injured in the firefight with the terrorists who made an attempt to cross the LoC, official sources said. "In the early hours today, a group of Pakistani terrorists made an attempt to infiltrate across the LoC in the Nowshera Sector of Rajouri," the spokesman said. Alert Army troops thwarted the infiltration bid by suitably employing an integrated surveillance grid along with domination by fire, and engaging the terrorists in a fierce firefight in which one terrorist was neutralised, he said, adding that his body has been recovered. An AK 47 rifle, four magazines of AK 47 with ammunition and two hand grenades have been recovered, he said.  This action displays resolve of the Indian Army to thwart any misadventure on the Line of Control, the spokesman said. According to sources, two soldiers were injured in the gunfight and have been hospitalised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistani-terrorist-killed-as-army-foils-infiltration-bid-along-loc-in-rajouri-1006104.html
07-07-2021||Opinion||Dilip Kumar: The gardener of the Pasmanda movement||A celebrity's lack of interest in social causes and larger politics could be a matter of debate. Yet, we can safely posit that Indian celebrities, for example, most Hindi film industry icons, have selfishly received from society and failed to give back in return. Was this always the case? I am not sure, but there comes to my mind an exception to this rule - Dilip Kumar aka Yusuf Khan. Few know that Dilip Kumar participated extensively in the struggles of the marginalised among the Muslim community. Such empathy is exceptional for someone from upper castes, that too from an individual who has achieved a niche among the country's elites. The thespian spent a substantial time of his late working life participating with activists of the All India Muslim OBC Organization (AIMOBCO) for the rights of Pasmandas in Maharashtra. To know details of this facet of Dilip Saheb's life, in 2017, I sought out social activist and founder of AIMOBCO Vilas Sonawane, well-known lyricist Hassan Kamal and president of AIMOBCO Shabbir Ansari. Sonawane met Dilip Kumar for the first time at Mumbai's Islam Gymkhana. Kamal informed me that this meeting coincided with a phase in the actor's life when he actively supported social causes. If an issue related to the Indian Army would come to his knowledge, or if he heard of a natural calamity, Dilip Kumar used to contribute as much as he could. He believed a film star should associate himself with the issues of the larger society or else people will forget him as soon as his career ends. Sonawane and Ansari informed Dilip Kumar about the Mandal Commission report and its provisions for Pasmandas, or backward, Muslims. They told him how 85 per cent of Muslims are Pasmanda and could benefit from the AIMOBCO movement. Dilip Kumar shared a similar view and remarked that the balance 15 per cent are traditionally well-off and did not need the support of reservations. Dilip Kumar promised Sonawane help. However, what he did was beyond everyone's expectations. Soon, Dilip Saheb officially joined the AIMOBCO in 1990 and associated with its organisational activities on almost a daily basis. He participated in more than a hundred public meetings all over India. His public meetings in Aurangabad and Lucknow turned out to be significant political events. His celebrity status attracted large crowds and jolted the political class to heed the demands of people. In these meetings, Dilip Saheb insisted that reservation for Pasmandas should not be seen as a religious issue. He said it was a social tool to uplift this socially and educationally backward community, which happens to be Muslims. He said Pasmandas suffered caste marginalisation. Their discriminatory categorisation into occupational biradaries (communities) restricted their economic mobility and social development. Reservations were a constitutional process, and marginalised communities should use the opportunity for social and economic mobility. He helped people get organised, made them understand the rationale behind reservations, and brought them together to agitate from a common platform. He became a medium to spread the voices that were unheard till then. Although the AIMOBCO was working for the issues of Pasmandas since 1978, Dilip Kumar's association with them was a shot in the arm for the movement. The government had to listen to the demands of the millions who had rallied behind the organisation. On December 7, 1994, the Maharashtra government issued an order to include socially and educationally backward Muslims in the state list of OBCs. A massive achievement of the Pasmanda movement was the state government issuing over 57 notifications on the issue. But the story is incomplete without discussing in greater depth Dilip Kumar's social location and personal journey in this struggle. How did a Pathan from a zamindar background become an activist for Pasmandas? I was not satisfied with the explanation that Dilip Kumar's compassionate nature was the reason for his participation in this movement. So, I went back to Ansari with these questions. Ansari told me of the events in Dilip Kumar's life that sensitised him towards associating with the Pasmanda movement. Ansari told me that while Dilip Kumar was quite socially aware, he was initially hesitant about the caste question in Muslim society. Ansari narrated one incident which might have played an important role in sensitising Dilip Kumar towards the evil of caste. Dilip Kumar used to play football in his childhood days. Among many of his friends was a Dalit boy who eventually became the football team captain. When he became captain, he invited all players to dinner at his home. Only Dilip Kumar turned up for dinner, and the rest of his teammates did not. When Dilip Kumar inquired about their absence, the boy said, "I belong to a low caste; they will neither come to our place nor eat food with us." Another incident that might have influenced Dilip Kumar was when some students from the Pasmanda community in Maharashtra sought financial help from his organisation. Ansari told Dilip Kumar that other backward communities are taking the benefit of reservations, and if Pasmandas did too, these boys would be able to become doctors and engineers. This explanation so convinced Dilip Kumar that he provided financial help to all the six students. It was only after this incident that Dilip Kumar officially joined the organisation. He received much flak for his espousal of the Pasmanda cause, even fatwas from ulemas and criticism from elite Muslims. Dilip Kumar would often talk about his meetings with Baba Saheb Ambedkar and how these opened him towards the question of caste and caste discrimination. It is tough to pick a point in time - whether the impact of meetings with Ambedkar, his experience of the lot of Dalits and Pasmandas, or his own experiences of a displaced childhood - when Dilip Kumar truly changed. But Dilip Kumar not only transcended his caste privileges forever, he never sought any fame nor used his activism as a public relations exercise for his career. That very few of the current generation know about his critical role in the Pasmanda movement is the most significant evidence that he never tried to appropriate it. He always pushed the leaders of the movement ahead instead of himself. As Ansari told me, Dilip Kumar identified himself as a baghbaan, or gardener. He believed that since his father was a fruit merchant, it makes him a baghbaan too. Dilip Saheb will always be a baghbaan of the Pasmanda movement who nurtured the orchard so that others could enjoy the fruits. The writer is a PhD scholar at National Law University, Odisha (A previous version of this article was published a couple of years back on roundtable.co.in) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/dilip-kumar-the-gardener-of-the-pasmanda-movement-1005877.html
07-07-2021||Opinion||Last 60 days and one nation one election||Ever since the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) performed poorly in the recent round of Assembly polls, a reshuffle, even expansion, of the Union council of ministers has looked imminent. There is finally hope, for the first time since the country re-elected this government 25 months ago, that Prime Minister Narendra Modi would induct technocrats better skilled to shore up the country's falling economic indicators. The PM could also rope in the more dynamic of the BJP leaders to redress the talent deficit in the Union cabinet, exposed most notably during the Covid-19 spread. The usually reliable sources in the government have suggested the Cabinet expansion could see the entry of some of the more educated BJP leaders in the council, like those who are doctorates or have post-graduate degrees. There would be more representation to the BJP's allies and also to Dalits and OBCs, they say. Would the PM have mulled expanding his council if not for the BJP's poor results in the Assembly polls to four states and one Union Territory announced on May 2, particularly the BJP's loss in West Bengal? Would the BJP's leadership have pondered mending relations with allies by giving them more representation in the council or induct Dalits and OBCs if not for the forthcoming Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh? The Modi government, it would seem, has in the past couple of months become more receptive to criticism on the economic downturn and its handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Modi government has also taken a slew of decisions in the two months between May 2 and now. It will surely take several more pro-people decisions in the eight months to the next round of Assembly polls to UP, Uttarakhand, Manipur, Goa and Punjab. The trigger for these decisions is undoubtedly the May 2 results and nervousness about the next round of polls. Beyond the debate over whether a heterogeneous country like India is served any purpose by holding simultaneous polls, the PM's plan of 'one nation one election' might save the exchequer money. It could also reduce the expenditure political parties make on election campaigning. But is 'one nation one poll' a panacea for people? From the evidence of the last eight weeks, frequent elections do seem to spur governments, even those with big majorities like the current Union government, to be more responsive to the urgent needs of the people. Take, for example, the issue of the price of Covid-19 vaccines. In its manifesto for the Bihar Assembly polls in October 2020, the BJP promised free vaccines to the people of Bihar if it were to win. It forgot the pledge once it won. On June 7, a little over a month after the Assembly election results and an unsavoury tussle with state governments later, the PM addressed the nation to announce free Covid-19 vaccines for all. Less than a week later, the GST Council slashed tax on Covid-19 related medicines, testing kits and oxygen concentrators. There have also been other piecemeal decisions, including subsidy to farmers on fertilizers, to provide salve to people brought to their knees because of job losses, inflation and Covid-19 deaths. Would this be as readily forthcoming if not for polls in Punjab and UP in February 2022? Events in Afghanistan seem to have contributed to the Centre initiating the dialogue with Kashmir-based political parties. But would a government euphoric by its electoral triumphs shown similar sagacity to talk to a group of political leaders it had termed the 'Gupkar gang'? Currently, the 53-member council of ministers has only one ally in it, Ramdas Athawale of the Republican Party of India (A). A government that swears by cooperative federalism should have accommodated more of its partners from among the regional parties. But the BJP's success in Uttar Pradesh in the 2019 Lok Sabha had meant it dropped ally Apna Dal's Anupriya Patel from the council of ministers. Patel is likely to return with the BJP nervous about the UP Assembly polls. Similarly, the Janata Dal (United) and its leader Nitish Kumar, the BJP's most significant ally after the Akalis and Shiv Sena exited from the NDA,  have faced the ignominy of being ignored for the last one year. The BJP has finally taken to accord him more respect. The Modi government and the larger Sangh Parivar have reached Dalits through social welfare schemes in the last seven years. Still, Thaawarchand Gehlot was a rare Dalit representation from the BJP ranks in the council of ministers. Would more Dalits had found entry if not for forthcoming elections in Punjab, which has the highest Dalit population in the country, and in UP, where Dalits are a significant electoral group? The size of the council of ministers should not exceed 15 per cent of the strength of the Lok Sabha. With 53-members, the council of ministers is currently a lean one. The PM can add another 29 but did not in the last 25-months ostensibly because of the 'maximum governance, minimum government' promise. Ironically, the constant elections have forced the PM and his advisors to induct better talent, even if it might mean a bigger council of ministers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/last-60-days-and-one-nation-one-election-1005902.html
07-07-2021||Panorama||Global Minimum Tax: A new effort to rein in corporates that play games||When Justice Oliver Wendell Homes, in a dissenting 1927 US Supreme Court judgement, stated that taxes are what we pay for a civilised society, he was stating a truism: the money collected from taxes pays for the development of a country, for providing essential services to its citizens. Governments expect citizens and corporates to promptly pay taxes. While governments have a reasonably effective enforcement machinery to ensure that citizens pay their taxes, the challenge has been in ensuring that corporates, particular multinational enterprises, pay what’s due from them. The G-20 countries, an informal grouping of 19 countries and the European Union, which together account for two-thirds of the global population, and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) had in this backdrop suggested an inclusive ‘Framework on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting’ (BEPS) project, which targeted tax-planning strategies that sought to shift profits to low-tax jurisdictions. These tax-planning strategies relied on mismatches and gaps that exist between the tax rules of different jurisdictions to minimise the corporate tax that is payable overall, by either making taxable profits “disappear” or shift profits to low-tax operations where there is little or no genuine activity. The BEPS reports released in 2015 were aimed at improving the “coherence, substance and transparency of the international tax system.” Base erosion, as has been pointed out, constitutes a serious risk to sovereignty, tax fairness and tax revenues for both developed and developing countries alike. For instance, the Tax Justice Network, a UK-based organization, has estimated that each year, India lost to tax havens a whopping $10 billion. India ratified the Multilateral Convention to Implement Tax Treaty Related Measures to Prevent Base Erosion and Profit Shifting – and deposited the Instrument of Ratification with the OECD, Paris, under the Convention. It entered into force for India on October 1, 2019, and its provisions on India’s DTAAs from FY2020-21 onwards. However, the BEPS project did have very many shortcomings. The OECD released blueprints of proposed solutions to address these challenges – it introduced a two-pillar approach to international tax reform in 2019 to address the digital economy (Pillar One) and unresolved BEPS issues (Pillar Two). Pillar 1 was meant to “adhere to the concept of net taxation of income, avoid double taxation, and be as simple and administrable as possible.” In simple terms, the OECD did agree to the concerns of governments that companies were not paying enough tax in jurisdictions where they had ‘market-facing’ activities. Pillar 2 sought to give governments the “right to ‘tax back’ where other jurisdictions had not exercised their primary taxing rights, or the payment was otherwise subject to low levels of effective taxation.” Essentially, Pillar 2 sought to establish a minimum level of taxation on multinational companies doing business around the world; and if companies fell below those thresholds, they would owe additional tax. Pillar 2 required companies to “top up” the tax paid to bring the amount to a minimum effective tax rate. OECD Pillar 2 was to apply after Pillar 1, rather than concurrently. Companies would first allocate the tax due to jurisdictions where they generate revenue under Pillar 1; then, if they were still below the minimum effective tax rate, Pillar 2 guidelines would be applied. The OECD proposals got a push when US President Joe Biden came to power, leading to what UK Chancellor Rishi Sunak termed “seismic tax reforms”. The historic G-7 Finance Ministers’ Communique of June 5 committed to the principal design elements of the OECD’s two-pillar approach for international tax reform. This includes a commitment to introduce a global minimum tax of at least 15% on a country-by-country basis. The agreement will now be discussed in further detail at the G-20 meeting this month. The brilliant French economist Gabriel Zucman, a protégé of Thomas Picketty, known for his research on tax-planning and tax havens and who is at the forefront of the fight to bring multinationals within tax jurisdictions, has estimated that the redistribution of profits from high-tax countries to tax havens or lesser-tax countries has resulted in around 40% of profits having shifted. The resultant loss was said to be in the range of $620 billion. This, he has pointed out, has resulted in headline economic indicators like countries’ GDP, trade balances getting distorted. Thus, the G-7 decision is a huge step forward and will reduce tax rate arbitrage. Concerns have been raised that the proposal impinges on a nation’s right to decide on tax policy; that taxation is a sovereign policy determined by local factors, and whether it would in any way tackle tax evasion at all. This is a myopic view. No country in this globalised, inter-connected world would like to facilitate corporate tax-planning bordering on the illegal. While the Richter scale of these ‘seismic developments’ -- to stretch the analogy of Chancellor Sunak -- will be known only after the G-20 meeting, suffice it to say that they would shake up the global corporate taxation system. India in 2019 reduced its corporate tax rate to 22% for domestic companies and 15% for new manufacturing companies. However, its large domestic market size should continue to attract global players. There has been no official government reaction thus far but India, which is a member of G-20, will be watching these developments closely. The global minimum tax should, in the words of US Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen, “end the race to the bottom in corporate taxation”. Nothing can be better than that result. (The writer is a former chairman of the Central Board of Indirect Taxes & Customs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/global-minimum-tax-a-new-effort-to-rein-in-corporates-that-play-games-1005701.html
07-07-2021||Panorama||Herd immunity: The curious case of Dharavi||The government and the medical fraternity need to think of ways to mitigate the virulence of the Coronavirus in the potential next wave. While personal hygiene, wearing of masks, maintaining social distance and universal vaccination are inevitable, the idea of herd immunity has once again gained prominence in the trending debate over whether to rely on herd immunity or on lockdowns. This has turned the spotlight on Dharavi— home to over a million slum-dwellers crammed into just over two square kilometres of area, where recently there have been periods of no Covid-19 cases reported. According to our research, titled Dharavi Slums (Mumbai, India): The Petri Dish of Covid-19 Herd Immunity, which I co-authored with Zameer Shervani and Roma Nikhat of Food & Energy Security Research & Product Centre, Japan, and was published in late May in the European Journal of Medical and Health Sciences, the Dharavi population has demonstrated that antibodies acquired through herd immunity could keep Covid-19 at bay. It raises the question whether what worked in Dharavi could be replicated elsewhere and if herd immunity could be a viable alternative to lockdowns. Dharavi is the antithesis of lockdown, which mandates avoiding crowded places, living in well-ventilated and sanitised places and maintaining the highest standards of personal hygiene — none of this is possible in Dharavi. By these parameters, the mortality rate should have been exponentially high there, but it has turned out to be just the opposite. It is a unique case of people developing high levels of immunity by total exposure to pathogens, resulting in rapid proliferation of infection and equally swift formation of antibodies in infected individuals. Also, we must remember that the vaccination rate remains low in Dharavi. Herd immunity Herd immunity, also known as population immunity, is the protection from an infectious disease that happens when a population becomes immune either through vaccination or through immunity developed through previous infection. Herd immunity against Covid-19 should be achieved by protecting people through vaccination, which the World Health Organisation (WHO) supports, and not by exposing them to the pathogen, attempting which could result in unnecessary cases and deaths. The percentage of people who need to be immune in order to achieve herd immunity varies with each disease. According to WHO studies, herd immunity against measles requires about 95% of a population to be vaccinated— the remaining 5% will be protected by the fact that measles will not spread among those who are vaccinated. For polio, the threshold is about 80%. The proportion of the population that must be vaccinated against Covid-19 for herd immunity to kick in is not yet known. This is an important area of research and will likely vary according to community, vaccine, populations prioritised for vaccination and other factors. The first (July-August 2020) and the second (October 2020) serosurveys conducted in Dharavi showed that seroprevalence was found to be 57% and 45% respectively. Such a percentage of antibody occurrences must be good for herd immunity. In the other slums of Mumbai, such as in Cuffe Parade, seroprevalence was 75%. The same 75% population of Dharavi should also have developed antibodies by now. This is one of the main reasons for zero cases being reported there. But this cannot be recommended elsewhere unless the group or population is fully vaccinated. The risk of herd immunity becoming counterproductive due to the non-formation of antibodies is high.  Although the findings of the research will certainly help to set the parameters for another serosurvey in select areas or cities so as to assess the extent of antibody formation in the population, it is difficult to extrapolate the findings to be universally applicable. It cannot be applied in other areas as it is but it can be the base model for them. Third wave Experts working with WHO and a number of virologists have forecast a more serious and more virulent third wave. With high levels of antibody prevalence and vaccination rates, herd immunity may ward off the intensity of the third wave. We have sufficient experience in handling the pandemic and with a greater number vaccinated, increased testing, speeding up the production of necessary equipment and medicines, we could reduce mortality during the third wave. It will be fatal to think that the pandemic is over and it is safe to resume a normal life. As of today, we don’t have complete knowledge of the characteristics and the specific structure of the Coronavirus. Moreover, we need to prepare our medical fraternity to deal with the virus’ mutations. Wearing a mask, good and effective personal hygiene and developing high immunity are the standard operating procedures now. Incidentally, people in Dharavi used facemasks and remained confined due to the lockdown. Further studies should be conducted in areas where the population density is high but pandemic-related mortality was low. Also, we have to be alert about the rural areas and increase medical facilities there as the third wave may affect these areas more severely. (The writer is with the Centre for Skin and Hair Pvt Ltd)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/herd-immunity-the-curious-case-of-dharavi-1005737.html
07-07-2021||Second Edit||Resolve Mekedatu issue through talks||Karnataka’s proposal to construct a balancing reservoir across river Cauvery at Mekedatu has met with strong opposition from Tamil Nadu, which is not surprising considering that both states were locked in a bitter dispute over water-sharing for nearly a century. The Mekedatu project is aimed at providing drinking water and generating electricity for Bengaluru. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s move inviting his Tamil Nadu counterpart M K Stalin for talks to resolve the issue has not got an encouraging response, with the latter reiterating his state’s objection to the project. While Tamil Nadu is entitled to defend its own interests, Stalin should give talks a chance so that the issue does not lead to animosity between the people of the two states, as the Cauvery waters dispute did in the past.  The Supreme Court had 2018 modified the final award of the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal and allotted 284.75 tmc-ft to Karnataka, 404.24 tmc-ft to Tamil Nadu, 30 tmc-ft to Kerala and 7 tmc-ft to Puducherry. Karnataka contends that the balancing reservoir at Mekedatu would actually be beneficial to Tamil Nadu  which has failed to build irrigation infrastructure like dams, barrages and canals over the years, leading to an enormous quantity of Cauvery water draining into the Bay of Bengal. This wastage can be avoided to some extent if the excess water is stored at Mekedatu, to be used at a time of distress. The state also argues that it is well within its rights to appropriate its share of water as per the apex court order. Tamil Nadu fears that Karnataka may impound more than its share of water, which would adversely impact farmers in the Cauvery delta region of Thanjavur, Thiruvarur, Nagapattinam and Pudukkottai districts. Tamil Nadu is also worried that the proposed reservoir at Mekedatu will block the currently uncontrolled flow of water in the form of rains and streams that occur beyond Kabini, the last dam across the Cauvery on the Karnataka side. Tamil Nadu’s apprehensions are unfounded as the Centre has set up the Cauvery Water Management Authority to ensure that water is released to the state as per the Supreme Court order, and there is no scope for Karnataka to default on it. Experience has shown that court battles will only be time-consuming. The need of the hour is for politicians from both states to show statesmanship and resolve the issue amicably through talks instead of vitiating the atmosphere to reap political dividends, as they have done for the past few decades.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/resolve-mekedatu-issue-through-talks-1005700.html
07-07-2021||South||Set up tribunal on Karnataka building dam across Markandeya river: Tamil Nadu to Centre||Tamil Nadu on Tuesday asked Union Minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat not to grant permission for Karnataka to build a reservoir in Mekedatu across River Cauvery and demanded that a tribunal be set up to solve issues arising out of the construction of a reservoir across Markandeya River. The state’s demands were presented by Water Resources Minister Durai Murugan to Shekhawat during a meeting in New Delhi on Tuesday. Tamil Nadu also demanded that the Cauvery Water Management Authority (CWMA) ensure that Karnataka releases a stipulated amount of water to the state as ordered by the Supreme Court. After the meeting, Durai Murugan said Shekhawat gave a categorical assurance that no permission for Karnataka will be given for the proposed construction of a dam across River Cauvery in Mekedatu without consulting Tamil Nadu. He also appealed to the union minister to direct Karnataka to release water due for June from River Cauvery immediately. “The minister told us that permitting to prepare a Detailed Project Report (DPR) for Mekedatu does not mean Karnataka will go ahead with construction. He asked not to worry and gave an assurance that no permission will be granted to Karnataka concerning Mekedatu. He assured Tamil Nadu will be consulted at every stage,” Durai Murugan said. He also asked the Union minister to appoint a full-time chairman to CWMA. On Karnataka “unilaterally constructing” a dam across River Markandeya, the minister said Tamil Nadu demanded that a tribunal be immediately constituted to look into the issue. The state feels a new reservoir across the river will lead to water problems for people in a few districts in north Tamil Nadu. The state government also contends that the construction of a new reservoir across Cauvery is against the final award by the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal (CWDT) and the 2018 verdict by the Supreme Court that reduced the state’s quantum of water and increased Karnataka’s share. Durai Murugan also said Tamil Nadu was determined to go ahead with linking Cauvery and Gundar rivers and demanded funds from the Centre for the project. During the meeting with Shekhawat, the minister also demanded that the Centre direct Kerala Government to allow the construction of a baby dam and an earth dam without any delay.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/set-up-tribunal-on-karnataka-building-dam-across-markandeya-river-tamil-nadu-to-centre-1005801.html
07-07-2021||South||Sivagiri Mutt former head Swami Prakashananda no more||Former chief of Sivagiri Mutt, Swami Prakashananda died of age-related ailments here, mutt sources said on Wednesday. He was 99. The spiritual scholar breathed his last at the Sree Narayana Mission Hospital here. He had been the president of the Sree Narayana Dharma Sangham Trust for long. The funeral is expected to take place this evening, sources added. Sivagiri Mutt is a revered spiritual centre established here by the renowned 20th century saint- social reformer Sree Narayana Guru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sivagiri-mutt-former-head-swami-prakashananda-no-more-1005838.html
07-07-2021||South||Resentment brews over prolonged Covid-19 restrictions in Kerala||Resentment among the people over the prolonged lockdown restrictions in Kerala is coming out in the open, with the state witnessing protests like mock marriage receptions by catering workers to protest against the restrictions on marriages, and traders shutting shops to protest against the restriction on working hours and days. The state also witnesseed several persons ending their lives owing to financial crisis due to the lockdown. Experts are also raising concerns that ongoing measures like total shutdown on Saturdays and Sundays and restriction of working hours of shops were only leading to unnecessary crowding, leading to further spread of the disease. They suggest that the focus should be on strict enforcement of social distancing. The Kerala High Court also expressed concerns over-crowding near liquor outlets. While the government is extending revival schemes for sectors like tourism, the informal sectors like catering services, event management and wayside eateries are remaining neglected. Kerala State Hire Services Owners Association state general secretary T V Balan said that at least 13 hire service owners ended their lives due to the financial crisis caused by Covid-19. Several families, including that of a goldsmith's family in Thiruvananthapuram, ended their lives owing to financial crisis that were aggravated due to the lockdown. Kerala had imposed restrictions in the first week of may as the test positivity rate (TPR) had reached 28 per cent amid the second wave of the pandemic. Lockdown was enforced in the state from May 8. Though it was eased after about a month, total lockdown on Saturdays and Sundays and restrictions on events like marriages and working hours of shops are still continuing as the TPR is still over 10 per cent. Experts suggest that lack of enforcement of social distancing norms at shops and offices during the weekdays, undue rush at shops on Fridays and Mondays owing to the Saturday-Sunday lockdown and flouting of lockdown norms by the people are the key reasons for Covid TPR remaining high. WHO former technical officer Dr S S Lal said that shops should be allowed to remain open on more hours so that the rush could be staggered. The ongoing restrictions have badly hit the lives of daily bread winners and informal sectors. Free ration kits alone would not meet the needs of families. Many had taken personal loans for business purposes, which are mounting. As the state government now decided to continue with the restrictions for one more week, the state is likely to witness further brewing of resentment over the restrictions in the coming days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/resentment-brews-over-prolonged-covid-19-restrictions-in-kerala-1005867.html
07-07-2021||South||Ex-Tamil Nadu minister Manikandan granted bail in sexual assault case||The Madras High Court on Wednesday granted bail to former AIADMK Minister M Manikandan, arrested in a sexual assault case. Justice M Nirmal Kumar, who granted conditional bail, pointed out that Manikandan, having deep social roots apart from being a doctor, after losing his ministership, was carrying on his profession at Madurai. He has got a family. Manikandan shall be released on bail on executing a personal bond for Rs 10,000 before the Superintendent of the prison concerned, in which he is confined. He shall also execute two sureties for Rs 10,000 each, before a local court at Saidapet here within 15 days, failing which the bail granted shall stand cancelled automatically, the court said. He should report before the respondent police for two weeks daily at 10.30 AM and thereafter, as and when required for interrogation. He should surrender his passport while executing sureties before the Magistrate in Saidapet, the judge said. Following a complaint from a woman, a case was registered against Manikandan by the police for offences, including cheating and rape and he had been arrested earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ex-tamil-nadu-minister-manikandan-granted-bail-in-sexual-assault-case-1005919.html
07-07-2021||South||KSRTC ready to resume services between Kerala and Karnataka: State Transport minister||KSRTC is ready to start inter-state services to Karnataka from July 12 once the neighbouring state agrees to it, Kerala Transport Minister Antony Raju said on Wednesday. The minister said the state government has informed the Karnataka government that Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) was ready to resume services between the two in view of some relaxation of Covid restrictions in both the states, a press statement said. "We are waiting for the reply of the Government of Karnataka.Ticket booking for these services can be done only after receiving a reply from Karnataka," he has said in the statement. The services would be run in a limited manner via Kozhikode-Kasaragod depending on the needs of the passengers, it said and added that buses would be operated in full compliance with Covid protocol. Once services between the two states are resumed, Karnataka Road Corporation will operate buses on the same route,the minister said. Services between Palakkad and Salem would not be started now as the Tamil Nadu government has not given permission, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ksrtc-ready-to-resume-services-between-kerala-and-karnataka-state-transport-minister-1005958.html
07-07-2021||South||K Annamalai front-runner for Tamil Nadu BJP chief||With L Murugan being sworn in as Union Minister of State, speculation is rife on who will succeed him as the President of the Tamil Nadu unit of the BJP. Former Karnataka-cadre IPS officer K Annamalai, who joined the party last year, is the front-runner for the post of new president of Tamil Nadu. The name of Nainar Nagendran, who jumped ship from AIADMK, is also doing the rounds but sources indicated he may not replace Murugan as he has just been appointed as BJP Legislature Party Leader. “BJP follows one leader, one post. With Murugan now in the Union Council of Ministers, the change of guard is imminent. Annamalai seems to be the front-runner as the party High Command feels a young leader at the helm will help the party,” a BJP leader said. Annamalai, a Karnataka-cadre IPS officer, resigned from his post in 2019 and launched a foundation to help students in his native Karur district. He joined the BJP in 2020 and unsuccessfully contested the 2021 assembly elections from Aravakurichi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/k-annamalai-front-runner-for-tamil-nadu-bjp-chief-1006009.html
07-07-2021||South||OPS-EPS step in to douse fire stoked by AIADMK leader blaming BJP for election defeat||AIADMK coordinator O Panneerselvam and joint coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami on Wednesday stepped in to douse the fire stoked by a senior party leader who blamed the alliance with BJP for the defeat in the April 6 elections to the Tamil Nadu Assembly. As former Law Minister C Ve Shanmugam’s comments made at a party meeting in Vanur in Villupuram district on Tuesday night stoked a row, BJP leaders joined the issue and asked the AIADMK leader to look within before blaming them. Two leaders – Khushbu Sundar and K T Raghavan – went a step further suggesting that the BJP lost because of its alliance with AIADMK. As leaders of two parties crossed swords on Twitter, Panneerselvam released a terse statement on the micro-blogging site making it clear that there was no strain in the alliance. “All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam has full faith on Bharatiya Janata Party and the Hon. Prime Minister of India Shri Narendra Modi ji. Considering the interests of the nation and also the welfare of Tamil Nadu, the AIADMK -BJP alliance will continue and there is no second opinion on this,” Panneerselvam said. Hours later, OPS and EPS released a joint statement asserting that the alliance stitched for the 2021 assembly election is intact and continues. On Tuesday night, Shanmugam, who lost the assembly elections from the Villupuram constituency, said the party’s alliance with BJP led to its defeat as minorities distance themselves from the AIADMK. “People wanted (AIADMK) government to continue. But everything went wrong due to a variety of factors like alliance. Minorities did not vote for us because of the alliance with BJP,” Shanmugam said. Citing the example of Villupuram constituency, Shanmugam said DMK won by 14,800 votes because of the overwhelming support of minorities. “Minorities have 20,000 votes in this constituencies, and we know how DMK won,” he said. This is the first time that a leader from the AIADMK has gone public on an issue that was being whispered within the party. Many leaders believe the AIADMK could have performed better without alliance with the BJP. Soon after Shanmugam’s comments, Raghavan, the state BJP general secretary, wrote on Twitter: “That it (the defeat) is because of you (AIADMK), exists in our minds too.” The AIADMK-BJP alliance was defeated by the DMK-led combine that romped home. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ops-eps-step-in-to-douse-fire-stoked-by-aiadmk-leader-blaming-bjp-for-election-defeat-1006060.html
07-07-2021||South||Ivanhoe Cambridge Canada commits $100 million investment in Hyderabad's Genome Valley||Ivanhoé Cambridge, a global real estate company, has announced a commitment of $100 million investment to develop about one million square feet of lab space in Hyderabad's Genome Valley Ivanhoé Cambridge is a subsidiary of the Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec (CDPQ), one of Canada’s leading institutional fund managers. Genome Valley in Hyderabad is India’s first and largest cluster for life science R&D and clean manufacturing housing more than 200 life sciences companies including Bharat Biotech that manufactures Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin. Stating that the Telangana government has taken various initiatives to strengthen the cluster further, officials termed the project as "a big boost to the government's focus on the life sciences sector." Leadership of Ivanhoe Cambridge met with Telangana's IT, industries and investment minister KT Rama Rao virtually on Wednesday and made the announcement. "Ivanhoé Cambridge’s investment is one of the first such transactions by a pension fund in the life sciences real estate segment in South Asia and shall set a benchmark for the sector in India," a press statement said. “This new investment in MN Park (Genome Valley-Hyderabad) allows us to reinforce our conviction in life science real estate, a key focus area of our diversification strategy into high growth, innovation-focused sectors,” said Chanakya Chakravarti, Managing Director (India), Ivanhoé Cambridge. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ivanhoe-cambridge-canada-commits-100-million-investment-in-hyderabads-genome-valley-1006070.html
07-07-2021||South||Former Sivagiri Mutt head Swami Prakashananda passes away||Swami Prakashananda, the former head of the Sivagiri Mutt at Varkala on the suburbs of Kerala capital Thiruvananthapuram, died at the age of 99 on Wednesday. As president of Sree Narayana Dharma Sangham Trust of Sivagiri, Prakashananda played a key role in spreading the preaching of social reformer Sree Narayana Guru internationally and thereby brought international attention to Sivagiri. Born in Kollam district, Prakashananda joined the Mutt at the age of 23. He took over as the head of the Sivagiri Mutt amidst power tussle among the saints over the administration of the mutt, which even resulted in a police action in 1994. He had observed 'Maun Vrat' (vow of silence) for nearly nine years. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in his condolence message that Prakashananda was a beacon of knowledge and spirituality. Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan were among the other prominent personalities who condoled over his death. Prakashananda was not keeping well for quite sometime and he breathed his last at a hospital in Varkala. He was laid to rest at Sivagiri by evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/former-sivagiri-mutt-head-swami-prakashananda-passes-away-1006077.html
07-07-2021||South||Maldivian women to oppose Kerala ex-DGP's anticipatory bail plea in ISRO spy case||Over 25-year-old ISRO espionage case of Kerala is all set to come under a fresh review with the Maldivian women accused in the case too joining as parties in the anticipatory bail plea of former DGP Siby Mathews. Maldives nationals Mariyam Rasheeda and Fousiya Hasan, who were earlier arrested and allegedly subjected to custodial torture in the case, filed impleadment application at the Principal session court in Thiruvananthapuram considering the anticipatory bail plea of former DGP Siby Mathews. They would be opposing bail to Mathews, who headed the special team that probe the 1994 espionage case. The move assumed significance as Mathews had maintained in the anticipatory bail plea that initial probe clearly proved the nexus of foreign nationals with the others accused and illegal transactions between them and a spy network, linking Colombo, Chennai, Thiruvananthapuram and Maldives, was revealed by questioning Hasan. The Thiruvananthapuram principal sessions judge P Krishnakumar posted the case for July 12 as anticipatory bail plea of two others arraigned in the case recently registered by the CBI were pending before the High Court. The CBI registered case against 17 persons including Gujarat former DGP R B Sreekumar to investigate the conspiracy angle of the ISRO espionage case of 1994 on the basis of a Supreme Court directive on ISRO former scientist Nambi Narayanan's plea. Mathews maintained in the anticipatory bail plea that the special team headed by him was pressured by Intelligence Bureau (IB) to arrest Narayanan in the espionage case. R B Sreekumar was then the deputy director of IB. After the Supreme Court ordered compensation to Narayanan, the two Maldivan women had stated that they would also explore legal options for compensation as well as to take action against the police officials who allegedly tortured them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/maldivian-women-to-oppose-kerala-ex-dgps-anticipatory-bail-plea-in-isro-spy-case-1006106.html
07-07-2021||State||In the sack list: The curious case of Sadananda Gowda||The dropping of D V Sadananda Gowda from the Cabinet surprised many in Delhi's political circles.  Gowda, who was the fourth minister to be sworn in when the BJP won a second consecutive term in 2019, commanded highest respect from his colleagues and leaders across the political spectrum. Though the different departments, which he represented in the Modi Cabinet, emerged as one among the top five in performance ranking, his exit from the ministry surprised many. Gowda, last week, brought an injunction from a Bengaluru court, preventing media houses from publishing defamatory news about him. The always-smiling Gowda, who has served as chief minister and state BJP president, was given the heavyweight Railway Ministry in the first term of the Modi government in 2014. However, after a poor ranking in performance, he was shifted to the low-profile ministry of statistics and programme implementation. After the death of then chemicals and fertilizers minister Ananth Kumar in 2018, the former's portfolio was given to Gowda as additional charge. When the NDA returned to power in 2019, Gowda retained the chemicals and fertilizers portfolio. However, with the government facing criticism over rising fertliser prices in recent days, the damage control was left to Minister of State for Fertilizers Mansukh Mandaviya, who held meetings with officials and ensured that fertiliser companies did not raise prices. Though Gowda did not speak to the media after resigning, party sources said that party president J P Nadda called him up and told him that he would be given responsibility in the organisation.   Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/in-the-sack-list-the-curious-case-of-sadananda-gowda-1006032.html
07-07-2021||State||Karnataka sees 2,743 new Covid-19 cases, 75 deaths||Karnataka logged 2,743 new cases of Covid-19 and 75 deaths, taking the total number of infections to 28,62,338 and toll to 35,601, the health department said on Wednesday. The day also saw 3,081 discharges, continuing to outnumber the fresh cases, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 27,87,111. Bengaluru Urban reported 611 new cases, as the city saw 693 discharges and 12 deaths. Active cases in the state stood at 39,603. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 1.64 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 2.73 per cent. Besides Bengaluru Urban, Dakshina Kannada recorded the highest of 14 deaths, Ballari (7) and Dharwad (6). Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Dakshina Kannada accounted for 304, Mysuru 248, Hassan 220, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district has reported a total of 12,17,507 positive cases, followed by Mysuru 1,68,794 and Tumakuru 1,15,828. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 11,87,666, followed by Mysuru 1,62,929 and Tumakuru 1,13,423. Cumulatively, 3,53,18,762 samples have been tested so far, of which 1,66,631 were tested on Wednesday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-sees-2743-new-covid-19-cases-75-deaths-1006051.html
07-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka seeks 1.5 crore Covid-19 vaccines per month||The Minister, who met Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, requested an increase in the supply of Covid-19 vaccines to 1.5 crore doses per month to meet the growing demand in the state. Sudhakar also requested the Union Minister to sanction a financial grant for upgrading 250 primary health centres per year under National Health Mission as the state govt is planning to upgrade them. The Minister also proposed to start Allied Health Sciences Institute and Nursing sciences institute at Chikkaballapur. Sudhakar gave a detailed briefing on 3rd wave preparedness - bed and oxygen augmentation etc, said a statement from the Minister's office. In a separate meeting with Union Commerce and Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, he requested the Centre to develop Chikkaballapura as an industrial hub. He also requested Goyal, who is also the Railway Minister to extend Bengaluru Suburban Rail and Metro to Chikkaballapura which is about 60 kms from Bengaluru. Sudhakar during his meeting with  Union Transport Minister Nitin Gadkar requested to expedite various ongoing works in NH-234 and four-laning of road connecting NH-7 and Nandi Hills, a popular tourist spot near Bengaluru. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-seeks-15-crore-covid-19-vaccines-per-month-1005704.html
07-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Labs have no test kits, time to test 5% Covid-19 samples for H1N1||As the world marked Zoonoses Day on July 6 in the midst of a pandemic caused by a zoonotic disease, the state health department halted testing for H1N1 Influenza A (swine flu), a zoonotic disease, which had caused an epidemic in the state. It has claimed 667 lives since 2009. This year, the state has only tested 413 samples in six months as opposed to 4,937 samples in 2020. As a result, it has found only one case so far. Last year, the disease had claimed three lives. This despite the Project Director of the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme Dr Parimala Maroor telling the media last November that an order had been issued to test 5% of all Covid samples for H1N1. She did not respond to repeated requests from DH for a response. None of the 12 labs in the state, authorised to test H1N1 (seven of which are in Bengaluru), have received any instructions even after seven months, lab sources told DH. In H1N1, just like in Covid-19, the virus receptors are found in the upper respiratory tract and can easily attach themselves through the nasal cavity. What's worrisome is that the symptoms of H1N1 and Covid-19 are similar and present in the same manner. H1N1 can lead to viral pneumonia in some cases, which can be serious. Dr Ambika R, HoD, Microbiology, Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI), one of the 12 labs, told DH, "The H1N1 network was supposed to be reactivated by the State government with the provision of test kits to the referral labs, which did not materialise due to the prevailing Covid situation." Ironically, BMCRI tests one of the highest number of Covid samples per day in the state but 5% were not tested for H1N1 for the lack of test kits. The lab did zero H1N1 tests this year despite testing 112 samples for H1N1 in 2020, and 193 in 2019. Indian Council of Medical Research scientist Dr Ashok Munivenkatappa, who heads the National Institute of Virology lab at Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases, Bengaluru, said, “No PCR reagents or consumables were provided and since our laboratory is busy with Covid-19 testing we could not find the time. We haven't received any government order either." Shivamogga Institute of Medical Sciences is also one of the 12 labs. District Epidemiologist Dr Irfan Ahmed told DH, "All the labs are overloaded with extra work. There is no human resource. As far as my knowledge goes, no such order was issued. These labs are not even testing for black fungus in Covid positive patients for the same two reasons." Dr Rohit Shetty, consultant, cornea and refractive surgery, and vice chairman, Narayana Nethralaya, Bengaluru, one of the 12 labs, said, "The H1N1 test is different. It requires different kits. Almost all big labs are heavily down with Covid samples. So manpower and kits are also the challenges. There is no communication on HIN1 from the government officially. Once we get the official notification, we shall discuss the logistics." Dr Sneha S Hegadi, consultant microbiologist at Neuberg Anand Reference Laboratory, Bengaluru, one of the 12 labs, said that only five samples were received by their lab for H1N1 testing in June and none were positive. "We haven't received any official communication regarding testing Covid samples for H1N1 either," she said, over an email. What the PD IDSP had said in November: -- Influenza A H1N1 tests must be conducted on all patients with symptoms of cold, cough, fever and acute respiratory infection-- Health workers to form ward-wise ILI (influenza-like illness) clusters to weed out people with symptoms of the diseases and test them immediately-- All districts should conduct H1N1 tests on SARI (severe acute respiratory infection) cases even if they test negative for Covid-- Conduct H1N1 tests on 5% of total Covid positive cases in the State-- Maintain a stock of Tamiflu tablets-- Doctors, nurses and other medical staff, who are most exposed to the pandemic, must be vaccinated against H1N1||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/labs-have-no-test-kits-time-to-test-5-covid-19-samples-for-h1n1-1005798.html
07-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Unlock effect: 90% spike in Bengaluru's air pollution||Tying the city's air pollution to the petrol and diesel combustion, a new analysis of satellite data by Greenpeace has shown a 90% spike in the Nitrogen Dioxide (NO2) in Bengaluru while Delhi and Chennai fared worse. In the latest report, 'Behind the Smokescreen' released on Wednesday, researchers from Greenpeace analysed air pollution data for April from eight cities and compared it with the corresponding period last year. NO2, mainly generated by consumption of fossil fuel in vehicles, power generation and industries, is known to cause serious respiratory-related ailments, including asthma. "There is growing evidence that polluted cities suffer disproportionately more coronavirus cases," the study said, noting that increased economic activity is still dependent on burning of coal, oil and gas and consequently coupled with the emission of toxic gases in many cities. In April 2020, like many other states, Karnataka was under a tight lockdown. The government started imposing restrictions on April 23 this year. data for 10 km radius of Bengaluru measured in Dobson Units (DU) showed that the NO2 concentration went up from 0.085 in April 2020 to 0.161 to April 2021, a spike of 89.41%. The observed data showed that in Delhi, the increase of NO2 levels during this period was 125%, followed by Chennai (94%), Bengaluru (90%), Hyderabad (69%), Mumbai (52%), Jaipur (47%), Lucknow (32%) and Kolkata (11%). "The disruption caused by the pandemic is a case to transition to cleaner, equitable and sustainable decentralised energy sources such as rooftop solar and clean and sustainable mobility must be central to recovery efforts across cities. The recovery from the pandemic must not come at the expense of a return to previous levels of air pollution,” said Avinash Chanchal, Senior Climate Campaigner, Greenpeace India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/unlock-effect-90-spike-in-bengalurus-air-pollution-1005887.html
07-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||I visited Delhi to invite Prahlad Joshi: Murugesh Nirani||Karnataka Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani on Wednesday clarified that he visited New Delhi to invite Union Coal and Mines Minister Prahlad Joshi for an event and he did not have any meeting with the national leaders. "I had been to New Delhi to invite Union Mines Minister Prahlad Joshi for the function of new Mines and Geology College being established at Ballari. Whatever is being speculated is a creation of media," said Nirani. Speaking to reporters on Wednesday, he also said that he did not hold any meeting with the party national leaders. He will visit Delhi once in 15 days either for department or personal work and will also visit Delhi again on Thursday, the minister added. Admitting that illegal mining and sand extraction is going on in the state, Nirani said sand will be supplied in 50 kg bags and one tonne jumbo packet. After getting nod from the mines department, quality sand from the sand blocks can be supplied to the customers, he said. "Around 280 million tonnes of sand is required in the state a year. The bags will be sold in 500 depots after collecting the sand from 219 permitted blocks in the state. There will be no hike in sand price and a tender has been invited for packing sand," the minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/i-visited-delhi-to-invite-prahlad-joshi-murugesh-nirani-1005896.html
07-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Prepare action plan for Mekedatu project, CM Yediyurappa tells officials||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has directed officials to prepare the action plan for the Mekedatu project at the earliest, which is vital for the state, Home, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Basavaraj Bommai said here on Wednesday. This weekend Yediyurappa will hold a meeting with legal experts and technical experts on preparing the action plan for the project, Bommai told reporters. "There is only a miscellaneous application pending in the Supreme Court with regard to the Mekedatu scheme. The Chief Minister is going to convene a meeting this weekend. We will discuss with legal experts about the necessary approvals required and how to proceed further," he said. Emphasising that the project is important for the state, Bommai said it will play a key role in Cauvery water management in future. This will be a parallel dam to supply water during a water crisis. The Mekedatu project has become a bone of contention between Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, who often flag the issue of Cauvery water sharing whenever there is shortage in rainfall in the catchment areas of the river, which originates in Kodagu district in Karnataka and courses through Tamil Nadu. Recently, Yediyurappa wrote to his Tamil Nadu counterpart M K Stalin, urging him not to oppose the project as it will benefit both states. In response, Stalin requested Yediyurappa not to pursue the Mekedatu project, saying that it would "impound and divert" the uncontrolled water flow due to Tamil Nadu from Kabini sub-basin, the catchment area below Krishnarajasagar Dam, and also from Simsha, Arkavathy and Suvarnavathi sub- basins, besides other small streams. To a question on when the monsoon session of the Karnataka legislature would be held, Bommai said it had not yet been decided, but he would discuss it with Yediyurappa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/prepare-action-plan-for-mekedatu-project-cm-yediyurappa-tells-officials-1005914.html
07-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Industrial clusters will be established in Kalyana Karnataka: Jagadish Shettar||Industrialists will be invited by establishing industrial clusters in Bidar, Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Raichur and Koppal districts of Kalyana Karnataka region, said Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar. Speaking to reporters on Wednesday, he stated that there are a "galaxy" of industries surrounding Bengaluru. It has been proposed to establish industries in tier-II and tier-III cities in the new industrial policy. As Kalaburagi airport has been commissioned, more number of industries will arrive in the coming years, he said. Toys cluster is being established in Koppal district with the investment ranging from Rs 5,000 crore to Rs 7,000 crore. About 10,000 jobs are likely to be generated there. In Kadechur Industrial Area spreading 3,000 acres in Yadgir district, around 1,000 acres of land will be utilised for establishing pharmaceutical units, Shettar said. "After I took charge as industries minister, permission has been given to establish 62 industries in Kadechur industrial area and around Rs 2,531 crore will be invested," Shetter said. To boost industrial sector, which was hit hard by Covid-19, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced Rs three lakh crore package and loan installments of the industries were put off. The State government has also waived off electricity bills of small, micro and medium industries for three months, he added. 'CM chair not vacant' Meanwhilel, Jagadish Shettar said the chief minister's chair is not vacant in the state. Repeated remarks over change of leadership by the party MLAs will have a bearing on the day-to-day administration of the government, he opined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/industrial-clusters-will-be-established-in-kalyana-karnataka-jagadish-shettar-1005989.html
07-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka waives prop tax for single-screen theatres||The state government on Wednesday ordered a complete waiver of property tax for single-screen theatres for the 2021-22 financial year. According to a government order in this regard, the property tax waiver will cost Rs 9 crore to the state exchequer. The decision was taken based on a representation in this regard by the Karnataka State Film Exhibitors Association. With theatres in the state closed for 14 months because of Covid-19, businesses had suffered a huge loss. Considering the imminent third wave, the audience is unlikely to visit theatres at this time and many theatres are on the verge of shutting down, the association said. There are 630 single-screen theatres in the state. Over the past year, the theatres hardly opened for a month or two, following an unlock after the first wave of Covid. Even though they were open, they could operate only at 50% seating. Hence, theatres could barely make up for the loss they incurred, according to the association. The government order also stated that theatres may be able to operate for a month or two, and that, too, at 50% capacity. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-waives-prop-tax-for-single-screen-theatres-1006041.html
07-07-2021||West||‘Mughal-E- Azam’ only film I watched: Maharashtra Governor in tribute to Dilip Kumar||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Tuesday described Dilip Kumar as ‘Mahanayak’ of his generation, adding the actor's ‘Mughal-E- Azam’ remains the only film he has watched. In a condolence message, Koshyari said: "Dilip Kumar was the first super star of Indian cinema. He represented the golden era of Indian films. So fascinated I was by his Mughal-E- Azam that I saw the film back-to-back twice. Unfortunately, I didn’t watch any films thereafter and Mughal-E- Azam remained the first and the last film I watched." "The Indian film industry is undoubtedly the most popular in the world. The credit for this success goes as much to film stars like Dilip Kumar as it goes to great filmmakers, Directors, lyricists, technicians, musicians, playback singers and others. "Dilip Kumar was a legend. Nobody can take his place. To me he was a Mahanayak. I pay my respects to the memory of the departed soul and convey my deepest condolences to Smt Saira Bano and numerous admirers of Shri Dilip Kumar," Koshyari said in his condolence message. NCP chief Sharad Pawar also expressed grief over the veteran actor's demise. "Saddened to hear about the demise of the veteran actor Dilip Kumar. We have lost a legend. Deep condolences to the grieving family and fans," Pawar tweeted. In his tribute, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said Dilip Kumar was the shining star who enriched the Indian film industry. "His will hold an immortal position in the hearts of his fans," Thackeray added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mughal-e-azam-only-film-i-watched-maharashtra-governor-in-tribute-to-dilip-kumar-1005836.html
07-07-2021||West||TRP rigging case: 3 Republic TV employees get anticipatory bail||A sessions court on Wednesday granted anticipatory bail to three Republic TV employees in connection with the alleged Television Rating Points (TRP) rigging scam. The three employees - Shivendu Mulherkar, Ranjit Walter and Sivasubramaniyam Sundaram - had filed their pleas before the court in November-December last year, their lawyer Vikram Kamath said. The court heard the pleas on Monday, he said. On Wednesday, Additional Sessions Judge A D Deo allowed the anticipatory bail applications of the three employees, their lawyer said. They had submitted before the court that there was no ground against them (for arrest) and they were not named in the FIR registered in the case. Subsequently, a charge sheet was filed and they were named as accused. So, whatever material was there, it was before the court. Hence, their custodial interrogation was not required, Kamath had argued. In a supplementary charge sheet filed in the case in June this year, the Mumbai police had named the three as accused, along with senior journalist and Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami. The alleged fake TRP scam came to light in October last year when ratings agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) filed a complaint through Hansa Research Group (HRG), alleging that certain television channels were rigging TRP numbers. The HRG had been tasked with installing barometers for recording channel viewership data at sample households. Police had arrested about dozens of people, including top officials of the BARC and Republic TV. Most of them are currently out on bail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/trp-rigging-case-3-republic-tv-employees-get-anticipatory-bail-1005949.html
07-07-2021||West||Why is govt buying out tenants to vacate land for redeveloping Sabarmati Ashram, asks Amrutbhai Modi||Considered one of the last quintessential "Gandhians" for his simplicity and carrying on tradition of wearing the iconic khadi as the dress code round the clock, 89-year-old Amrutbhai Modi, the secretary of Sabarmati Ashram Preservation and Memorial Trust (SAPMT), which manages Mahatma Gandhi-founded Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad, said that "the way Gujarat government is buying out residential properties from possession of tenants in order to get the land vacated is beyond comprehension." "What is the aim behind this? We are not able to understand why the government is buying houses from the possession of tenants to get the properties vacated. It is important to note that no one has any personal or individual ownership on the land. Most of the people residing for the past 50-60 years whose status is of tenants and they can't claim ownership. There are people like me who have been living here for the past 20-30 years. My house belongs to the trust only which can decide what it wants to do with it," Modi told DH on Wednesday. Modi, who is associated with Ashram for the past 48 years that includes 18 years as its secretary, said that "People should understand the importance of this place which lies in its utter simplicity. What if in the name of redevelopment, facilities and its maintenance, the government brings an entry fee? How congruent it will be with the Gandhian idea of simplicity and existing system where anyone can walk in and walk out without anyone's interference. Gandhi created a mass movement but if you bar masses, how justifiable this project will be?," he said. As a secretary he has hosted visitors like South African leader Nelson Mandela to US President Bill Clinton and many other high-profile world leaders to the Ashram and seen closely the visits of former Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and Chinese President Xi Jinping and US president Donald Trump. "Why do these big leaders come all the way to Gandhi Ashram? Not to see any grand structures or world-class facilities but its the simplicity that Gandhi represented and advocated. We should keep this in mind," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/why-is-govt-buying-out-tenants-to-vacate-land-for-redeveloping-sabarmati-ashram-asks-amrutbhai-modi-1006067.html
07-07-2021||West||Goa on track to hit 100% vaccine coverage of first Covid jab by July 30: CM||Goa is on track to clock 100 per cent coverage of the first Covid vaccination jab by July 30, according to Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, who on Wednesday said that resumption of tourism activity in the state was hinged on complete coverage of the first inoculation shot across the population. Sawant also said that out of the state's population of 1.5 million so far 8.66 lakh eligible persons had been administered the first vaccine shot in the state. "We have targetted July 30 as the date for completion of 100 per cent first vaccine jab coverage. We can think of opening up tourism only after that," Sawant told reporters in Panaji. He also said that 10.06 lakh vaccine shots had been administered in the state so far, which includes the second round of vaccination too. While the state government is in the process of relaxing the SOPs put in place in wake of the ongoing state-level curfew -- which was imposed in May amid a rising tide of Covid cases -- tourism activity in Goa has virtually ground to a halt. According to Sawant, the state government would consider opening up some tourism avenues only after taking stock of the ongoing vaccination programme after July 30. The Sawant-led Goa cabinet on Wednesday also cleared two financial schemes linked to Covid, which includes providing an Rs 2 lakh ex gratia to families, who have lost a breadwinner due to Covid. "The cabinet has cleared an ex gratia assistance to families of victims of Covid. They will get Rs. 2 lakh as ex gratia. The family's income has to be below Rs. 8 lakh to avail this scheme," Sawant said. The pandemic has claimed 3,079 lives in Goa since the first wave of Covid cases were reported in the state in 2020. Sawant also announced a one-time financial relief of Rs. 5,000 to those working in the unorganised sector and involved in traditional occupations, whose livelihoods have been impacted by the pandemic. Apart from taxi drivers, auto-rickshaw drivers, motorcycle pilots and traditional potters, toddy tappers, etc, around 25,000 to 30,000 are eligible to avail the Rs. 5,000 package, Sawant also said. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-on-track-to-hit-100-vaccine-coverage-of-first-covid-jab-by-july-30-cm-1006092.html
